 In general, multivitamins and minerals supplements can benefit most people; however, there are some conditions that can make it dangerous for you to take supplements. These conditions include kidney or liver disease, which may interfere with the processing of these vitamins and minerals.Talk to your doctor about what supplements are good for you.


Some supplements interact with medications, so ask your doctor or pharmacist about possible interactions with any medications you already take, including prescription and over-the-counter drugs. For example, vitamin K can reduce the effectiveness of blood thinners.;
, There are some supplements that might contribute to certain health problems. This means that taking certain supplements may cause you to develop some health issues. Your doctor will be able to tell you if you are at risk for some of these side effects, based on your personal history.


For example, beta carotene has been shown raise the risk of lung cancer in smokers.Taking vitamin E may also cause an increased risk of prostate cancer., When you talk to your doctor, have your blood tested. This will help you determine any deficiencies you may have. From this, you and your doctor may decide if supplements are right for you. Your doctor may also suggest other alternatives to fix your deficiencies, such as a balanced diet or a change in diet to help replace those nutrients.


You will have to ask for this blood test, and it is usually not covered by your insurance.
Your doctor may suggest certain supplements for your deficiencies.For example, your doctor may tell you to take vitamin D supplements every day if you have a vitamin D deficiency.
 You should also talk to your doctor about your medical history. There are certain supplements that can help you fight against genetic dispositions towards specific diseases. Your doctor will be able to help you decide.For example, if you have a family history of cancer, your doctor might suggest supplements that provide antioxidant or probiotic support, which have been shown to help prevent cancer.
 There are certain people that may need to take supplements based on deficiencies in their food consumption or those with special dietary needs. For example, vegans and vegetarians may miss out on some nutrients because of the foods that they do not eat. If you are a vegan or vegetarian, supplements can be used to help fill these gaps in your diet. You may need more vitamin B12, calcium, omega 3s, protein, and iron.Pregnant women also have special dietary needs. Women who may become pregnant should get folic acid supplement, and women who are pregnant should take an iron supplement.
Those who have other dietary restrictions, such as lactose intolerance, will likely also need supplementation.
If you do not eat the recommended two to three servings of fish a week, you should consider adding a fish oil supplement to provide essential omega 3 fatty acids.Adults over 65, should take a Vitamin D supplement to help keep their bones healthy and reduce the risk of falls.
 Dietary supplements are meant to help improve your health and well being. Even when a supplement claims that it will help something, it doesn’t meant it will cure that issue. Supplements do not have to back their claims with testing (they are outside the jurisdiction of the FDA), so always check with your doctor if you are unsure if a supplement will help.


Instead of expecting the supplements to cure your ailments, use them to help improve your health. That is what they are meant to do., If you are taking some medication, you may want to ask you pharmacist if there are any interactions with your current medications. Pharmacists often have the most up to date information about drug and supplement interactions.


You can also take your supplements to your pharmacist so they can see exactly what ingredients they have in them that might cause an interaction.

