 The best skillets for cooking a steak on the stove are cast iron skillets, which get very hot, distribute the heat evenly, and create an even crust on the meat.


If you don't have a cast iron skillet, use the skillet or pan with the thickest bottom that you have.
 Olive oil has a low smoke point, and will smoke very quickly and taste somewhat bitter. You want an oil that will get hotter without smoking too much. Grapeseed, gram, or canola are all ideal.


Some people like to add a little butter to the skillet as well, for an added nutty flavor. You can add it at the beginning, or wait until you flip the steak.
 Don't crowd the skillet with too many steaks, or the temperature will lower in the pan and the steaks will cook unevenly. Steaks don't take long to cook, so take your time and do them one at a time.


When the skillet it hot, lay in the seasoned steak, dropping it into the skillet away from you to avoid splatter.
If the skillet isn't hot and the meat doesn't sizzle, take the meat out and wait. Putting a piece of steak into a cold pan will make a tough steak.
 Put the meat in the skillet and leave it alone for about five minutes. Let it caramelize on that side. You don't need to prod at it, check on it, or do anything. Just let the meat cook.


Don't push on the steak or press it into the skillet. There's no need to do this.
Cook thinner steaks for no more than four minutes and thicker steaks for up to six, depending on how done you like your steak. Flip the steak to the other side when it's ready.
 If you have them, tongs are great for cooking a steak, because you don't have to pierce the meat. Forks are also fine, though some people prefer not to pierce the meat before slicing it. It's not a huge deal, either way, and some people swear by either method.
 If you like a steak on the rare side, it should be done with a few minutes on each side, and 10-15 minutes of resting while covered. But if your steaks are very thick, or you like them a little more done, the best way to cook them is by finishing them in the oven.


Spoon extra butter over the steak and plate in the center of the oven at 275 degrees F. Finish it for 5-10 minutes, until the temperature shows where you want it on the thermometer, or it feels the firmness you're looking for.

