 Excellent ball control and agility are vital for any soccer player. Practice passing back and forth to your teammates while running. You should learn to pass the ball right in front of a running receiver, so she can easily dribble without interrupting her running.;
, There are many drills you and your team can use to practice passing. As you try these, focus on improving your aim, trying to pass directly in front of the other player's feet. Here are a few drills, ordered from easy to difficult:

When practicing alone, pass against a wall, aiming toward a target on the wall each time.
Set up two cones about 40 feet (12 m) from the goal and an equal distance apart from each other. Form two lines between the cones and pass the ball at least three times between you before one person shoots into the goal.
Practice crossing. One player passes to a second player near a corner, who then crosses in front of the goal as a third player runs up to score.
Repeat the crossing drill, but have a stationary defender attempt to block the cross. Get past him with high ball passes.
 Sprinting is essential if you want to become an assist king. Practice sprinting drills regularly so you can get where you need to be to make the pass., Many players will attempt a goal every time they see a good opportunity. But if there's a teammate ahead of you with a perfect shot, the assist is even better! Stay alert and get in the habit of weighing your options before you act by instinct. You should always have an idea of which players you might get a chance to pass to., One common mistake is assuming the receiver will be in the position you expect from practice. Always look up before you pass so your aim is sure.

Also check your shoulders before you receive the ball so you know who's behind you.
 Passing too lightly can be a disaster, as the ball may not reach the other player with enough speed to lead to a good shot. Passing too hard can make the ball difficult to control, but it's better to kick too hard than too soft.
 This will make coordination much easier. For example, pulling up your socks before a corner kick could alert your teammates that you will be running in toward the net., Setting up assist requires a great deal of patience. Make your move when you see a legitimate opening in the defenses. Do not let boredom or frustration convince you to pass on a low-success shot., Players such as Mesut Ozil, Andrés Iniesta, Riyad Mahrez, and Thomas Muller are phenomenal leaders in getting assists. Watch videos of professional games and pay attention to how they coordinate with their teammates and move with and without the ball to set up the goal.