 Relax in the evening by reading one of your favorite books and watching a great movie either by yourself or with your family! Try not to hang with friends until Sunday. Bring in a lovely hot chocolate and something to eat- maybe a mix of ice cream or fruits.;
, It will be great to keep in touch with friends about what they are doing on the weekend, you could organize a great day or night out on the Saturday! Check out a few other websites as well.
 Get a blanket and your comfiest pajamas on, put the heat up & if you have an electric blanket, but don't worry if you don't because you can also just put on your favourite/ comfy clothes.
 It is sure it won't do any harm to watch them another time!

, The next day sleep in. It can be very relaxing to have a quiet house to sleep in.
 To start of your Saturday, pop into the bath and put some bath bombs and stuff in it. If you normally have a shower, forget that! Treat yourself and relax in a luxurious bath.
 Lay down on your bed to dry your body naturally, make sure the temperature is great for you, and put on some TV while you're at it.
 Once you have had enough of lying down, choose a great outfit & dress yourself, it shouldn't be late in the day at this point. 11'o clock would be great, maybe even earlier!

, Dry your hair & any other parts which hasn't been dried properly. Use a hair dryer! Don't let your hair dry naturally, only do this before you go to bed. It's better not to.
 You don't need to apply make-up (girls) until you actually go out, but if your planning to go out straight away then go a head and do it, but relaxing normally takes yourself to do it.
 Go down to the biggest room & put on an exercise DVD on for about an hour and see what it brings you. Drink water and have no food at this point.
 Organize a shopping trip with your family or friends, enjoy yourself and bring a lot of money to treat yourself, earn some before the weekend if you don't have enough!

, It's great to spend time with family, so leave space for them in your calendar as I'm sure they will be pleased to hear that! Even if it means staying in and chilling with your mum, still relaxing!

, When it gets dark treat yourself to a nice spa experience, close the curtains and turn the light off, turn the lamp on and make sure it's bright enough to see things but dark enough to enjoy yourself. Put the TV on and maybe a DVD to keep you company.
 Bring a few towels in your room and a tub of nice hot water in, place the tub of water on top of your towel so it does not get your flooring wet. Place a bean bag near the bowl for you to sit on. Bring in hand creams, foot creams, body scrubs, nail clippers, nail file, and all things like that etc.
 Press play on your DVD and sit on your bean bag. Remember to put on pajamas before and move hair out of the way.
, Place your feet into the tub of water and relax them, then wash and place lovely things on them. You may even want to paint your toe nails (girls)

, File your nails, cut your nails, paint your nails, wash your nails & wash your hands, massage your hands, clean your hands. Anything you would like to make it great for you. Place hands into the tub of water for a great experience.
 Finish your movie and clean up your mess, get into bed and put on another movie or just regular TV.
 The next morning, you can have a lie in!!! Spare time on a Sunday for your choice.
 Ideas for a Sunday would be to spend time with your family or friends! Go to the park, shopping or something you wouldn't normally do. Prepare yourself for the next day because it is work, work, work or for the younger ones, school.
 The relaxing has finished and you are very disappointed, but at least you can treat yourself next weekend but... in a different way! Good luck.

