 It your child’s nose is deformed and has not been repaired, you can consider using a nasal suction to unblock the airways in your child’s nose. This suction device sucks out the secretions in your child’s nose so that she can breath more easily.To use the device:


Make sure that the device is clean. You can wash it with warm water and soap. If the suction device is dirty, it could introduce bacteria into the nose.
Insert the device into your child’s nose. Don’t be afraid to allow it to go deeper because this will help all remove the deeper secretions.
Cover the other nostril and then use the suction device. This will make the suction as strong as possible. Release the suction slowly to so that none of hair in the nostril gets pulled.
 You can install a humidifier in your child’s room--the humid air will help to loosen up the secretions in your child’s nose, ensuring that they come out rather than blocking up his nasal passageways.


You can also use a store-bought nasal decongestant such as phenylephrine. Put two to three drops in both of your child’s nostrils every four hours.
 Letting your child sleep on his left or right side, or on his stomach, rather than on his back. Doing this will ensure that the secretions in his nose will drain out of his nose, rather than dripping down his throat.


You can also prop your child up so that he sleeps in a semi-upright position to help his lungs expand as much as possible when he breathes while sleeping.
 Having a cleft palate makes it almost impossible for an infant to breastfeed. Instead, fill a bottle that has a top that enhances your infant’s feeding capability. You can still use your breast milk, though you can also use a milk formula if it is recommended by your pediatrician.Try to angle the bottle so that the milk goes into your child’s mouth away from the cleft palate. Always keep your baby sitting upright when you feed her so that she doesn’t choke.
 If you are using a bottle to feed your infant, you will need to keep track of how long you feed her for. Infants normally fill up after 30 minutes so try not to exceed 30 minutes when you feed your infant.


Wait at least two hours before feeding your infant again. If you feed your baby more frequently, she may develop a difficulty with gaining weight.

