 Butternut squash should be a uniform tan color on the outside and bright orange on the inside. Since most butternut squash is sold whole, you'll need to look at the skin when choosing your squash. The skin should be hard and dull. You should also see at least 1-inch of stem on the squash.If the butternut squash is shiny, it may have been coated with wax to make it last longer or it may not be ripe yet.;
, You'll probably notice that butternut squash come in a variety of sizes. Because of this, there's no exact weight that the squash should weigh. Instead, the squash should feel heavy for its size.For example, a small or skinny butternut squash that's ripe might only weigh a pound while a large, rounder squash might weigh more like 3 or 4 pounds.
 Look over the entire squash to make sure there are no cracks or soft spots. Soft spots means that the squash is overly ripe and may start to mold. You should also make sure there is no visible mold on the outside of the butternut squash.The butternut squash should be perfectly smooth, although you may be able to find a slight rough spot where the butternut squash rested on the ground as it grew.
 Once you've bought a ripe butternut squash, keep it in a cool, dark place that's around 55ʡF (13ʡC). Try to find a storage place like a basement or closet where it won't be exposed to sunlight or high humidity. You can store a whole butternut squash for 2 to 3 months.Avoid storing your butternut squash on the cellar floor or stacked. Doing so can introduce moisture and prevent air movement. These can cause your squash to rot.
 Cut the butternut squash in half in the middle. Cut of the stem and throw it away. Slice each section in half lengthwise and use a spoon to scoop out the seeds. Use a vegetable peeler or paring knife to peel each section of the butternut squash.If you're roasting a butternut squash, you won't need to peel it.
 You may not need all of the butternut squash that you cut for a recipe you're making. If so, put the leftover cut (but uncooked) butternut squash into an air-tight container or sealable plastic bag. You can refrigerate the cut squash for up to 4 days.Try to use the cut butternut squash as soon as you can since it begins to lose freshness and nutrients after you cut it.
 Once you've peeled and cut the butternut squash into large sections, chunk it into smaller pieces using a knife. Place the cubed pieces of squash on a large rimmed baking sheet and place the sheet in the freezer. Let the pieces of squash freeze completely (about 2 hours). Transfer the frozen squash to a large freezer bag and store it in the freezer for 6 to 12 months.Remember to label the bag so you know what's inside it and when you originally froze it.
 Roasting a butternut squash in the oven brings out a caramelized flavor in the squash. To roast, cut the squash in half lengthwise and scoop out the seeds. Drizzle and rub the insides with olive, canola, or coconut oil and sprinkle them with salt and pepper. Bake the squash at 350 degrees F (175 C) for up to an hour.The squash should be tender when it's ready to serve. You can slice or scoop out the roasted squash when you're ready to serve it.
 Once you've roasted butternut squash, you can easily turn it into a soup. Scoop the roasted squash flesh into a large soup pot. Add other vegetables and chicken or vegetable stock. Season the soup and let it simmer until all the ingredients are tender. You can serve the soup as it is or blend it for a creamy smooth texture. Good flavorings for butternut squash soup include:


Chipotle, cumin and peppers
Ginger, lemongrass and garlic
Curry, turmeric and ginger
Apple and parsnip

, Once you've peeled and cut butternut squash into large sections, cut the sections into 1-inch pieces. Heat 1-inch of water in a large pan with a tight-fitting lid and add the squash. Let it steam until the squash is tender (about 10 to 15 minutes). Drain off any water and serve the steamed squash.You can simply drizzle steamed squash with olive oil and sprinkle with salt and pepper for a quick side.
 Take steamed butternut squash and place it in a large serving bowl. Add a few tablespoons of butter and salt and pepper to taste. Mash the squash using a potato masher or hand mixer. You can puree it as smooth as you like.Pureed butternut squash makes great baby food, just leave out the seasonings. You can divide the butternut squash into small ice-cube sized portions and freeze them until you need them.

