 Unless you are an immediate participant in a personal situation, it’s best to mind your business by not getting yourself directly involved. Even if you are indirectly affected by an issue, that does not mean that it’s about you or give you the right to intervene.A useful exercise for gaining perspective on a situation is making a ring chart to analyze your relationship to it. Start by drawing a circle and writing those who are directly involved in the situation in the center. Then, draw another ring for those people who are most affected by the issue. Keep drawing outer circles like ripples for each level of people affected, and see where you fall on the chart.
For example, if you’re thinking about a friend’s breakup, the couple would go in the center. Their family would come next, and friends like you would come third. Seeing this visually can help you recognize that, though you’re affected, it’s still not your drama to sort out. The best thing you can do is support those who are more directly involved.
Keep in mind that this is not to say that you should not get involved with social issues, like poverty or children’s health, that don’t affect you directly. However, you should be sensitive to work with those people who the issue at hand does directly affect if you do.;
, Recognize that everyone has a right to privacy and that each person is in charge of their own lives. Don’t expect people to share personal information or try to exert control over how others use their time or resources.One good way of respecting boundaries is being careful not to overstep your relationship with a person. For instance, if you’re dealing with someone who is a co-worker or client, be sure to keep your interactions professional. If you’re not a child’s parent, it’s not a good idea to try and discipline them.
Another important element of respecting boundaries is accepting other people’s right to their own values, beliefs, and opinions. While you may disagree with them, it’s often best to mind your business rather than trying to interfere with others’ belief systems.
 Step back when people communicate directly or indirectly that you should do so. Respect others when they tell you that something is not your business and/or change the subject. Even when they don’t explicitly tell you to butt out, be aware of what their body language is saying.For instance, if people are avoiding eye contact, angling away from you, or crossing their arms as you speak, they’re probably silently asking for you not to interrupt or intervene.
 Minding your own business does not mean being a bystander when you encounter a situation that’s potentially dangerous. If you see someone engaging in a high-risk behavior that is illegal, physically destructive, and/or potentially harmful to themselves or others, it’s responsible to intervene, especially if no one else is.For example, if you see two people getting into an altercation, it’s time to call the police, not to mind your own business. If a person is drunk and planning on driving, it’s fine to intervene and take their keys since they have great potential to do harm to themselves and others.

