 A toothbrush can be used to quickly brush away light debris and dried-on residue. Before you get started, disconnect your earbuds from your phone, tablet or mp3 player. This will prevent your device from coming into contact with water, soap or any other substances during the cleaning process that could potentially ruin it. Set the device aside and take the earbuds to an area where they can be cleaned safely.;
, Dig up an old, unused toothbrush, or buy a new one cheaply. You’ll be using the toothbrush to scrub your dirty earbuds, so make sure it’s clean and dry. The stiffer the bristles on the toothbrush, the better.


Toothbrushes with nylon bristles are best. Since nylon breaks up static electricity, you won’t have to worry about damaging the internal workings of the earbuds.The bristles of the toothbrush will be long and narrow enough to penetrate into the mesh covering the ear openings, making it one of the safest ways to clean and maintain them.
 Go over the outer surface of the earbuds with the toothbrush using light, circular sweeping motions. Brush away as much dried-on earwax, dirt, pocket lint and other debris that you can. This method works best for headphones that are only used every once in awhile and haven’t accumulated lots of mess. Once you’re done, the earbuds should be gunk-free and ready for use.While cleaning around the ear openings, be careful not to brush too hard. You might end up pushing the earwax and debris further into the openings, making it hard, or even impossible, to clean.
You might also scrub your earbuds with a toothbrush to prepare them for being cleaned with other products.
 Chuck the toothbrush in the garbage if you don’t intend to use it again. If you do, you can put it through the dishwasher or boil it for a few minutes to sanitize it. Your ears contain a lot of germs, both naturally-occurring and picked up from other objects and surfaces, so it’s always best to either clean or dispose of the toothbrush after you’ve used it to clean things. earbuds.Boiling or washing a toothbrush can cause the bristles to soften, but the heat will eliminate any bacteria on it and make it useable again.

