 If you already have cable, great, you have plenty of time to watch it. On the other hand, if you don't have much money, try some of the streaming services. Many streaming services offer unlimited movies and television shows for one low price per month. Pick one or two to subscribe to. You can watch them on your computer or use a smart television or streaming device to watch them on your television., If you have an e-reader and a library card, you probably have access to a large number of books. Simply log on to your library's website, and find the section on e-books. Most libraries have e-books you can check out to read for a certain length of time (usually 2 weeks)., While you may be stuck at home, that doesn't mean you have to be bored to tears. Try inviting a couple of friends over for a game night. Ask them to bring any games they like (and have a couple on hand), and then you can order pizza to make it simple on yourself., Puzzles of any kind can be fun, from word puzzles to jigsaw puzzles. You can find a whole slew of crossword puzzles online, for instance, or you can often find them in your local newspaper. Dollar stores often have books of puzzles, such as sudoku, for cheap., Many websites offer free music that you can listen to in an unlimited supply. For instance, if you use Spotify on your computer, you can listen to a large number of albums for free, though you'll also hear some ads. With Pandora, you can make customized radio stations by inputting music you like, and then Pandora will add other music to the station that is similar to what you like. Both of these services are free on your computer, though you can pay to get rid of the ads., If you have someone who can drive you to the gym, you can use the resistance machines for the upper body, such as a lat pull down. You can also do weightlifting, such as shoulder presses and bench presses, and other exercises, such as ab crunches. If you can afford it, ask the gym if a personal trainer can spend some time with you to figure out what you can do while you're not able to use your leg.