 There are multiple types of inexpensive humane traps that will allow you to catch a mouse without harming it.Popular types of nonlethal traps include:


The Havahart Mouse Trap is a small steel cage with a trapdoor on either side. Mice are lured in by the smell of bait, and their weight triggers a mechanism which shuts the trap doors. These traps have plenty of room for the mouse inside, but can only trap one mouse at a time.
The Smart Mouse Trap is made from transparent plastic. It has a single door; mice are lured in the door by the bait and, like the Havahart trap, their weight triggers a trap-door mechanism. This trap is recommended by many animal rights organizations.
The Mice Cube trap is a long rectangular plastic box, with a one-way plastic door on one end. The bait is placed on the far side of the box and, once the mouse is inside, the door snaps shut behind it. This trap is the easiest of the three to use, but does not provide any ventilation to the trapped mouse.
Once you decide which nonlethal trap to buy, check your local hardware store for availability.;
, The bait is the material that you will place inside of the mouse trap, in order for its scent to attract the mouse to your trap.If you have an inadequate bait, mice will not be drawn into your trap. Common types of mouse bait include substances that either put off a pungent odor, or that mice like to eat. Bait your trap using:


Oatmeal or crackers.
Peanut butter or bacon.
Dry beef jerky.
 You need to find specific locations which the mouse frequently moves through; these will be the most effective places for you to set your trap.Listen along the walls for mice—they make a light scratching sound.
If you’re lucky, you might see a mouse emerge from its
Check along the floorboards; especially in dark, dry places.
Look for mouse droppings, as these will indicate where the mouse is most active.
 Mice are mostly active at night, so you may need to wait several hours (or even days) for the mouse to be caught.


While the trap is set, keep small children and pets away from the vicinity.

