 Rockstars have developed divergent fashion styles to match the diversity of rock genres like Indie Rock, Glam, Punk, Hip Hop, Metal, Electronic, etc. Explore your options and note fashion choices that are common in a specific genre of rock music that interests you. Fashion journalists periodically compile useful lists of particularly stylish rockstars.For women, decide whether you want a look that is feminine or more gender-neutral. You can wear a dress with combat boots, or you could pair a ripped top with jeans. Choose a rockstar look that reflects your personality.
For men, decide how simple you want to keep it. You can combine a band T-shirt, skinny jeans, and Converse sneakers. Alternately, you can choose a tailored suit for a more foppish rockstar look. Consider which look matches your personality best.;
, Music publications like rollingstone.com and nme.com, and fashion magazines like gq.com and esquire.com periodically cover the overlap between fashion and music. You can keep up with trends in music fashion by staying current with these publications.


You are not confined to the style of one sub-genre. You can use the specific style of one group to help you connect with like-minded people, but you do not need to limit yourself. If you stay too close to one established style, you may come across as less original and edgy than you intend.
 This may be an expensive project if you will be changing your entire wardrobe. Decide how much money you can afford to spend and make sure that you can realize your preferred style within that limit. Fashion and lifestyle publications often provide pointers.Leather jackets, tailored suits, and designer jeans are all expensive. When you are on a tight budget, only buy these items if they complement the rockstar clothes that you already have.
Inexpensive leather bracelets and belts can add some edginess to your clothes, but they will not help stretch your budget if they do not last. Stay away from cheap leather products that are likely to deteriorate quickly.If you are in a band, proper equipment should be your first priority. Not only will it elevate your performance, it will be a major part of your rockstar image while on stage.

