 It is hard enough to be employed 24/7 as a parent. The hours can be a very hard adjustment to make.


Your life now revolves around your new little one. You have to deny yourself and serve your new baby in almost every single hour of your day. You keep getting your sleep interrupted. You can't get outside as much as you might want to. Remember to give yourself breaks sometimes: listen to fun music or watch some good movies.
 This will free your hands so that you can get some work done.  Sometimes, this can be a nice break which will allow you to get things done or just relax for a bit.
 Nothing will do more for making your life easier than getting a swing. Fisher Price is a good brand; they seem to be durable and last longer. Babies are used to motion, because when they were in your tummy, they rocked and rolled all over the place whenever you moved around.


Swinging is a good way to get your baby to sleep, since they are moving like they are used to. You can try rocking them yourself, but it can be hard to set them down after you've rocked them to sleep. Babies usually wake up when you lay them down in their crib etc. A swing saves you from having to worry about that.
It is possible for a baby to sleep in a swing, one that reclines back, or a bassinet, since co-sleeping is not recommended.Swing sleeping can give you peace of mind that your baby is strapped in and won't be able to roll on their tummy, which can be dangerous for them and cause SIDS.You can also give them their bottles in the swing. You can hold the bottle for them or, as mentioned before, you can prop the bottle up on a blanket to make things easier for you.
 With disposable diapers, babies get rashes a lot. This can lead to a lot of crying and discomfort for them.


Sometimes babies resist diaper changing time, or are extra fussy, because they have a rash. 

, Milk is much cheaper than formula, and is recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics because it provides the necessary nutrients that are easily digestible by your baby and is associated with a lower risk of SIDS.If you are switching from milk from formula, mix the formula with milk. You need to slowly wean your baby off of the formula.  If you don't do this, they may become constipated and unhappy.  Constipation happens with an abrupt change in diet, so make transitions in food "slow and easy".
"Camping out" refers to the parent staying in the room for increasingly shorter periods of time when the baby is crying, while "check-and-console" refers to the parent returning to check on the baby at increasingly longer intervals.Don't neglect your baby if you suspect there is a serious problem—attend to their needs as best you can.

