 A recirculating or front-venting microwave can be installed beneath a counter without any further effort. Other types may require more advanced ventilation installation. Be aware of the requirements of your model before you begin installation.


Other types of microwave may be more suited for an over the range installation, require a new ventilation hood, or even necessitate a full new ventilation system.;
, Follow these methods for finding and marking these vertical wall supports. Your microwave will need to be fastened to at least one of them.


If you have one, use an electronic or magnetic stud finder to search for nails.
Alternately, tap lightly on the wall with a hammer. When you hear a solid "thunk" instead of a hollow sound, you've likely found a wall stud.
If you're not certain whether you've found a stud, drill a test hole and use a bent wire or coat hanger to search for solid objects in your wall.Once you've located the center of one wall stud, its closest neighbors are usually located either 16 inches or 24 inches to each side.Use a small nail to probe the wall stud(s) and determine the width.Draw a vertical line down the center of the wall studs once you've found them.
 This flat metal plate should be level and the top tabs should butt against the base of the cabinet or cabinet frame.


If your microwave came with a wall template, tape that instead as a drilling guide before you attach the plate.
Use a level to ensure your microwave isn't installed at a slant.
Remove any decorative trimming from the cabinet preventing you from placing the mounting plate correctly.
If the front of the cabinet has an overhang, place the mounting plate below the back of the cabinet by an equal amount. Otherwise the overhang will block access to the microwave. For a microwave that requires base-of-cabinet attachments, you may need to saw off the overhang instead.
 Follow these steps to determine which size holes to drill and where.


The bottom edge of the plate should have an area covered in holes. Use a marker to draw circles in at least two holes. At least one should be completely over a wall stud to support the microwave's weight.
Locate the two or more holes along the upper edge of the microwave. Fill in these with a marker as well.
Remove the mounting plate. Use the circles you drew as a guide, not the mounting plate.
Drill a 3/16" (5mm) hole through any circle located on a wall stud.Drill a 3/8" (10mm) hole through any other circle.If your microwave came with a top template, tape it to the base of the cabinet above and drill 3/8"(10mm) holes through attachment points where directed to fasten the microwave to the cabinet base.
 If your microwave came with a base of cabinet template, tape this where the microwave top will be located and drill where instructed for the power cord. Otherwise, select a spot easily accessible by the power cord and out of the way of normal cabinet function.


If there are no electrical outlets within reach of the cord, you will need to install a new electrical outlet. Do not use an extension cord.
 Have an assistant hold the mounting plate securely in the correct position as you fasten it to the wall.


Use lag screws (lag bolts) in the 3/16"(5mm) holes. These will bear most of the microwave's weight, which is why they are used over the wall studs.
Use toggle screws (toggle bolts) in the 3/8"(10mm) holes. The "wings" of the toggle screw go through the hole and pull against the wall as the screw is tightened. Pull the mounting plate toward you while tightening toggle screws., With an assistant's help, hang the microwave onto the support tabs on the mounting plate's base.


Snake the power cable through the hole drilled for this purpose before attaching the microwave.
Fasten the microwave to the base of the cabinet above using screws where directed on the top template. Tighten until the top of the microwave and the base of the cabinet are flush.

