 It doesn’t matter where you write it, and it doesn’t have to be something you share with your boyfriend. Simply write down all of the positive things you can think of when you think of your boyfriend. You can also add to the list over time. When you find yourself feeling less appreciative of your boyfriend, you can refer back to this list.Think about the ways your life is better because of your boyfriend. For example, you have someone who likes to do lots of things with you, or makes you dinner, or helps you with difficult tasks.Think about the ways you are a better person because of your boyfriend. Maybe your boyfriend inspires you to be more kind and patient, or maybe he encourages you to accept yourself as you are. There are a multitude of ways you might be improving yourself as a result of your boyfriend’s words and actions.;
, There is research that suggests that, when you simply recognize what you are thankful for, you will be more likely to demonstrate it, and that demonstrating your thankfulness creates a cycle where you and your partner are more likely to be generous., When you’re with other people (e.g. girlfriends, family, etc.) avoid getting dragged into conversations where you complain about your boyfriend. Especially when others are complaining about their own significant others, it can be tempting to join in. However, you should avoid doing this, as your friends will likely validate your complaints leaving you with lots of negative thoughts.Furthermore, it is really unfair to trash talk your boyfriend behind his back because he isn’t there to defend his words or actions.
 Remember the bad times that you have managed to work through, but also remember the best memories you have together. Having a relationship can be challenging, but also something most people strive for. It is not easy to find someone you can maintain a relationship with. Thinking about the history of your relationship can make you feel grateful for you and your boyfriend’s commitment to each other.

