 Sometimes, debtors can persuade a creditor to agree to remove a charge-off in exchange for payment on the debt. Tell the creditor that you will pay the entire debt (or commit to a payment plan) if the creditor will promise to remove the charge-off. You may even be able to persuade the creditor to settle the debt for less than the amount you owe, perhaps as low as 50% of the total.Before you call, examine your finances. Can you afford to pay off the entire debt? If not, how much can you afford to set aside every month to pay off the debt? You should have two numbers in mind when you call: your starting offer, and the maximum amount you can afford to pay to settle the debt.
If the first person you speak with will not negotiate, ask to speak to someone with more authority., Let the creditor know that you are only willing to pay if the creditor will remove the negative report from your credit profile. You want your credit report to indicate that the debt has been "paid in full." Otherwise, the creditor will report that you settled the debt, and your credit report will read "settled."A settled charge-off is better than an unpaid charge-off, but will still negatively affect your credit score.If the creditor will not agree to report that the debt has been "paid in full," ask the creditor to list the account as "paid as agreed" or "account closed" instead., Ask the creditor to send you a copy of your new agreement. The agreement should be on company letterhead and signed by the creditor.Do not send a payment until you have received the signed agreement and have had a chance to review it for accuracy.


When you review the agreement, make sure that all of the terms are accurate. The agreement should specify how many payments you will make, how much each payment will be, when each payment is due, and that the creditor will update your account and remove the charge-off from your credit profile.
 Once you have a signed copy of the agreement, you can begin making payments according to the agreement's terms. Pay by check or money order and use certified mail with a return receipt so that you have a paper record your timely payments., Once you have made all of your payments according to the agreement, contact the creditor to verify that they will remove the charge-off from your credit profile. If the creditor refuses or neglects to remove the charge-off after you fulfilled the terms of your agreement, submit a dispute with the credit reporting agencies.

