 Shell offers a variety of cards to suit your personal needs. These options include the Drive for Five Card, Platinum Select Mastercard, and the Shell Saver Card. Each of these cards has different rewards and payment options. Research each of these cards before you make a decision., You save 5 cents on every gallon of Shell Fuel and/or Shell Nitrogen Enriched Gasoline. There are no minimum purchase requirements and no maximum on the amount you can save. This card is very secure as you will have $0 liability for unauthorized purchases and have access to Citi Identity Theft Solutions if you are a victim of identity theft.You can get additional cards for your family members and receive a single gas purchase statement.
You have the option to pay your balance in full or a minimum payment.
 You earn 10 cents per gallon with this card. This card is good if you use your credit card to make everyday purchases such as groceries, dry cleaning, and cell phone bills. If you make at least $500 of qualifying purchases in a billing cycle, you will receive a credit for the first 100 gallons of Shell gasoline or diesel purchased in your next billing cycle.If you spend $500.00 - $999.99, you will receive a 10 cents per gallon credit on your next billing cycle.
If you spend, $1,000 - $2,499.99, you will receive a 15 cents per gallon credit on your next billing cycle.
If you spend more than $2,499.99, you will receive 20 cents per gallon credit on your next billing cycle.
 This is not a credit card. It is more like a debit card that is linked to your checking account and has no enrollment fees, annual fees, or finance fees. You will save 2 cents per gallon on your Shell fuel purchases. The discounted price of gas is automatically deducted from your checking account when you purchase Shell gas. You can use this card to make other purchases, but there are no additional benefits.You must have a checking account in good standing to qualify for this card.
This card can only be used to make purchases at Shell stations. If you need a card for other purchases, this may not be the best card for you.

