 Wait one to two days between each feeding. You should notice an improvement in your coral’s health.
 Coral polyps come in many different shapes and sizes. Smaller polyps will not be able to take in large particles of food, while larger polyps will prefer large particles of food. Mixing together a variety of foods with different particle sizes will give you the best results.Three foods with different particle sizes is enough to feed most coral.There are many options for coral foods. Any combination of copepods, rotifers, and marine plankton, will work., Different foods with different particle sizes will have different serving sizes. It’s important to get the serving sizes right so you don’t end up with extra food floating around in your tank.


Overfeeding your coral can lead to a buildup of nitrates in your aquarium. Nitrates are toxic to coral. If you stick to the serving sizes on the food containers, this won’t be a problem., Measure out the serving sizes for each of your three foods. Place in a bowl or other container. Mix in enough salt water to soak all of the foods., This will allow the food to dissolve into the salt water.It’s OK to let it soak for more than 10 minutes. Just don’t let it soak for less than 10 minutes.If you make extra food, you can store it in your refrigerator in a sealed container., This will allow you to target feed each coral without the food drifting away., Feed your coral at the end of the day when the daytime lights on your aquarium are still running.You want to mimic a natural environment as much as possible in your aquarium. Coral are most active in the evening before the sun goes down. Feeding your coral in the evening will ensure they absorb the most nutrients.If you forget to feed your coral in the evening, it’s OK to do a make-up feeding during the day., You can use a regular cooking baster for this or purchase a specialized pipette.You can fill it all up at once or fill it with a small amount of food and feed one coral at a time., Place the tip of the baster or pipette into the tank. Get the tip close to the individual polyps. Squirt a small amount of the food mixture near each polyp.Squirt the food mixture out gently so you don’t damage your coral., This will allow fish in your saltwater tank to feed on the leftover coral food and will help to keep the aquarium clean.