 To feel sexy, it’s important to feel comfortable naked. Try walking around your home naked with the shades drawn to feel more relaxed without clothes on. Sleep naked so you can feel comfortable with no clothes on in bed. Don’t worry if you feel uncomfortable at first. Let your worries out so that you can start to enjoy being naked.


It will help your comfort if you’re in a familiar setting. If you’re home alone, try being naked in your favorite spot of your home.
 It’s easy to compare yourself to others when you see advertisements filled with people that have great bodies—many of them photoshopped. Do not get caught in that web of comparison. There isn’t an ideal body. That type of thinking is harmful to your mental state. Instead, celebrate the fact that there are so many types of bodies and enjoy the body you have., A good way to start putting yourself in a sexy mindset is to hold yourself with confidence. Stand up straight. Move with confidence and act flirtatiously. Then, think back to a moment where you felt sexy and/or confident. It may be when a partner complimented your appearance, or when you did a great job at work. Keep that moment in mind and let it affect your energy., Everyone’s body is unique. Consider the parts of your body that you love or find sexy. You may love the way the muscles in your shoulders look, or you may have always felt confident about your legs. Try to focus on these parts of your body when you are naked.You may find your lower back sexy. You could then position yourself so your lower back is visible, and you can show off this part of your back.
 Your perceived flaws might be keeping you from feeling sexy without your clothes on. Instead of feeling bad about what you see as flaws, think of how they could be perceived as sexy. You may feel insecure about scars, stretch marks, or cellulite, but there are plenty of people that would find them sexy. Any time you start to feel bad about your flaws, change your thinking to embrace them as sexy., It sounds like a simple thing, but it can sometimes feel uncomfortable to be touched on the parts of your body you feel insecure about. If you have a partner, don’t shy away from them touching you. Allow them to caress and massage your body.It’s okay if you don’t want to be touched in certain areas. If you try it and feel too uncomfortable, don’t be afraid to ask them to stop.
 Another way you can look sexy is to maintain a confident attitude. Having high self-esteem and confidence will be attractive and sexy to others. Focus on maintaining good self-esteem and having a healthy amount of self-confidence. Embrace and celebrate who you are so you can be sexy from the inside out.Focus on achieving your goals and doing things that you love or enjoy.
Be with a partner who celebrates who you are and helps you feel good about yourself.

