 For a the classic Disney look, you'll need to buy or make an outfit that looks like the one Snow White wears in the cartoon. This will, at minimum, include:


A dress with a cream or yellow ankle-length skirt.
A blue bodice with a scoop neck and thin, vertical gold braid down the center.
Blue and red slashed sleeves or blue sleeves embellished with red laces tied in bows.
A high, stiff white collar.
A white petticoat with a lacy or ruffled edge.
Tan (or neutral) low-heeled pumps with matching bow clips.
A blue cape lined with red (optional).;
, Snow White's hair is described as "black as ebony."It is styled in a chin-length bob with soft waves, parted in the center. She wears a red ribbon tied in a bow at the top of her head.


If you're already a brunette with chin-length hair, add curl to your hair. Gently comb it out to create soft waves, part it in the center and add the ribbon.
If not, cut, dye, and style your hair to match Snow White's, or buy a wig that imitates her style.
Some modern depictions of Snow White show her with a tiara instead of a hair bow. Either one will work, though a bow might be truer to people's image of this character.
 Snow White's complexion is "white as snow" and her lips are "red as the rose."She has dark eyebrows, long, dark eyelashes and rosy cheeks. If you do not have these features, you can use makeup to achieve the look by:


Applying a pale foundation and a layer of matching powder for a porcelain skin look.
Dusting a little pink blush on your cheekbones.

Darkening your eyebrows with a pencil, if necessary.

Applying a neutral colored eyeshadow to your eyelids. Line your upper and lower lids with black eyeliner.
Use mascara to lengthen and darken your eyelashes.
Outline your lips with red or neutral lip liner, and fill in with a matte lipstick in a deep red.
 Snow White is described as gentle, cheerful, helpful and kind.She is also very feminine and proper. If you want to take your costume beyond just looks, here's how:


Snow White always has a cheerful outlook no matter what.She's able to dream of meeting a prince even when serving as a lowly kitchen maid. To achieve this yourself, look on the bright side as often as you can. Like Snow White, sing or hum while you work. Don't forget to smile!
Be helpful to others whenever you can.Hold a door open, pick up something that someone dropped, stay to help clean up after a meal or party. Ask your friends and family, "What can I do to help?"
Show kindness to others.Be encouraging. Listen with empathy. If you know someone is going through a hard time, send them a card or tell them you are thinking of them. And you should always refrain from gossiping.
Be as feminine as you can. Speak in a high, sweet voice. Learn to move gracefully by taking small, measured steps. Let men take care of things like pulling out chairs, or putting on your coat. Use proper manners and etiquette.