 Although this might seem like something that would add stress to your life, it can actually be quite comforting for you to know that everything is planned out for when you will not be able to take care of things.Finalizing the plans for getting to the hospital and having everything packed and ready to go makes it much easier to relax and enjoy the last few weeks of pregnancy. After all of the plans are in place, you will have less to worry about and will hopefully be able to relax a bit more.;
, This plan should cover your preferences regarding the details of your child’s birth, such as what medication you will be administered, and whether or not your baby will be circumcised, if he is a boy. Many women find it helpful to put their birth plan in writing so that everyone involved in the birthing process is aware of her preferences since she may not be capable of expressing them clearly while giving birth.It is important to also add some clauses about what you prefer if something changes, such as the need for an emergency caesarean if the baby is having difficulties during the birth.
 If there are other children in the family or pets in the home, plans should be made for someone to care for them while you are giving birth. This person or persons should be reliable and readily available at any time of day or night.


In addition, unless they volunteer, it is usually best to choose someone besides the immediate family, since they may want to be at the hospital when the baby is born.
 Since few babies are actually born when they are expected, it is a good idea for you to clear your calendar for several weeks toward the end of your pregnancy. This means that you should take care of all of your routine appointments, even if it is a little ahead of schedule.


Some appointments to consider are the dentist, hair salon, pediatric appointments for other children in the family, and veterinarian appointments for household pets.
Once all of the appointments are finished and out of the way, you will not have to worry about forgetting to call to cancel them when the baby comes.
 Another appointment that should be made is a tune up for your vehicle. It is important to be sure that it in good working condition before the baby is born. This includes such things as checking the condition of the wiper blades, which many people don’t consider until there is a problem.
 Put in everything that you need for you and your baby. These things include diapers, hygiene products, clothes for you and baby, and towels.Select the clothing that you will wear on your way out of the hospital. Keep in mind that you will most likely have a bunch of pictures taken of you and your baby at that time.
Select clothing for your baby. If you want your baby to wear something special for his or her first day in the world, remember to pack it.

