 Dealing with someone’s constant complaints about their love life can be emotionally draining. If you think this person is having a negative influence on your life, consider limiting the amount of time you spend with them.For example, if your friend uses your weekly happy hour to complain about her husband, consider canceling this regular interaction.
 Sometimes you cannot or may not want to distance yourself from someone who constantly complains about their love life. You can, however, set clear boundaries about what you can offer the person and how long you can listen to their complaints. By setting boundaries, you can let the person know that you believe they are capable of handling at least a little frustration on their own.Try saying, “Jenny, it sounds like the situation with your girlfriend is really bothering you, and I am sorry but I am unable to give you my full attention right now. Perhaps we can talk about this at a later time.”
You could say, “John and I get really uncomfortable when you talk about your wife's sexual problems, and would appreciate not being involved in this type of conversation.”
Try saying, “Kendra, I’m really sorry you’re so unhappy being single. I know that must be hard, but I don’t know if the office is the best place to talk about it.”

, It’s easier to be the unwilling recipient of chronic complaints about someone’s love life if you spend a lot of one on one time together. One way to dispel some of the complaining is by spending time together in a group. Many people will not feel as comfortable complaining about their love life if they are socializing with a group of people.


For example, if you have a co-worker who complains about his boyfriend at lunch, try eating lunch with a group of co-workers.
If your friend spends your Friday lunch date pontificating about the perils of her marriage, ask her if you can invite a mutual friend to join you.
 Most people who constantly complain about their love life are unhappy in their current relationship, with their partner, or about being single. Urge them to seek professional help to deal with their romantic problems. This is especially important if the person is in an emotionally or physically abusive relationship.Try saying, “Brent, I’m really concerned that your husband hurt you. I can help you access some local domestic violence resources if you’re open to it.”
You can say, “Nadean, I can tell that being single is really affecting your happiness. Have you thought about talking to a counselor?”
You might also say, “Amanda, it sounds like the arguments with your husband are pretty serious. Have the two of you talked about marriage counseling?”

