 Dull, colorless lips are usually the result of dead skin buildup. Many people regularly exfoliate their face, but forget their lips. Scrubbing your lips not only removes the dead skin to reveal new skin beneath, it increases circulation to bring more color to your lips. Try a homemade brightening scrub using the following ingredients:


1 teaspoon sugar
1 teaspoon honey
1 teaspoon lemon juice;
, If you don't feel like making a scrub, use an exfoliating face brush or loofah on your lips. Simply wet them first and massage your top and bottom lips until all the dead skin has been sloughed off. When you're finished, your lips should feel fresh and invigorated.


Or if you don't have a special brush, just use a toothbrush! Take a clean toothbrush with soft bristles, wet it with water, and massage your lips using a circular motion. Rinse your lips and you're done.
 Lip serum contains ingredients that increase circulation in your lips to make them look healthy and bright. You just rub a little on your lips and let it sit for about five minutes before rinsing it away. Try the following lip serums to make your lips look vibrant:


1 teaspoon honey and 1/4 teaspoon cinnamon
1 teaspoon honey and 1/8 teaspoon cayenne powder
1 teaspoon honey and 1/4 teaspoon peppermint extract

, Finish your routine with a good lip balm that will trap moisture inside to keep your looks looking shiny and healthy. Steer clear of balms with chemicals that can dry out your lips; instead, look for balms that contain all-natural ingredients like shea butter, coconut oil and beeswax.
 Bright red beets have a lot of color, and it's easy to transfer it to your lips to make them appear pinker. Simply cut a beet into an inch-long piece and rub it over your lips. Do this for about five minutes to get a good stain that sets into your lips, then seal it in with a layer of clear lip balm., Strawberries, raspberries, cherries, pomegranates: there are so many choices when it comes to fruity lip stains! Take your favorite fruit and rub it on your lips for a few minutes. Alternatively, dip a cotton ball in red-colored fruit juice and rub it on your lips. Don't forget to seal in the color with a clear lip balm.If you loved popsicles as a kid, you probably already know that berry-flavored frozen treats can also do the trick! Take your time eating a red popsicle and let the dye give your lips a deep pink stain.
 If you want a subtle, natural look, pink lip balm is the way to go. Look for a tinted lip balm that adds a thin layer of color with each application. As a bonus, tinted balms nourish your lips every time you use them, keeping them moist and plump as well as colorful.


Tinted balms look darker with each application. If you want a brighter pink look, apply more than one layer.
Tinted lip gloss is another good choice if you want a slight pop of color, but nothing too extreme.
 This is another natural-looking choice that lasts a bit longer than balm. Lip stain actually dyes the top layer of skin and blends with your natural skin tone to make it look a bit pinker. Look for a lip stain in the hue you want, then experiment applying just enough to achieve the perfect color.


The more layers you apply, the darker the color will be.
To keep lip stain from washing away, seal it in with a layer of clear lip balm.
 This is the perfect solution for days when you're in the mood for lips that look strikingly pink. No subtlety here! Choose your favorite lipstick color and apply it to your top and bottom lip. Blot your lips on a tissue to remove excess color and lock it in place.
 Lip skin is like the skin on the rest of your body, in that it's prone to sun damage. The sun will darken your lips and could cause moles and sunspots to form, so don't forget to protect them when you go out in the sun. Use a lip balm with SPF 15 or higher to keep your lips looking pink.
 Smoking darkens the lips over time, in addition to causing them to get wrinkled and thin. If you're after full, pink lips, it's time to kick the habit for good.
 Lips that are cracked and chapped look unhealthy and feel painful. To avoid this problem, stay hydrated by drinking plenty of water. When you're dehydrated, your lips are often the first place it shows.


Switch out your coffee and tea drinks for water whenever possible.
Avoid overdoing it with alcohol, which can cause dehydration and dry lips.
 In the winter months, when the air is very dry, staying hydrated by drinking water doesn't always cut it. If you have dry skin that easily chaps and flakes, consider sleeping with a humidifier in the room. This is a machine designed to add moisture to the air and keep your skin soft and supple.

