


To create a WordPress blog, go to the WordPress.com homepage. Click on the button that says, "Get Started Here." Put in your details, such as a username and password to create the account. Choose your theme.;
, This will take you to your blog. You will find your "Dashboard" on the left hand side, which controls all of your blog's options.
 The options for changes of your blog's appearance will differ from theme to theme. Drag your cursor over the appearance tab and find the list of your theme's options.
 This should take you to the page where all your theme's header options are listed.
 Most people customize their WordPress header in 1 of the following 3 ways:


Go to your theme's settings and choose from a variety of header options. This is only available with some themes. You can find out if you have a number of header images to choose from by finding where it says "Header Background Image" and seeing if there is a drop down menu. If there is, click "View graphic choices" to see your options and then go back and choose a header image from the drop down menu. Click "Save Changes" and your new header will appear on your blog.
Create a custom WordPress banner in a program such as Adobe Illustrator or InDesign. Find the section of the Header settings page that says the height and width of the header image. For example, it may be 400 pixels across and 120 pixels high. Create a new document that is this size and place images or text in the box. Save it as a jpg file. Find the option that says "Upload Custom Header," and upload your newly made banner.
Edit a photo or image you already have to use as your new header. Find an image. Change the dimension to reflect the current header image as listed in your Header Settings page. If you do not do this, your image will be distorted or cropped when it is uploaded. Save the file on your computer as a jpg. Click "Upload Custom Header" to upload your new image. Click "Save Changes," and the new image will appear on your blog.
 Return to the Appearances tab and Header page to make further changes.

