 You need sports tape to tape your foot using this method. You can get rolls of sports tape at superstores, supermarkets, or drugstores. A roll of tape should last for three to five tapings.Make sure that when you apply the tape that you keep all wrinkles out of the tape. This can cause blisters or other irritation.
Tape should be wrapped lightly. You don’t want the tape to be too tight on your foot.;
, Before you tape your foot, make sure you wash your foot with non-moisturizing soap. This helps the tape stick to your foot when applied. Make sure your foot is completely dry before starting., To start the taping process, tape a piece of tape around the ball of your foot. This is the area just behind your toes on your foot. Wrap the tape all the way around so it’s on the top and bottom of your foot.The next anchoring point the foot. Wrap a piece of tape around the back of your ankle. The tape should run around the ankle and down both sides of your foot until it meets the tape around the ball of your foot. Stick the two sections of tape together.
This should not be tight. The tape should be loose on your feet, and you should complete this step while your foot is relaxed.
Smooth any wrinkles out of the tape as you go to prevent blisters.
 Stick one end of the tape on your foot just below your big toe. Then tape diagonally across the bottom of your foot. Wrap the tape around the hell, then tape it diagonally the other way across the bottom of your foot. Take the end under your pinky toe.At this point, you should have a large X across the bottom of your foot with tape. The center of the X should be in the middle of your foot.
Repeat taping this X three more times. This provides support to the plantar fascia.
 The last step of the taping is to tape horizontal lines along the sole of your foot. These horizontal strips of tape will overlap so that you cannot see any of your foot. They will cover the entire bottom of your foot from the heel to the anchor going around the ball of your foot.At the end, wrap a piece of tape all the way around the ball of your foot again, including the top of your foot, to provide extra support. This should be the only piece of tape on the top of your foot.
You don’t have to wrap all the way around your foot. Instead, tear each piece of tape at the edge of your foot, making what looks like a tape shoe.
 You should tape your feet whenever you are going to engage in a lot of physical activity, such as before exercising or before going to work.You don’t want to leave the tape on too long. Refrain from leaving the tape on all day or overnight.