 Car-related emissions are a major cause of global warming. The manufacturing of cars and roads for them to drive on, the production of fuel, and of course the burning of that fuel all play a part.While stopping driving altogether might not be practical, finding ways to cut back on how much you use your car is one of the most straightforward actions you can take to reduce your greenhouse gas emissions.


Instead of driving to the grocery store every day, make one trip a week and stock up on everything you need.
Carpool with other people to school or work.
Every time you need to go somewhere, consider if there's a way to get there without using your car.
 These vehicles still produce emissions, but since they carry so many people, they're much more efficient than individual cars. Get familiar with your city's bus, subway or train routes and commit to using only public transportation at least once a week. Work up to using it as much as possible. You might even come to like it better!


If your community doesn't have reliable public transportation, consider going to city council meetings to speak up about the problem.
If other people in your town share your concerns, you may be able to make a difference together.
 It feels good to use your own energy to propel you where you want to go, and you can rest easy knowing that your transportation is completely emission-free. Any time you need to go somewhere within a few miles of your house, consider walking or biking instead of taking another mode of transportation. Sure, it'll take you longer to get there, but you'll have more time to think and enjoy the world on the way.


Try walking to places that are within a five-minute drive of your home.
Use your city's bike lanes. If it doesn't have any, you can write letters to the editor, attend city council meetings and coordinate with your city's bicycle/pedestrian coordinator to improve bike safety., If you neglect your car's upkeep, it will end up producing more greenhouse gas emissions. Have it smog-tested once a year, and if it fails, be sure to make repairs promptly to fix the problem. Here are other ways you can keep your car in tip-top shape so it has a lower impact on the environment:


Fill up your gas tank in the early morning or late evening, when it's cool outside. This way less gas will evaporate in the heat of the day.
Use energy-conserving motor oil.
Don't idle in drive-thrus; park and walk in instead.
Make sure your car's tires are inflated to the recommended pressure.

