 For instance, milkweed is a common place to find monarch caterpillars. Look up the type of butterfly you want to find first, so you have an idea of what they eat, where they lay eggs, what the caterpillar looks like, and what the eggs look like.Look for feeding damage in the shade. On milkweed, for instance, milkweed bugs may damage the plant in the sun, but in the shade, it's more likely monarch caterpillar damage.
Get in close. Some caterpillars will be pretty tiny, not bigger than 5 or 6 millimeters, though they can also get an inch or so long. The eggs are also fairly tiny. In the case of monarchs, they are tiny white balls.
Don't take too many caterpillars from one spot. Leave some to grow up in the wild., A five-gallon bucket is sufficient for keeping 5 to 10 caterpillars. The bucket should have plenty of what the caterpillars eat, such as milkweed leaves, and you should provide a variety if your caterpillar eats more than one kind of leaf. In addition, it should have a screen roof for ventilation, so that the feces from the caterpillars can dry out and not harm them.You can use a smaller enclosure, as long as you provide proper ventilation at the top.
You can also place tissue paper or blank newspaper at the bottom to collect droppings.
 If you're putting leaves in the bottom of the bucket, you'll need to replenish them regularly. You can also put small branches in a glass of fresh water, which don't need to be replenished as often, as they'll stay good for longer.If you do put branches in water, try to block most of the top of the glass or jar, so the caterpillars don't fall in and drown.Consider rinsing leaves in water and leaving them wet. Doing so can provide the caterpillars with the moisture they need.
 You will need to clean out the cage regularly. You can clean out the cage once a day. Remove the paper you used and replace it. Also, take out any dead or dry leaves, as caterpillars won't eat anything but fresh leaves., Most caterpillars prefer branches or leaves, so make sure to provide places for the caterpillar to pupate. Once they choose a pupation site, consider moving it to a different cage. You will want to keep this cage lightly misted.Your caterpillar will likely remain in this stage throughout the winter if it went into the pupation stage in the fall. It's not dead, just turning into a butterfly.
Make sure the pupa is high enough. It should stay hung up (for most butterflies), giving the butterfly space to emerge. Hang up the leaf or stick if is too low to the bottom of the cage.
You can also glue a cocoon up. Add a dab of low-temp hot glue to a piece of paper. Let it cool, but make sure to move while it is still liquid. Place the tip of the cocoon in the glue. Hold it there until it dries. Tape or pin the paper up so the butterfly has space to emerge., Watch the chrysalis. When it changes color, to dark or translucent, the butterfly will emerge soon. Make sure to mist the cage. The butterfly will emerge in under a few seconds once it's ready, so you need to be prepared if you want to see it.