 Being a counselor is a very draining experience. If you can smile through the trying times and spend your days giving kids one of the greatest summer of their lives, then read on. If not, you really must evaluate why you want to be a counselor. It's a lot of fun, but a lot of work. It is not a week of being a camper, for older kids! You must be responsible, and able to handle any situation that comes up.;
, Prepare for each day and whatever it may throw at you. If you prepare yourself and know the schedule, you can prepare the campers. They will have less anxiety about the day and have something to look forward to. Preparing you and your campers make you invaluable in that you will be able to handle anything. Talk to previous counselors and ask the staff for any advice and resources.
 Most camps offer a training period, during which you will learn everything about how the camp is run, and emergency procedure. It's very easy to tune out, DON'T! You never know when you will need it again. When little Jimmy collapses on the playground, you don't want to be thinking to yourself "I wish I had been paying attention to the lecture instead of watching that squirrel."

, You don't all have to be best friends forever, but it is essential that you all get along, at the minimum. If counselors are arguing, even if its done far outside earshot of the campers, because they will pick up on it. Most likely, you will have to work even a little bit with all of the other counselors and everything goes smoother if you are friends. You don't want to find out later in the summer that you are leading an activity with the counselor you do not care for.
 You will want to know what is going on next, and what time the next break is. If you do not have your schedule when the campers ask what is happening next, they will think that you are incompetent and you will lose their respect.
 For example, if you run around calling Jane by Brittany's name and vice versa, you will lose their respect and they will feel hurt that they are not important enough to know your name. Likewise, it is difficult to correct a camper's behavior when you don't know their name. Play name games, if it helps you and repeat their names often.
 Certain campers you will love, certain campers you will not really care for (silently, of course). The key is to know what they will do. You have to know who has to be watched constantly, and who always does what they are told. You must anticipate how they will react to each other, and activities. Try to spend at least ten minutes of face time with each camper each day. They will like you more if they feel that they are the center of attention, and it will allow you to understand them better.
 Ask them questions, start conversations and play games that help the kids get to know each other, and NEVER play games or do activities that pit the kids against each other competitively until the second or third day. It might create bad blood.
 It's important to know what the campers think of each other and of their day. Just before they leave, make everyone sit in a circle and try one of the following:


For General Reflection: "Rose, Bud and Thorn" (What was the best and worse part of your day and what are you looking forward to most for tomorrow) "Random Question" (If you could have any superpower, what would it be? What's your favorite activity and why? If you had one last meal what would it be.)
For Team building: "Positive Points" (The campers sit in a circle and say one positive thing about each person beside them) "3 things in common" (Have the kids pair up and find out three things they have in common with their partner and share with the group when they have finished. This is also good for breaking up cliques)

, Remember that this is YOUR time, do whatever you feel will make you the happiest and get you re-energized for your next shift. Breaks are a great time to take naps, check your phone (if you are allowed), read a book or hang out with other counselors.
 It might seem like a lot of work, but you will change lives. It is amazing to see the quiet camper that sat in the corner at the beginning of the session getting along with her other campers, or to see what they have learned. You will get out of the day as much as you put into it. HAVE A GOOD TIME and the kids will! You are a positive role model, give yourself a pat on the back.

