 One of the easiest and most delicious simple casseroles to make is a baked macaroni and cheese. By varying the ratio of cheese-to-macaroni, you can make yours gooier or more firm, depending on how you like it.



Boil half a box of macaroni for a square-shaped casserole dish and a full box for a rectangular dish. Cook until al dente, then rinse with cool water to stop them from cooking and put them in a greased casserole dish.

In a skillet, heat 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of butter over medium heat, then whisk in about two tablespoons of flour and brown it to make the roux, while it clumps up. Keep stirring it, or it'll burn quickly. When it browns, add 2 cups of whole milk, a little at a time, whisking vigorously, to integrate the flour and thicken things.

Add salt and pepper to taste after the milk has been added, and let the roux thicken. When it bubbles, add about 8 oz. of shredded sharp cheddar cheese, or whatever kind of cheese you like, melting the cheese in. Cheddar is most common, but mix it up by adding half cheddar and half pepper jack, or mozzarella. Use your favorite kind.

Pour the cheesy mixture over the noodles in the casserole dish. Common additions might include sautéed mushrooms, ground beef or sausage, raw tomato slices, onions and garlic. Bake at 350 for 15 minutes, then top with breadcrumbs or parmesan cheese and broil to finish.

If you like your mac and cheese creamier, add more milk at the beginning, and use fewer noodles. If you like it firmer, make less sauce, enough to just coat the noodles and add a significant amount of breadcrumbs to the top.
 Tuna casserole, or tuna-noodle casserole, is Midwestern cooking at its commonest. Using egg noodles, canned tuna, and cream of mushroom soup, it's a quick and hearty meal that you can derive from cheap pantry ingredients.



Boil two cups of egg noodles until al dente, and rinse them in cool water to stop the cooking.

In the casserole dish, mix one can of cream of mushroom soup with a half cup of water, one drained can of solid white albacore tuna, and a cup and a half of frozen peas. Salt and pepper to taste.

Alternative additions might include cheddar cheese, chopped pimento or black olive, frozen carrots, or using canned salmon instead of tuna.

Bake at 400 degrees for about half an hour, then remove to add breadcrumbs and parmesan cheese for a topping. Broil to finish.
 To make a basic lasagna, you can layer cooked lasagna noodles, mozzarella, parmesan, or ricotta cheese (or, better yet, all three) and marinara sauce in a casserole dish and bake until the cheese is melted and warm and delicious.



Sauté any additional vegetables and meat you'd like in your lasagna before adding sauce to the skillet. Spinach, mushrooms, eggplant and sausage are all common additions. Layer noodles, then sauce mixture, then cheese until you fill the pan. It's common to top lasagna with a beaten egg and parmesan cheese to create a nice golden crunch on top.

Lasagna should be baked covered at 375 F for 25 minutes and then remove the cover and bake an additional 25 minutes. Before cutting into it, let it stand for 15 minutes.

