 Exercising on a regular basis can have a great effect on your overall health, and it can also help your periods stay short and light.


If you are overweight, you might want to consider talking to your doctor about a healthy weight loss plan. Maintaining a healthy weight can help you periods be shorter and lighter overall.Regardless of weight, women who live sedentary lifestyles tend to have longer periods. Moderate physical activity, in the form of 45 minutes to an hour of exercise a day, can result in shorter periods. Exercise can come in the form a sport you enjoy, a brisk walk, cardiovascular exercise, or jogging.Be careful about overdoing it. Sometimes, excessive exercise can cause menstruation to stop altogether. This can be dangerous, especially if you're not getting the proper nutrients while working out. You should always consult your doctor before adjusting your workout routine., While the effects of diet on menstruation are debated, some studies do indicate a low fat diet full of healthy carbohydrates might result in shorter periods.


A diet rich in complex carbohydrates, like whole grains, fruits, and vegetables, while low in sugar and alcohol can reduce symptoms like cramping and mood swings associated with menstruation. It may also shorten the overall length of your menstrual cycle.A few studies exist that indicate a low fat diet may also shorten menstrual periods, at least to a small degree.As weight loss can lead to shorter periods, altering your diet if you're overweight may help with weight loss and therefore reduce period length. However, you should always talk to your doctor before making any decisions about losing weight.
 Disrupted or limited sleep contributes to stress, which can lead to longer, painful periods. Getting on a regular, healthy sleep schedule can help you better regulate your emotions.


Losing even a few hours of sleep can lead to increased stress, anger, and anxiety. All of these things can manipulate hormone levels and lead to a heavier, longer period.Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day, including weekends. Your body will adjust to this schedule and you'll settle into a regular sleep schedule. When you wake up, set the alarm for the time you actually plan on being awake. Using the snooze button can lead to interrupted, unpleasant sleep that can leave you tired throughout the day.