 Cleave is Zeratul’s Q ability, which causes Zeratul to spin and damage nearby enemies. A pretty straightforward skill that is useful against clumped-up minions, isolated heroes and teams that are packed up too tightly. This ability synergizes extremely well with Blink, as you can walk up to a target, hit Cleave and then Blink out to safety.;
, Singularity Spike is Zeratul’s W ability, which releases a spike that sticks to the first enemy hit along its path; slowing and damaging the affected target after a short duration. The Spike takes around half a second to reach its furthest point, so you need to aim the ability just a little bit ahead of your target to land it if it is moving. The real kicker of this ability is its slowing effect, which allows you to effectively chase and isolate targets from a distance.
 Blink is Zeratul’s E ability, which instantly teleports him to the target location. This skill is what gives Zeratul so much flexibility, as it can be used conservatively to keep him alive or aggressively to hunt down and destroy targets from afar. Avoid Blinking blindly into the enemy though, as your innate frailty makes you vulnerable to focused fire should you get ambushed by the enemy team.
 Shadow Assault is Zeratul’s first ultimate ability, which significantly increases his attack speed while causing him to rapidly close the distance between him and his target with each strike.This ultimate is essential if you plan to kill targets with basic attacks, as the charge effect allows him to consistently land those hits even when the target is backpedalling.
 Void Prison is Zeratul’s second ultimate ability, which traps all units in a small area – freezing them in place and making them immune to damage. The fact that this ability lasts five seconds can wreck enemy teams by isolating two to three heroes so your team can focus on the remaining ones. Once the effect ends, you can then turn your attention back to the trapped heroes to finish them off. Even trapping a single hero can often be enough for your team to gain a decisive advantage in tight team fights – although you can also mess up by trapping your allies or turning your enemies invincible just as your allies are about to land the killing blows.
 Permanent Cloak is Zeratul’s trait, a passive ability that turns him invisible once he has been out of combat for three seconds. This means that attacking, being attacked or using abilities will disrupt your cloak and reset its timer. Basic attack and targeted abilities won’t work against you if you’re invisible, but area-of-effect damage or abilities that don’t need a target will still affect you. Other players will also see a slight shimmer if they look carefully, which is why it is better to operate on the assumption that your opponents can see you instead of recklessly diving in with the belief that nobody is aware of your presence., This build is all about maximizing Zeratul’s basic attacks to kill targets in as little time as possible – from increasing basic attack damage to increasing his attack speed. This build, however, will make you easy to kill if the enemy team focuses its fire down on you. This is why your job is to hunt down heroes that like to split off from their team, like specialists that roam the map to try and push lanes or supports that hang back away from the fight. Position yourself in the rear before the fight even begins and jump in to focus the isolated heroes just as the two teams crash together for a massive fight. Try to save Blink for jumping out of the fray when attention shifts to you, but don’t be afraid to Blink in when you see an opportunity to take out one or two fragile in exchange for your own life. Assassin’s Blade is the better pick in most situations, although Giant Killer works well if you are up against multiple enemy warriors with large health pools.


Talent Build: Rapid Displacement > Focused Attack > Follow Through > Shadow Assault > Assassin’s Blade OR Giant Killer > Berserk > Nexus Blades

, This build functions identically to the Attack Assassin except for one difference: you are able to absorb and regenerate a lot of health in exchange for dealing reduced damage. This gives Zeratul increased survivability without sacrificing his ability to neutralize enemies, and is especially effective when the enemy team is not capable of putting out a large amount of burst damage. You will thus be able to better join the thick of battle by taking a few hits, especially since you can still Blink out if you are taking too much heat. Again, Giant Killer should be taken only when up against high-health enemies, while Stoneskin should only be picked if there’s one or two enemy heroes with nasty burst abilities that can kill you right away or disabling abilities that can prevent you from attacking.


Talent Build: Block > Vampiric Strike > First Aid > Shadow Assault > Assassin’s Blade OR Giant Killer > Berserk OR Stoneskin > Nerazim Fury

, This build is all about maximizing the destructive power of Cleave to hurt enemies from the shadows and then Blinking back out to safety. This build is especially effective against low-health heroes that cannot retaliate in time, especially when you get Worm Hole which lets you Blink out after Blinking in to use Cleave. Double it all up with Rewind and you could virtually kill off squishy heroes in the blink of an eye. Do note though that this build will not be as effective if the enemy team has one or two supports that can simply heal the damage you do with Cleave. Still, a coordinate Cleave can help add just enough damage for your teammates to finish off the enemy.


Talent Build: Greater Cleave > Gathering Power > Void Slash > Void Prison > Worm Hole > Rending Cleave > Rewind

, The Controller is all about punishing the enemy team with Void Prison and Singularity Spike. The slowing effects of a talented Singularity Spike will prove devastating in ambushes while preventing enemy teams from moving smoothly across the battlefield. A well-timed Void Prison talented with Protective Prison will make it even easier for your team to isolate and finish off the enemy team at your leisure. Do note, however, that the Controller is not built for straight-up combat. You sacrifice your own damage output for the ability to slow and disable your enemies, so you’ll need your damage-oriented teammates to finish off the enemies you are controlling.


Talent Build: Rapid Displacement > Sustained Anomaly > Shadow Spike > Void Prison > Wormhole > Double Bombs > Protective Prison

