 Get out a 2 1/2 pound (1.1 kg) sirloin tip roast. Sprinkle 1 teaspoon of salt over the sirloin and use your fingertips to rub the salt evenly into the meat. Wrap the sirloin in plastic wrap and put it in the fridge for the day or up to overnight.While you can skip this step if you're short on time, it will improve the flavor and texture of the sirloin tip.
 Remove the sirloin from the fridge and let it sit at room temperature for at least an hour. Unwrap the roast and pat it dry with paper towels. Turn on the oven to 250 degrees F (120 degrees C).Bringing the sirloin tip to room temperature will prevent it from cooking too quickly on the outside while the inside remains underdone.
 Pour 1 tablespoon (14 g) of olive oil into a cast-iron or heavy skillet. Heat the oil on medium-high so it begins to smoke a little. Lower the sirloin tip into the hot skillet and brown it for 3 minutes. Carefully turn it over and brown the other side for 3 minutes.The sirloin won't be finished cooking, but searing will give the sirloin a rich, caramelized flavor.
 Measure all of your spices and place them in a small bowl. Stir them together until they're combined and rub them evenly over the seared sirloin. You'll need:1 teaspoon of pepper
2 teaspoons of dried oregano
2 teaspoons of dried basil
1½ teaspoons of crushed red pepper or chili pepper flakes
3 larges cloves of minced garlic

, Stick an oven-safe meat thermometer into the seasoned sirloin and put the meat in a roasting pan or tray. Put the sirloin in the preheated oven and bake it for 1 hour and 20 minutes. The temperature of the roast should be between 120 degrees F (50 degrees C) for rare or 130 degrees F (55 degrees C) for medium.If the sirloin is larger, you might need to add more time.
 Turn off the oven and leave the sirloin in the oven to finish cooking as it rests. Leave the roast for 30 to 40 minutes so the temperature of the sirloin increases by about 10 to 20 degrees.Avoid opening the oven door because this will let too much of the heat out and the steak won't finish cooking.
 Remove the sirloin from the oven once it's done to your liking. Let it sit at room temperature for 10 to 15 minutes before you slice it. Slice the sirloin tips into thin strips before you serve them.Consider serving the roast sirloin tip with green beans, rice, or steamed vegetables.

