 Most modern smartphones have the ability to record sounds right out of the box. Before looking for another app to cover your mic needs, see if you even need one.


Some Android phones, like the Samsung Galaxy S5, come with a voice recorder app pre-installed.It's usually listed under "Voice Recorder" or something similar in the main app list.
Most recent Apple devices come with a built-in mic and a voice recorder app called "Voice Memos." This is listed under Extras > Voice Memos.Older devices can still record audio if you connect a mic accessory. Click here for a list of devices with this feature.
Windows phones can record audio with the pre-installed OneNote app. Windows 10 phones (to be released late 2015) have a dedicated recording app called "Sound Recorder.", If you don't have an audio-recording app installed on your phone, you can always download a third-party app to do your recording. If you're not sure whether your phone has a built-in microphone, you can look up your model's features on a site like Phonearena.com.For Android devices, connect to the Google Play Store.
For Apple devices, connect to the iTunes App Store.
For Windows devices, connect to the Windows Marketplace.
 There are a variety of free, easy-to-use recording apps available. If you're looking to record simple audio (like a voice or a conversation) and quality isn't a huge factor, try one of the simpler mic apps. A few good choices are below:


For Android devices, try Smart Voice Recorder.For Apple devices, try Voice Recorder.For Windows devices, try Recorder One., You can also use your smart phone as a mic for your computer. Though this usually won't give you the same level of fidelity as a good-quality mic accessory, it's not a bad choice. For the apps below, you'll also need a connection between your phone and your computer. The exact setup varies based on the devices you're using. Generally, you can connect the two physically (via USB or Aux. cable) or wirelessly (via WiFi or Bluetooth]).


For Android devices, Microphone.For Apple devices, try Smart Voice Recorder.For Windows device, try Real Microphone., Smartphones don't have the hardware to capture to capture CD-quality music audio. However, the multi-track recording apps that are available can be surprisingly good for recording basic song ideas. Note that many of the best multi-track apps (including the ones below) are not free.


For Android devices, try J4T Multitrack Recorder.For Apple devices, try FourTrack., There are too many good audio-recording apps to list in this article. A few more quality choices that are intended for narrow uses include:



StoryCorps, which is designed to record family stories. The app can capture up to 45 minutes of audio at a time and has easy options for sharing and archiving stories.inClass, which allows you to record audio as you take notes and manage your schedule. Perfect for students.Crowd Mics lets audience members at large gatherings use their smartphones as mics.Voice Changer Plus (and similar apps), which let you modify voice clips with amusing effects.