 Americans often rush between one activity and the next, forgetting to take time to enjoy life. Europeans take time in their day to enjoy things. Whether it's long lunches in France, midday respites in Italy, or siestas in Spain, Europeans know how to relax and enjoy the small things. Take half an hour to regroup and destress in the afternoon. Enjoy your lunch hour instead of rushing around and scarfing your food down.One of the best ways to accomplish this is to take longer vacations. On average, Europeans receive and take more vacation days than people in America. Instead of skipping your vacations until you have more money or less to do at work, take your week long vacation and enjoy yourself. Plan a trip that won't break the bank or spend the week relaxing with those you love. Just don't think about work and leave all your stress behind., Europeans know when to sit and enjoy each other's company. In France, people often take long, extended lunches where they congregate in groups to socialize and eat a meal together. Instead of skipping dinner with your family because you are all too busy, sit down and eat together. You can all talk about your day and enjoy each other's company without rushing around.Americans are often overly nice to each other and can become sensitive when someone tells them something they are doing wrong. Europeans tend to be more critical, but in a constructive way. The French are known for their frankness and are typically thought of as too honest. When your friends ask how they are doing on a task, tell them the truth instead of trying to preserve their feelings. They will become a better person for it and you will have a closer, more honest relationship with them., In Europe, people don't typically smile at everyone they pass like they do in America. In Germany and France, you won't see locals walking around, saying "Guten Morgen" or "Bonjour" and smiling at people. They save their smiles for occasions that warrant smiling, which makes the act more genuine. Instead of smiling at everyone you see or when you really don't mean it, smile only when you are truly pleased or amused by something. This will make your attention more special and make you seem more European.