 Connect a flash drive or other USB storage device to the USB port on your Xbox.

Use a device with enough memory to store the music you want to move.;
, Do so by pressing the Xbox button on a controller., Use the controller to do so., It's in the center of the menu.,, If, for example, the music you want to transfer is on the Xbox hard drive, select "Hard Drive.", It's on the controller. Doing so opens the "Device Options" menu., It's the last selection on the menu., It will appear in the right pane of the window., It's a folder near the bottom of the "Content" list., It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box., Do so when you get a notification that the transfer is complete., Connect the USB storage device that contains the music from your Xbox to a USB port on your computer., It's an app containing a music note on a white background., It's on the menu bar in the upper-left corner of the screen., It's in the second section of the drop-down menu., It should be listed on the left side of the dialog box under "Devices.", Select a song, multiple songs by holding down the "shift" key as you click, or an entire folder., It's in the lower-right corner of the dialog box. Now music that you transferred from your Xbox will be uploaded to your iTunes library., Use the USB cable that came with your iPhone.

If iTunes is not open or doesn't open automatically when you connect your device, open it.
 It's in the top-center of of the iTunes window.

If the drop-down menu in the upper-left corner doesn't say "Music," click on it and click on Music.
 It's on top-left side of the screen under "Library.", Do so by clicking on the songs you'd like to move to your iPhone in the right pane of the window.

Hold down the "shift" key or "⌘" key (on Mac) as you click to make multiple selections.
You may need to scroll down to see all of the recently-added songs.
 Drag the selected songs to your iPhone's icon on the left side of the window, under "Devices." Now you've moved music from your Xbox to your iPhone.

Go to the Downloaded Music section of the Library in the Music app to locate the songs on your iPhone.
Music is listed alphabetically by artist.

