 Rogaine has an ingredient called minoxidil that helps to stimulate fresh hair growth. It is one of the most popular hair growth methods for men. You can purchase Rogaine over-the-counter at most drug stores. Just remember, it is formulated for hair growth on top of the head, not the face, and usage is not FDA approved.It is dangerous to ingest minoxidil, so be careful when applying Rogaine near your mouth. Be sure to consult with your physician before using Rogaine for facial hair growth.You may experience side effects such as eye burning or irritation, dandruff, or itchy skin., Testosterone, which is the male sex hormone, can be applied through injection, through topical applications, or taken orally (though this is not recommended due to adverse effects on the liver).Low testosterone levels could be responsible for stunted facial hair growth.For best results, testosterone therapy should be closely regulated. Too much testosterone can backfire, and actually inhibit growth of hair.If you have low testosterone, there will likely be other symptoms, such as erectile dysfunction and decreased muscle mass. Your doctor will want to run some tests to make sure your levels are actually low. Don't count on a prescription based solely on your hair growth.
Using testosterone may take up to a year to produce results., For some, nature was just not kind, and no matter what you try, whiskers refuse to call your face "home." When all else fails, a plastic surgeon can help by transplanting hair follicles from your scalp into your face. Hair transplants can be very effective, but they can also be costly, in terms of time and money.


This is generally done on an outpatient basis, and will result in some mild skin irritation. It can also take quite a long time—one to two years—for the procedure to deliver the results you want.Ask your general physician to recommend someone she trusts to perform the transplants. Make sure you have a consultation beforehand, and ask plenty of questions about the procedure.

