 Some people have an addiction to chocolate due to emotional issues. They may crave chocolate when they are feeling stressed, anxious, or upset. You should think about if your addiction is based on emotion. Consider if you tend to reach for chocolate as a safety blanket when you are feeling rough emotionally.Ask your doctor for medical advice if you believe the underlying cause of your addiction is emotional.
You may also notice that you end up eating chocolate partly out of boredom. Though your feelings of boredom may not seem intense or highly emotional, this is a sign that your chocolate addiction may be tied back to feeling bored and restless.
 You should take the time to recognize any triggers that lead you to reach for a chocolate bar. This could be situations where you are feeling stressed at work or overwhelmed at school. You may also find you indulge on chocolate when you are feeling bored or restless at home. You should recognize what triggers your chocolate consumption and then work to avoid these triggers.For example, if you find you end up reaching for chocolate when you are bored at home, you may try to counteract this trigger by doing something else. You may go for a walk or visit with a friend rather than sit at home and eat too much chocolate. This way, you acknowledge your trigger and then do not give into it.
You may also notice that you crave chocolate during your period every month and tend to overindulge. You may prepare for this once a month trigger by opting for healthy snacks that still incorporate chocolate into your diet or by limiting yourself to only one chocolate a day.
 If you feel a sudden craving coming on for chocolate, you can keep it in check by waiting 10 minutes to act on it. If after 10 minutes you still want chocolate, you can allow yourself to have a very small amount. Often, waiting 10 minutes will allow your body to calm down and really consider if it needs chocolate.Waiting 10 minutes after a craving may also help you feel more in control of your cravings and not so powerless to resist overindulging in chocolate. Having a sense of control over your addiction can make it easier to cut back and limit your consumption of chocolate.

