 Don't just lay there like a sandbag. As the receiver of the sharpshooter, help to hold your legs up as much as possible and make it easier by shifting your weight up on your elbow and shoulder as you're being rolled.


Depending on the story being told, it might be important to also give the appearance of struggling. Wave your free arm around and put a pained look of fear on your face. It'll look much better.
 Once you've been rolled over, you've got to start acting. Scream and holler like it's painful, like you're having your legs pulled out of their sockets. Lots of wrestlers will grab their heads, bang on the mat, and start crawling for the ropes. If you just lay there, the move doesn't look good. In a certain way, it's mostly on you to make or break the move.


If the match calls for you to tap out–to give up–don't do it right away. Give off the impression like you're trying to hold out, you're trying to get out of it, and you don't want to give the match up. Then tap on your opponent's leg three times, reluctantly, signaling your withdrawal.
Check out "Stone Cold" Steve Austin's sell of the sharpshooter at Wrestlemania 13 for inspiration. It's one of the iconic images of wrestling.
 Just because you're wrapped up in a submission hold doesn't mean the only option is for you to tap out. There are less clear-cut reversals than in some other submission holds, but there are a few you can work out with your opponent, depending on whether or not the story calls for it.



Head for the ropes. The best way to break the sharpshooter is to grab hold of one of the ring ropes, which will give your opponent until the count of five to break the hold, or he will be disqualified. If you're in the center of the ring, get up on your elbows and start crawling, dragging your opponent with you. Intestinal fortitude to the max.

Straighten your legs. Work with your opponent to power out of the sharpshooter by straightening your legs and pushing his torso toward the ground. If you work together, you could even shift into a roll-over pinning combination.

Grab his ankle and flip into your own sharpshooter. If you can reach back and get your opponent off his feet, you'll release the weight and be able to stand up. Now, he'll be in position for the sharpshooter, or another Boston-Crab-type submission hold.

