 It's a gray app that contains gears (⚙️) and is typically located on your home screen.;
, It's the section at the top of the menu that contains your name and image if you've added one.


If you are not signed in, tap Sign in to (Your Device), enter your Apple ID and password, then tap Sign In.
If you are running an older version of iOS, you may not need to do this step.
 It's in the second section of the menu.
 It's near the bottom of the "APPS USING ICLOUD" section of the menu.
 It will turn green. This feature enables you to find your iPhone's location using another device.
 Now your iPhone will send its location to Apple when the battery is critically low, just before it powers off.
 Do so by launching the app on a mobile device or going to iCloud in a web browser.
 Use the Apple ID and password with which you signed into your iPhone.


If the app is on a device that belongs to another person, you may need to tap Sign Out in the upper-right corner of the app screen in order to sign in with your own Apple ID.
 It should appear in a list of devices below the map; it's location will be displayed on the map, which will zoom in when you select your iPhone.


If the phone has been powered off, or the battery has died, it will show you the last known location of your phone, but will not be able to show you the current address.
 It's at the bottom-center of the screen.
 It's in the bottom-left corner of the screen. If your iPhone is nearby, it will play a sound to help you locate it.
 It's at the bottom-center of the screen. Use this option if your iPhone is lost in a place where it could be found by someone else or if you think it's been stolen.


Enter an unlock code for your phone. Use a random number set that's not tied to you: no SSN, no birthdate, driver's license number, or anything that is personal.
Send a message and contact phone number that will be displayed on your screen.
If your iPhone is online, it will immediately lock and cannot be reset without the lock code. You'll be able to see your phone's current location, as well as any changes in location.
If your phone is offline, it will lock immediately on power-up. You'll receive an email notification and will be able to track your phone's position.
 It's in the lower-right corner of the screen. Use this option if you're concerned that you may not recover your iPhone or that your personal information may be compromised.


This action erases all the data on your iPhone, which also means that you'll no longer be able to use Find My iPhone to locate your device.
Regularly back up your iPhone to iCloud or iTunes in case you ever need to restore erased data.

