 Even in a small election, it's hard to run a winning campaign alone. Sign up volunteers to help you organize your campaign events and go out to make your case to voters. Get your friends and family to work with you. One dedicated volunteer can be worth 100 votes on election day.
 Meet as many people in person as you can. Even in the digital age, face-to-face conversations are still the best way to win people over. Have you and your most persuasive volunteers and campaign staff canvas door-to-door and meet voters at busy events and public spaces as much as possible. Many people might turn you away, but the ones that take the time to listen to you—or even shake your hand—are far more likely to vote for you, donate or volunteer.
 The most tangible products of any big campaign are signs, posters, pamphlets, buttons, bumper stickers and t-shirts. Many of these products have little more on them besides your name and slogan—or even just a logo. They don't do much to actually win individual votes, but they do get your name out there and potentially get people to look up your website. They also show voters where you have existing support in the community, and many are only willing to join a movement when it is already suitably popular.


You might not actually change any minds with your yard signs, but your volunteers will be demoralized if they have to campaign in a neighborhood that only has signs for your opponent. Politics is an arms race. If your opponents do it, you need to be prepared to match them.
 Winning doesn't come cheap. Every major campaign needs money to print campaign materials, organize events and potentially pay hired campaign staff. Start with potential big donors, but small donations of just a few dollars can add up quick too. If a voter seems well convinced to support you, always ask them to donate as well.
 All the fundraising, campaign events and compelling arguments won't matter if you can't get people to show up on election day. Do everything you can to get your supporters to the polls, from a simple reminder email to providing transportation.

