 Self-disclosure is an essential element to lasting social bonds. If the person is a close friend or family member, they may feel affronted if you lie or deflect their question. Also, refusing to answer may jeopardize your relationship with the person.


Think about your connection with the asker. Have you divulged personal information with them in the past? Does this person seem trustworthy of keeping your confidences?;
, Since self-disclosure often separates general acquaintances and more intimate friendships, the person’s asking may reflect their attempt to forge a bond with you. Carefully decide if you are ready to deepen the relationship.Friends and partners are often expected to share personal details of their lives when forming relationships. See the questions as a sign that the person wants to get to know more about you. Then, decide if you, too, are ready to deepen the connection.
Try to look at things from their perspective. Do you think they're trying to be friendly or chatty? Or do you suspect that they will use this information to pressure or judge you?

, With social media over-shares in today’s society, some people may not even realize their questions fall into the intrusive category. However, it’s not always the question, but the topic that makes a person become defensive.


Before reacting to the question, ask yourself whether it’s the question or the topic that has your feathers ruffled. For instance, maybe you feel insecure about a break up, so whenever you are asked general questions about your relationship, you get worked up., If you feel sensitive about a certain topic or would much rather not discuss it for some reason, inform others who may be involved. Your interpretation of a nosy question may not align with your mother’s or your partner’s. Let these people know what you don’t want to become public knowledge.For instance, if you aren’t inclined to discuss your marriage plans with your extended family, you might share your reservations with your partner. Simply say something along the lines of, “I’m not ready to discuss our relationship with anyone else. Can we keep our plans between us for now?”

