 If you are scared of antidepressants, talk to your doctor. Ask them questions. Tell them your fears. Explain to them why you are hesitant. Your doctor can talk through some of your reservations with you, such as the negative side effects or how long you will have to take them.Make sure you feel comfortable with your doctor. If your doctor won’t take the time to answer your questions and help you feel comfortable with the treatment option, consider another doctor.
You may ask, “What negative side effects will there be?” or “What can I do if I don’t feel like myself on the medication?”;
, You may want to talk to your therapist about your fears. They may be able to help you face your fears and overcome them. You can also talk to your therapist about how taking antidepressants will help your treatment progress.
 After discussing it with your doctor and therapist, you should research the antidepressants your doctor wants you to take. Research how antidepressants work, what the side effects are, and what the benefits are.


You can read reviews of people’s experiences online or talk to people you know who take them.
 When making the decision about whether taking antidepressants is the right choice for you, you should weigh the pros and cons. What benefits do you think you will have if you overcome your fear and take the medication? What are the downsides of taking the medication? Make a list and share it with your family, friends, or therapist.Possible benefits may be that you will feel better, your moods will improve, and you will only have to take them for a few months. Possible cons may include side effects or a feeling of shame.
Decide which list is more important. You may want to address ideas that may not be true from your con list, like the feeling of shame or a stigma if you take antidepressants.
 Antidepressants are helpful for people who cannot treat depression other ways. If you have tried other treatments, like therapy without medication, exercise, or meditation, with no results, medication may be helpful for you.Often, combining antidepressants with other treatments, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, talk therapy, meditation, or exercise, can have significant benefits.
 It is okay to be afraid of trying a new medication or treatment. However, think about how you feel now. Which is stronger, your current depressed state or your fear of the medication? If you choose not to get treatment, what will happen to you? The answers to these questions may be able to help you get over your fear.For some people, trying something in their current depressed state, even if it doesn’t work out, is better than staying depressed. For others, the fear is stronger. Decide if trying something to help you get better is stronger than your fear.

