 In order to do this, click on “Edit my Profile” on top of the default picture.;
, It's important that you do so to help employers get a good sense of your skill set.


Make sure that your previous experience is present on your profile.
It is also a good idea to list your skills and the things that you are good at on your profile so clients will know exactly what to expect when you apply for a job.
 Not adding a profile picture can be a deal breaker, so it is best to have one on your profile. It makes clients much more comfortable if they can see exactly who they are hiring to work for them.
 This is where you added all of your original information. At the top, you will see your default profile picture.
 This option is next to the default profile picture.
 Choose a picture of yourself you want to use.
 Confirm the changes.
 Click on the blue “Add” link to the right of that. This will bring you to a new screen where you can drag and drop your file into the box that says “Drag files here.”


Alternatively, you can simply click the Browse button and find the portfolio you would like to upload.
 Add a description in the area above this.
 Your portfolio will be available for potential clients to view.
 After you see the tab, click on “Add” on the far-right side, much like adding a new portfolio.
 If it is something that someone has already listed, all you have to do is click the skill and it will be added to your skill set.
 The most important thing to remember is after you are done adding all of your profile information is to scroll to the bottom of the page and select “save changes.”

, You will see 4 sub-tabs pop up below that.
 This will bring you to a new page.



Taking tests is an important part of making your profile stick out.
Pay attention; take tests that apply to the kind of jobs you are looking for.
The more positive tests results you have under your belt, the better you will look to potential clients.
The best tests to take are those relating to proper grammar and English skills, or whatever your native language may be.

