 Before you begin cleaning your false eyelashes, gather the supplies to do so. In order to use this method, you'll need the following:Makeup remover, specifically designed to remove eye makeup
Rubbing alcohol
Cotton balls
Cotton swab/Q-tip
Tweezers;
, To start, wash your hands in clean tap water and antibacterial soap. You do not want to handle false eyelashes with dirty hands, as this can cause an eye infection.Get your hands wet with clear, running water. Lather your hands in antibacterial soap for about 20 seconds. Make sure to target areas like between the fingers, the backs of your hands, and underneath the fingernails.Rinse your hands in clear water and then dry with a clean towel.
 Before cleaning, carefully remove fake eyelashes. Use the pads of your fingers over your fingernails or something like tweezers, which can damage eyelashes.Firmly grasp the eyelashes with your thumb and forefinger.
Peel the band inwards slowly. The lashes should come off fairly easily.
 Take a cotton ball. Soak it in some makeup remover. Move the swab along the fake lashes in gentle motions. Run the swab from the tip of the lashes to the end of the lashes, making sure to get the adhesive strip as well. Keep going until all the makeup is off., Turn the lashes over. Get a fresh cotton swab and soak it in makeup remover. Then, repeat the process of moving the swab along the other side of the eyelashes. Once again, move from the top of the lash to the tip. Make sure to swipe the swab along the adhesive band. Make sure all makeup is removed., There will usually be some glue stuck on the lash band. You can use tweezers to remove this.Inspect the lash for any glue that's left on. If you find glue, take your tweezers. With one hand, pull off the glue with the tweezers. With the other hand, hold the eyelashes with the pads of your fingers.
Make sure to only pull with the tweezers. Pulling at the lashes could damage the fake eyelashes.
 You want to make sure you get any remaining glue or makeup off of the lash strip. Dip your cotton swab in rubbing alcohol and wipe it along the lash strip. In addition to removing glue, this disinfects the strip so you can safely use the eyelashes again later.

