 A first-aid kit will prevent small injuries from becoming infected and leading to major medical complications. Things that should go into your first-aid kit include iodine, gauze pads, medical tape, alcohol wipes, antibiotic ointment, aspirin, scissors, and a scalpel.Optional items in your first-aid kit should include things like vitamins, sunblock, and bug repellent.
Remember to pack all prescription medicine, including inhalers.;
, Consider the number of people that you have in your household and determine how much water you'd need for two weeks. You should be able to pack at least one gallon per person, so if you were alone, that would be 14 gallons of water total. If you have more people in your family, you'll need to pack more water to keep everyone hydrated., Bring at least three days of non-perishable food. This includes things like canned foods, salt-free crackers, and whole grain cereals. Foods to bring in a survival situation include rice, beans, peanut butter, canned meat, and lard.Choose things that don't require refrigeration and that don't have long preparation times.If you are stranded in the wilderness, you may be able to scavenge food from local plants, bugs, animals, or fish.
Purchase a manual can opener so that you can use it any situation.If you forget to bring a can opener, you can use a survival knife as an alternative.
 A flashlight can be used to illuminate areas when it gets dark and is a versatile survival tool. Flashlights are critical if your car breaks down on the side of the road or of you're stuck outside at night with no light. Purchase lithium batteries over alkaline because they provide more power and have a longer shelf-life.


You can also use a flashlight as a blunt self-defense weapon.
Popular survival flashlights include Elzetta Bravo, Olight M23 Javelot, and Eagletac GX30A3D., During a natural disaster, you may have to turn off your utilities like water, natural gas, and electricity. Cracked lines in water pipes could pollute your water, while natural gas leaks could lead to an explosion. Keep pliers or a wrench packed in your emergency supply kit in case this happens., Let everyone in the household know where the emergency kit is. In the case of an emergency, you may be required to pick up and leave quickly so it's better if all of your emergency items are organized together. Good places to store your emergency kit include an attic, the basement, a closet, or shed.

