 It is very important to purchase bedding that is appropriate for both your mare and her newborn foal. Examples of ideal stall bedding are dust-free straw and shredded paper.Bedding is available at your local pet store or tack shop.

Do not use wood shavings or sawdust as bedding. These materials can release particles into the air that could irritate the newborn foal’s eyes, lungs, and mucous membranes.In addition, these particles could contaminate your mare’s birthing canal, increasing the risk of bacterial infection in your mare and her foal.;
, Wooden foaling rails, also known as boards, would keep your mare off the stall’s walls and out of the stall’s corners—areas which could pose an injury risk to the foal during foaling.If the rails are not available at your local pet store or tack shop, consult with your veterinarian for recommendations on where to purchase them.
 It will be important for you to have supplies on hand for foaling. For example, you should have several large, clean towels to dry off the foal.You will also need a disinfectant solution (e.g., povidone iodine, chlorhexidine) in a small cup. After foaling, you will dip the foal’s umbilicus (belly button) in the disinfectant to prevent infection.In addition, you should have a watch, pencil, and notepad to record the timing of each of the three stages of labor.Additional supplies include a flashlight, one or two five-gallon buckets, mild soap, and a durable trash bag (to collect the placenta). Plastic or rubber gloves, tail wrap material, a halter, and a lead rope will also be helpful.Wrapping your horse's tail will help keep the tail clean and away from the birthing canal.
Include the contact information for your veterinarian, and a back-up veterinarian, with your other supplies.Visit your local pet store and tack shop for the supplies. You can also ask your veterinarian if you are unsure where to obtain all of the supplies.
Organize all of the supplies in one or two sealable buckets outside of the stall so that everything you need will be close by when your mare is foaling., You should begin preparing the stall about four to six weeks before your mare’s scheduled foaling date. Since mares prefer to foal in private,select a stall that is in a quiet, private area of your barn.The stall should be at least 14 square feet.If no stalls are this large in your barn, you may need to create a ‘double stall’ by removing the barrier between two stalls.The stall should be in a well ventilated area of your barn., The stall should be free of any potential physical hazards. For example, remove any raised nails or large splinters in the stall.Water and feed buckets could be hazards for the foal when it attempts to stand to its feet. Position the buckets high enough to prevent the foal from injuring itself when it moves around the stall.Inspect the feed and water containers for any sharp edges. Replace the containers if necessary.
 A clean birthing environment is essential to preventing infection in your mare and her foal.To clean the stall, remove any old bedding. Next, clean the walls, floor, and feed and water containers with hot, soapy water and a long-handed wire scrub brush.Allow several days for the stall and containers to dry completely before disinfecting them.Povidone iodine and pine oil are good disinfectants. After disinfecting the walls, floor, and feed and water containers, allow several days for everything to dry.Lime has been recommended has a disinfectant for a stall floor,but can cause skin irritation.Consult with your veterinarian if you are unsure about which disinfectant to use in the stall., After the stall has dried, place several inches of clean, fresh bedding in the stall.Also, mount the foaling rails approximately 10 inches (25 cm) off each of the stall’s walls and 10 inches (25 cm) above the floor.Consider contacting a friend or neighbor to assist you with mounting the foaling rails.
If your mare will be foaling during the winter months, install a heat lamp in the stall to keep the area warm.Place the lamp high in a corner where your mare will not bump her head on it.
If necessary, adjust the location of the heat lamp so that your mare does not become uncomfortably warm in the stall.
 Introduce your pregnant mare to the prepared stall four to six weeks before her scheduled foaling date.It is important for your pregnant mare to be comfortable and relaxed in the stall in which she will give birth.


Introducing your mare to the stall well before her due date will allow her immune system to build up antibodies to any microorganisms that may be in the stall—she would then pass these on to her foal.