 A major milestone in conversion disorder treatment is a patient coming to terms with the lack of a physical explanation for their symptoms. If a person presents with conversion disorder, they often don’t see a connection between emotional distress and the physical symptom. If a doctor or loved one gently points out this connection and offers support symptoms may start to improve., Because conversion disorder is linked to psychological and emotional stress, getting adequate exercise can help overcome symptoms of this condition. Of course, the type of exercise the person can do will depend on what symptoms they are experiencing. However, encouraging even light exercise may help to improve physical problems and lift their mood.


Exercise may also be effective at addressing any underlying psychiatric disorder that is present. Both anxiety and depression are relieved with regular physical activity. Suggest at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week., A person who is suffering from conversion disorder may find relief from symptoms by scheduling in activities that promote calm and a sense of well-being. Relaxation exercises may run the gamut from self-care activities like taking a warm bath or walking around the neighborhood to more focused exercises for stress relief. Try these relaxation techniques to ease emotional stress and conflict.



Deep breathing is a simple yet effective method of inducing the body’s natural relaxation response. Place one hand over the belly and one over the chest. Breathe in deeply through the nose for about 4 counts. Hold. Notice the hand on the belly rising while the one on the chest remains steady. Exhale the breath through the mouth for about 7 counts, noticing the belly deflating beneath the hand. Repeat as necessary.Progressive muscle relaxation involves the process of gradually moving across the body contracting and relaxing each muscle group. Start at the toes. Tense them and hold for about 5 counts. Release the tension and relax for about 30 counts. Go to the next muscle group and repeat.Other effective relaxation exercises may include yoga, meditation, and massage. Try out several to determine which works best for your loved one.
 Another staple to alleviating emotional stress and conflict is leaning on a support group. People who regularly engage in a social network enjoy reduced stress and greater resilience to illness. Plus, social connection produces feel-good hormones in the body that boost the mood.Have the person aim for a little social engagement each day. They may set up a lunch date with coworkers, chat with an old friend over the phone, or speak with a religious or spiritual advisor for support.
 However, these substances only numb or remove symptoms for a short while—they are not a long-term solution. Trying some of the other strategies listed above, such as deep breathing or exercise can offer a better response in the face of stress.


Foster well-being and stress-management by making sure the person consumes a healthy diet rich in vitamins and nutrients from foods like fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains. Enjoy sugar and caffeine in moderation. Also, make rest a top priority—and support physical and mental healing—by getting 7 to 9 hours per night.

