 People with strong social connections tend to cope with different life circumstances in a healthier way than those without these connections.Make new social connections to support you as you manage your anxiety. Join a local support group for anxiety-sufferers, participate in a religious or spiritual organization, or get together frequently with your favorite group of close friends.


Having a sense of belonging and reassurance from others can have drastic effects on overall health. In fact, research shows that elderly individuals with poor perceived social support were at a higher risk of mortality., Sleep and anxiety have a complex chicken-or-the-egg relationship. A lack of sleep can cause anxiety, and anxiety can result in sleep disturbance.To gain control of your anxiety, focus on getting at least seven hours of sleep each night. Use the following tips to get adequate shut-eye:


Allow your body to adjust to sleeping on a regular schedule.
Turn off electronics 30 minutes prior to bed.
Make your bed room environment comfortable and strictly for sleeping.
Exercise.
Develop a winding down ritual to follow nightly.
Use aromatherapy like lavender scents to promote relaxation.
Quit smoking (nicotine can affect sleep).
 In addition to maintaining overall physical health, exercise can have a profound impact on mental well-being. Physical activity generates endorphins, which are the body's feel-good chemicals. As a result, engaging in exercise regularly can relieve stress and distract you from worries.Doctors suggest getting approximately 30 minutes of exercise each day of the week.Walk, jog, row, or bike — it's up to you. Just choose an activity that you will commit to.
 You may not understand the connection between what you eat and how you feel, but it's definitely there. Certain foods and beverages like refined sugar or caffeine, may worsen anxiety.Instead, drink plenty of water and eat healthy meals with a balance of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, low-fat dairy, and lean protein.There are heaps of research connecting caffeine to increased anxiety. Caffeine has been found to increase anxiety, depression, and hostility.Avoid caffeine in soda, coffee and tea (go for decaf), and even chocolate.
 Look for a healthy outlet to stress and anxiety, such as listening to music or calling a friend, rather than turning to drugs or alcohol.
 When battling a mental illness such as anxiety, you might become so focused on getting better and fulfilling responsibilities that you forget to practice regular self-care.Do something for yourself every day to relieve stress. Make it extra special so that you have something to look forward to daily.


Give yourself something to look forward to each day, whether it is a talk with a friend, a dip in a hot bath, your favorite cup of (decaf) tea, or your favorite sitcom. Set this aside as "me time."

