 Search for "Instagram" in the App Store or Play Store on your iPhone or Android, respectively. When you find the app, tap “Install” to download it.;
, From the home screen of your phone, tap on the Instagram app to open it.
 If you don't already have an account, tap "Sign Up" at the bottom of the screen and follow the instructions that appear to get set up with an account.
 If you already have an account, type your username and password into the corresponding boxes on the screen, and tap "Login" to sign in.
 Find the Instagram app on your phone, and tap on it to open it.
 If you aren't already logged in, type your username and password into the corresponding boxes on the screen, and tap "Login" to sign in.
 This button is in the top-left corner of your screen, and is shown as a plus with a circle surrounding it.
 If this is your first time taking a photo or video in the Instagram app, you will need to grant it permission to use your microphone and camera. Tap "Allow" or "Enable" on the prompts that appear, and you will be brought to Instagram Stories' camera mode.
 If your phone has both a front and back camera, you can tap the circling arrows at the bottom-right corner of the screen to change the direction in which your photo faces.
 Tap the white circle near the bottom of your screen to capture an image.
 Tap and hold on the white circle near the bottom of your screen to begin to capture a video. Release the button to end the video.
 After taking a photo or video, tap the marker icon in the top-right corner of the screen to draw on the media.


The icons in the center of the top of the screen allow you to choose between three different types of pen to draw with.
Choose a color to draw with by tapping the colored circles at the bottom of the screen.
You can undo your work stroke by stroke by tapping the "Undo" button in the top-left corner.
Tap "Done" in the top-right corner of the screen once you are content with what you've drawn.
 Tap the upper-and-lowercase "Aa" button to open your keyboard. After typing a caption, tap anywhere on the screen to add it to your photo.


Tap and drag your caption to change its position.
With two fingers, pinch, pull, or twist your caption to change its size and orientation.
 Swipe left or right on your screen to browse different filters to add to your photo.
 Tap the downward pointing arrow at the bottom-right of your screen to save your photo to your phone.
 Tap the checkmark sitting inside the white circle to add the photo to your story. It is now viewable to all of your followers.
 Tap the Instagram Story button in the top-left corner of your screen again to add more photos and videos to your story!

, In the banner just below the Instagram logo at the top of your screen, look for the thumbnail of your profile picture on the far left, which is labelled "Your Story". Tap on it to open your story.
 If anybody has viewed your story, you'll see the icon of an eye with a number next to it at the bottom of your screen. Tap on it to see the list of followers who have viewed your photo.


If you have posted multiple photos to your story, you can also swipe left and right on their thumbnails at the top of your screen to see who has viewed each individual photo.
Tap the X in the top-right corner of the screen once you are finished reviewing your story viewers.
 This is denoted by the three horizontal notes on the bottom-right of your screen. You'll see a number of options appear. Here, you can:


Save your photo to your phone.
Share your photo as a "permanent" post on Instagram.
Change your story settings.
 This option is listed when you tap on the the Options button on your story.
 The menu you will land on will present you with two ways in which to control your story's publicity:


Tap "Hide Story From" to open a list of your followers. Search for or tap on the names of the followers whom you would like to keep from seeing your story. Tap "Done" in the top-right corner when you're content.
Tap "Off" in the "Allow Message Replies" section to prevent all Instagram users from being able to respond directly to your story with text-based messages. Tap "Followers You Follow Back" to limit these replies to users who you also follow on Instagram.
 From the home page of your Instagram account, you'll see a reel of thumbnails of people you follow who have added photos to their stories in the past 24 hours. Tap on one of these thumbnails to open that user's story.
 Tap on the photo that you open to see the next photo in that user's story.
 Swipe your finger left or right on your screen to see other stories that have been posted in your network in the past 24 hours.
 Tap the "Send Message" button in the bottom-left corner of the story to send a message to the poster of a particular story.


If you do not see the "Send Message" button, it is because a user's privacy settings prevents some or all of their followers from replying to them directly.

