 You may not think your eating pattern during the day can affect your risk for diabetes. However, eating irregular or inconsistent meals affects how your body controls blood sugar levels.


Health professionals recommend to eat regular and consistent meals or snacks during the day. This helps manage your diabetes risk by helping you maintain a healthy weight and by keeping your blood sugar levels stable.Aim to eat at least three meals daily, or five to six smaller meals. You should not go more than four hours without eating something, so eating more, smaller meals may be the best strategy.
Aim to eat breakfast within an hour or so of waking up. This helps get your body started and helps immediately stabilize blood sugars.;
, If you are not currently a diabetic, but only want to manage your risk factors, focus on a diet high in lean protein and produce (fruits and vegetables). This combination can help manage your risk in a variety of ways.


To start, both lean protein, fruits and vegetables are all relatively lower in calories. This can help you lose weight or maintain a healthier weight. Since your weight has a big impact on your diabetes risk, it's important to strive towards a healthier weight.
Also, these foods are very satiating. Lean protein sources and the fiber found in fruits and vegetables not only helps keep you satisfied, but also helps stabilize blood sugars. When combined, protein and fiber can help prevent blood sugar spikes and keep it stable for longer periods of time.Aim to include a 3-4 oz serving of lean protein at every meal and snack. Go for items like: poultry, eggs, lean beef, pork, seafood, low-fat dairy and tofu.Pair your lean protein with fruits or vegetables at every meal. Aim for a 1/2 cup serving of fruit, 1 cup of vegetables or 2 cups of salad greens,or try to make half of your plate consist of fruits and vegetables.
 The risk factors for diabetes are very similar (and some are identical) to heart disease. In addition, if you're at a high risk for heart disease you're also at a higher risk for diabetes (and vice versa). Eating healthy fats can help support your cardiovascular system and manage your risk of diabetes.Healthy and nutritious sources of fat come from unsaturated fats. These are known to fight inflammation in the body, support a healthy heart, maintain the flexibility of arteries and support brain health.
The best sources of these heart healthy fats include: cold water and fatty fish (like salmon, tuna, mackerel or sardines), avocados, nuts and seeds, olive oil, canola oil, olives, and safflower oil.
Regardless if you're eating more nutritious sources of fats or the unhealthy fats, they all are more calorie dense. You always need to measure your portion sizes and only eat the recommended amounts daily. Otherwise your overall calories may be too high and could cause weight gain.
Measure out 1 tablespoon of oils, 1 oz of nuts, 3-4 oz of fish or 1/2 cup of avocado., You may think that to better manage your risk for diabetes that you should give up carbs or grains. However, eating these foods (especially from nutritious sources) does not cause diabetes nor increase your risk. Moderate how much you eat and choose the best sources.


If you're going to choose a grain product (like some bread or pasta) go for 100% whole grains. These foods are higher in fiber, protein and some minerals. They are a more nutrient dense and more nutritious choice compared to refined carbohydrates (like white bread or white rice).To make sure you consume these foods in a healthy way, measure out the appropriate portion size. Larger servings or quantities of these foods (even the whole grain ones) can be too many calories or carbohydrates overall. Measure out 1 oz of grains or 1/2 cup of cooked grains.Also, make sure you monitor how many servings you eat on a daily basis. If your diet is filled with grains, it may be unbalanced and your blood sugars may be running higher due to the higher quantity of carbohydrates. Stick to two to three servings maximum daily to help manage diabetes risk.
 Some sources of carbohydrate (like fruits or whole grains) provide a variety of nutrients and health benefits. However, there are some carbohydrates that are considered unhealthy and when eaten regularly can increase your risk for diabetes (and other chronic diseases).


There are three different types of nutrients that are carbohydrates. Fiber, starch and sugar count as carbohydrate. While fiber is a nutritious carbohydrate, some sugars and starches can be considered an unhealthier source.
Refined and processed carbohydrates have been shown to be directly linked with an increased risk of developing diabetes. Studies have shown that refined flours and sugars have increased in the diet, fiber has decreased in the diet and the prevalence of diabetes has increased.Refined carbohydrates are highly processed and many of the beneficial nutrients have been stripped away from these foods.
Refined and processed carbs come from two main groups — those made with white flour and those made with sugar. Try to limit or avoid foods like: white bread, cakes, pies, cookies, crackers, pretzels, candy, pastries, muffins, bagels, white bread, white pasta, white rice, ice cream and sweetened beverages (like sweet tea or soda).
You do not necessarily have to avoid these foods completely, however your intake should be strictly limited and portions should always be small.
 Cardiovascular or aerobic exercise can really help manage and decrease your risk of diabetes. Regular cardio exercise not only helps your body use glucose but also use insulin more effectively.Aerobic activity has immediate effects on your blood sugar. It helps stimulate your muscles to use the blood sugar in your blood stream. In addition you'll see immediate benefits on your blood pressure and cholesterol levels.
Most health professionals recommend including a minimum of 150 minutes of moderate-intensity aerobic activity each day. This ends up being about 30 minutes of activity five days a week.
However, even more recent studies suggest you may need up to 60 minutes of aerobic activity daily. This is especially true if you've lost weight to help reduce your risk of diabetes and are working on maintaining weight loss.
Moderate intensity activities should work your body hard enough to break a sweat. You also shouldn't be able to talk freely without taking a few breaths during sentences.
You can try walking, jogging, biking, swimming, hiking, dancing or taking spin classes for aerobic exercise.
A reasonable initial regimen is 10 minutes of stretching and warm-up, followed by 20 minutes of gentle aerobic exercise such as walking, cycling, or rowing. Cool down for another five or 10 minutes.You can also try high-intensity training. A good example of this is sprinting at 80% of your maximum heart rate for 60 seconds, followed by 60 seconds of walking. Do this for 20 minutes (plus five minutes to warm up and five minutes to cool down, totaling 30 minutes of exercise)., Health professionals don't only recommend cardiovascular activity. It's also important to include a few days of strength or resistance training. This also helps your body use glucose and insulin more effectively.Strength training specifically helps your muscles become more sensitive to insulin. This helps your muscles use glucose more effectively over time.
Strength training also helps build and maintain lean muscle mass. The more lean muscle mass you have, the more calories your body burns at rest. This can help you maintain a healthy weight.
Health professionals recommend including about one to two days of strength training each week. You don't need the same amount of strength training as you do cardiovascular exercises.
Lift weights, take a pilates or yoga class or do isometric exercise to work your muscles. Aim for a 20 minute session and exercise all your major muscle groups.
 Both cardiovascular and strength training exercises can significantly decrease your risk of diabetes. However, studies also show that increased lifestyle activity can also help manage your overall risk of diabetes.Lifestyle or baseline activities are those that you already do on a regular basis. They could be household chores, walking to and from your car, taking the elevator instead of the stairs or gardening.These activities do not burn many calories alone, but can add up to a significant amount by the end of a day. These are also great activities to start improving on if you're not currently active or have an injury.
Think about your current day and when you could be more active, move more or take more steps. Can you park farther away from your office? Can you take the stairs to your apartment? Could you stand during commercial breaks? These are all good areas for more lifestyle activity.
 An exercise log or journal is a great idea to help you track not only your exercise, but how it's affecting your diabetes risk. You can see your progress, how well you're meeting goals and help keep you on track long-term.Use a paper and pencil journal, journaling app or just take notes on a calendar you have to track your activity. Jot down notes on what type of activity you've completed and for how long.
Studies show that regular journaling can help keep you on track and help you meet whatever goals you've set for yourself long-term.
If you've been exercising regularly, compare your exercise notes with your weight or blood work levels to see how your new exercise routine is working overall.
 Staying consistent with regular exercise can be difficult. This is especially true after several weeks or months of exercising. However, if you workout with a friend or other support group, you might find it easier to stick to your exercise routine.


Studies show that with support you're more likely to meet and even exceed your exercise goals.This is especially true if your support group is also active.
Talk to your friends, family or co-workers about your goal to manage your diabetes risk with exercise. You might be surprised to find that others are also interested in increasing their physical activity.
If you can't find a friend or family member to link up with, consider researching local exercise groups. You might find local running or walking groups you can join or even join a local dance club.
 There are a variety of risk factors for diabetes. It's important to review your medical history and family history with your doctor to see what other risk factors you should manage.


Make an appointment with your primary care physician. They can review your previous medical history, family history, weight history and other lifestyle factors that may increase your risk for diabetes.
Talk to your doctor about your diet, lifestyle and weight. Ask if any of these should be changed or modified - like losing weight or exercising more.
If you have a family history of diabetes, your doctor may want to monitor you more closely. They may suggest you do blood work regularly to keep track of your risk diabetes.
 If you're overweight or obese, your risk of diabetes increases significantly. Although it may be difficult to maintain a healthy weight or lose weight, it's an essential component of managing your risk for diabetes.If you feel that you're overweight, this is something that should definitely be discussed with your physician. They may recommend you lose a certain amount or offer advice or diets to help you lose weight.
To figure out if you need to lose weight, figure out your BMI and ideal body weight. Both of these calculations can give you insight into whether or not you're at a healthy weight.
Use an online calculator to figure out your BMI. You'll need to input your weight and height for this calculation. If your BMI is 25.0–29.9 you're considered overweight and if your BMI is 30.0 or higher you're considered obese. Aim for a BMI of 20.0–24.9 for a normal and healthy weight.
For ideal body weight follow these calculations: Male: 106 + (6 x inches above 5 feet) and Female: 100 + (5 x inches above 5 feet). Subtract your current weight from your ideal body weight to find out about how many pounds of excess weight you're carrying.
 Smoking is another risk factor that is completely modifiable and in your control to change. If you're currently smoking, try to quit. Those who smoke are at a significantly higher risk for developing diabetes.Studies have now directly linked smoking to the development of diabetes. Those who smoke are 30–40% more likely to develop diabetes compared to those who don't.
It's best to quit as soon as possible and go cold turkey if you can. This is the quickest way to discontinue the stream of harmful chemicals into your body.
However, quitting cold turkey is probably one of the hardest things to do. If you're struggling, talk your doctor about taking medications to make quitting easier or joining a smoking cessation program.
 If you're at high risk for diabetes or are worried about your risk of diabetes, it may be a good idea to begin getting blood work done on a regular basis. You and your doctor can track lab values that can predict your risk for developing diabetes.If you do not currently have diabetes, you may only need to get blood work every year. However, if your physician feels you're at a higher risk for developing diabetes, they may suggest getting blood work done every six months.
One of the typical lab values that's tracked is your fasting glucose. This the amount of blood sugar circulating in your blood stream without the influence of food. If it's elevated, it might signify your body is having difficultly using insulin.
Another value that is tracked is your hemoglobin A1c. This is a percentage based value and measures the viscosity or stickiness of your blood. When this value is elevated it means your fasting sugar has been elevated for about three months or so. In addition, the higher the value, the stickier and slower moving your blood becomes.
Your doctor may also suggest monitoring your triglycerides and cholesterol levels as well. Although they are not used to diagnose diabetes, the more elevated these values are, the higher your risk of diabetes becomes.
When you get blood work done, make sure to keep copies with you overtime. This will you and your doctor track and changes or see any trends that may emerge over time.
 Although an occasional alcoholic beverage hasn't been proven to raise your risk of diabetes, it's important to moderate your intake. Regular or excessive alcohol consumption will increase your risk.Drinking alcohol affects how your liver manages your blood glucose levels. When you're drinking it is much harder to stabilize your blood sugar and insulin levels.
When you're planning on having a drink, make sure to have some food in your stomach first. This blunts alcohol's effects and helps your body manage blood sugar a little more effectively.
If you are going to drink, health professionals recommend that women consume no more than one glass daily and men limit their intake to two glasses daily.

