 When starting introductory paragraphs for the news, it is important to provide the five W’s (who, what, when, where, why) and the H (how) as soon as possible. Since these are the most important details in a news story, their presence close to the opening of the story will help readers get a better sense of whether they want to continue reading or move on to another article., By starting your intro paragraph with a bit of analysis, you can explore in greater depth the ramifications of a well-known story or a story that has been covered elsewhere. In this case, instead of providing the five W’s, you focus more on the “how” of a given topic in recent news. For instance, instead of describing or reporting on the actual details of a public policy and how it moved through the legislative process, you can use the start of your introductory paragraph to explain how the policy will change society or the lives of those affected.Starting with an analytical lede will often also include information regarding who benefits and why, but the primary focus will be on explaining how a news item or event work, rather than merely describing it.
 The standard way to start an intro paragraph in news articles is to provide all the important info up front. Sometimes, though, this means stripping the story down to its barest and broadest components. For instance, instead of starting the intro paragraph with a sentence jam-packed with the who, what, where, why, and other details, you should provide a bare-bones sentence that helps readers understand the broader issue without getting bogged down in details.For instance, instead of writing, “President Jones declared in a joint session of Congress today that he will work with his counterparts abroad to reorganize international fiscal policy and lending practices, making it easier to distribute international aid,” you could write, “A new law aims to fast-track international aid to developing nations.” The details about how the process worked and why the president chose to adopt this measure could come later.
This approach is called starting with a blind lede.
 Instead of explaining the issue or news event from the typical detached, omniscient perspective, take the reader right into the action. For instance, you might start the intro paragraph to a story about a war by writing, “Craters scarred the landscape. The smell of gunpowder hung in the air. In the distance, the husk of a burned-out automobile belched black smoke.”After describing the aftermath of the battle, you could zoom out to describe the duration of the conflict, reasons behind it, and long-term impact of the fighting.

