 You can enable Touch ID from the Settings app of your iPhone or iPad.


Touch ID requires an iPhone 5s or later, or an iPad Pro, Air 2, or Mini 3 or later.;
, You'll find this in the third section of options, above "Battery."

, If you have a passcode, you'll be asked to enter it before you can proceed.
 Touch ID requires a passcode, which will be used if you can't unlock your device using Touch ID.
 This will start the process for registering a new fingerprint for Touch ID.
 Moisture or oil can cause problems with the registration and detection process. Make sure your finger is dry and that the Home button is clear of debris and grease.
 Don't press the Home button in, just rest your finger on it. Press a little firmly so that the scanner can register your finger, but don't press the actual button.


Most people will want to register their thumbprint(s), since this is the most common finger used to work the Home button.
 The fingerprint illustration will fill with red a little more each time. Repeat this process until the fingerprint has been filled.Try to place your finger back down in the same spot each time. You may be prompted to move your finger a little during the setup.
 Once you've registered a regular finger press, you'll be instructed to "Adjust your grip" and scan the sides of your finger. Place your finger in different positions on the button so that Touch ID can register the sides and tip. Like the previous step, you'll need to do this several times.
 If you didn't create a passcode earlier, you'll be prompted to create one after setting up Touch ID. This is required as a backup in case the scanner doesn't work.
 You can register multiple fingers with Touch ID. This is useful if you want to unlock your phone with either hand, or if you want your spouse or partner to be able to unlock your phone.
 There are three options you can enable/disable for Touch ID: iPhone/iPad Unlock, Apple Pay, and iTunes & App Store.


"iPhone/iPad Unlock" allows you to unlock the device with your fingerprint. This is the most common use for Touch ID.
"Apple Pay" allows you to confirm payments using your fingerprint instead of your passcode. This is only available for the iPhone 6, 6s, and SE.
"iTunes & App Store" allows you to confirm your account information without having to enter your Apple ID password when making purchases.
 Click the home button with one of the fingers you've stored, then leave your finger over the home button. You need to use one of the fingers you've registered in the Touch ID settings.


Try to place your finger directly on the center of the Home button. Make sure your finger and the Home button are both clean and dry.
Don't hold the button down. This will enable Siri instead of unlocking your iPhone or iPad.
When you restart your phone, you'll need to enter the passcode. Touch ID only works when the phone is asleep, not turned off.
 Usually when you make a purchase, you're prompted for your Apple ID password. With Touch ID, just place your registered finger on the Home button when prompted for your login information during a purchase. When your finger is recognized, the purchase will be authorized.
 If your device supports it, you can use Touch ID for one-touch payments with Apple Pay. You'll need an iPhone 6, 6s, or SE to use this feature. Just hold your finger on the Home button and move the iPhone near the terminal. If Apple Pay has been properly configured, the payment will process automatically.


See Set Up Apple Pay for details on getting started with Apple Pay.
 iOS 9.3 added the ability to lock notes in your Notes app. When Touch ID is enabled for Notes, you'll be able to quickly unlock your notes with your fingerprint. See Password Protect Your Notes in iOS for more details.


Open the Settings app and select "Notes." Make sure you're running iOS 9.3 or later.
Select "Password Protection and toggle "Use Touch ID" on.
Test it out. You can lock a note in the Notes app by tapping the Share button in an open note and selecting "Lock Note." Once the note is locked, you'll need to scan your fingerprint on the Home button after trying to open it.
 The most common reason that your finger won't scan is because there is too much moisture or debris in the way. Wipe your fingers and the Home button clean and try again.
 If you can't reliably unlock your device, you may want to try re-registering the fingerprint. When registering your print again, try to hold the phone and place your finger like you naturally would.


Open the "Touch ID & Passcode" option from the Settings app.
Tap "Fingerprints" and then select the fingerprint you want to remove.
Tap "Delete Fingerprint" and then follow the steps above to re-register it.
 You'll be prompted to enter your passcode after your device boots up from being completely powered off. This is due to the way your data is encrypted. Touch ID will start working again once you enter your passcode.


You'll also be prompted to use your passcode if you haven't unlocked the device in 48 hours, or if you're trying to change your Touch ID settings.

