 Most banking jobs require at least a high school diploma or GED, and they often require more formal education. If you are interested in becoming a bank teller, you can usually apply with only a high school diploma. You will also need to pass a background check before getting started. Once hired, you will be trained to do the specific job you’ve been hired for.If you’re hoping to become a bank teller, it also helps to have customer service experience because tellers communicate with people all day.;
, Banks employ many people to do a variety of jobs. Most desk jobs require a bachelor’s degree in a related field. Think about the type of job you are looking to do and match your university major to that field. A financial analyst, loan officer, or financial manager usually starts with a degree in finance, statistics, or economics.You do not need a specific degree to work as an investment banker. However, certain majors set you apart from other applicants. The majority of investment bankers have studied finance, economics, or business administration.Keep your grades up. Going to a prestigious university can help quite a bit. However, your grade point average (GPA) matters most. Maintain a minimum GPA of 3.3 if you seek to become an investment banker.Investigate other types of banking jobs. Positions in human resources or technological services may require a different set of skills. Majors in the humanities or computer science may be more appropriate for other areas of banking.
 Higher level bankers, like investment bankers, financial advisors, or fund managers, usually hold a master’s in finance. Many promotions happen from within, but some higher level managers are expected to hold MBAs.The most common degree for an investment banker is a master’s in finance. Degree names vary but generally cover topics related to finance, accounting, banking, and management. Consider pursuing a degree in Europe. European universities have more established programs and are highly ranked., Internships are a great way to get your feet wet and apply what you’ve learned to the working world. During your internship, you will see what your future banking job might entail. Internships also look good on you resume. Employers will be glad to know that you made an effort to get some experience before applying for the job.


Take advantage of your summers off from university to do an internship. Many banks offer programs to undergraduate students. Do an internet search for internships with major banks or simply apply in person to a bank in your area.

