 Use a pan with enough space to allow for some running between eggs. An 8-inch pan is perfect for one egg, while you'll need a 12" or bigger for 2-3 eggs at once., 1/2 a tablespoon or so should be enough per egg. As it heats up, swirl it to coat the entire bottom of the pan in your oil. Monitor the burner temperature to avoid browning the oil or butter.


Using too big of a pan can result in sticking, since your oil is spread too thinly to cook just one egg on its own. Add a little more oil if this is the case.
For incredibly rich eggs, use a small pat of bacon grease.
Cooking sprays are a quick and easy ways to ensure your entire pan is coated., A lower temperature is better; too high and you'll burn the oil and eggs quickly. You want the oil to just start shimmering or the butter to just start bubbling. When you add the egg the whites should sizzle just a little bit.
 You want to be gentle cracking so you don't break the yolk. Cracking the egg into a bowl first can help you get out any shells before cooking. As you drop the egg in, you should hear a slight sizzle, but there shouldn't be popping or violent splattering.
 Once you can't see the bottom of the pan, since the whites have cooked closest to the surface, you're ready to go on to the next step. Do not try and move the eggs now, as they are gelatinous and will likely fall right back into place.


This usually takes 1-3 minutes., Put a lid on the pan. This will trap some steam in the pan, cooking the tops of the eggs and helping the whites set. This is the best way to keep the yolk runny, as too much direct heat can cook the yolk from underneath before the white has totally cooked.
 When there are no more jelly-like, clear bits of uncooked egg on the whites, your egg is ready. You can keep cooking for harder eggs, or flip it off and serve immediately.


For your average, runny egg this process takes roughly 5 minutes from the second the egg hits the pan until it's done., You want to move quickly lifting and removing the egg to avoid breaking it. Serve it and enjoy.


Top with salt and pepper to taste while the egg is still hot.