 Social support is an integral component of recovery from gambling.Tell your family about your issue if they do not already know about it. You could say something like, "I want you to know that I have been having a problem resisting gambling. I know it has caused problems for me in my life and I want to stop. I would appreciate your support."
Talk to friends about the issue and keep them informed. They can help you avoid triggers to gambling. You could say something like, "Hey, I just want to let you know I've been having an issue with gambling too much and I want to cut down. If you could support me in this that would be helpful for me." This way, your friends will understand if you don't want to go on that trip to a casino or Las Vegas.
 Support groups can provide you with a safe environment to discuss your issue with gambling. It may also help you enjoy a congregation of individuals with similar struggles which can be very comforting and make you feel less alone in your recovery process.


For example, Gamblers Anonymous is a 12-step program that meets internationally and has helped many people with their gambling issue., Your gambling may be out of control if: it's affecting your relationships, finances, or work or school life, you're devoting more and more time and energy to gambling, you've unsuccessfully tried to stop or cut back on your gambling, you try to conceal your gambling from family or others, you resort to theft or fraud to get gambling money, or if you ask others to bail you out of financial woes because you've gambled money away.These types of issues can add up, and professional help is out there if you are open to it.


Contact your health insurance for a list of approved therapists. If you do not have health insurance you can conduct a search for low-cost, sliding scale, or free mental health clinics in your neighborhood.
Ask questions of your therapist such as: What's the best approach to my gambling problem? Should I see a psychiatrist, psychologist, addiction counselor or other mental health provider?, Knowing what types of treatments are available can help you make a decision on what type may be best for you and your needs.


Behavior therapy is a common form of treatment for gambling issues. This type of treatment uses systematic exposure to the behavior you want to unlearn (gambling) and teaches you skills to reduce your urge to gamble.
Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) is another effective form of therapy which focuses on identifying unhealthy, irrational and negative beliefs and replacing them with healthy, positive ones., Taking prescribed medications is an option if you find that your efforts to control your gambling have not worked. Antidepressants and mood stabilizers may help treat conditions that often coincide with a gambling addiction, but may not directly treat the gambling itself.Discuss options for medication with your doctor (general practitioner) or psychiatrist.

