 If you are gay, have a boyfriend, and would like to tell your mom about him, do it when you’re ready. No one should force you to come out if you’re not ready to do so. While it a can be a great experience and take lots of pressure off, it’s okay to be nervous, especially if you’re not sure how your mom will react.Don’t allow your boyfriend to pressure you into coming out. The most important aspect of coming out is doing it when you’re ready.
If you’re ready, do it calmly and be direct, honest, and clear. Tell her that you have a boyfriend and care very much about him, and that you understand that sexuality can change but right now you are definitely attracted to him.
Be patient as she processes the news, especially if she didn’t expect to hear that you have a boyfriend. Say, “I know this is a big adjustment and takes some time to think about. Believe me, it’s taken me a lot of time to process, I get it!”

, Sometimes, coming out of the closet isn’t the best idea. Consider how your parents react to homosexuality in the news, such as when issues like same-sex marriage or bullying come up in conversation. You might want to hold off if they both have very negative reactions, or if you are financially dependent on them and think there’s a chance they might kick you out of the house or stop paying your school tuition. If you find that your mom is generally more accepting and want to tell her, ask her for advice on how and when to come out to your father or other family members.
 With the world becoming smaller and more interconnected, dating more frequently crosses past boundaries of race, religion, and customs. Try to explain this fact if your mom or both parents expect your boyfriend to be of a particular race, religion, or culture.Try not to keep your cross-cultural relationship a secret, whether you’re a teenager or a grown adult. What if years pass and you and your boyfriend get engaged? Further, you don’t want to create any more negative feelings by making your mom feel like she can’t trust you or your boyfriend.Don’t use your boyfriend as a means of rebelling against your own culture. That’s not fair to him, and ends up covering over the tensions that you might have with your traditions.
When telling your mother about a cross-cultural relationship, be compassionate and patient. Give your mom time to process, and give her the benefit of the doubt rather than forcing her to give her approval.
 Like coming out of the closet, consider times when breaking the news about your cross-cultural relationship might not be appropriate. While it's often best to be honest, if you have serious concerns about your safety, your boyfriend’s safety, or think you’ll be disowned, consider holding off on breaking the news.Try to balance your concerns with having faith in your mom. Try to gauge her reactions to friends or family members in similar relationships.
If you believe your mom would be accepting but your father would not, ask her for advice about how to break the news to him.
If you’re with someone who treats you well and makes you happy, don’t let your mother, or your father, force you to take sides. State clearly to her that this is a more interconnected world, and that people date across boundaries now.
 It can be delicate if you're getting back with an ex, or there are things in your boyfriend's past you'd rather not tell your mom. If you're trying to convince her that your boyfriend has changed his ways, try to be objective and share facts with her. Don't match her criticisms of your boyfriend by criticizing her, but just explain how his actions show that he's making real changes.Try saying, "I know that you thought Jerry was a loser, but since we broke up he's really been making some positive changes. He got a good job and he's held it down for over six months now, and he has an apartment and is saving up for a new car. He told me he wants to get his act together so that I might think about getting back together with him."
If you're a young adult and know there are things about your boyfriend your mom wouldn't like at all, consider all aspects of the situation. If you're just dating a guy for a few weeks and know it's not going anywhere, you might not want to tell mom about the guy you're casually dating who has 8 piercings and full sleeve tattoos.Remember that your mom is looking out for your best interests. If she doesn't approve of your boyfriend, consider if she has good reasons. You might be better off not getting back with that ex, or ditching the guy who has too much baggage. Trusting mom's instincts could end up saving you heartache in the future.

