 The office that issues marriage licenses varies depending on the state and city or county where you plan to get married. Because there can be waiting periods, you should visit the appropriate website several months before you plan to get married.In most states, marriage licenses are issued by the clerk of court. However, in some states you'll need to go to the city or town clerk's office, or to the state department of health. You can find out by doing an internet search for "marriage license" and the county where you plan to get married.
Under U.S. law, all states must recognize marriages performed in other states. For example, if you and your partner are residents of Virginia, you can get married in Florida and you will be considered married in Virginia – you won't have to have two ceremonies.
However, if you're having a destination wedding or getting married in a state where neither of you live, double-check the residency requirements. If the place where you're getting married requires you to be a resident of that state, you may have to get married in the court house where you life and then have your desired ceremony afterward.;
, Based on the information on the clerk's website, you should be able to determine when you need to get your license. Don't leave this to the last minute, as some counties have a waiting period between the date the license is issued and the date of your ceremony.The website will describe the documents you need to produce for your license to be issued. Make a checklist and determine what documents you already have, and which you'll need to request.
Make sure you leave yourself enough time to have all the necessary documents, as well as do anything else, such as get a physical or blood test, as required in some states.
Keep in mind you typically must get a marriage license between 5 and 30 days before the ceremony. Many states have waiting periods. For example, the state where you want to get married may require you to wait three days after the license is issued before you have the ceremony.
 Many states require you to present a certified copy of your birth certificate when you get married. The person you are marrying will need theirs as well.Keep in mind that in most states, you can get a certified copy of your birth certificate within a few weeks. However, if you were born in a different country, it may take anywhere from six months to a year, so you need to plan ahead.
Some counties also may require driver's licenses, passports, Social Security cards, or other forms of identification.
 If either you or your partner was previously married, you may be required to prove that the previous marriage was legally dissolved. You can request a certified copy from the clerk of the court that granted the divorce.In many cases you can request certified copies of a divorce decree online for a small fee. This can be a good option particularly if you live far away from the county where the divorce was granted. Call the clerk of court if you want to do this.
 Some states require a blood test for rubella immunity. Your doctor must certify the results. Typically the blood test, if required, is waived if you are medically infertile or if you are more than 50 years old., If either you or your partner are from a foreign country, you may need to get translations of any required identification documents, such as your birth certificate, that are not in English.Typically, you must get a third party to complete the translation. Once complete, they will swear the accuracy of the translation in the presence of a notary public for a small fee.
 Each state has its own application form you and your partner must complete if you want to apply for a marriage license. You may be able to access and print a copy of the form online, or you may have to visit the issuing office in person to fill out a paper form.The application form will ask for personal information about you and your partner, such as your birth dates, Social Security numbers, and place of birth.
You also typically need to include information about your parents, such as their full names, place of residence, and place of birth.
 In some states, you can take a pre-marital education program, or get pre-marital counseling from a couple's counselor or member of the clergy. Completing these programs may allow you to reduce or eliminate the fees required to apply for a marriage license.Some states also recognize covenanted marriages, which are considered stronger and more religiously stringent, and make it much more difficult to later get a divorce. If you are thinking about getting a covenanted marriage, check with the clerk that issues marriage licenses to learn if they are recognized in your state and to find out more about the process., If you have to fill out your application for a marriage license in person, it's typically better to make an appointment than to simply show up at the office.Some clerks may request that you book up to a month in advance, while others simply ask that you arrive on a weekday before 4 p.m.
Check the website or call the issuing office to find out whether you need an appointment to fill out an application for a marriage license.
 Go through your checklist and make sure both you and your partner have all the documents required to issue your license, in addition to any documents you'll need to complete the application itself.If certified copies of legal documents are required, keep in mind that a copy you have in your possession may not be sufficient. If you have any doubts, take the document you have to the office before you apply for a marriage license and ask if it is okay.
 Once you and your partner have completed the license form, you both must sign it. Some states require that you be put under oath to verify the truth and accuracy of the information you've provided before you sign., You must pay an application fee to get your marriage license, which may be anywhere from $25 to $150 depending on the county that's issuing the license. These fees vary greatly among states and even among counties within states, so it may pay to shop around if you're not picky about where you get married.Make sure you determine the accepted methods of payment in advance. Many clerks don't accept credit cards, and some will take cash only.
 Once the clerk approves your license, they'll give you between one and three copies of it so that you can have your ceremony and have it signed by the officiant.Hold on to your copies and keep them in a safe place, because your marriage will not be legal if the license is not returned to the clerk with the appropriate signatures and information.
 In some situations, you may want to bring witnesses to the clerk's office. This is especially important if you plan on getting married at the courthouse the day your license is issued.You also may want to bring someone along to translate if neither you nor your partner speaks English very well.
 Having a marriage license doesn't mean that you are married – it only grants you the right to be legally married. If you don't have a wedding ceremony before the license expires, you'll have to go through the application process all over again., On the day of your ceremony, give copies of your license to the Justice of the Peace or member of the clergy who will be performing the ceremony.After the ceremony is complete, your officiant will need to provide information about the date, time, and location of the ceremony, then sign the application.
In some states you and your partner also may be required to sign the application again certifying the information about the ceremony.
 Typically the officiant is responsible for returning the license to the state office before the deadline listed on the license. However, in some states this may be your responsibility. Make sure you check.If you don't return the license before the deadline, your marriage may not be legal – even if the ceremony was performed before the deadline.
 Your marriage license is not your certificate of marriage. Soon after the signed license is received by the clerk, your certificate of marriage will be issued.In some states, the clerk will automatically send you a copy of your marriage certificate. In others, you'll have to return to the clerk's office to request a copy in person. The first copy may be free, or you may be charged a small fee. Additional copies may cost anywhere between $2 and $30.

