 If you're determined to give money to a charity, design a detailed budget so you know how much money you have available. Look at where your money goes and see if there's anything you can do without.For example, if you get a cappuccino with a coworker twice a week, you could drop one of those meetings and use the money you would have spent on those cappuccinos to donate to charity.
You also can save money within your budget and give what you've saved to charity each month. For example, if you have $200 budgeted for groceries each month, but one month you only spend $170 on groceries, that gives you $30 that you can donate to the charity of your choice.
 Particularly if you're a religious person, you might feel guilty if you don't donate to charity on a regular basis – especially if you're in the habit of doing so. If you don't have enough money to cover your required payments, though, you have nothing to give.If you have debt, you are required to make payments on that debt. Don't forego a required payment to give money to charity.
You also want to avoid racking up more debt through charitable donations. If you make a donation with a credit card, make sure you have enough money to pay that off immediately.
 You can set aside an amount within your budget if there are particular events or causes that come up every year. For example, maybe your kids' school has a fundraiser every year.You also might want to set aside money for emergency or crisis situations that might happen nearby – especially if natural disasters are more common in your area.
 Especially when your donations are limited, you want to make sure your money is actually going to support the cause, not to pay for operating expenses of the organization.Before donating, ask a representative from the organization if you can specify how your money will be spent. They will let you know what you need to do.
 When you donate to charitable organizations, you may be able to deduct all or part of the amount you donated on your income tax returns. If you have the ability to do so, you can save money on your taxes.Don't worry that taking the tax deduction will lessen the meaning of your donation. Taking any tax deduction available to you is part of responsibly handling your money.

