 Document every time your coworker flirts with you. Try to be as detailed as possible. Include the date, time, and exactly what happened. Make a note of any other coworkers that witnessed the behavior. If you plan to report your coworker, you will need specific examples.

Your documentation will also help any investigation that takes place.
 Let your boss know that your coworker has been making you feel uncomfortable. Present your documentation and stick to the facts only. Let your boss know that you have spoken to your coworker, but things have not gotten any better. Ask your boss what is the best way the handle the situation.When you speak to your boss, emphasize that you want to maintain a positive work environment for everyone.
If the coworker has a close relationship to your boss, check your company policies to see who else you can speak to about your situation., If your coworker doesn't respond to your verbal or behavior cues, speak with someone in your HR department. You do not have to file an official complaint immediately. Go to HR and ask for some informal advice on how to handle your situation.You may say, "I don't think this is harassment, but my coworker keeps doing ___ , and it bothers me. How should I handle this situation?"
If you want to file an official complaint, ask for details about the process. You want to be clear about your options before you move forward. You will probably still have to work with the coworker, so be sure you really want to go this route.
Be sure to document any interactions you have with the HR department.
 If your coworker, boss, or HR refuses to address the issue, consult a lawyer about your next steps. Find an attorney that specializes in employment law. Take all of your documentation that you have collected throughout the process.An employment attorney can help you navigate the system at your job and let you know what your options are in the legal system.
Ask your lawyer if you are able to claim sexual harassment. You may be able to file a federal discrimination complaint or sue your employer.