 There are many different themes within the adult coloring book genre. These themes vary based on personal interest, but they typically all include intricate designs on plain, white pages. Some people prefer more intricate images, while others prefer simpler ones (like those you might find in a child's or adolescent's coloring book). There is no right or wrong approach, so choose a pattern that you feel good about.Some common themes for adult coloring books include animals, characters, geometric shapes and patterns, landscape scenes, story panels, and religious or spiritual prints.
Don’t forget that coloring books come in digital formats, too. You can use these on a phone or tablet, sometimes for free.;
, You can use any coloring tool that suits your tastes. You can even combine coloring tools within the same page to produce richer color combinations and varying textures. Some commonly used tools for adult coloring books include crayons, colored pencils, markers, gel pens, pastels, and watercolors.Colored pencils have the advantage of allowing you to shade with greater accuracy and precision.They also allow greater accuracy and precision., Some people prefer to color while working through something stressful, like at work or in a therapy session. Others use coloring at home to wind down after a stressful day. There's no right or wrong time or place to color - it's simply a matter of finding a routine that works well for you.Try to give yourself at least 30 minutes of uninterrupted coloring time.
Pick a location that is comforting or convenient for you. For example, you might be more comfortable working in your living room at home, but you may need the de-stressing effects of coloring at work.
You might also try coloring to ambient music to help you set a relaxing mood and de-stress even more.
 One easy way to maximize your coloring time is to practice mindfulness techniques while you work. These techniques can help you relax, and when coupled with coloring, they can help improve your de-stressing time.Be fully present in the moment by paying close attention to the movement of your hands and the colors that emerge on the page.
Focus on your breath. Pay attention to the sensation of air across your nostrils as you breathe deeply, in and out.Look closely at each color as though you were seeing it for the first time. You can also focus on the tactile experience of holding your pencils or crayons and think about what it feels like in your hand.
 Different individuals may find different types of music relaxing. This will vary, depending on your personal tastes and preferences, but listening to an album or soundtrack that you find calming can help improve your coloring session., Some people find it soothing to color with other people. Others may prefer working in solitude. If you think you might enjoy coloring with others, give it a try. It lets you talk about your day while practicing your relaxation coloring.Try coloring with friends or relatives. Invite a few people over so you can all color, chat, and maybe have some snacks together.
Some community groups meet on a weekly or monthly basis to color together. You can find these groups by searching online or checking group platforms like Meetup.
 Adding color in layers allows you to build a more complex color palette than simply applying a single thick layer. It can also increase the meditative components of coloring. You can practice mindfulness techniques during each additional layer. Layering also allows you to step back and reassess your work up to that point, which can be soothing and also allows you to feel good about the progress you've made.Keep your tips sharpened. This will help you achieve finer details and a broader shading stroke., While using a coloring book is relaxing and artistic, it is not quite the same as art therapy. Art therapy has different means and ends. It entails using your hands to create a wholly original work of art based entirely on your imagination. Art therapy can also help you express emotions non-verbally to treat various debilitating health conditions.As said, in art therapy you’ll use your hands to create a whole work of art, rather than just color in the lines.
Art therapy can be used to help people who can’t find words to express their pain and emotions. This can be a result of anxiety, depression, loss of brain function, or pain and distress from things trauma, combat, and physical abuse.
 If art therapy isn't enough for you, you may need to work with an actual therapist. A licensed therapist can help you deal with stressful life events and work through an anxiety disorder by teaching you valuable coping skills.


Art therapy can help you de-stress, but you may need professional help to tackle your anxiety issues directly if you feel anxious or stressed most or all of the time.You can find therapists in your area by searching online or by talking to your primary doctor.
Some common forms of therapy include cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), exposure therapy, and dialectical behavioral therapy (DBT)., If you suffer from severe anxiety, your doctor or therapist may recommend that you try medication. You'll need a prescription to take anti-anxiety medication, which you can get through your primary care doctor or a specialist like a psychiatrist.Some common types of medication prescribed for anxiety include:


antidepressants, including selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRI) and serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRI) like duloxetine (Cymbalta) and escitalopram (Lexapro)
buspirone
benzodiazepines, including alprazolam (Xanax), chlordiazepoxide (Librium), and diazepam (Valium)
Be careful about the long-term use of such drugs. Consider natural ways to cope with your anxiety if you can, like mediation, yoga, exercise, and art.

