 The British Isles are the world capitol of pudding recipes, and hundreds of these have become popular dishes across former British territories. While the section on other pudding recipes contains links to many of these, this method covers a classic, easy to make dessert: the summer pudding.


This pudding is best when chilled for at least four to six hours, although it can be eaten earlier.
 This bread will be used to create a dome shape for the pudding. Cut the slices into "wonky rectangles" with one end wider than the other to make this easier. A few triangular pieces the same length as the rectangles will also be useful.


You may also cut a large circle of bread out to serve as the base of the domed pudding, but you can use spare wedges instead.
 You'll want slightly stale white bread for this recipe, as this will soak up the fruit juice faster. If you're cursed by a breadbox full of freshly baked loaves, toast the slices in a 350ºF (175ºC) oven for 15–20 minutes or until dry and slightly brown., Wash and dry the berries, and defrost frozen berries before using. Once the berries are ready, add ¾ cup (175g) golden caster sugar and 3 tbsp (45 mL) water to a saucepan. Heat over low heat, stirring occasionally, until the sugar is melted and boils for approximately 60 seconds.Golden caster sugar is ideal for this recipe, but is not widely available outside the UK and some Commonwealth countries. Superfine sugar is the best substitute.
 Add the 2 lb 12 oz (1¼ kg) berries to the saucepan. Heating them will bring out the juices that will soak into the bread. You only need to cook this for another two or three minutes, stirring occasionally. Remove from heat.


If using strawberries, you can optionally keep these at room temperature and add later to preserve their firm texture.Remove stems from currants before using.
 Blackcurrant liqueur adds a rich flavor, if you don't mind making your pudding alcoholic.Stir in ¼ cup (60 mL) for a strong flavor, or less if you prefer just a hint.
 Line a large, 1.75 quarts (1.75 liters) bowl with strong plastic wrap to make it easy to flip the pudding right-side-up later.Dip each slice of bread into the juice mixture for a few seconds, arranging them around the bowl. Alternate the rectangular and triangular slices as needed to make a relatively tight-fitting "bowl" of bread, with no gaps.


Cut slices into new shapes if necessary to fill gaps.
 Spoon in all the remaining juice and fruit into the bread bowl. Finish by topping with a circle of bread or a layer of bread slices, soaking them first as before.
 The flavors will mingle best if allowed to chill for several hours, or even overnight. Keep it in the refrigerator with a plate on top of the pudding, weighing down the plate with any heavy object.Before serving, flip the pudding over carefully onto a plate, grasping the cling wrap to keep it together. Remove the plastic, trim off any unsightly bread overhang, and serve plain or with cream.

