 If you choose to remove your pubic hair, shaving is less painful that waxing and the most economical option. To ensure a comfortable shave:


Trim your pubic hair before shaving. Use scissors to cut your hairs as short as possible. This keeps hairs from snagging onto the razor and pulling at your skin.
Choose a razor designed to shave pubic hair. Most razors will work fine but if you plan to shave in a delicate and hard to reach place like between your buttocks, a specialized razor can prevent nicks and cuts from happening. For example, some razors are equipped with a trimmer or are coated with a soothing lotion.
Bathe or shower before shaving to open up your pores and soften coarse hairs. Typically, pubic hair is thicker than the hairs on our heads.
Use shaving cream to help protect your skin while shaving. However, be careful not to put shaving cream onto your genital area as it can cause irritation and inflammation.
Apply aloe vera or baby oil after shaving. Don’t use moisturizers with chemicals or fragrances.
 You can get waxed by a professional or do it at home. However, there is an element of pain that comes with pubic waxing. To relieve pain, take aspirin or ibuprofen 30 minutes before waxing.To ensure a comfortable waxing experience:


Wait until your pubic hair is about a quarter of an inch (1 cm) long before waxing. The wax will grab onto the hair follicle, making it easier to remove.
Follow the instructions of at-home wax kits carefully. Some kits will have a pot or cup of wax for you to heat and apply, while others will have premade strips ready for you to use.
Test the temperature of the hot wax before applying it to your pubic area. A burn down there can be extremely uncomfortable. Test the temperature by applying a bit of wax to the inside of your wrist. Wax needs to be hot enough for it to spread over your skin but not hot enough that it will burn it.
Wear cotton underwear and clothing after waxing to allow your skin to breathe and avoid irritation.
 There are different looks and styles you can give your pubic region. Some popular styles include:



The Landing Strip: This look leaves a narrow and vertical strip of hair right above your genitals. The width and length of the strip depends on you.

Bikini Wax or Trim: This look takes away pubic hair that would be visible if you were wearing a bikini bottom or underwear.

Completely Bare or Brazilian Wax: All hair is removed in this look.

