 Many jobs (especially those in restaurants) have workplace rules that require employees to wear specially certified non-slip shoes. If your job has this rule, don't wear shoes that you've modified with one of the tricks above in place of actual non-slip shoes without checking with your employer first. Doing this may be violating your job's code of conduct. More importantly, however, it may leave you vulnerable to injury — non-slip shoe requirements exist for a reason.


When in doubt, simply get a new pair of non-slip shoes. Note that most non-slip shoes are rated with a scale called the "coefficient of friction" (CoF). For most jobs that require non-slip shoes, a coefficient of about 0.5-0.7 is ideal (check with your employer for rules specific to your job.), If you're testing out a new traction-adding technique for the first time, don't put yourself in a situation where you'll need it until you've tested it out. Taking the time to do something as simple as walking around your house or making a trip around the block can sometimes tell you all you need to know about how effective your solution is.
 If you're dealing with a pair of shoes made from a fine material like leather, be sure to check the packaging for any products you intend to use on them before doing so. Though problems are likely to be rare, some products may cause certain shoe materials to discolor or degrade, making them a very bad choice.


For example, the chemicals in hairspray have been known to damage certain types of leather, which means that care must be taken if using hairspray as a temporary fix for a slippery pair of leather shoes., The methods in this article aren't perfect and may not work for shoes that are very slippery. While it can be tough to say goodbye to an old pair of shoes that have permanently lost their grip, the alternative — a nasty slip and fall — is worse. If your shoes' soles are truly beyond hope, stop wearing your shoes and look for a new pair.


If your shoes are still in reasonable condition but are too slippery for your work or hobbies, consider donating them to a charity like Donate Your Old Shoes. This way, someone else may be able to get use out of your shoes, even if you cannot.
Also try using a Pedi-egg product and scuff the souls vigorously.

