 Minimize toys and physical clutter in your environment. Being peaceful includes having a peaceful environment as well as a peaceful mindset. Help make your environment peaceful by ridding your home of clutter. Toss or donate things you do not use or toys your children no longer play with.Make sure the items that you own all have a dedicated place. Having less clutter in your home will increase your sense of peace.
 Being peaceful at home, in relationships, and within yourself are all important aspects of a peaceful life. Keeping peaceful in all aspects may include a peaceful work environment as well keeping your work and home life separate. Try the following.


Having less clutter in your work space will provide the same result as less clutter in your home. Be more peaceful at work by making sure your work space is clean and clear.Try and leave any work stress you experience during the day at work. One way to accomplish this is to make sure you start and stop work on time.Having firm boundaries will help prevent your work life from causing stress in your personal life.
Maintain professionalism at work and limit the personal information you divulge at work.
 Being peaceful in your home environment, may not be as difficult as you think. Some small changes to your paint colors or decorating can produce big calming and peaceful effects. In order to increase the peaceful feel of your home try the following.


Use soothing tones like shades of light blue or beige in paint, furniture or decor.Have a small vase or plant in every room to help create a calming feel and a connection to nature.Spend the extra money on high-end sheets so that you can end your day with soothing peaceful sleep., Being peaceful can be a full-sensory experience for you. Changing the scents or sounds within your home can help increase the relaxation and calm for you and your family.


Soothing sounds can include nature sounds as well as certain types of music like classical music.Soothing scents can include lavender, rosemary, jasmine, Ylang Ylang, sweet orange, and bergamot.