 What is it made out of? Different types of walls will require different types of anchors and may require a different installation process.


Plaster walls begin as wooden frames that have been constructed from narrow strips of wood cut from a lathe. These frames are then coated with several layers of plaster until the desired density is achieved. Plaster wall was the standard during the early 1900s.Drywall is made from a plaster sheet that has been sandwiched between paper. Drywall became popular in the United States and Canada during the late 1950s as a lighter-weight replacement to plaster wall.Brick and mortar, and concrete walls are also common.;
, This is the second most important factor to consider when selecting the proper type of wall anchor.


Cabinets, because of the way that they hang, put more stress on an anchor. It is therefore not recommended to hang a cabinet with an anchor. Depending on the size of the cabinet, you may find a smaller piece that will work with an anchor.
 The angle that you will be installing the anchor and the weight of the object being hung will affect which type of anchor you should use. The amount of stress on an anchor affects how much it can support.
 This can only be done if you know ahead of time what type of material the anchor will be screwed into, the approximate weight of the object being hung, and angle of the anchor (as in the case of a ceiling).Plaster wall: anything under 20-pounds can be hung with a plastic expansion anchor. Use a molly bolt for anything weighing more than 20-pounds.Drywall: use a threaded anchor screw for anything weighing less than 20-pounds. Anything weighing more should be anchored with a molly bolt. Hanging anything more than a few pounds--such as a smoke detector--is not recommended on drywall ceilings.Concrete or brick and mortar walls require expansion anchors. Be sure never to install any anchors in-between seams of concrete or brick. Anchors should only be installed in the brick or stone itself, ever in the grout. The amount of weight that the anchor can hold will be determined by the strength and condition of the wall itself (e.g., old brick and mortar walls that are in poor condition tend to be brittle and can crumble; this directly impacts how much weight an anchor can support).

