 The procedure can correct nearsightedness (myopia), farsightedness (hyperopia), and astigmatism. Successful surgery can eliminate the need to wear contact lenses or glasses in patients with mild to moderate nearsightedness or astigmatism.


LASIK does not help people who need reading glasses or who have high levels of nearsightedness. Your eye care professional can diagnose your refractive error during a routine exam or you can check your glasses prescription.Ask if your eyes are within the range of error that LASIK effectively treats.;
, Since the procedure is elective, you should consider whether you will be able to enjoy the benefits of the surgery fully. People under 18 years old cannot get the procedure, and it is typically advised that you wait until adulthood when your eyesight stabilizes. Discuss your situation with your eye care provider.


Women who plan to get pregnant, are pregnant, or are nursing should wait for LASIK.
You should not receive LASIK if you will be playing contact sports during the recovery period.
Many government and health care informational sites will list the issues that may make you a poor candidate for the procedure including age, health issues, and professional reasons., The procedure is common and the complication rate is considered low. Nevertheless, there are risks. As you determine whether the surgery is right for you, consider these possible complications.Under corrections. If not enough tissue is removed, you will not get clear vision as a result of the surgery.
Overcorrections. It's also possible that the laser will remove too much tissue from your eye. Over corrections may be more difficult to fix than under corrections.
Loss of vision. In some cases, surgical complications can cause a loss of vision.
Astigmatism. Because LASIK surgery changes the shape of the cornea, new astigmatism can result from the surgery.
 LASIK is a commonly advertised surgery that is convenient for many patients. Be aware that there are alternative eye correction surgeries, too. Many of these procedures are suitable for different eye problems. Some of these alternatives are less invasive than LASIK eye surgery.


Some options, like PRK and LASEK, are alternative laser surgeries that may be suitable for some patients that do not qualify for LASIK.
Visian™ Implantable Collamer Lens (ICL) and Verisyse™ Phakic Intraocular Lens (P-IOL) offer alternatives to cornea reshaping., Most insurance plans do not cover elective surgery. In most cases, LASIK eye surgery will be considered an elective procedure. Check with your insurer, but anticipate that you will need to pay for the procedure on your own. Though prices vary due to several factors, you can expect to pay between $1,000 and $3,000 USD per eye.