 This is the most important thing. If you have had your period for a while you will know which products you prefer, how heavy your flow is and if you prefer tampons over pads. When you have just started most girls use pads.;
, Even if you don't have problems with irregularity, a friend may be in need for supplies. It's always better to be prepared.



Order free samples so you can try them all (don't try them at school or work because it would be better to leak at home than in public.)

, After all, you are both women.
 This is especially important if your flow is heavy.


If you are unable to change it and you have a heavy flow either use both a pad and a tampon, or use a pad and two pairs of underwear. It is better to wear a pad and then wear some shorts and a pair of loose trousers for comfort and reassurance.
If you have an event where you have to wear a dress, wear spandex yoga/workout/bike shorts under the dress to prevent an unwanted accident.
 Since you won't be able to change it, a thicker pad will offer more protection as you sleep. Wear old pants and pajama bottoms. If you think you might leak, wrap an old towel or blanket around you or around the mattress at the level of your likely leakage onto the bed.
 Or, make sure to have a jacket with you to tie around your waist, just in case.
 For example, tight bottoms aren't comfy, while fabric with give will be much gentler on your tummy area. Maybe wear some loose jogging bottoms.
 Maybe do some exercise, but not intense exercise. Try doing some light stretching. If it feels really bad, ask your mother for some ibuprofen. Often you get backaches, so don't slouch and don't lie down. Try a hot water bottle or rub your tummy gently! If you have a cat, get him/her to sit on you, they act like a hot water bottle especially when they purr!

, If you cannot do so due to discomfort, get a note from your parents excusing you from participating.


If you are self-conscious about changing, go in the bathroom, in a private corner or wear a long t-shirt. Remember to check yourself regularly.
 The fact is that every healthy girl will get one and will understand how you feel. Talk to your best friend or someone you're open with about your feelings.
 You might be getting emotional, it might be PMS. Try to stay calm, laugh and smile, you will feel better emotionally. If you have really bad mood swings every time the period arrives, talk to your doctor.
 Remember to dispose of the used items properly.
 It's just one of those things all of us females have to go through, it proves we're healthy and fertile for the future.
 Stay away from salty, fatty foods - they will make you feel worse. Have some fruit - bananas are known for helping with cramps.Keep a little bit of chocolate with you; when you're feeling down, chocolate may help you feel better. Maybe even have a chocolate coated strawberries as a snack!

, Spray some of your favorite perfume/body spray to keep you smelling sweet.


Wear perfume if you like it. Wear a bit of perfume or scented body spray to help you feel nice and fresh.
Limit the amount of makeup you wear; it's best to feel fresh and confident.
 Panty liners are also a good idea to use when you're expecting your period to prevent an unexpected leak.
 It's best to get it checked out. Better to be safe then sorry!

, Note how long it lasts for, how you felt, and how heavy it was. This information can be useful for a range of reasons, including checking your health, knowing when the next period is due, and later in life, helping to determine your fertility. It's a good habit to get into.
 Also washing out the stain with hydrogen peroxide will work; make sure you test it out first to ensure it will not bleach or discolor your clothing. It will have faded hopefully, then fold them up or put them in the wash. Or pour something down it and rub it and say you've spilled something down your bottoms!

