 Look up courses and career you're interested in and see what A levels they require. Choose subject you enjoyed and did well at in your GCSEs.
 Use lever-arch files and smaller folders to keep notes from your classes safe and in order. Make a note of any homework set and when it is due. Also, make sure you get a bag that has plenty of space to fit all those folders in.
 A levels are a big step up from GCSEs and require a lot more independent studying. Make sure all of your class work and homework is completed swiftly and to a high standard. You'll be using these notes to revise from later on, so make sure they are clear and understandable., This is really important; you'll need those notes to revise from come exam season. Borrow the completed work from a friend in the class to copy up from, and ask the teacher to explain any work that you don't fully understand., Complete any homework or catch-up work you need to do. If you didn't quite understand something in class, use this opportunity to ask your friends for help or to use the school computers to look it up. If you have an upcoming test or exam, use this free time to revise and go over notes. It's okay to spend the odd free lesson socialising, just make sure you're not avoiding doing urgent work., Most teachers will be happy to discuss any problems you have before or after school, or even during break times. Some will even let you study in the back of their classroom when they are teaching, so they can give you occasional guidance., It is likely that many of the small groups that used to hang out together will now merge into bigger, mixed groups. You will have an opportunity to get to know people you hardly knew before. Plus, there will be probably be plenty of new students joining you, so be sure to make them feel welcome., Most universities and jobs will require a couple of references from your teachers, especially if you have no previous employment. They will be asked to vouch for your behaviour, attitude and key skills. Be sure to behave in class and ask plenty of questions to show that you're listening., Have fun, but don't let it affect your studies., When you hit 17 years old you can start learning to drive a car. Lots of people opt to start learning in sixth form and book lesson for lunchtime or at the end of the school day., After sixth form you'll be heading into work or higher education, it's a lot easier to get access to these opportunities if your CV/personal statement stands out. You can ensure this by gaining extra skills, qualifications and experience. For example, you could get a part-time job, volunteer, go on courses or gain work experience in the field of work you wish to enter. Paid work is also a good way to fund your social life and start saving up for your future., Decide if you want to go on to higher education, get a full-time job, an apprenticeship or something else. Make sure you do plenty of research before making a decision; take into account your career prospects and what qualifications are needed, costs/pay, your interests, and how you learn best.