 A pyramid scheme is a fraudulent hierarchical scheme. People are recruited to invest money with the promise that they will receive a return on their investment if they recruit other investors. It is a deceptive money game with no basis in commerce. Typically no product is involved. Rather, people are deceived into investing money, although no product has been received nor service provided., In a legal MLM business, you sell legitimate products that people genuinely want for a fair price. You can make money just by selling the product. You don’t have to recruit others into the business to make money, even though you may be encouraged to do so to earn more money. MLM businesses are not about taking advantage of anybody. Nobody has to lose money in order for you to make money., The product thinly disguises the scam. Usually, the product has no inherent value. Nobody would want to purchase the product unless they were joining the scheme. Examples of this kind of product include mailing lists, some kind of report or membership in an investment club. The only way for investors to make money is buy getting others to invest., Critics of the MLM business model, such as forensic accountants and fraud investigators, say that all MLM businesses are unfair pyramid schemes. The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Direct Selling Association disagree. They say that MLM’s are legitimate. The difference comes down to products. If distributors can make money by selling products to end-users, then the business is legal.Understand, however, that just because a business is legal does not mean it is necessarily a good idea. MLM businesses, although legal, are extremely risky. Distributors invest their own money in products that they may or may not be able to sell. Building downlines is difficult and time-consuming. Also, you put others at financial risk when you bring them into your downline. Before becoming involved in an MLM, decide whether you are comfortable with not only risking your personal savings, but also with the ethical dilemma of making money off of others' financial risks.
 Know the warning signs of a scam. If the focus is more on recruiting than selling, consider it a red flag. Consider the training offered. If you are offered little to no support and training on business tactics, it might be a scam. If you are being pressured into buying extra product, paying for training or going into debt to pay for the “business investment,” then think twice. If a recruiter is pressuring you to sign on right away without giving you time to ponder your decision, this is likely not a legitimate business deal. Finally, if it sounds too good to be true, it probably is.