 If any items are missing, contact the manufacturer immediately. Don't take any shortcuts when assembling your baby's crib. Build a crib according to the manufacturer's guidelines and be sure to use all the parts listed in the directions.;
, Use an Allen wrench to secure the guides into the lowest holes on each end panel.



Hold a plastic washer over one of the prefabricated holes on the outside of the headboard, along the base.
Thread a screw through the washer and headboard, and into the stabilizer bar on the other side.
Thread a nut onto the screw and secure the connection. Tighten the screw from the outside using an Allen wrench.
Repeat the process with the remaining 3 mounts in the headboard.
Fasten the stabilizer bars to the footboard at the corresponding 4 mounts.
 The cover is not fastened to the frame.



Lay the spring frame on the stabilizer bars with the frame brackets facing down.
Thread screws through the lowest part of the brackets and fasten them to the bars using nuts. The nuts should be to the inside of the stabilizer bars.
Tighten the connections for all 4 brackets using an Allen wrench.
Most cribs have 3 height settings for the spring frame. Move the upper arms of the brackets to the height you desire.
Secure the 4 upper arms of the brackets in position using a screw and nut. The nuts should be on the inside of the spring frame.
Using the appropriate screws, bolt the spring frame to the crib headboard at the 2 positions indicated in your instruction manual. Insert the screws from the outside of the end boards. You might have to use a spanner to fasten the lower screw to the spring frame.
 The drop side has an important functional aspect. It allows you to manipulate the gate with just 1 hand. This can be very convenient when you're laying the child down for a nap or changing its diaper. The drop side must be installed carefully to ensure that it works properly.


Position the drop side between the ends of the crib.
Insert a screw with pin in the oval opening and allow it to rest unsecured.
Put a screw with pin in the oval opening at the other end of the crib.
Allow the drop side to slide downward.
Pinch the pin and push the drop side inward, allowing the pin to set in the lower part of the guide.
To raise the drop side, hold it in the middle and lift up until it locks in place.
To lower the drop side, pull it up firmly from the center while applying gentle pressure to the gate with your knee. When it releases, lower the side.
, Casters are handy if you're going to be moving the crib frequently.


With the frame securely assembled, turn the crib upside down to expose the feet.
Screw in the bun feet at the bottom of each leg.
Insert caster studs in the bun feet.
Gently push the casters onto the studs.
Place a small piece of wood over a caster and tap it with a hammer until the caster is secured onto its stud. Never hammer the casters directly.
Repeat the process with the other 3 legs.
 You may want to install drawers at the bottom of the crib to provide convenient storage of essential baby items.


Attach the drawer sides and center to the drawer back.
Fasten the connections either with metal tabs or screws, locking them in place.
Slide in the drawer bottoms.
Attach the drawer fronts. Fasten them to the sides and center using metal tabs.
Slide the drawer assembly into the guides along the bottom of the headboard and footboard.

