 Place 1 cup (93 g) of freshly grated coconut or coconut flakes, 2 tablespoons of roasted chana dal (split chickpeas), 1 hari mirch (green pepper), 1/2 inch of peeled fresh ginger, and 1/4 cup (59 ml) of water in a small food processor or spice grinder. Close the lid and grind the ingredients until you have a smooth paste.If you want to add a slightly sour taste to the coconut chutney, add 1/2 teaspoon to 1 teaspoon of tamarind paste to the base mixture.;
, Use a spoon to scoop the base mixture into a heat-proof bowl. You can use a tempered glass bowl or a steel bowl. Taste the mixture and add salt according to your taste. The mixture should be a pasty white color.If the mixture is too thick or chunky, stir in another tablespoon or two of water to help smooth the base mixture.
 Heat 1/2 tablespoon of sesame, sunflower, or peanut oil in a small deep pan on the stove over medium-high heat. When the oil starts shimmering, add 1/2 teaspoon of mustard seeds to the oil. When you hear the mustard seeds crackle, add 1 teaspoon of urad dal and 1/2 teaspoon of cumin seeds. Cook this seasoning until it turns golden.Take care not to burn yourself as these spices cook. The oil may sputter a little, so consider wearing a long sleeved shirt or wearing oven mitts when adding the spices to the hot oil.
 Add 1 sprig (9 to 10 leaves) of curry leaves, 1 pinch of asafoetida, and 1 whole red chili pepper directly into the tempering seasoning that you have cooking on the stove. Let these ingredients fry in the tempering seasoning until the flavors are released.You'll know the flavors are released when the curry leaves become crisp and the red pepper shrivels a little and turns dark in color.
 Use oven mitts to hold the pot of your tempering seasoning. Carefully pour the tempering seasoning over the smooth coconut chutney base in your heat-proof bowl. Stir the two mixtures together before it's ready to serve.The oil will separate, but you can stir it back into the chutney.
Use the coconut chutney within a day.

