 Press and hold Ctrl + Shift then hit Esc. This should open Task Manager. At the top, there should be seven different tabs.
, The name of each program should be on the far right-hand side of the box below, labeled “Name.” The next row over to the right should be “Publisher.” These are important because before you disable a program, you need to know what it does for your computer. For example, it is not a good idea to disable your anti-virus, which usually starts with the computer. Here are the basic rules to go by:



Look at the Publisher: If you are looking down the Publisher row and you see “Unknown,” it might indicate the program is suspicious. Any program that is worth its salt, and is safe, will show its name there (e.g., Apple Inc., Piriform Ltd, Google Inc. etc.).

Search online: If you are not sure about a company name or program name, and you would like to see what it does or other details regarding the program, search online. On Windows 8, there is a little bit more flexibility here. Right-click on any program name and select “Search online” from the drop-down list. This will open a Google search for that program automatically. Look through the different results until you are sure what you are dealing with.

Review the Startup Impact: On the far right of the startup list, near the top, there should be an option that says “Startup impact.” Basically, there are 3 different levels of impact: low, medium, and high. The higher the impact a program has, the more time the PC will take to boot. This is just another way of deciding which startup items to remove.
 Right-clicking the item you want to remove should open a drop-down menu. If the item you right-click is currently enabled, the top result on the menu should be disable; vice versa for disabled items. Click “Disable” on this menu to disable the startup program.


When a program is enabled, it should move to the top of the startup program list. The disabled items should be under them.
After you are done, simply close the Task Manager and your changes will become effective when you restart the PC.

