 Some examples of good styles include twists or bantu knots.



Braid: do a simple braid from the top and when you finish, tie the end. You can also add a hair band.

Twists: Divide your hair into rows. Then divide each row that you just made into 2 separate sections.

Starting at your hairline, twist the 2 sections of the first row together.
Keep twisting your hair as you move toward the back of your head, grabbing a little more hair each time you go a little further down the row.Bantu knots: Divide damp hair into sections, using a comb to create really precise parts.

Twist each section of hair into a "rope," working some gel or pomade into your hair as you twist it. Keep your hair taut until you've twisted the entire section into a rope.
Turn the rope a few more times until it starts to curl in on itself. Doing this will create a firm coil at the base.
Wrap the rope of hair around the base to create your knot. You can secure it by either tucking the ends under the knot, using pins or using elastics.Be gentle and watch out for traction alopecia. It's the constant force being put on the hair follicle from wear styles that are too tight resulting in breakage and bald spots. The first sign will be pain at the site and inflammation of the hair follicle it'll feel like a bump. Take the hair out where you're suffering from the inflammation and let the hair 'breathe'.
Continue to care for your hair while it's in protective styles. The hair will still dry out and the scalp may need some TLC as well. Get a spray bottle and fill it with water, aloe vera juice, some natural oils (anything that will help to restore moisture) and spray it all over. If you have ample time, put your whole head under the shower head toward the beginning of the day and let your hair air dry the rest of the day. If protective styles are being worn for extended periods of time co-washing can also be done, but an application bottle may be needed to try and reach under braids.
 Natural hair can be long and beautiful if you know what you are doing. To straighten natural hair while protecting it from heat damage, blow dry your hair with a comb attachment and wet setting before you give it a quick sweep with a flat iron.
 It straightens your hair or loosens the curl with no chemicals. They start from about 1 day to 6 months. Afro hair is washed less often so the treatment will last more than the time said.
 Relax your hair no more than once every 8 to 10 weeks, or 4 or 5 times per year. Remember that relaxers are harsh chemicals that can potentially damage your hair, it's good to limit them to prevent overlapping and over-processing.Start by applying a scalp protector or petroleum jelly to your scalp and to your hair shaft. Apply the relaxer to your roots according to the manufacturer's instructions. Make sure to follow the leave-in time that's recommended on the product.
Wash out the relaxer in warm water with a neutralizing shampoo. Wash and rinse 3 times. The fourth time, leave the shampoo on for about 10 minutes before you rinse it off for the last time.
 Both shampoo and relaxers will remove needed nutrients and shielding from your hair, leaving it dry and fragile. Protein reconstructor will help to prevent damage and will make your hair more resilient.
 When you have split ends and you don't cut them, they will continue to split all the way up your hair shaft, which will cause breakage. To keep your hair growth steady, avoid taking off more than 1 to 2" (2.5 to 5 cm) at a time.

