 The methods included here are fairly standard and should generally work with most washers. Even so, break out your owner’s manual and read over the appropriate sections, just in case any directions or advice are particular to that manufacturer and/or model. Check its table of contents or index for subjects like:


Drainage issues and troubleshooting
Disconnecting and reconnecting drain hoses and/or filters;
, Draining your washer shouldn’t be an out-of-control project with water flying everywhere, but play it safe anyway. If your washer is plugged into a power outlet, unplug it. If it’s hardwired into your electrical system instead, switch off the appropriate circuit breaker. Eliminate the risk of electrocution just in case you experience any unforeseen mishaps.Do the same with any other electrical devices in the immediate area.
 Again, this project shouldn’t create a huge mess, but be prepared for at least a little water to possibly go wild. Before you begin, set yourself up with some towels to keep on hand. Make clean-up a cinch by having them within easy reach in case you spill any water on the floor or elsewhere.Draining a front-loading machine is more likely to be messy than a top-loading machine, so if that’s what you have, expect more spills.
In addition to towels, you could also lay out a tarp, dropcloth, or similar material on the floor around your washer.
 This may seem like a no-brainer, but make life easier by knowing exactly how you’ll dispose of the water before you start. If your laundry room has a drain in the floor, use that. If your washer is in a bathroom and has a drainage hose that will reach, use your bathtub or shower stall. Otherwise, have a bucket or dish ready to transport the water to a sink or tub elsewhere in your home.Be aware that used water from your washer is usually considered “gray water.” Your local, state, or even federal government may have laws regarding the proper disposal of gray water. This means that you may not be allowed to simply toss it outside so it can soak into the ground.
If you need to use a bucket or dish, consider the area that you need to cross between the washer and the drain that you choose. You may want to protect surfaces or clear the area of anything easily damaged by water in case any spills out along the way.
 If you only used cold water for your last load, go ahead and skip this step. If, however, you used hot water, give it time to cool off before you attempt draining. Don’t make things worse by scalding yourself.This is especially important with front-loading machines. With these, you can’t open the door and test the water, and your hands will definitely get wet once you start draining.
The time it takes for the water to cool off to a safe temperature will vary by your settings and your machine. As a precaution, wear safety gloves when you start your project.

