 You must take this situation seriously! Just because you already have this job and you feel you are great at it, does not mean the company will keep you. Throughout this process, the company has the ability to either hire someone they feel is more suited for the job or eliminate your position all together.


The first step to taking this process seriously is to not assume you will easily be rehired.
If you do not have the mindset that you “own” the job, you will be more willing to follow the process and compete vigorously for your job.
If you do not take the process seriously you will risk losing your job.
 It is important to remain professional and treat the process as if you are applying for a job at a new company. This may be difficult if you know the person interviewing you, but the truth is that you are there to impress them, remind them why you were chosen for the job in the first place and describe your success in this role thus far.


Follow interview best practices such as dressing professionally, wearing a smile, providing a strong handshake, listening actively to the interviewer, bringing a copy of your resume and preparing to speak about yourself (job duties, accomplishments, abilities, knowledge, strengths and your desire to keep your job).
 You may find yourself having to explain what you really do during the day versus what is written in the job description. Sometimes these are two very different things and the interviewer may be surprised at the tasks you complete without formal documentation.


For example, your job may be to receive technical complaints, issues and inquiries from software users. Once you receive this information, you pass it over to the IT techs that can help. You do not answer or resolve anything.
When you are asked, “what do you do here” it will be false to say or even imply that you provide some level of tech support when in actuality you do not.
Whatever the case may be, it is important to not exaggerate what you do. Giving false accounts of what you do to make you seem more vital will eventually catch up to you and may cause a negative impact.
 As with any other interview it is important to express your strengths and accomplishments most relevant to the role. Since you already know what the role entails, you are at an advantage because all you need to do is explain what you have contributed to the company while in this role.


The easiest way to show your value is by quantifying your accomplishments and providing specific examples of what you have done and what the results were.
For example, you were able to implement a new campaign that targeted new customers in the southeast region which increased sales by 35% within 2 months.

