 You will need to work chain stitches in multiples of three, then add one to complete the chain. For instance, your foundation chain could consist of 19 (18 + 1), 22 (21 + 1), or 31 (30 + 1) chain stitches.









You will need to start your work by tying a slipknot onto the hook. See the "Tips" section for more detail.
Also consult the "Tips" section for instructions on forming a chain stitch.;
, Work one single crochet into the second stitch from your hook. After that, work one single crochet into each stitch of the previous row until you reach the end of the row.









Turn the piece over when you reach the end of the row.
If you do not know how to work a single crochet, check the “Tips” section for instructions.
 Work these stitches directly from the loop already on your hook.









This set of chain stitches will count as both a half double crochet and an additional set of two chain stitches.
 Skip the first stitch of your previous row. Then, wrap the yarn around the hook, insert it through the next stitch (the second stitch of the previous row), and catch the yarn on the other side. Pull the yarn back through to the front of the stitch.









Repeat this process two more times, moving onto the next stitch in the previous row each time. When finished, you should have seven loops on your hook.
This step starts the actual triangle stitch.
 Yarn over the tip of the hook again, then draw this last bit of yarn through all seven loops previously gathered onto your hook.









When finished, you will only have one loop on your hook.
This step completes the actual triangle stitch.
 Work these chain stitches from the loop already on your hook.









This will create a gap in between your individual triangle stitches.
 Follow the same steps indicated above to create another triangle stitch.









Yarn over the tip of the hook, then insert the hook through the last stitch you worked your previous triangle stitch into.
Yarn over the hook from the back and pull the yarn back to the front of the stitch.
Yarn over the hook, insert it into the next stitch, and catch the yarn from the back before pulling it to the front. Repeat once more with the following stitch.
Once seven loops have been gathered on your hook, yarn over the hook and pull the yarn through all seven loops.
This series of moves completes your second triangle stitch.
 Chain two, then repeat another triangle stitch exactly as described in the previous step. Repeat this pattern until you reach the end of the row.
 Chain once, then work one half double crochet into the last single crochet stitch of the previous row.









Turn the work over at the end of this row.
Read more about half double crochets in the “Tips” section.
 Work one chain stitch off the loop on the hook to advance to the next row.
 The placement of your single crochets will vary based on where they land in the row.









Single crochet once in the first stitch.
Single crochet once in the next "chain one" space from the previous row.
Single crochet twice into each of the "chain two" spaces from the previous row.
Single crochet once into the second loop of your original turning chain from the previous row.
Turn the work when finished with this row.
 At this point, you should have your foundational chain, your prep row, your first row of triangle stitches, and your second "in between" row. Repeat the steps used for the triangle stitch row and the "in between" row, alternating back and forth, until your project reaches your desired length.









Cut the yarn. Pull the tail through the loop on your hook and tighten it as much as possible to tie off the work. Weave the excess tail into the back of your work to hide it from sight.

