 It is a good idea to wash your sheets once per week or at least every couple of weeks.You should take your lifestyle, personal preferences and geographic location into account in deciding how often to wash your sheets.If you take a shower before going to bed and wear fresh pajamas, you may not need to wash your sheets as frequently.
If you live in a place with limited water supply, it may be a good idea to avoid washing your sheets too frequently.If you have a very active sex life, you may want to wash your sheets more regularly.If you sweat a lot at night, it may be a good idea to wash your sheets more frequently.;
, Brand new sheets have chemicals added during manufacture that can prevent them from feeling soft. Detergent will lock in these chemicals and make the new sheets feel a little harsh. To avoid this problem, wash your new sheets with one cup (236 Milliliters) of baking soda. Add one cup (236 Milliliters) of white vinegar to the rinse cycle. After this first wash, you can use regular detergent. Feel free to sleep in your new sheets after the baking soda and vinegar wash.
 If you are washing your regular sheets (i.e., not new), you will need to remove them from your bed(s). Follow the washing instructions provided on the care label of your sheets. The care label will offer specific washing instructions based on the material and brand.Avoid washing too many sheets together. If you try to wash too many sheets at once, they will not get as clean. Also, washing too much at once will strain the motor of your washing machine., Only sheets and pillow cases should be washed together. Other bed linen should be washed separately from sheets.


Avoid washing your sheets with towels.If you wash sheets with towels, you will end up with little lint balls all over your sheets. The friction from the towels will gradually wear down the sheets.Avoid washing your sheets with items of a different colour. If you wash your sheets with other clothing items of a different colour, you may discolour your sheets., It is best to be conservative when measuring out the detergent for washing sheets.Use 2 oz (1/4 cup) or half a cap full of liquid laundry detergent for a regular load.
Use 4 oz (1/2 cup) or one full cap of liquid laundry detergent for a heavily soiled load.Follow the guidelines on the detergent packaging.Avoid using too much detergent. If you want your sheets to last a long time, you should avoid excessive detergent. Loads of detergent will wear down your sheets faster., If your sheets are very soiled, you will choose a different cycle than if your sheets are only mildly soiled. If you always choose the strongest cycle, your sheets will deteriorate faster.Choose “sheet cycle” if your machine has such a setting. If there is no “sheet cycle,” use the regular cycle or the colors cycle.Use a warm water setting for regular washing. If the sheets are very soiled, you can use a hot water setting to kill more germs.Avoid using hot temperatures regularly. If you want your sheets to last a long time, you should generally avoid hot temperatures. A hot cycle will wear down your sheets faster.Use a hot temperature setting if you had a cold recently or if the sheets are especially soiled.



Add one cup (236 Milliliters) of vinegar to the rinse cycle. By adding vinegar at the rinse cycle, you will get rid of any traces of detergent on the sheets.Use a quarter cup (2 Oz) of lemon juice to the wash cycle to brighten your sheets. Use lemon juice instead of bleach or a whitening agent. This can make your sheets last a little longer.