 This will help you see what you have to do and when it needs to be finished. You'll be able to see what overlaps and when you'll need to keep track of multiple assignments., Information in textbooks is usually grouped into headings and subheadings, which explain specific ideas. Rather than push through the entire assignment at once, read a section, then consider how well you understood the concepts it explained before going to the next one. Of course, make sure you read all of the assigned portions.Many textbooks have reading goals and key ideas listed at the beginning or end of each chapter. Review those, and make sure that you understand those big ideas after reading the required sections and subsections.
The textbook isn't just the text. Make sure you study and review any charts, graphs, tables, pictures, or equations as well. Sciences are very visual and data-driven, and those visual elements have been carefully chosen to explain important concepts.
 Professors assign homework and other projects because they are important to learning the course material. Doing everything will help you keep up in the class, and your professor will probably provide feedback that can improve your grade. Even if you don't do well, a partial grade is better than no credit at all., The point of homework from science classes is to help learn processes. It's not about getting the right answer, but understanding the right way to get that answer. Make sure you show all the work you did to find the solution. This can help you (or your professor) find errors if you got the incorrect answer. This is especially important in math-heavy sciences like physics or engineering., Working together with a group of your classmates to review material can help enhance your grade. Groups are helpful for answering one another's questions and explaining difficult concepts. Try to find serious students from your class (who may not always been your friends) and make sure your study group time is spent on the subject., Your science professor is the best resource you will have for doing well in the class. If you have questions or concerns about your grades or comprehension, visit during his office hours.Make sure you have specific questions. Vague complaints like "I don't get this class" or "This material is hard" are hard to follow, and it will be difficult for your professor to help you. Instead, make sure you identify specific concepts or textbook passages that you are struggling with.
If you begin struggling, see the professor as soon as you can. If you wait until the end of the semester, there will be very little that either of you can do to change your grade.
 Make sure you attend every class. There isn't much space in a week given to classroom time, so your professor will likely use it to cover as much important material as possible. Much of that material probably won't be in the textbook (that's for you to read)., Before you even get to class, make sure you have done the assigned readings and are familiar with the concepts on the schedule. College science lectures will not regurgitate the textbook, so if you haven't read it first, you probably won't understand what is going on.This is also helpful so that you already know the words and ideas that you struggle with. You can make sure to pay extra attention when the professor covers that in class, or ask about them if they don't come up.
 Don't wander in right when the class starts. Instead, get there early to pick the best seat, and review your notes one last time before class begins. This time is also a good opportunity to ask questions of your professor. This can be helpful if you are shy about asking questions in class., Numerous studies show that sitting in the front of the classroom helps students pay attention and get higher grades, especially in a large lecture class. Plus, sitting up front can help the professor remember you. Getting to know your professor can help with asking questions and improving your grade., Your professor is going to cover a lot of information, and you'll want to write it down to help remember it for labs, exams, and other assignments.Pay attention if your instructor highlights really important information. He'll probably do this by writing something on the board or saying something like "This is important." Make sure you highlight this information in your notes.
If you miss something the professor said, don't be afraid to ask him to repeat it.
Review your notes as soon as you can after getting out of class. This will to help your remember what was covered and what was important.
 If your professor asks the class a question, don't be afraid to answer it. If you don't understand an idea or concept, ask. Taking part in the classroom experience will help keep you engaged and awake., In many college science labs, you will be expected to know the process before showing up, so make sure you do before starting. The professor may provide a manual for the semester, individual worksheets for particular labs, or explain the procedure as part of the lecture. If you don't know what you are supposed to be doing, there is a good chance you will not do the experiment correctly or on time.Make sure that, in addition to the lab's instructions, you also review your textbook for the principles the lab is supposed to cover. The lab should demonstrate those principles, and give you concrete proof of what the textbook and lectures explain. If your professor suggests an outside reading, look at that too.
If you were supposed to prepare in advance, the instructor may not be able to give you detailed instructions once you have started.
 This is a notebook specifically for your lab work, separate from your class notes. This notebook should be a full record of all the data you get during labs. You will collect much more data than you need to write the report, but that's okay. Part of the report will be figuring out what data is necessary or important, and deciding what it proves about your experiment.You should only write in pen in your lab notebook. Don't write in pencil, as you should not be trying to erase data, even errors. The notebook should contain everything, including your mistakes. If you make a mistake, draw a line through it and go on to the next line. Add a note explaining why you crossed that out also, to help you remember what happened in the lab.
 College laboratories can be dangerous places, especially for subjects like chemistry or biology that use hazardous materials. Before going into the lab, make sure you know, understand, and are prepared to follow all safety rules.There are certain protective items you should expect to wear, such as gloves, aprons, and goggles, depending on the experiment. Check with your instructor and the lab to see what the lab will provide, and if you will need to acquire any of these materials yourself.When you are in the lab, make sure you know where the key safety features are. These include the MSDS folder (for getting safety information about chemicals), safety shower, eye wash, fire extinguisher, and emergency exits., While every lab's dress code is slightly different, there are some basic principles you can follow to keep safe, and be able to do the experiment properly. Some labs will not even let you inside if you are not dressed properly for the setting. If you miss the lab, that will definitely hurt your grade.


Wear long pants and long sleeved shirts to cover skin. This will help you to avoid splashing and spills.You will probably be standing a lot during the experiment, so you'll want something comfortable on your feet. Make sure your shoes are closed, so no sandals or open-toed shoes.
Avoid wearing loose or flowing items, like ties, scarves, necklaces, or bracelets. At the very least, make sure they are securely tied down, and not dangling, before starting the experiment., The point of labs is to illustrate concepts you read about in the book, or that the professor explained in class. Understand the steps you are taking, and what they accomplish for the purpose of the lab. It doesn't matter if you got "the right answer" if you do not understand how you got there and why that is the right answer., Most labs will end with a lab report that you will need to turn in to the instructor. Know the proper format for your class, including your hypothesis, data, and conclusions, and fill in as completely as possible. Make sure you have demonstrated whether or not the experiment has proved or disproved your hypothesis.


Don't forget to include outlier or unusual data, as well as possible reasons why those may have happened.
If you have a study group for the class, they can be good reviewers of your lab reports to make sure you have explained the material well. Make sure you return the favor.

