 After you have done this your hair will probably be very big and frizzy. Don't worry - this will go away after you finish straightening it.


Alternate the dryer between hot and low settings as you blow dry. This will help you prevent your hair from drying out, creating frizz and other issues.
Make sure you point the blow dryer downwards from the roots as this will create an airflow that’ll naturally straighten your hair. Otherwise, your hair will frizz.It can take a very long time for curly or thick hair to dry out, so be patient. You should never apply a flat iron to damp hair, as this can cause damage.
 Ceramic plates work well for fine and thin hair, but go with gold or titanium if your hair is thick and curly. Make sure the flat iron you choose will work on your hair type and not cause any unnecessary damage.Buy a straightener that is an inch and a half or less. This size will help you reach your roots. Larger flat irons are better for styling but not ideal for straightening.Make sure your flat iron can go up to the right temperature for your hair. For thick or curly hair, your flat iron should go up to a heat setting between 380 to 410 degrees.Automatic shut-off features are perfect for any on-the-go lifestyle., Remember, hotter for thick hair, and cooler for thin hair. Wait for it to warm up to the temperature.


Don’t go beyond 350 degrees. The 450 degree setting was created for salon-professional keratin-straightening, not for home use.Never straighten damp or wet hair. Using a hot flat iron on wet hair can cause the moisture to boil, causing your hair to break and literally fry. Ensure that your hair is completely dry before straightening., Place the section of hair between the two plates, squeeze, and glide down from the root to the tip. Once you’re done, unravel the top portion, and straighten in sections. Keep doing this until all of your hair is completely straight. Turn off the flat iron after use.


Don’t run the straightener over the same section several times. This can cause more frizz. If the straightener is not fully doing it’s job on the first run, turn up the heat 10 to 30 degrees.Consider straightening your hair before bed then touching up the next morning. The night’s sleep naturally reduces frizz from the prior day’s blow drying and heat treatments.
 Wait for your hair to cool down prior to spraying with a light hold hairspray.Ensure that this spray or serum also lacks silicones and sulfates.Carry this serum around on rainy days for touch ups and flyaways., You should not straighten your hair every day if you don't know how your hair will respond. Straightening always damages hair to a degree. After straightening your hair for the first time, wait 48 hours to straighten again. After a week of straightening your hair every other day, assess the level of damage.Your hair will show damage by becoming increasingly frizzy and losing some shine. This is a warning sign that you're overdoing the straightening. However, if you hair does not appear damaged, straightening it every day may be safe for you.
If your hair responds poorly to being straightened every other day, cut back to straightening your hair every 2 to 3 days.

