 All appliances should have a data plate with electrical information. Look on the back or underside of the device, or check the product manual. The information on this plate will help you determine how many amperes the device draws, and therefore the rating you will need for the circuit breaker.


This section covers devices that list the amperage directly on the data plate, which should include all appliances with a motor. If your device only lists wattage (W), calculate the amperage from that value.
This is not an appropriate method to determine safety features to protect the motor itself.The circuit breaker protects the wiring of the electrical supply.
High-power devices such as air conditioning units and ovens are best installed by a trained electrician.
 The amperage drawn depends on the voltage of your electrical circuit. The intended voltage (V) of the device should be listed so you can confirm that it matches your electrical system. If the device can run at two different voltages, it will usually list two values like this: 110V/240V. In this example, if you were running the device on a 110 volt supply, you would only refer to the first number listed on each line.


Most electrical codes allow a ± 5% tolerance for the voltage (or slightly more).Do not run a device on a voltage supply outside this range.
Household outlets in the US and some other countries are on a 120V standard. Most of the world uses 220–240V., This is the number of amps the motor will draw at the rated horsepower. In the United States, if this device will be left on for more than three hours, the circuit breaker should be rated at 125% of this value. (Multiply the FLA by 1.25.) This allows for additional load due to other factors, mainly heat.This value may also be listed as full load amperage, running amps, rated amp, or just amps.Some circuit breakers are rated to 100% of the listed amperage, meaning you can skip the 125% calculation. This information will be clearly listed on the circuit breaker electrical panel if you have this type of breaker., The LRA, or locked rotor amps, is the amount of current drawn when the motor is not turning. This is required to start the motor, and can be much higher than the FLA.Modern circuit breakers are designed to allow this brief surge of current. If your circuit breaker is rated high enough for the FLA but still trips when the device is plugged in, it could be a faulty breaker, or just an old model. Move the device with high LRA to another circuit or have an electrician inspect your wiring.


Do not confuse this with the RLA, a value listed on air conditioner units.
 If multiple devices are running on the same circuit, add them together as follows:


If your circuit breaker is rated at 100%, just add all of the amperages together.
If your circuit breaker is rated at 80% or you do not know its rating, add the amperages of all devices running for more than three hours at a time and multiply by 1.25. Add to the result the amperage of all devices running for shorter periods of time.
In either case, if the answer exceeds the circuit breaker amperage, move a device to another circuit.
 These values are rarely listed except in North American air conditioning units. The Minimum Circuit Amperage tells you the minimum wire size necessary for safety. The Maximum Overdraft Protection is the highest circuit breaker amperage allowable. When in doubt, use the MOP value when choosing a circuit breaker to avoid unnecessary breaker tripping.These values are often surprising if you do not have HVAC experience, and are further complicated by new technologies that allow for lower amperage than MOP implies. Consider hiring a professional if you are not experienced in the area.

