 You'll do this using the USB cable that came with your external hard drive.


USB ports resemble thin, rectangular slots on your computer's casing.;
, Do so either by clicking the Windows logo in the bottom-left corner of the screen, or by pressing the ⊞ Win key.
 You should see a computer monitor-shaped icon appear at the top of the window.
 It's a monitor-shaped icon at the top of the Start window. Doing so opens the This PC app.
 You'll typically see this in the middle of the page.


On a laptop with a trackpad, use two fingers to tap the trackpad rather than right-clicking.
 It's at the bottom of the right-click drop-down menu.
 This option is near the top of the General tab of Properties. If the "File System" value says anything other than "FAT32", you'll need to reformat your drive.If the "File System" value does say "FAT32", skip forward to connecting your hard drive.
 Click the X in the top-right corner of the window to do so.
 It's near the middle of the drop-down menu.


Formatting your hard drive will erase any files on it.
 It's directly below the "File System" heading. Doing so invokes a drop-down menu.
 This is the file format you'll need in order to use your hard drive with your PS3.
 Doing so begins the formatting procedure.


This process' length will vary depending on your computer's age and the drive's size.
 You'll do so on the pop-up window letting you know that your hard drive has been formatted.
 It should still be listed in the This PC window.
 To do so, either right-click the hard drive's window, select New, and click New Folder, or click Home at the top of the window and then click New Folder. The folders must be named exactly like so:MUSIC
PHOTO
GAME
VIDEO

, You are now ready to attach your external hard drive to your PS3.


If you want to add music, photos, or videos to your hard drive before attaching it to your PlayStation 3, place them in the appropriate folders (e.g., music goes in the MUSIC folder).
 You'll do this using the USB cable that came with your external hard drive.


USB ports resemble thin, rectangular slots on your computer's casing.
Some Mac computers don't have USB ports, although you can buy an adapter.
 It's a blue, face-like app in your Mac's dock.
 It's on the left side of the Finder window. Doing so invokes a drop-down menu.
 This option is in the middle of the drop-down menu.
 You'll see the "Format" heading in the General group of information. If the format here doesn't have "FAT32" listed, you must format your hard drive for PS3 compatibility before continuing.


If the hard drive does have "FAT32" listed next to "Format", you can proceed with attaching your hard drive to your PS3.
 Click the magnifying glass icon in the top-right corner of your Mac's screen to do so.
 Doing so will bring up a list of matching programs on your Mac.
 It should be the top option in the Spotlight search results.
 It's in the left-hand sidebar.
 This option is at the top of the Disk Utility window.
 It's in the middle of the page.
 This option is in the drop-down menu. Doing so will set your hard drive's format preference as FAT32, which is compatible with PS3 architecture.


You may also need to add a name to your hard drive in the field below this one.
 It's at the bottom of the page. Doing so will erase and re-format your hard drive; when the process is done, you can exit the Disk Utility.


Naturally, this will erase your hard drive. If you have any sensitive information on your hard drive, first copy it to your computer.
 The hard drive's now-blank window will appear.
 To do so, either click File in the top-left side of the page and then click New Folder, or tap the trackpad with two fingers and then click New Folder. The folders must be named exactly like so:MUSIC
PHOTO
GAME
VIDEO

, You're now ready to attach your hard drive to the PS3.
 To do so, connect the hard drive's USB cable to the PS3's USB port. The PS3's USB ports are on the front side of the console.
 The easiest way to do this is by pressing the PS button on the controller.


You can also press the power button on the PS3 and the controller individually.
 It's near the far-left side of the PlayStation 3 menu.
 It's near the bottom of the Settings menu.
 This option is near the middle of the System Settings menu.
 It should be the first option on this page.
 This will take you to the hard drive selection page.
 Unless you have multiple USB drives connected, your hard drive should be the only option here. Doing so will back up your PS3's data to the hard drive.


You can't run games off of the hard drive, but you can back up your existing game files to the hard drive and then delete the games from your PS3's internal drive to clear up space.

