 Publishers adopted their guidelines according to what formats would be easiest for them to work with in processing manuscripts. Following the guidelines shows you're willing to work with them.
 Use standard, white, 20-pound bond letter-sized paper (8.5 by 11 inches or 21.5 by 28 cm), the kind you would use for your computer printer, photocopier or typewriter. Your work should stand out, not the paper it's printed on.


Although most publishers still like to see a printed copy of the manuscript, many also like to see an electronic copy of the manuscript as well, so you have a decided advantage if you have written your manuscript on a computer. (You may want to ask what word-processing format the publisher prefers if their guidelines don't already state this.)

, Preferred fonts are Times New Roman and Courier (which resembles typewriter output). Again, it is your work that should stand out, not the font.
 Prepare your manuscript as double-spaced text, with 1 1/2-inch (3.8 cm) margins on each side, and each paragraph indented half an inch (1.25 cm). You should also do the following:


Put your real name and contact information (address, phone number and e-mail address) in the top left-hand corner of the first page.
Put the word count and the rights being offered in the upper-right-hand corner of the first page. Although your word processor counts word-for-word, it isn't necessary to use so precise a count, as the editor counts words by the space they occupy in the finished product. You can get this by estimating a count of 250 words per double-spaced page.
Put the manuscript's title four spaces (two double-spaces) below your contact information, centered, with the title in all capital letters. Double-space, type "by," then double-space again and type either your name or the pseudonym you write under.
Begin the manuscript text four lines (two double-spaces) beneath the title.
Include your name, followed by a dash and the page number, on each subsequent page.
 Print on one side of the page, in black ink, using either a laser or inkjet printer.

