 Tremors are the telltale sign of little white shaker syndrome. They can start suddenly, get worse for 1 to 3 days, then remain about the same until treatment begins. Tremors that get worse with certain activities (e.g., excitement, eating) are called intention tremors.Tremors are usually generalized, meaning the whole body shakes.The tremors may be mild or so severe that your Maltese cannot walk. They may lessen when he sleeps.;
, In addition to body tremors, your Maltese’s eyes may be affected by little white shaker syndrome. His eyes may move rapidly from side to side (‘nystagmus’).Your Maltese would not be able to control this movement.
 Little white shaker syndrome can affect your Maltese’s ability to walk normally. For example, he may have exaggerated leg movements when he walks; this is called hypermetria.In general, he may be uncoordinated when he walks, which is called ataxia.Little white shaker syndrome affects the cerebellum, the part of the brain that controls balance and posture., Little white shaker syndrome can be difficult to diagnose. It is usually a diagnosis of exclusion, meaning that other common causes are ruled out first. To diagnose your Maltese’s tremors, your vet will analyze blood and urine samples. They will also take a sample of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) from the lower part of your Maltese’s spine.Your vet would need to sedate your Maltese to take the CSF sample.
Give your vet a thorough history of your Maltese, including his health before the tremors started and what you have noticed since the tremors started.
Results of the diagnostic testing may be normal.
 If your Maltese is really ill, or his tremors are severe, your vet may want to hospitalize him until he is stable and strong enough for at-home care. For example, if your Maltese’s tremors are caused by an infectious disease that has made him very sick, he may need intensive veterinary treatment for that disease before going home.Be aware that in-hospital treatment may get expensive.
 Little white shaker syndrome is usually treated with corticosteroids (also called steroids), which reduce inflammation. Initially, your vet will prescribe a high steroid dose.As the tremors improve, your vet will lessen the dosage, then stop the medication completely when the tremors have stopped.The initial steroid dose is immunosuppressive, meaning that immune system function is reduced.Drugs called benzodiazepines, which reduce anxiety, are also used to treat little white shaker syndrome.Valium is a benzodiazepine used to treat this condition.Your vet will let you know how long your Maltese will need to be treated.
 Most dogs treated for little white shaker syndrome recover completely within the first week or two of treatment. Even if your Maltese’s tremors have stopped, give him the full treatment course. If you stop treatment too early, the tremors could come back. If the tremors return, your vet will prescribe the original steroid dosage again.Some dogs do not fully recover with treatment. These dogs may need lifelong steroid treatment., For the first month after initial treatment, your vet will want to see your Maltese each week to assess his improvement. After that, they will likely recommend monthly appointments.During these appointments, your vet will reduce the steroid dose, provided that your Maltese is improving.

