 Sit down, take out a pen and paper, and create a t-chart with “pros” on one side and “cons” on the other. Add specific examples to both sides, such as “I like the idea that shorter hair will make me look younger.” Or, “I’m afraid I’ll look bald if it is cut too short.”


Just the process of writing down your concerns will help you to feel more in control of this process. After all, it is your body and your choice in the end.For example, getting regular trims (every six to eight weeks) prevents split ends and breakage that travels up the hair shaft. So, scheduling regular hair appointments (even to just trim a small amount) will see health benefits in the long term., Ask yourself, “What are my professional obligations regarding appearance?” “How much time do I have to devote to hair care?” “Do I need a cut that can withstand certain athletic activities?” For example, if you are used to wearing a ponytail you may want a cut that will keep hair strands away from your face., Ask them about their routine and what they perceive as the benefits, as opposed to longer hair. Get them to detail their salon experience and how, and why, they made the decision to go short. You could say, “What is the best thing about having short hair?”, Purchase a short wig made out of a high quality material (such as human hair) and wear it for a trial period. Don’t just stay indoors-go out on a date or meet friends for drinks wearing your new acquisition. Ask them what they think and pay attention to how you feel with short hair.The sensation of wearing a wig will be foreign to you (the ways it acts in wet weather, the feel of the strands, etc.), so try to concentrate primarily on the length and feel of the cut itself. Ask yourself, “Do I prefer this length or a bit longer? Do I think these layers are flattering?”

, Remember that time that you gave yourself a bob or that really poor-choice perm? Visualize and recount these experiences in as much detail as you can. You made it through these moments, so any decision you make now has to be better, right?

, Remind yourself that this is really only a short-term change. If you dislike the final product, your hair will grow back to its former length and will, quite possibly, be healthier as a result. If it helps, repeat the mantra to yourself, “Change is good.”

