 If you're lucky enough to own an instrument and talented enough, busking is the art of musical street performance. A good busker in a busy spot can make a nice little pile of cash in an hour or two of playing. The following are some helpful tips for busking:Get permission. Some cities and communities have ordinances that require a permit or fee for street performance.
Choose a good location. Avoid areas where there are other street performers but still have high traffic. Choose busy downtown areas in safe locations as a starter.
Choose your repertoire carefully. A good time of year to busk is during the holiday season. Jazz and popular music are also successful themes.
Be polite to your audience. Be warm and friendly with everyone who crosses your path. Smile and nod whenever you make eye contact with anyone.
 Iron, steel, and especially copper can be sold to scrapyards by the pound. To make a significant amount of profit, you'll need to bring in quite a few pounds, so be sure you have a vehicle with space for the metal.


Look around abandoned lots and derelict buildings for pipes and metal fixtures. Junk bins outside tech and office firms may have bunches of wire or other components that can be sold as scrap.
Be very careful if you collect scrap. Wear heavy gloves, bring a partner, and don't hunt for scrap at night.
Don't steal or strip metal from anything that's still in use.
Search neighborhoods in the morning before garbage collection. You can often find items that can be used for scrap or fixed up and sold.
 There are guidebooks available in most areas that show where valuable rocks can be found. Fossils, geodes, and semi-precious gemstones are all widely available in some areas. Keep in mind though that this may take time to find a collection and might not be a fast solution to your money problem.


Learn different gemstone grades. If you're hounding for semi-precious gems, remember that coloration and size can sometimes make them quite valuable.Bring a shovel or spade, gloves, a hat, and a pail or bucket. Very often, to find the better-quality rocks and fossils, you'll have to dig down into the ground a little bit. Be sure this is legal where you are; most places marked in a guidebook should allow it.
Be careful to stay off of private property, including mining claims.
Sell your haul to a specialty store. You won't get a whole lot, most of the time, but it's next to impossible to sell raw stones online., It's possible to collect bottles from other people's recycling and sell them for money.


You'll have to collect quite a few of them before you can make a profit, so be prepared to put some effort into this method.
You'll also have to find a national recycling buyer that purchases plastic bottles in bulk. A simple Google search should help you find companies that you can work with.
 Believe it or not, there is a market for your hair. If you have "virgin" (non-dyed or treated) lengthy hair, you can earn quite a bit of money for it.Your hair is an outgrowth of what goes into you, so if you eat healthy and don't smoke, you can sell your hair for a premium.
An online tool exists to tell you how much your hair is worth.