 If you think that someone you know is abusing prescription drugs, you should ask them. Let them know you're concerned, and offer to help them.Don't get angry or blame the person for his drug use. Remember, addiction is a disease, not a conscious choice. If the person is suffering from addiction, he needs treatment.
It takes a lot of courage to admit when you have a problem. Acknowledge that this is difficult.
Don't preach to the person or talk to them when you're feeling hurt about the problems their drug use may be causing. Try to remember to be calm, concerned, and helpful.
 There are a number of different treatment options. It might take some time to find the right treatment for a drug problem, but if the person is willing to be persistent, they can return to a drug-free life.Being an addict is the same as managing any chronic health condition. Expect the steps that the person is taking to continue throughout their lifetime.
Remind the person that treatment is private, and no one needs to know about it. Anything discussed with a medical provider, including treatment for prescription drug addiction, is bound by the HIPAA privacy act in the United States.
 In addition to the familiar 12-step groups, there are a variety of intensive behavioral treatments available. Treatment for dependence of prescription drugs can be delivered in a wide range of settings. Encourage the person to access the treatment that they feel most comfortable with.Outpatient treatment includes individual and group counseling options. Cognitive-behavioral therapy (CBT), and multidimensional family therapy are two approaches. There are also approaches that focus on incentives and rewards, such as motivational interviewing and motivational incentives.
Intensive outpatient programs (IOPs) may be suggested. These programs meet at least three days per week for two to four hours per day, and can be scheduled around other personal responsibilities.Residential treatment may be recommended, especially for more severe addiction. Some residential treatment is more intensive, and involves living in a treatment facility while undergoing behavioral treatment during the day. Most stays are 28-60 days, sometimes longer.
Other residential treatment options include therapeutic communities, which extend over a 6-12 month stay.
Each person's recovery is unique. There is no one method of behavioral treatment that is right for everyone.
 Pharmacological treatment will vary depending on the type of drugs the person has been abusing. To access these treatment options will require a visit to a medical provider or doctor. These options are best paired with behavioral treatment.For opioid addiction, the person may be prescribed naltrexone, methadone, or buprenorphine. These drugs may help diminish the body's craving for opioids.
For addiction to other prescription medications, such as stimulants (such as Adderall or Concerta) or depressants (such as barbiturates or benzodiazepine), there is currently no FDA-approved pharmacological treatment. Withdrawal from these substances can be medically challenging, and professional medical support is encouraged to minimize physical damage.

