 While your dislike of a gift might be an immediate reaction on receiving a gift, sometimes it's a good idea to give yourself a little time to see if can grow on you or not. If not, then it's possibly a candidate for re-gifting. Common reasons for not wanting a gift include not liking it, not fitting into clothing items, not being able to use an item (for example, earrings when your ears are not pierced), receiving a nice enough item but in a color that doesn't suit you or your decor, something that you consider doesn't meet with your values (for example, a leather belt when you're a vegan), and so forth.;
, Re-gifting should not be used in all cases and some of the times when re-gifting is not appropriate include when the giver will call often and notice the lack of the gift, when the gift is not something you'd give to someone else in your circle of friends and acquaintances, or when the gift has clearly had a lot of time invested in it and it really is the "thought that counts". Keep in mind the feelings of the original gift-giver;this doesn't mean you have to wear or use the item, just have it on hand to show occasionally until enough time passes safely for you to send it to charity or the back of the closet. And be super careful when re-gifting tech or similar items that date or go out of stock after a season; the gift recipient might try to return it to the store or need to get it fixed, only to discover it has long been superseded. Items may be suitable for re-gifting when:


The giver won't be aware that you've passed on the gift. For example:

They live far away
They simply don't keep a tally of what they've given you or anyone
Your house is a big cavernous place that swallows up "stuff"
It's something that gets used up: for example, chocolates, candles, or soaps.


The gift is in good condition, doesn't have a use-by date (give those unwanted chocolates to someone else in the family!), and in many cases, still has its original packaging.
Is something you're proud to give to someone else. Re-gifting is still giving with care.
 Management of gifts used for re-gifting is important, in order to avoid giving it back to the recipient or people close to the recipient, and to avoid duplication. The following suggestions are intended to help your re-gift storage management:


Write down the name of the person who gave you the gift on a slip of paper. This is so you don't forget who gave it to you.
Keep the wrapping - you can reuse that too but use it on different gifts just to be on the safe side.
Also include names of anyone who may have seen the present and how you know them if you're especially forgetful.
Go over the gift with great care to remove any gift card evidence. If you accidentally leave a gift card attached to the gift, it'll be fairly embarrassing for both giver and recipient.
Make a list of the gifts you are storing on your computer. That way, you can quickly bring it up and check it when you're looking for a gift for someone.
Store all unwanted presents in a box or cupboard out of sight and where they will be safe from moisture, prying hands, and any other possible harm.
 Reasons for using a re-gifted gift might include when you're out of ideas for a present, low on cash or don't have time to buy a present. However, the main (and very good) reason is when you know that the recipient will really appreciate the specific gift and that it is something that you would normally purchase for this person. If it's something so left-field and not inclined to this person's tastes, they may well get suspicious that you're just passing along the stuff you didn't want.
 For example, wrap a piece of ribbon around it to make it look different, or add decorative elements that you'd normally attach to a gift. And be sure to wrap the gift beautifully, as well-wrapped gifts make a huge difference to how well it is received.
 Hand make a card if possible, or get an expensive looking one, to make up for the uninteresting present.


Write a highly personal and sentimental card, so the person remembers the card and not the present.
 Act perfectly normal; the item still has value and has been cared for in the interim, so provided you're not handing on dodgy things to people you're not terribly fond of, you've got nothing to worry about. If you're re-gifting an item because you don't like the recipient, it can be kinder on both of you (and more honest) to just not give one another gifts at all.


Be ready to step in and offer to return the gift if you get the impression that they don't like it. This will avoid a lot of difficult questions about receipts, the store in question, etc. To avoid probing, try to know in advance whether the recipient is the type to want to return it to the store themselves.

