 Now who wants to be friends with some troublemaker, no one! You have to portray an influential role. Smart, classy, and neat. Your personality can be in any direction, just fit the role of good.;
, Don't be a queen bee. Care for people. Talk to everyone in your class. Open your genre of people. Interesting enough, someone you never thought as being your type of go-to friend, could be it!

, Race, religion, gender, and image doesn't matter! As long as they present themselves well. If they are classy, have wonderful hygiene that's all that matter! Also they need brains

, Don't limit yourself, sit everywhere. Connect yourself. If you have a friend, they have other friends to. Hint, hint meet them. Also sit at all lunch tables. You know someone from Science chat with them. Simple conversation, like "I like your shoes they are cute." or "Man, that test was so easy. We aced it.". Nothing like, "Who do you like? Tell me girl, spill it".
 Wear your style. Shop at stores on your budget. Don't spend hundreds of bucks on a few things. Hollister, Target, Marshalls, TJ MAXX, Wet Seal, Charlotte Russe and Forever 21 is key to shop at. If you have an extended budget spend, spend, spend!

, If you have a group of Bff's set up a date, (a gathering.) Go shopping, go to movies, do something artsy!

, From Glee club, Drama, Sports, Literature and more. Whatever clubs your school offers. When people enjoy the same interest as you, you can have a lot in common.
 That shy girl in the corner, talk to her. That boy net to you, talk! Just compliments and niceness gets you far. One day you'll need a shoulder to lean on. Don't be arrogant, superficial and mean. What if you need a friend?

, Good hygiene, no smelling! No coarse words, people are indignant. You don't want to sound like a malevolent meanie! Profanity isn't accepted, it's plain trashy.
 No trampy, junky, trashy mess! People will stare and talk. Represent your parents. Look modest and chic. You will feel good inside. Don't look disgusting, HUGE TURNOFF, getting friends

, Stay the same. Don't flip the script. Be determined for education. You need to be addicted to your textbooks. Education is in front of friends. Who likes bad grades? Don't be a fake you. Be nice and fabulous. Be sweet and smile, don't let stupid people get in your way. Crush them with intelligence and talent.

