 Most back and neck pain occurs when you lift too much weight, perform repetitive movements too often, move awkwardly or experience a trauma (such as a slip and fall, car accident or sports injury).However, sometimes spinal pain develops by spending too much time on the computer or sleeping in an awkward position — it can often be difficult to understand or predict the cause because the human spine is very complex with lots of moving parts.


As soon as you feel the neck or back pain, stop doing the activity that seemingly caused it and rest. Usually two to three days is enough time for most cases of mild-to-moderate spinal back to heal or feel a lot better.
If it has been over a week and your neck or back strain hasn't healed, then it's an indication of a more serious injury that likely needs professional help.
Although resting is generally beneficial for most musculoskeletal injuries, complete inactivity (such as total bed rest) can make your problem worse.
Some movement, such as taking a slow walk or doing light household chores, increases circulation and helps muscles and joints heal faster. Getting up and slowly moving around every hour, even for a few minutes, will help you heal faster.;
, Whatever is causing your neck/back pain, chances are that the muscles are guarding, which means they're tight and restricting movement. Thus, as long as you don't feel sharp, electric or stabbing pain with movement (which may indicate a disc herniation or broken bone), then lightly stretching the tender area is likely of benefit. Sore and tight muscles respond well to stretching because it reduces tension and improves flexibility or range of motion.Doing some stretching and specific movements during or after a warm shower is helpful because the muscles will be warmed up.
Good movements to start with for your neck area include shoulder rolls and circular movements with your head. If you feel pain when you are moving, stop the movement, or only go as far as you can where you feel no pain. Progress to neck rotations (looking side to side) and flexion/extensions (looking up and down).
Spend a few minutes on each set of movements three times per day.
Once your neck is warmed up, start stretching by laterally bending your neck — as if you're trying to bring your ear closer to your shoulder. Do both sides.
Then flex your neck forward (chin to chest) and slightly rotate it to the side until you're staring down at your foot. Hold for 30 seconds, then switch and do the other side.
For your back, lay on a padded surface and bring your knees to your chest. Hug your shins until you feel a stretch in your low back and hold it for 30 seconds. Try this three to five times daily.
While laying on your back, keep your knees together and rotate them to the side, so your thigh is flat against the floor. After about 30 seconds, rotate your legs to the other side.
 Although everyone reacts a little differently, some sleeping positions are much more likely to cause pain than others. For example, stomach sleeping is a common cause of neck and back pain — the neck tends to get twisted to one side and the low back can get hyper-extended and irritated. The best sleeping position for your entire spine is either on your back or sides (similar to the classic fetal position)Stomach sleeping is a difficult habit to break for most, but the benefits to your spine are worth the effort to switch positions.
When sleeping on your back, don't prop your head up with more than one pillow as it can lead to neck tension and pain.
While on your back, place a small pillow underneath your knees to take the pressure off your low back.
While sleeping on your side, use a pillow that is no thicker than the distance from the tip of your shoulder to your ear. Really thick pillows cause too much lateral flexion in the neck.
Buy a special orthopedic pillow — they are designed to support the normal curves of your neck and prevent any tension while you sleep.
 If your sore neck / back developed recently and feels inflamed and stiff, then place a bag of crushed ice (or something cold) on the most tender part in order to reduce inflammation and numb the pain.Cold therapy is most effective for acute (recent) injuries that involve swelling because it reduces blood flow by constricting local blood vessels. Apply the crushed ice for about 15 minutes three to five times daily until the soreness in your neck / back subsides or fades away.


Compress crushed ice against the sorest part of your neck / back with a stretchy Tensor or Ace bandage as it's even more helpful for limiting inflammation and swelling.
Always wrap ice in a thin cloth before you apply it to your neck or back — it helps to prevent skin irritation and frostbite.
If you don't have any crushed ice, then use ice cubes, frozen gel packs or a bag of frozen vegetables instead — peas or corn are convenient.
 If your tender neck / back has been bothering you for many weeks, then it's considered a chronic injury. Avoid cold therapy for chronic injuries and use some source of moist heat instead. Moist heat warms up muscles and other tissues by relaxing local blood vessels and increasing blood flow (which contains oxygen and nutrients). It can be helpful for soreness caused by old sports injuries or arthritis.A good source of moist heat is small microwavable bags filled with grains (bulgur wheat or rice), herbs and/or essential oils.


Heat the herbal bag in your microwave for about 2 minutes and then apply it to your painful neck / back muscles for about 15 minutes first thing in the morning or before exercise.
Add lavender or other soothing essential oils to your herbal bag as it helps reduce discomfort by relaxing you. Some herbal bags come scented with essential oils.
Taking a warm bath is another good source of moist heat. Add a cup or two of Epsom salt to your bath water for even better results — its high magnesium content relaxes and soothes tight muscles and tendons.Avoid applying dry (electrical) heat from regular heating pads to neck and back injuries because it can dehydrate your muscles and increase the risk of injury.
 If you are trying to avoid using medications for your neck or back pain, then consider herbal remedies to help ease your discomfort while your body heals. Creams, lotions and/or ointments containing menthol, peppermint, camphor, arnica, capsaicin or lavender can be helpful for relieving musculoskeletal pain, although results can vary depending on the strength of the product and how it's made. Rub some into your neck or back three to five times daily and see if the pain or inflammation is reduced.


Some herbal products are best taken by mouth instead. For example, capsules of devil's claw can be effective for reducing pain and inflammation in the neck caused by minor injuries and osteoarthritis.Capsules of turmeric root also help with pain and inflammation — they perform as well as ibuprofen and diclofenac pills in studies, but without the side effects.As a general guideline, achy pain is usually indicative of a muscle pull (strain) or tightness, whereas sharp pain with movement is often caused by joint / ligament injuries (sprains).
 Virtually all spinal pain involves the muscles to some extent, so addressing the tight or spasming muscles is a good strategy for naturally relieving neck or back pain if your budget can afford it. A deep tissue massage is helpful for mild-to-moderate strains because it reduces muscle spasm and inflammation while promoting relaxation.Start with a 30 minute massage, focusing on where you feel the majority of your neck or back pain. Allow the massage therapist to go as deep as you can tolerate it without wincing.


Neck massages should also include some attention to your upper shoulders and base of your skull.
Low back massages should include work on your hips and upper buttocks.
A single massage may really help with your neck or back pain, but sometimes a few sessions are required, depending on the cause of your problem.
Thirty-minute massages can be effective for acute pain, but longer massages (one hour) are often needed to break the "cycle of chronicity."
Always drink lots of purified water after a deep tissue massage in order to flush out inflammatory by-products and lactic acid from your body. Not doing so might trigger a headache or stiffness the next day.
 Chiropractors and osteopaths are spinal specialists who focus on establishing normal movement and function within the joints that connect the vertebrae of your spine.They can examine your spine and try to determine the cause of your pain — whether it's more muscle related or more joint related. Manual joint manipulation, also called a spinal adjustment, is used to naturally reposition joints in your neck / back that are a little jammed or misaligned, which triggers inflammation and sharp pain with movement.


Chiropractors and osteopaths usually take spinal x-rays to better understand your condition and to make sure an adjustment is appropriate and safe.
Although a single adjustment can sometimes relieve neck / back pain, more than likely it will take three to five treatments to notice significant results.
Chiropractors and osteopaths use a variety of other therapies for neck / back pain including massage, inversions / distraction tables, ultrasound treatments and electrical modalities (such as TENS machines) that help with musculoskeletal pain.
Your health insurance may not cover chiropractic care, so check your policy beforehand.
 Acupuncture involves inserting thin needles into specific points within your skin in efforts to reduce pain and inflammation.Acupuncture for neck and back pain can be very effective, especially if it's done when your symptoms first occur. Based on the ancient principles of traditional Chinese medicine, acupuncture works by triggering your body to release helpful substances, including endorphins and serotonin, which reduce pain and inflammation. Acupuncture has a very good safety record and is relatively affordable, so it's worth trying for your spinal pain if other natural treatments don't work.


There is mixed evidence to support if acupuncture is helpful in relieving chronic neck and back pain, but there's numerous anecdotal reports that suggest it's a good potential option.The acupuncture points used to reduce your neck or back pain may not be located near where you feel the pain — some points can be in distant parts of your body, such as your hand.
Acupuncture is now practiced by numerous healthcare professionals including some physicians, chiropractors, physiotherapists and massage therapists — whoever you choose should be certified by the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine., Muscle knots, or trigger points, can sometimes be responsible for up to 30% of all pain.These are tender areas in the neck and pain that can produce local pain, or pain that extends to other areas (a headache, for instance, may be caused by a knot in the shoulder or neck). Applying pressure to these muscle knots for several seconds is an effective way to treat them.Chiropractors, physical therapists, massage therapists and even medical doctors may be trained in trigger point therapy.
Treatment can be done at home with a tennis ball. Place the ball under your back or neck and roll around until you find a tender spot. Hold that position for several seconds or until the pain reduces. Then move on to another spot.
 Stress-relieving practices such as meditation, deep breathing exercises, biofeedback, positive visualization and tai chi have been found to help alleviate a wide variety of musculoskeletal pain and even help prevent injuries in many people. Yoga is also great for relaxation and involves practicing specific postures or poses along with doing helpful breathing exercises.Yoga positions tend to stretch and strengthen muscles and improve posture, although you might need to modify some of the poses if they seem to aggravate your neck or back pain.
Ask at your health clinic, community center, church or gym about signing up for yoga of other helpful classes.
Alternative health care practitioners such as massage therapists, chiropractors and acupuncturists tend to be good sources of information about "mind-body" therapies such as those mentioned above.

