 This includes your hands and the fruit you will be extracting oil from. Cold pressing doesn’t involve chemicals for extraction, so it’s important to thoroughly wash the fruit to remove bacteria.


It takes about 25 pieces of citrus fruit to produce a useful amount of oil this way. Plan ahead!;
, Remove the rind of the fruit with a peeler or knife and place it to the side. You may also remove the rind of the fruit with your fingers if you desire, but this can cause a greater amount of pulp and other fruit material to end up in the oils, which will need to be removed later.


The greatest concentration of oils in most fruit is contained in the outer layer of the rind. The lighter portion of the rind contains much less oil.You can use an electric peeler to obtain the skin of the fruit, but note that this may produce more pulp than a hand peeled method.
 Once the fruit is peeled, you can use the leftover fruit for cooking or eating. There are a variety of uses for the leftover fruit peel, even after pressing. Rather than composting the peel, try:


Keeping the peels in a small bag and hanging it somewhere to keep the room smelling zesty.
The oil in orange peel, limonene, acts as a repellant for several types of insects.
Toss a few peels into the garbage disposal and give them a good grinding to freshen up the smell of your sink., Use a pressing device, such as a sieve, to squeeze the fruit peel over a jar. Heavy pressure will squeeze liquid from the peel - this liquid contains the oils you're looking for. Use a fair amount of strength when pressing, but take care not to damage or break the implement you are using. You should see a small amount of oil drain from the peel after a few seconds.


Cold pressing peel is quite a bit of effort for what looks to be a fairly small amount of oil. Don’t get discouraged. The oil is quite potent.A garlic press is a great way of pressing small amounts of fruit peel with ease. A mortar and pestle may also be used, though this method is a little more labor intensive and difficult.
 Allow the liquid squeezed from the peel to stand for a few days. The oil will separate from the rest of the liquid, which can then be collected. A centrifuge can also be used to separate the oil from the rest of the liquid!


A simple way of collecting the oil from the liquid is placing the liquid in the freezer. The oil will remain in its liquid form while the remainder freezes, allowing you to pour out the oil.Oil extracted this way has a small shelf life. Try to use any oil created within a 6 month period., Bottle the oil that you extract from the liquid for later use. Dab a little on your skin for a fresh smell, or use some in cooking recipes that require essential oil. Remember that the oil is very concentrate – a little will go a long way.

