 Eating a healthy diet rich in vitamins and minerals will help your body to heal itself faster and prevent bruising in the first place. In particular, vitamins C and K are important for preventing bruises.Vitamin C lessens bruising by strengthening capillary walls, making them less likely to leak blood when bumped or knocked against. Severe deficiency of vitamin C (scurvy) can result in bruising. It often occurs in the chronically institutionalized, severely malnourished, and alcoholics. Good sources of vitamin C include citrus fruits, strawberries, pepper, and multivitamin tablets.Vitamin K promotes blood clotting, which helps bruises to heal faster. People with low levels of vitamin K have a higher rate of bruising. People with a vitamin K deficiency may have a bacterial overgrowth of the intestines, celiac disease, chronic pancreatitis, inflammatory bowel disease, or abuse alcohol. Good sources of vitamin K include broccoli, spinach, cabbage, and Brussels sprouts., Children often fall, have bicycle wrecks, hit each other, run into objects, and have accidents that cause a bump to the skin. With children, the best way to reduce bruising is to prevent them from playing too roughly.


Always check your child's protective gear. Make sure it fits and is comfortable so it can protect them from bruises in sports or during outdoor activities.
Put foam pads on sharp edges of counters and coffee tables. You can remove the tables when your child is playing, if possible.
Make sure your child wears shoes to protect their feet. High cut sneakers provide ankle support to prevent bruises on their feet.
 Sun damage to the skin can cause bruising to occur more easily. This is especially true for older people, whose skin is naturally thinner and therefore more prone to damage and bruising. This makes it important to always wear sunscreen, especially on the face, and to wear hats and long-sleeved t-shirts to minimize sun exposure.


Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants whenever possible, which provides an extra layer of protection and padding for the skin when you receive a bump or a knock or protection from the sun.