 It’s important that your kids understand the value of bonding with their grandparents and having regular intergenerational interactions. Explain to your kids why it’s important to you and their grandparents. Make sure you talk about tangible benefits appropriate to their age and developmental stage.


Try saying, “Bobby, I am excited you want to spend time with Grandpa. I used to go horseback riding with my Grandpa as a child and those were some of the best moments of my life.”;
, Let your kids play a role in deciding how and when they will bond with their grandparents. Ask them to come up with a list of thing they love to do that they think Grandma would enjoy as well. You can also try asking your kids to write down things Grandpa might be able to teach them.
 Having a weekly meal where your children and their grandparents can get together and talk about the week’s highlights is a great way to encourage bonding between your children and their grandparents. If the grandparents are open to it, invite them to take turns hosting the weekly event. You can even encourage your children to help their grandparents prepare a dish for the occasion.


If the idea of a weekly dinner seems overwhelming, try a monthly gathering where everyone brings a dish or two to share. This will relieve pressure on both guests and hosts.
 Chances are your children are involved in a host of afterschool and weekend activities. Whether it’s a football game, dance recital, or the school play, encourage your children to invite their grandparents to share in these important moments with them. You should also extend the invitation yourself to ensure the grandparents feel welcome at these events.


If your kids are involved in sports, try giving their grandparents a copy of their game and practice schedule. This will allow the grandparents to plan ahead and participate more fully in such events.
 Many grandparents have busy schedules of their own. This often includes working full-time. It can be difficult for them to manage their own schedule as well as those of your children. This is why it’s important to keep inviting them to events and opportunities to get involved in your children’s lives. Just because Grandma couldn’t make it to the ballet recital last month doesn’t mean she won’t be excited to attend this week’s baton-twirling extravaganza., You will need to be clear about rules the children are expected to follow, and may need to ask the grandparents to childproof their home for younger children. Approach the topic in a friendly way by first thanking them for spending time with your kids. Let them know what your rules and expectations are, and listen to their responses while holding back your judgment.Try saying, “Dad, I’m really excited that you will be watching the kids after school this fall. We have some rules the boys need to follow. Do you think we can work together to make sure they follow them at your house, too?
Make suggestions for childproofing. Try saying, “Mom, would it be possible for you to put childproof locks on your kitchen cabinets? I’m more than happy to buy and install them for you.”

, If the grandparents do not have a close relationship with your children, knowing how to interact with the children may be awkward for them. Giving the grandparents some encouragement may help.


Try saying something like, "Dad, thanks for putting that puzzle together with Jake. I know he really enjoys spending time with you." Or, "Mom, I know it's hard to connect with Jenna at her age, but you're doing a great job."

