 Hygiene is a no-brainer if you want to look your best and interest a girl. Even if you're otherwise great looking, not keeping up with the basics ill make you look like a snob. Remember to brush or comb your hair, trim your hair and nails, wash your hair with shampoo and keep your skin reasonably moisturized.It's not necessary to go overboard with any of this, but you want to get the impression across that you care about the way you look.
 Sufficient sleep has its effect on just about every part of life. If you're not sleeping enough, it's going to hurt the way you look and feel, not to mention your social graces.Most adults require between 7 and 9 hours, but you may need more or less depending on how strenuous your daily living is.


It's also a good idea to try to sleep at the same time each night. Try to be awake for as much daylight as possible. This will make a considerable impact on your mood.
 This includes having strong posture and good physical presence. Make eye contact with whomever you're talking to. Jut out your shoulders while you're walking, and keep your back straight whenever you're walking, standing or sitting. All of these will draw more eyes (and interest!) toward you.
 Exercise has a major effect on someone's appearance.If you have any issues with weight, making exercise a priority can help a lot. Whether you're aiming for cardio or weight training, any sort of exercise has the potential to vastly improve the way your body looks. What's more, exercising regularly will make you feel more confident and happier. When it comes to getting a girl interested, this has a huge effect.
 Even if you're not saying anything to someone yet, you can show her how interested you are by making eye contact and smiling at her. The only thing to keep in mind is to make sure that it's natural. A contrived smile looks weird and creepy, and you're likely to scare people away with it.
 Dressing well doesn't necessarily mean following fashion trends and whatever else. Instead, you should be focusing on the things that make you look great personally. Take some time to carve out a bold style for yourself. You can still be casual and make the most of the body you have. Look online at particular outfits and try to see which styles appeal most to you and your unique personality.


It's also a good idea to dress to match the occasion. You'll stand out in a bad way if you're the odd one out in a crowd.
While a lot of men overlook the importance of shoes, women don't. Don't forget footwear when it comes to redoing your personal style.