 Hormonal shifts, such as puberty, pregnancy or menopause can cause a temporary increase in body hair. There hormonal shifts are completely normal and after they finish, the hair growth is likely to diminish. Hair growth can also be caused by medical conditions that you may be able to resolve through treatment. Conditions like polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), adrenal gland tumors and Cushing’s disease could each cause your body to produce too many male hormones., There are a number of medications that may cause unusual hair growth as a side effect. Depending on the medication and the condition you are using it to treat, you may be able to prevent further hair growth simply by changing to an alternative medication. Look your prescriptions up online to check for side effects or contact your doctor to discuss it. Some medications that may cause hair growth are:Some anti-seizure medications
Steroids like cortisone
IFG-1 (a specific form on insulin)
Some birth control pills

, Studies have shown that you can reduce the amount of androgen in your body while increasing the level of female hormones your body produces. Through consistent drinking of spearmint tea, you can produce a noticeable drop off in body and facial hair growth.Make tea using 1 heaping teaspoon or 1.5 teaspoons of chopped spearmint leaves.
Brew the spearmint leaves with one cup of boiling water for ten minutes.
Drink two cups of spearmint tea a day for a minimum of five days to begin to see results.
 Dropping unhealthy weight has been shown to significantly reduce hair growth in some women. Having excess body fat can affect the way your body produces hormones, which can lead to excess body hair growth. Losing weight can help your body to better regulate your hormone levels, thus limiting your body’s production of body hair.Women with a body mass index (BMI) higher than 25 have significantly higher levels of testosterone than women with a lower BMI.Make sure to pursue healthy methods of losing weight.

Losing weight and limiting hair growth are just a few of the benefits of eating healthy.
 Diets that are high in red meat can increase androgen levels in your body, resulting in more hair growth.Cutting down the amount of red meat that you eat can affect how much hair your body grows. Soy products have been known to actually increase the levels or estrogen in your body, which can combat the effects of the naturally occurring androgens in your system.Reduce the amount of red meat in your diet to help control hormone production.
Increasing the soy in your diet can help increase estrogen production to combat hair growth caused by hormones.Research has not definitively linked the ingestion of soy products with feminizing effects on men including gynecomastia (enlarged breasts) or reduction in fertility.