 For this trick, you need to do a little bit of preparation. Grab a nickel and palm it. Then grab a dollar from your wallet, or ask someone for a dollar bill.


The nickel will be used to balance the folded dollar on your thumb. Your audience shouldn’t know that you have the nickel. This is a simple trick to do pretty much anywhere.
A nickel works well because it’s small and heavy enough to provide a counterbalance.
 Pinch and hold the bill between your thumbs and first two fingers. When you grab the bill, place the nickel on the back of it, holding it in place between your thumb and forefinger. Fold the bill in half, hamburger style, away from you. Then unfold the bill from the back to show the other side of the bill.









What you are doing here is showing that this is an ordinary bill. While you are unfolding it, you are flipping the bill while keeping the nickel in place with your thumb.
This is a simple flourish move. While doing this, talk to your audience explaining that there is nothing magical or special about this bill.
 Fold the bill in half the long way, hot dog style. With the nickel still placed on the backside of the bill, fold the bill up. Keep the nickel in place with your thumb and middle finger while you fold the half of the bill down and toward you with your index fingers. Then fold your bill in half again. You will now have a bill that’s folded into fourths.









Keep the nickel pinched between your thumb and middle finger, sliding it down to the lower half of your bill. This will allow you to fold the upper half over it.
Once you’ve folded the bill in half, position it so the crease is on the bottom and the two open ends are at the top. Let the nickel slide down into the crease.
Then, using the same folding method, fold the top of the bill down toward you again. Pinch and crease the folds with your free hand. This will help to trap the nickel in place.
 With the nickel at one end of the bill, pinch the ends of the bill between your thumbs and forefingers. Slowly release your grip on the bill with the hand that is not holding the nickel. While you do this, release your forefinger that is pinching the nickel. The nickel will balance on your thumb, making it look like you are slightly levitating the bill.









You can turn your hands slightly and position your other fingers to block the view of your thumb which is balancing the bill for more of an effect.
If you have a good sense of balance, you can also move your hand up and down slightly to give some motion to the trick.
Keep talking to help distract your audience. Explain how you are using your magical energy to float or levitate the dollar.
 After you’ve levitated the bill for a few seconds, let the audience inspect it. Pinch the bill on the side with the nickel and tilt the bill up vertically. Let the nickel fall out and into your palm. Keep the nickel hidden and hand the bill off.









You may have to loosen the folds on the bill slightly to get the nickel to drop.
When you hand the bill over, quickly slide the nickel into your pocket while the audience is distracted.

