 If you are from a country in which cars have a left-hand drive, this can be confusing for you, initially.;
, India is no exception.
 In most Indian cities, though there are lanes, people don't use them and may cut in front of you without warning. Animals or children may come in your way. Whenever your foot is not on the accelerator, it should be resting on the brake.
 So please read your insurance completely and understand it well. Remember that third party claims are rare in India and in most cases would need a copy of Police FIR. Avoid accidents at all costs.
 Do not tailgate any driver at a speed higher than 30 kilometers (19 mi), if possible avoid it completely. People can turn without signaling or without switching on the indicator.
 There are no separate lanes for slower moving vehicles so be prepared to drive slowly using brakes very often. There are hardly any automatic transmission vehicles in India so be prepared for a manual transmission. If you rent a stickshift but are used to an automatic then ensure that its clutch pedal is light else you will end up building a stronger calf muscle.
 Don't be shy in taking alternative routes in such situations, like driving on the side unpaved road (if it's there) or cutting the traffic like others.
 Therefore, traffic coming in the other direction will have to travel on the same path as you. When a car is coming towards you, move to the LEFT so that you are only taking up half the road. It's ok if the left side of your car isn't on the road anymore. The guy coming towards you will do the same thing on his left side. After you have passed each other, come back onto the road.
 Many smaller vehicles come on the wrong side of the road.
 This means that if you honk they will move over slightly so that you may pass. Honk only once and do it politely, if they do not move simply stay behind them. Although they may move to the side, make sure to check for oncoming traffic before you pass.


When honking, make sure you are not in a quiet zone (generally around hospitals) as this is illegal and very disrupting to hospital patients.
 This will save you from getting a beating from the public. In case of an accident public involvement will surely happen and the guy with a smaller vehicle will get the sympathy. Avoid any such pandemonium and try to settle things quickly.

