 The Uber Help website allows you to file claims to dispute charges you feel are incorrect.
 You'll see this in the upper-right corner. You'll need to sign in with your Uber account to view your trip history and file a dispute for a specific trip.
 You can also use your phone number to sign in instead of your email address.
 You'll see this on the left side of the window.
,, Use this option if you feel you were charged a fee when you shouldn't have been. You'll get a cancellation fee if you wait more than 2-5 minutes after placing your order to cancel it.
, There are several ways you may dispute a fare you paid:


Click "My driver didn't start or end my trip on time" if your driver took too long or didn't end the trip after dropping you off.
Click "My driver took a poor route" if you know that there was a significantly faster or more direct route to your destination. You'll only be eligible for a refund if there are serious distance discrepancies, not if your driver just made a wrong turn.
Click "My driver stopped mid-trip" if your driver stopped for any reason on the way to your destination.
Click "I did not take this trip" if you have a trip on your account you didn't take. make sure someone else that may have access to your account didn't take the trip without telling you.
Click "I missed my flight or event" if you missed something because your trip took too long. Uber won't compensate you for anything you missed, but you may be able to get a fare reimbursement if the trip was much longer than it should have been.
Click "I was charged a cleaning fee" if you were charged for cleaning a mess you did not make. Your driver can charge you different amounts for messes you did make.
Click "I paid a toll for my driver" if your driver asked you for cash for a toll. Tolls should be automatically added to your fare, so if your driver asked for cash you can get it reimbursed.
 Once you've selected a reason, you'll be able to fill out the form to submit your appeal. Different reasons will have slightly different forms. For example, if you selected "I paid a toll for my driver," there will be a field for you to enter how much the toll was.


Make sure you are clear and polite. Angry requests are far more likely to be ignored or rejected.
 After filling out the form, click Submit to send it to Uber. Uber will review the claim and get back to you with a response within a few business days.
 This may take anywhere from 24 hours to a week or more. You'll receive a decision at the email address that you registered to Uber with.

