 Saltwater fish and plant life are accustomed to living in the vast space of the ocean. Therefore, a sizable tank is necessary to accommodate the type of fish that will live in a saltwater aquarium. Tanks can be found in pet stores and specific fish stores. Previously-owned saltwater aquariums are also available on the market for less than brand new tanks.


When choosing the size, consider where the tank will go, and how many fish are expected to live in it. Allow 10 gallons (37.9 L) of water per fish. For example, 10 fish can live in a 100 gallon (378.5 L) tank.





;
, In addition to the tank, the aquarium will require a lid, a stand, a filter, a heater, an interior light, a thermometer and gravel for the bottom of the tank. A hydrometer will also be necessary to measure the salt levels in the water.
 The tank will need to be located near several electrical outlets. Set up the stand and make sure it is balanced and level before placing the tank on top of it.
 Fill the tank with freshwater and make sure all of the equipment works. Leave the water for 2 days and pay attention to any malfunctioning equipment or possible leaks. The water temperature should be within 2 degrees of 80 degrees Fahrenheit (26.7 degrees Celsius). Empty the water out of the tank after 2 successful days.
 Saltwater mix will need to be added to freshwater in a bucket and added to the tank. Follow the directions for quantity on the package of saltwater mix. Mix until it is completely dissolved. Continue adding buckets of water to the tank until it is filled.
 Take a reading with the hydrometer. An ideal salt level will be from 1.020 to 1.023.
 The gravel will line the bottom of the tank and can be mixed with sand or even shells. Push any plants or other decorative pieces into the gravel so they do not float to the top.
 Make sure the aquarium works properly, maintains a proper temperature and has a good salt level before adding fish. You also want to make sure it is properly cycled.
 Put fish into the aquarium slowly. Start with 2 or 3 fish and then add more fish gradually.

