 The immediate concern is the lane nearest you and a little less, the next one. To think of the entirety of your undertaking is like proposing to live a lifetime in a day: you just can't do it.;
, Scout about 100 yards (91.4 m) or more upstream and downstream of where you want to cross. The narrow portions usually result in backed-up traffic which chokes vehicles and motorcycles. They also give you the shortest distance to the road median where there are slightly better odds of safety.
 They are the unpredictable factor of road traffic and are likely to be aggressive and downright deadly. They will gun their engines at the slightest hint of open space so stay alert even when crossing a space that has opened between larger vehicles. Other than Jakarta, motorcycles are also tolerated by the police when they ride on the wrong side of the road, including sidewalks. So, when crossing, look to both sides of the road, regardless on the lane you are on.
 This means that even when you’re squarely on one side of the road going in a particular direction, you have to remain alert for motorcycles when crossing between the lanes of that side, even when the cars have stopped.
 Stay behind them, particularly when caught by the traffic light. Be willing to stay on the meridian if stranded there, but heaven help you––try to never be caught at an unprotected meridian.
 Do not force a crossing when your mind and your gut tell you not to. This may sound like New Age advice, but you’ll know when it’s not right to cross.
 Traffic lights are usually respected during work hours and when the cops are around. Nevertheless, stay wary and don’t bet your life on the light. Expect motorists to be trying to beat the light.
 Avoid blind curves just after stoplights, and do not cross where the road bottoms out from an extended downhill drive.
 At certain times, traffic cops will allow vehicular traffic to go the wrong way, just to ease the volume. You have to know when they have done this as regular traffic will switch lanes at those times, or the traffic cops will have drifted off to other sections of the road, and you could get squished for being unaware the traffic direction had shifted.

