 If you intend to go mountaineering--winter camping under extreme conditions--go straight to the expedition tents.
How many people will be sharing the tent? Tents are rated in terms of "people capacity": 2-person, 3-person and so on. But the tent ratings usually assume a snug fit, so if you need more personal space, size up by "person."
Which is more important: tent capacity, price, or weight? In general, you can find a tent that excels with at least 1 or 2 of these factors, but not all 3 at once.
If reducing size and weight are your highest priorities, consider single-walled tents.
Does the tent need to be freestanding? In other words, are you willing to stake it down every time you set it up (non-freestanding) or must it be able to stand on its own, stake-free (freestanding)? This is usually only a consideration for 1- or 2-person tents; the larger tent designs are almost always freestanding, although you still need to stake freestanding tents down in high winds and other wet weather.;
, There's no point in even considering something you can't afford to buy, although you can sometimes find excellent cut-rate deals from retailers like sierratradingpost.com, rei.com/outlet and campmor.com.


If you need a high-quality tent on a limited budget, check online and print classified listings for used tents.
 Ask yourself the following questions:


Could I set this tent up in the dark, rain, wind and/or snow?
How long does it take me to set the tent up? (5 minutes or less is ideal, once you've got the hang of it.)

, Pack the tent down and check to see how well it fits in your backpack.


Remember, you also need enough room to carry a sleeping bag, sleeping pad and camp stove in the same pack.
If you're buying a tent for several people to share, you can divide the parts of the tent (body, rain fly, poles) between several peoples' packs.



A good camping tent will last for years; a bad camping tent will also last for years, and annoy you the entire time. So although you should stay within your budget, remember that you usually get what you pay for.

