 Follow their lead. The key objective in learning table manners (etiquette) is to feel comfortable when dining with others, and the host generally the leader at a dinner party or meal. If you are the host, don't panic. Ensure you read up on etiquette before taking on the role of hosting and operate within the boundaries so that you are easy to follow.;
, He or she may assign you to a seat. Stand behind the chair as the other guests get assembled. When the host sits, take your seat. You'll get extra points for helping others, such as the elderly, into their seats before you take yours. After you sit, pull your chair in to the table, without dragging it over the floor with a horrible scrape. Take your napkin from the table immediately, and place it neatly on your lap. Then sit up straight, just like Mom always tells you. And keep those pesky elbows off the table, too.
 Put your napkin in your lap when you see them doing it. Match their rate of eating. (After all, no one wants to have an empty plate when their host is only halfway done with the dish.) If you see them eating finger food with a fork, follow their lead - even if it seems unreasonable. Assume that your host is always right; unless you can definitely tell that they have bad manners, in which case you may follow another guest.
 If there are many utensils in your place setting and there is more than one course, start on the outside and work your way in. Again, observe your host if you have any doubts.
 Consider every action before you do it and if you have the slightest doubt, don't do it! You must consciously refrain from embarrassing yourself and your host. Take small bites; do not chew with your mouth open; do not talk with food in your mouth; and do not place elbows on the table.
 When someone says, "Please pass the (what you would like passed to you)," reach for it only if you are the closest one to it. Take the item and place it next to your neighbor. Continue passing the item in this manner until it reaches the person who asked for it. Refrain from helping yourself along the way, before the person who asked for it gets the chance. Wait politely until they have served themselves. Then ask for the bowl to be passed back to you.
 If you have a bread plate to the left of your fork, put the bread on it. When the butter is passed to you, use the serving knife to take a pat. Place it on your bread plate. Then pass the butter dish along with the serving knife to the next person. Use your fingers to tear off a bite-size piece of bread. Butter only that bite-sized piece. Then eat and repeat as desired.
 Wait for your host to indicate the meal is complete. Then stand up. Push your chair back in and thank your host for a delicious meal.

