 Your spa can be at night or in the morning. Most people find the night to be more relaxing, as they've done everything they need to by then, but if you prefer the morning, do it in the morning.;
, If you're clean, you'll feel much better! Make sure you wash your whole body, shampoo (and condition) your hair, shave, wash your face, etc.
 Make sure it's not too hot, or else it could dehydrate your skin.
 A lighter scent will create a more relaxing mood, so don't overpower the scent too much. You could also use candles instead.
 Undress, put your clothes into a dirty clothes basket. Get a rag or washcloth, wet it with lukewarm water and fold it and place is on top of your head. This will relax you.
 This salt is fantastic for any of your daily life needs, from beauty to gardening to housework to healing, it works wonders. If you don't have Epsom salt, you can always use sea salt, though it won't give as much of an effect as Epsom salt. Add 1 or 2 cups to your bath, stir it with your hand for a second, then get in.
 A few facts and benefits of Epsom salt: The wonders of Epsom salt have been well known for hundreds of years and unlike other salts, Epsom salt has beneficial properties that can soothe the body, mind and soul. Some of the countless health benefits include relaxing the nervous system, curing skin problems, soothing back pain and aching limbs, easing muscle strain, healing cuts, treating cold and congestion, and drawing toxins from the body. One of the simplest ways to ease stress and stress-related problems is to soak in a tub full of hot water with a few cups of Epsom salt. Stress drains the body of magnesium and increases levels of adrenaline. When dissolved in warm water, Epsom salt is absorbed through the skin and replenishes the level of magnesium in the body. The magnesium helps to produce serotonin, a mood-elevating chemical within the brain that creates a feeling of calm and relaxation. Research shows that magnesium also increases energy and stamina by encouraging the production of ATP (adenosine triphosphate), the energy packets made in the cells. Experts believe that bathing with Epsom salt at least three times a week helps you to look better, feel better and gain more energy. Magnesium ions also relax and reduce irritability by lowering the effects of adrenaline. They lower blood pressure, create a relaxed feeling, improve sleep and concentration, and help muscles and nerves to function properly. Epsom salt is believed to improve heart health and help prevent heart disease and strokes by improving blood circulation, lowering blood pressure, protecting the elasticity of arteries, preventing blood clots and reducing the risk of sudden heart attack deaths. The sulfates in Epsom salt help flush toxins and heavy metals from the cells, easing muscle pain and helping the body to eliminate harmful substances. Your skin is a highly porous membrane and adding the right minerals to your bathwater triggers a process called reverse osmosis, which actually pulls salt out of your body, and harmful toxins along with it. For a detoxifying bath, at least once weekly add two cups of Epsom salt to the water in a bathtub and soak for 10 minutes., Gently massage into skin and rinse with cold water.
 Apply this mixture to the blackheads with a cotton ball.
 Once you're done soaking in your bath for 10-20 minutes, dry yourself with a clean, fresh towel. Before putting clothes on, moisturize your skin with your favorite smelling lotion, and then lightly spray on a body spray. Get into some comfy clothes- no skinny jeans, no belts, no bracelets or necklaces. Remember, you want to have a hassle free day, so don't add on a bunch of stuff. NO makeup either, you want to have clean, smooth skin, not powdery, smudgy stuff. If you hate your face without makeup, think about the people who don't even have a face. Some peoples faces get burned off or wounded. You should be happy that you have a face, so be happy, and feel pretty.
 Today's your day to relax. Maybe take a nap, write, draw, dream, clean your room. Just do whatever makes you happy!

, Though some people prefer doing yoga and meditation around sunset or after, you can do whatever you like. Light a scented candle, turn off the lights (or have them dimmed), open the window, have on some repeating calm music, and you're ready!

, It requires no special equipment, and is not complicated to learn. It can be practiced anywhere, at any given moment, and it is not time consuming (15-20 min. per day is good). Best of all, meditation has NO negative side effects. Bottom line, there is nothing but positive to be gained from it! With such a huge list of benefits, the question you should ask yourself is, “why am I not meditating yet?”


If you need a point to start from, you should try guided meditation courses. They are inexpensive and can provide you with a good foundation from which to begin meditating.



How do you meditate? Well, however you like! If you have ever loved somebody, counted, had happy emotions, then you've already meditated without thinking. Though that isn't enough, you have to know your meditating. So, first things first, get a chair with a back to it. Sit up straight in it. If you need to, place a soft pillow behind. Close you eyes. Your protected. Your loved. Listen to the wind in the window, the soft, soft music. Listen to your body. Are you in pain? Focus on that spot. Breath in through your nose. Imagine there's a tube from your mouth that goes up into your brain, and then goes down your belly. So when you breath in, imagine that air going up, up into your brain, then down to your belly, then you can breathe out. Make sure you sitting up straight, and when you exhale you breath out your mouth. Imagine little clouds far from you, but you can still see them. When you breathe in, the clouds come up to you, and when you breathe out, they zip away, out of sight. Keep doing that. Have a faint smile on your face, and keep doing this for as long as you like. Remember, this is not the only form of meditation. There's many methods, you can even create your own. Once you have practiced meditation for a while, you can even fit it into regular day things. If you're working out, you can meditate. If you are doing yoga, you can meditate.

