 Clutter takes up a lot of space both physically and mentally.;
, Be absolutely ruthless. If you haven't used something within the last month, it's just collecting dust. If it's not practical, its not worth having. Do not store things in the back of a closet or in the attic - just get rid of it!



Be green. Sell, donate or recycle as much as possible. Before selling or donating, be sure things are clean and free of stains.
Donate clothes you haven't worn over the past year. If something doesn't fit now, it probably won't fit in a few months from now.

Recycle magazines to friends and family. Keep them no longer than a month.
File only the bills and receipts that you will need for future reference. Discard the remainder.
Discard old toys, unfinished crafts or leftover craft supplies.
Discard useless furniture, tools and appliances.
 Wait a few days before the final discard. Look through everything once again so as not to regret parting with an item.
 This keeps everything free of dust and out of sight.


Use storage boxes or decorative containers. Store them under a bed, desk, table, couch or chair.
If your storage box is out of sight, it doesn't have to be fancy.
If your storage box is within sight, choose a decorative wicker basket with a cover, a trunk, a wooden box or even a wicker hamper with a cover.
Store tiny items in ziploc bags before placing them in a container.


Store small items in cabinets and drawers. Store clothes, books, dishes, towels, crafts, toys, small appliances or tools.
Store larger items in a closet. Hang clothes, place books on the top shelf, store boxes of crafts or toys, folding chairs, etc.
Make better use of book shelves. Store a collection of books, special hardbacks and reference books. Discard ratty paperbacks and books you'll never read again. Leave space at the top of the books to make them easy to dust with a feather duster. Stand books up and stack a few books as bookends to hold the others in place. Organize by size, author or subject.
Make better use of display cabinets. Display intricate items that would otherwise be difficult to keep free of dust. Display china, figurines, trophies, photographs in picture frames, seashells, dried flower arrangements and other various collections and keepsakes.
 Now that the room is free of clutter, this should only entail wiping over the top of the cabinets with a damp cloth, vacuuming the floor and straightening a few things out.
 Use a hose attachment to vacuum furniture, ceiling fans, window blinds, floorboards, air intake vents and cobwebs. Change the air filters every two months.
 Use window cleaner or an ammonia and water solution.
 Treat yourself to some fresh air. Treat your Vitamin D deficiency at the same time with added sunlight.

