 Adult stepchildren may be resistant to a parent remarrying because you have identified with the previous family unit for so long. You may feel that a accepting a new marriage is disloyal to your deceased or divorced mother or father. Building a relationship with a new stepparent may feel like a betrayal to the memory of your original family unit.Keep in mind that these feelings are normal. Allow yourself plenty of time to adjust to the new situation.
This can also happen if you have not fully dealt with your grief surrounding the previous death or divorce. You can find closure surrounding your previous family unit by performing a ritual of sorts. Try writing a letter to both parents sharing your feelings about the new marriage. Write out your fears, worries, or dislike. Then, rip up the letter or throw it into a fire symbolizing you releasing these feeling and welcoming the new change. Don’t allow the letter to circulate because this may cause problems.
It may also be helpful to see a professional therapist regarding unresolved grief. A therapist can offer additional exercises to help you find closure and develop the necessary acceptance you need to support your parent’s new marriage.
Remember that this situation may be even more difficult for you if you were close with your parent or if the divorce/death was recent.
 It can be hard to accept the marriage if you don’t like your parent’s new love interest, or you feel disloyal to your other parent. However, there is one thing that should be relatively easy to do regarding the new union: be happy because your parent found someone.


Temporarily set aside your own feelings about the relationship to perform an honest assessment. Does your father or mother appear to be happy with their new mate? Do you notice them smiling or laughing more often? Are they trying new things or getting out of the house more now that they have found love?
Despite your reservations, you can demonstrate happiness that your parent has found companionship. Say this, even if it is difficult for you. For instance, you might say, “Mom, I still feel resistant to the idea of your getting remarried, but I can see how happy you are with Paul. I’m glad you’re happy.”, One of the main reasons you could be struggling to accept the new marriage is because the new love interest is mysterious to you. If you remove the mystery, you may find that you actually like your parent’s new spouse. Trying to get to know this person may help you gain acceptance and figure out the role this person will play in your life. Plus, it will demonstrate to your parent that you are trying to welcome their love into the family.Offer to go to lunch alone with your parent’s new partner to better get to know them. You might even break the ice by being candid with them about your reservations. Say something like, “Molly, I’ll be honest with you…I’m very protective of Dad. I want to make sure you have his best interests in mind.”

