 Akita Inu dogs have a powerful appetite. Feeding them properly is key to preserving good health. An Akita Inu should be fed two meals a day.As with most dogs, it's a good idea to feed your Akita Inu at roughly the same times every day, once in the morning, once in the evening.Each meal should be approximately two to three cups of food. Start your dog off on one and half cups and see if it is all eaten. If so, increase the amount slightly next time. Do not feed the dog more than it will typically eat within 10 minutes of feeding.
Overfeeding your dog can result in bloat, a potentially fatal condition.
Some Akita Inu owners believe the dog should made to fast once a week for its health and to reduce the risk of bloat. Fasting is thought to have a cleansing effect on the digestive tract. If you decide to try this, you may still give your dog small amounts of food, such as small pieces of fruit with the skin removed.;
, The best food for an Akita Inu is a high-quality kibble with one or fresh ingredients mixed in. Look for kibble rich in fish and poultry, avoid kibble with lots of wheat and/or soy. Mix in any of the following:Rice (be careful, some Akita Inu dogs have an intolerance to brown rice)
Vegetables (carrots, peas, and cooked potatoes are best)
Eggs (boiled, never raw)
Yogurt (plain)
Canned tunaThese fresh ingredients should make up about 25 percent of the calories your dog consumes.To get the ratio correct, you will need to look at the caloric content of the dog's food and the fresh ingredients you are adding.
 Ask at your local pet store for a bowl that will slow down the dog's eating. These dogs tend to eat fast, which is bad for digestion and can lead to bloat.Slow-feeding bowls have a shape the prevents the dog from gulping down all its food in a few bites., In large part because of its thyroid gland, the Akita Inu does not naturally produce enough iodine. Consider adding a supplement to your dogs food at meal time.Akita Inu dogs can also benefit from a zinc supplement. Ask at your local pet store for a good, dog-friendly supplement to improve you Akita Inu's diet, checking to make sure it contains iodine and zinc.
Talk to your veterinarian before adding any supplements or otherwise significantly changing your dog's diet.

