 Wear pants in earth tone shades that have a lot of volume and fall at the knee, or just above or below. These are often referred to as breeches or knickers.


Avoid pants with pockets, zippers, or other closures or embellishments. Stick to only drawstrings at the waist and hem for closure.
Cover the rest of the leg that is showing below your breeches with hose or wool socks, unless you are portraying an Irish or Scottish Renaissance man, for which bare legs were acceptable., Choose a loose, simple shirt for your upper body, sometimes called a poet shirt, with long sleeves and a low or drawstring neckline. Find this type of shirt in most vintage or costume stores.


Remember to favor simple colors and fabrics. Renaissance men’s shirts were typically cotton and off-white or beige in color.
Opt for a shirt with no collar, a drawstring collar, a drop collar, or a high collar for an authentic look.For a noble gentleman, the shirt may have lace details, or be made of silk.
 Put on a loose fitting sleeveless vest (jerkin) or a form-fitting vest with detachable sleeves (doublet). Consider this as a nice practical addition when weather is cooler.


A simple jerkin can look more simple and suitable for peasantry, or more formal and suited to nobility, depending on the style and quality of fabric.
For an outfit for nobility, find a doublet in velvet or corduroy, and match the color of it to your breeches., Don a hat, belt, and boots, and use other accessorizing minimally and according to trade. When in doubt, keep accessories minimal.


Stick to sensible, durable shoes, preferably in leather. A peasant or tradesman might wear leather boots, while nobility might have short laced and polished shoes.
Find sheaths or other holders for weapons to attach to your belt. Get costume weapons to comply with any safety standards the faire might have in place.
No hat or a leather cap is acceptable for a peasant male. A floppy hat made of velvet or a hunter’s cap is appropriate for nobility.