 The house balls at the bowling alley are not high performance balls. Specifically, it is very difficult to get a hooked throw using one of these. However, these balls can be good for beginners because they have a lot of control and are good for straight line throws. If you’re starting out and don’t want to spend a lot of money, these can be an excellent choice.


Even experts will occasionally throw the sort of polyester balls that are used as the house balls at bowling allies. Specifically, professional will use them for picking up spares, because when doing that an accurate, straight shot is typically preferable to a hook. Similarly, if you’re still struggling to keep the ball out of the gutter, these are probably the best balls for you., When you watch bowling, pay attention to what professionals are using. At the alley, talk to some of the better bowlers about their bowling ball choice. Be particularly mindful of the choices of a bowler who has a style similar to yours.The issue with this technique is that there isn’t one best ball on the market. Finding the right ball is about finding one that fits your physique and style. So, following someone else’s lead will only work if you have similar styles.
Alternatively, you can also ask bowlers what shop they got their ball at. This might be the most relevant piece of information, because the pro shop will be responsible for fitting your ball to your hands and should give you a lot of advice about what type fits your style. Ask around for a shop with knowledgeable staff, possibly even employees who were themselves professional bowlers.
 Ask other bowlers and look online for a bowling shop with highly knowledgeable staff. Many shops will employee staff members who were themselves either successful professional or semi-professional bowlers.Because bowling balls have become so technologically advanced over recent years, it is important to have expert advice. The pro shop will also customize your grip, which can be one of the most important elements for achieving a quality game.


As late as the 1980s, most bowling balls were fairly standardized. Today, bowling balls have different textures and core types, which have a substantial impact on play style. You should seek expert assistance when determining what type fits your style best.