 Check the ages of the child or children needing babysitting. Depending on your age, this impacts the age of the kids you can be responsible for


If you're around this age (15 or younger) it's best to babysit an older kid about 10 years old and upward, children that can do most things for themselves. And it's best around this age to make sure the child can entertain themselves, as they may not be keen to interact with you.
If you're 16 or older, you should be able to babysit younger children. You must be comfortable handling small children. You should have more responsibility at this age.
No matter what the age of the child, don't leave any child alone. You are there to take care of them, no matter what.;
, When you're ready to go in the babysitting business, don't be afraid to ask questions about the child you will be caring for; always be prepared.
 Bring an emergency checklist just in case the parents don't have one. Show the parents these things, as it helps to reassure them.
 Explain that you will be strict about bedtime and not viewing unacceptable websites, etc.
 Include things that are within the child's interests. Consider bringing a small prize for each child at the end if they're good, such as a sticker sheet or small toy). A sample list could be: crayons and coloring pages, Play Doh, a movie, board games, a cookie recipe, etc.
 Just act in much the same way that you would if they were your own sisters and brothers and do your best to calm them down. Give a timeout if they're really misbehaving, or call the parents for advice.
 Close the doors to rooms you don't want the children in. Look for hazards such as matches, hanging electrical cords, medications or other things children can get hurt with or get into trouble with.


Check with the parents or guardians for any last minute phone numbers and contact details.
 Every child acts a certain way when parents aren't around.
 Instead of laying back on the couch watching some TV, play with the kids. It's more fun if the babysitter actually plays "House" or "Dolls" or whatever the game may be. If you have a smart phone, download a couple of educational apps and interact that way. The parents will appreciate it later!

, Be positive, patient, and never yell. If the kids are acting up, warn them that they won't get a special prize at the end of the day. If you're happy, the kids most likely will be, too!

, Take the kids out to play. They can play tag and games like that. Try to play with them, too. The kids can play games like basketball and soccer with you.


Make sure the kids wear sunblock approved by the parents.
If you have permission from the parents, maybe take the kids out for a walk with the dog(s) or take them out to ride their bike(s) at the park.
 Check the cabinets and cook a snack or meal, as required. Make easy food, such as chicken nuggets or mac and cheese. Make sure to include veggies with the meal. Green beans or corn, for example.


Give the kids a small snack if babysitting throughout the day, such as fruit or fruit chews.
For dinner, give the kids something the parents have planned or asked you to prepare. For dessert, give them something like ice cream.
 Maybe watch TV, such as Nick Jr., Disney Jr., or PBS. You could also put on a favorite movie. Or, have arts and crafts time. You can bring a craft set you bought like a jewelry maker, games, a create your own car set, or a toy airplane set. You can bring coloring books and paper and even paints. Maybe even let them explore the web with their parents permission and your supervision.


Some websites - www.barbie.com, www.pollypocket.com, www.monsterhigh.com, www.hotwheels.com, www.starfall.com, www.kidsbops.com, www.nickjr.com, www.mightybooksjr.com, www.disney.com and www.nick.com.
 Just read them a favorite story and shut out the lights. Keep an ear out for any crying, calling out or anything else the kids are doing besides sleeping. They remain your responsibility until the parents walk back in through the door.

