 You may think you know what kind of guy you are looking for until one surprises you. Taking risks and going with the flow leads to more experiences and more connections.


Say "yes." If you're interested in a guy, don't shut down the conversation. He loves snowboarding? Great! Maybe you know nothing about it, but could he take you next week?
Play along. If he's teasing you, don't over-analyze. Tease him back! Show him you can be sharp, funny, and take a joke, too.
 A confident, dynamic, open girl is hard to resist. Being yourself and showing him your best qualities is the only way to market yourself.


Are you funny? Crack a joke! If you're strong, embrace it! Never alter your personality for who you think someone else wants you to be. It won't stick.
Share your interests. You'll never know if you have something in common if you don't talk about yourself. Letting him get to know you allows him to see how unique you are.
Talk about your life. Including him in on your friends and family will make him feel more attached to you. After all, they're the ones who have shaped you. While being mysterious can be attractive, you want to show him you're a real person who can be trusted.
 We can never guess who we'll click with. If you've made a connection with a guy, be sure to follow up. If he's coming off as unavailable, no problem.


He's laughing, you're laughing, and you've been talking for ages. Don't be afraid to take it to the next level. Find something he's interested in and make a suggestion to do it together. If he's interested, he'll take the conversation and run with it.
If a guy you're attracted to isn't attracted to you back, there's no use in even thinking about it; it could be one of a million reasons. He could be in a relationship, newly single and not ready, or just not feeling it at the moment. Remember: don't take it personally. He is one of billions of guys. You'll be fine. Mostly likely you'll forget it about when...wait. Who's that cute guy over there?

