 The manual may have tips about special winterization procedures that are unique to your personal watercraft (PWC).;
, Plan to winterize the jet ski directly after the last ride.
 Secure it on the trailer. Drive just a few feet onto the ramp and stop.


In order to drain the water, the stern will need to be higher than the bow of your jet ski.



Start the engine while it is out of the water. Turn the steering handle from side to side. Water will wick off from the engine.






Turn the engine off after 30 seconds. Stop the engine and let it rest for 30 seconds. Start it again twice more with a rest period in between.
 Place it on a stand where it will sit above the ground.


Your storage area should be far away from any flammable materials. Winterized jet skis are usually stored with some gas in the tank, so use caution.
Make sure your jet ski is level on its base. If it is on a trailer, place wooden planks behind the wheels.
 Buy some car washing soap and use warm water if possible.


Clean the jet ski immediately after your last ride, if possible. The algae and other dirt will be easier to loosen from the body.
Use a large, soft sponge to cover the exterior with warm water and soap. Go over each area several times, since the grime is tougher to remove than car dirt.
Use a non-abrasive brush to scrub harder near the bottom of your jet ski. You will need to remove all the algae.
Rinse the jet ski thoroughly. Dry it with soft towels completely.
 If there is water, dry it with soft towels.
 Some boat supply stores may recommend more specialized products.
 Allow it to sit according to package directions. Wipe off the wax.
 Apply a light coat.
 You will reduce the risk of condensation in the engine by storing the jet ski with gas.
 Read the directions to see how much you will need to add. Stabilizer keeps the carburetors from getting clogged.
 Run it for 30 seconds.


This will allow the stabilizer to reach all areas of the engine and remove excess water.
 You will get better access to the interior of the engine compartments. You will want to replace the air cleaners after you oil the carburetors.
 Spray fogging oil into both carburetors until the engine stalls.
 Ensure your wires are grounded before you continue.
 Place a cloth over the holes.


Press the start button on the jet ski. This will disperse the oil, but your craft will not start. Replace the spark plugs.
, Detach the negative terminal before the positive terminal.
 Store it on a rubber mat instead of the concrete.
 This will prevent nesting bugs.
