 You may be able to get short-term disability benefits through your employer or union, who insure the private plan.If so, then the premiums can be deducted from your paycheck. If your employer or union does not offer short-term disability benefits, then you can purchase short-term disability on the marketplace.


To find a private plan that works for you, search the Internet for “short-term disability private insurer.” You can then contact a carrier who will connect you with a licensed insurance agent.Compare different plans based on how high the premium is and what percentage of your base earnings will be replaced. You also want to look at how long the waiting period is before you can get benefits. For some plans, you need to wait a month or more.Some plans also require that you take all of your sick leave before you can apply for temporary disability benefits.If you do not have much sick time saved—or if you do not want to use it for a disability—then you might want to check out other plans.;
, Contact Human Resources (HR) or your union to get a form to sign-up for short-term disability insurance. Alternately, your insurance agent will provide you with an application.
 Premiums can be deducted from your paycheck if your employer sponsors the disability plan. Otherwise, you will be responsible for making timely payments. If you miss a payment, your insurance may be suspended.
 Contact HR or the insurance company and inform them that you need to file a claim. You should be given a form. You should provide all requested information, typing the information or printing neatly in black ink. Some information may need to be filled out by your employer.You should work with them to get the necessary information, such as your earnings and employment status.


Your doctor (or whoever has attended to you) will probably also need to complete information.The physician may also need to complete a separate Physician’s Statement.You will need to report the date of your illness and when you first were unable to work. You must also report the hospitals, clinics, or physicians who have treated you and what you believe is wrong with you., Make a copy of the form and return it to the address provided.If you are mailing the form to a private insurance carrier, you should send it certified mail, return receipt requested. This way, you will know when it is received.


Wait to hear from the insurer. If you do not hear back in a couple of weeks, then contact your insurance agent or contact the carrier directly.

