 If you want to adopt as a single woman, you need to find adoption agencies that are willing to adopt to single parents. Start your search with agencies near you, and make a list of several different agencies.Most adoption agencies have websites, so you can do much of this initial searching on the internet. You also can find tips and information on adoption community websites and online forums.
Look for agencies that have information specifically about single-parent adoption. Just because an agency doesn't have a policy against single-parent adoption doesn't necessarily mean they encourage or support single-parent adoption.;
, Many American mothers who've put their children up for adoption don't want them to go to single-parent homes. You'll typically have a lot better luck if you're interested in adopting a child from a developing country.If you want to adopt a baby, international adoption probably is your best bet as a single woman. Many American birth mothers putting infants up for adoption refuse to adopt to a single parent.
 Before you decide which agency you want to use, take the time visit the agency and talk to the people who work there about your desire to adopt as a single woman. If staff seem critical or resistant, that probably isn't the right agency for you.Most agencies have a welcome meeting that you can attend. They'll go over the adoption process and answer any questions you have. Ask if they've successfully placed children with single mothers, and what their policy is regarding single-parent adoptions.
You also may have the opportunity to talk to parents who have adopted children through that agency and learn more about their experiences.
 When you start the process of adopting a child as a single woman, you may not fully understand the demands and challenges of single parenting. Take your decision seriously and read as much as you can about coping strategies and tips from other single parents.A caseworker interviewing you for an agency may ask you questions based on how you anticipate handling any of these challenges. Researching ensures you at least have a general idea how to respond and don't appear completely unprepared.
You need to have a general idea of how you will handle various situations that might come up with your child. For example, if the school calls you and tells you that your child is sick, you need to know if you'll be free to leave work to pick up your child, or if you have a close friend or family member who could pick up your child for you.
 You may face resistance from adoption agencies and others who are concerned that as a single parent, you will be unable to adequately meet the physical, emotional, and spiritual needs of a child on your own. It helps if you have a strong network of family and friends.For example, suppose your parents are retired and live near you. They may be willing to help take care of your child while you're at work.
Close friends and neighbors also can help take care of your child and provide support when you need it. Talk to everyone close to you and find out what they would be willing to do to help.
 You may be eligible for subsidies that can help cover some of your immediate adoption expenses. However, once the adoption is complete, you'll be on your own. Make sure you have the means to support a child for the next 10 to 20 years, depending on the age of the child you want to adopt.You don't have to be wealthy to adopt a child, but the more financially secure you are, the better your chances of being able to adopt as a single woman.
If you're carrying a lot of debt, it may be a good idea to pay some of that down before you think about adopting a child. That way you'll be on more stable financial footing when you begin the adoption process.
 If you have trouble finding an agency you like that will work with single parents, you might become a foster parent instead. Foster parents make a serious impact on a child's life, and you may have the opportunity to adopt a child you foster.Unlike adoption, you also are eligible to receive monthly payments to help financially support any foster children you care for.
Fostering children also can be a good way to demonstrate that you are capable of handling a child on your own. A strong foster care record makes you a strong candidate for adoption.
 State agencies, as well as a number of private agencies, typically have classes you must complete to learn about adoption and the needs of adoptive children.If you're adopting through a state agency, you may have to qualify as both a foster parent and an adoptive parent – even if you're not planning on fostering a child. When adopting through a private agency, you may have to pay a fee to attend parenting classes.
During the training sessions, you'll go through the adoption application. If you have any questions about the process or any of the items on the application, ask a staff member for clarification.
 You must provide thorough personal and financial information to adopt a child. You'll need to attach documentation to your application that supports the statements you made in the application itself.You'll have to verify your employment and income, and the adoption agency may contact your employer.
You also must provide identification that proves you meet the minimum age for adoptive parents in your state.
Ask your employer, family members, or other colleagues or community members to write reference letters for you to support your application to adopt.
 Adoption agencies require you to submit an application, either in person or online, along with all required documents and letters of reference. Before you submit your application, double-check and make sure you have answered all questions honestly and completely.If you have any issues that you think might negatively impact the agency's decision, you might want to write a statement explaining the situation and how you've changed. For example, if you've ever been arrested or convicted of a crime, you want to address this up front on your application and discuss it openly.
 Once your application is accepted by the agency, you'll be assigned a caseworker who will be your point person throughout the adoption process. They will describe to you the next steps of the process.You need to maintain a good relationship with your caseworker. They are on your side, and want to help you adopt a child. They can answer any questions you have, as well as give you tips and advice.
 In most states, you must pass a criminal and employment background check before you will be finally approved to adopt. Typically you must request your criminal history from the FBI and the state law enforcement agencies of any states where you've lived.You also must show that you've never been listed on any child abuse, domestic violence, or sex offender registries.
If you have friends or family members who either live in your home or will be frequent visitors, they also may be required to submit criminal histories.
 Either your caseworker or another evaluator typically will conduct a home study to evaluate the home environment you plan to provide for the child you adopt.Since the home study is more in-depth than the application, you'll need additional documents that provide information about your home life and personal history. Pull any legal documents, such as diplomas, divorce decrees, or birth certificates, that relate to significant events in your life.
You also may need to get a physical exam and submit a health report as part of your home study. Generally, they want to make sure you don't have any serious health problems that could negatively affect your ability to raise a child.
 As part of your home study, your caseworker will interview both you and any friends or family members. They will visit and inspect your home and the space you have available for a child. The main purpose of the home study is to make sure you're adequately prepared to be a parent.Your caseworker should let you know if they find anything that might cause your application to be rejected, and give you advice on what to do with it. Through the home study, your caseworker is trying to help you get approved – not looking for reasons to reject you.
If you went with a private agency, you typically must pay additional fees for the home study. These fees range anywhere from several hundred to several thousand dollars. Your caseworker will explain the fees and payment options available.
 Once your home study is complete, your case worker will create a written report of your home study. Typically you'll have a meeting where they will go over the report with you and answer any questions you have.The home study report typically must be approved by someone else in the agency. They typically will follow your case worker's recommendation.
If there are any aspects of your home study that your case worker thinks might cause you to be rejected as an adoptive parent, they will talk to you about those issues. There may be things you can do to eliminate or lessen those issues.
 Provided you're approved as an adoptive parent after your home study is completed, your caseworker will start giving you information about children who are available for adoption.Your case worker will talk to you about your preferences for adoption, such as your age or gender preferences. They also will look at information about your lifestyle to help find the best possible matches for you.
Talk to your case worker about activities you enjoy or other hobbies, particularly if you're thinking about adopting an older child. The case worker can be on the lookout for children who enjoy those activities as well.

