 When looking into dog breeds, it is important to take into consideration the size of your home, family members’ allergies, your family’s schedule, and the amount of time you are willing to sacrifice to care for the dog. Research different breeds’ activity levels, grooming needs, trainability, diet, and other important factors.For example, if you live in an apartment and you and your parents are away from the apartment for most of the day, look into getting a small, low maintenance breed.
If your parents do not like the idea of shedding, look into breeds that have minimal shedding.
If you are knowledgeable about different dog breeds, then you will be able to choose a dog that fits your family’s needs. This will increase the chances of your parents agreeing to you getting a dog.
 Owning a dog involves a lot of costs. There is the initial cost of purchasing the dog, plus food, grooming, entertainment, and healthcare costs, to name a few. Come up with a list of items that will need to be paid for upfront. Plan to help pay for some of the costs, as well.For example, make a list of items like food, treats, and food bowls, toys, a leash and collar, a crate, and a bed. Visit your local pet store’s website and write down how much each item costs. Total the cost and determine how much you will help pay for these initial costs.
Also, come up with a list of other potential costs that your parents will need to cover if you determine you cannot, like vaccinations, training, and grooming.
 Taking care of a dog requires a lot of time. You will need to feed, walk/exercise, groom, train, and take your dog outside for potty breaks each day. Therefore, devise a plan that outlines what time you will wake up each morning to feed your dog, when you will take your dog out for walks, and how often you will bathe and groom your dog.Also, consider how you will train your dog. Will you enroll it in an obedience class or attempt to train it yourself? These are important considerations that, if planned out ahead of time, will increase the likelihood of your parents agreeing to let you have a dog.

