 Many people think it's a good idea to skip meals or eat very light before a big event. The idea is you're saving calories and will be able to indulge more at a party. However, if you go into a party starving you're more likely to overeat, especially on unhealthy foods.Instead of starving yourself, have a healthy meal rich in fruits, vegetables, whole wheats, and lean proteins before attending a party. This way, you'll be full on healthy foods and won't have as much food and alcohol.
Be very careful about not eating before parties that serve alcohol. It is very dangerous to drink alcohol on an empty stomach.
 It can be easy to lose track of liquid calories. Many people do not account for liquid calories, or do not think about them when it comes to holiday indulging. Be aware of how much you're drinking and how much calories, sugars, and other unhealthy additives you're consuming.Many favorite holiday drinks, like egg nog and hot chocolate, are high in calories, fat, and sugar. Have these items as a treat on occasion and not something you drink every day.
Be aware of alcohol calories. If you're at a party, opt for low calorie options, like red wine, over higher calorie choices.
 You should not try to avoid treats throughout the entire holiday season. This is not realistic and will just make you feel like you're missing out. Instead of avoiding treats altogether, have a full dessert once or twice a week, without worrying about the calories., You may find yourself mindlessly snacking a lot during the holidays, which can easily lead to overindulgence. Try to be aware of what you're eating throughout the day, and eat lighter .Be aware of how much you're snacking. A cookie at work, a sip of egg nog at home, a sample-sized brownie at the grocery store, and other small indulgences do not seem like much. However, they do add up by the end of the day.
When you feel yourself reaching for a small treat, review your eating habits throughout the course of the day. If you've already had a few treats, it may be a good idea to pass this time.
You may want to try healthier, lower calorie meals during the holiday season as staples of your diet. This way, the small snacks you consume won't add as many calories to your daily total.

