 A man reaps what he sows. Whoever sows to please their flesh, from the flesh will reap destruction." He also said, "Let him who thinks he stands take heed that he does not fall!" The question is, does this refer to falling from the faith? Possibly. Paul says, "I discipline my body and make it my slave, so that, after I have preached to others, I myself will not be disqualified." (1 Corinthians 9:27). To think of even Paul possibly being disqualified seems almost unbelievable. But this article will lay out some things that can disqualify anyone for heaven, even a "Christian."


James says, "Show me your faith without deeds, and I will show you my faith by what I do....faith without works is dead." And lastly, Paul says, "Do not be deceived: Neither the sexually immoral nor idolaters nor adulterers nor men who have sex with men nor thieves nor the greedy nor drunkards nor slanderers nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. And that is what some of you were. But you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ." (1 Corinthians 6).;
, Sexual immorality can include a lot of things really. Paul does not mean by his statement in 1 Cor. 6 that if you were ever sexually immoral, you won't inherit the kingdom of God. Paul is saying, that if you continue in that life the rest of your life, you won't go to heaven.


Paul says "do not be deceived." Many are deceived into thinking "Once, I say one prayer, I get my ticket to heaven, and so then I can live however I want!" but that is not what the Bible says. If someone is saved, or thinks so, but is still highly sexually immoral, cheating and cruising, bar hopping or what have you, they probably aren't really saved, as seen by the evidence. What evidence?... If the mind of Christ dwells in you, it will show up. His mind is consistently/always right, not hating or being a hypocrite.
One of the number one things that turns non-believers off to Christianity is when Christians still live like anyone else does (as hypocrites), but the key is to realize that "you shall know them by their fruit" but not by mere perfectionism... If someone is habitually cheating on the spouse, or habitually looking at porn or sleeping around, etc., they probably aren't really "reborn/converted/or new" in Christ. It makes a difference in enjoying life more -- not less... and takes away the need or strong desire to "walk in the dark, on the wild side". Jesus Christ brings newness, joy and contentment, if you let the Holy Spirit rule and reign supreme in both your work and play. Now you want to play right, not causing pain nor habitually lusting (there are many forms of lust and greed by the way: lust of the eye, lust for "gold", lust for whatever could takeover ones life and also harm others).
The true mark of a Christian is one who might sin from time to time, but will regret it, repent, and want to be and then really keep trying to be different from your old-self; you do have power over all things through Christ. As Jesus said, "Go and sin no more." This is why John says,

"No one who is born of God will continue to sin, because God's seed remains in them; they cannot go on sinning, because they have been born of God." This does not mean that a Christian will never sin, this means that a true Christian will not be in a habitual non-repentant pattern of sin. "Except you repent, you shall all likewise perish, (like the unsaved)." (1 John 3:9)



, An idol can be anything really; it can be a thing, person, activity, etc. Many people idolize the spouse. Be careful of doing that, because if death occurs or you are left for another, and this was your whole world, then what will you have? You will be devastated, unless you keep God first in your life -- and not your spouse.


Many people idolize money. That is why Jesus said, "You cannot serve two masters. You will love the one and hate the other. You cannot serve both God and money." Many guys idolize football. Many women idolize beauty and shopping.
Test yourself to see whether you have any idols in your life by considering "What do I think about the most." Examine the number one thing that you are often thinking about? If you are Christian, that one thing should be thinking about -- and helping others to find and enjoy knowing -- God and his Kingdom. This way of thinking is what it means to "pray without ceasing" as instructed in the Bible. To always have God's will in mind and constantly talk to Him about everything. "Seek first the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you," including material things to share. Do not expect to be blessed for "hoarding" gold, or anything. If the things of God are not the number one things on your mind, seek to change your priorities...
Pray that God would make you more passionate about Him and compassionate for the lost and suffering by sharing the gospel -- more than about anything else in the world -- and He will give you wisdom to do so.
 Oh, the world is tired of hearing Christians talk about homosexuality, but it actually comes up in the Bible a lot. Paul says "men who have sex with men" or women with women, will "not inherit the kingdom of God." It's interesting that he said, "that is what some of you were." There very well could have been people in the early church who were homosexual or bisexual, practicing any manner of sexuality before coming to Christ and now, once receiving Christ, becoming straight. There actually are several testimonies on YouTube of this happening to people.


If someone is homosexual, that person is not necessarily destined to be homosexual their entire lives. It is much as someone having a tendency toward alcoholism, it can be overcome. If God can remove an alcoholic from alcoholism, then God can remove the desire for homosexuality from a homosexual. God can do anything except fail or lie.
 Paul says that thieves will not inherit the kingdom of heaven. Joyce Meyer said once that she has even had people steal money out of her offering plate. People might need help with money, but stealing is not the way to get money.


Stealing is kind of the easy way to get money; being humble and asking for charity or a favor is harder. No one likes to ask for help. But be humble and ask for help; don't steal.
Also swindling includes conning people out of their money, or tricking them to give you their money. Or, it can be bookkeeping or accounting dishonestly, using ones "confidence" to get money away from a trusting soul. It is being a "con artist" by getting another to be confident, by faking and lying. Don't swindle people, obviously.
 When one thinks of greed it's easy to think of Mr. Scrooge in the Christmas Carol. He only cared about himself. He never wanted to share his money with anyone. But was he happy, with all the money he had? No, he was miserable. So it is when we are greedy. That is why the saying goes "It is more blessed to give than to receive."


Giving will usually make you a lot more happy than receiving. Satan likes to tell us the lie that receiving will make us more happy, but the truth is that the more we try to make ourselves happy, the less happy we are. Giving of yourself, not expecting anything in return, is the only way to find the bright, fresh, true joy in God (walking in The Way, the Truth and the Life).
 Does this include not getting drunk on the weekends? Possibly. We need to have everything in moderation. A little wine or beer every once in a while is okay, but going overboard "is excess, which is sin", just as much as over-eating is sin, etc. It harms you and others.
 To slander is to make a damaging statement about someone else. It's talking about people behind their backs, gossiping. It's telling other people things about someone that would seem to tarnish that person's character. It is trying to ruin someone's reputation. Don't do this.


Also, someone once said, if you gossip about others to people, they will probably talk about you behind your back, too. Talk nicely about other people. Don't slander anyone's character, including on wikiHow or elsewhere online, as email or texting (even though some may seem private, it can be seen by others), etc.
There can be a fine-line between "sharing your story" and gossiping about people. If you are "sharing" about what someone did to you, even without naming anyone, make sure the person you are talking to doesn't know that person. That is a general rule to follow on "telling the truth with love," being a peacemaker.
 The peacemaker is blessed. Troublemakers live in trouble... spreading personal peace around, not being self-centered or lusting for revenge, or to teach a hard lesson.

