 Cute people are always fun to be around, and spread their joy for life to others. A cute person's warmth should be able to fill a room and should be felt from a mile away. If you want to improve your positive nature, there are a few things you can do:



Smile. Do not look like a goof when you smile; just smile like you always do. Be cute and happy, but not over the top!

Laugh heartily. Laugh to feel good, laugh to cheer up others and laugh with others. Make sure not to overdo it. Most people find excessive laughter annoying, not cute.

Have fun. Everyone likes a person who is fun, social, and outgoing! If you're hanging out with people, tell silly jokes, or play fun games.;
, Shyness isn't a bad thing. It gives you a mysterious edge. If you're shy but approachable, people will keep asking you questions and will want to get to know you more. Shy, but sweet and bubbly people are absolutely adorable. Remember that you can maintain a positive vibe and be friendly while being demure at the same time. Here's how to do it:


Talk softly. You should still be able to firmly state your thoughts, but your voice shouldn't be heard from two rooms away. If you talk softly, people will lean in to hear what you have to say, and that will make you even cuter.
Act very innocent. Don't be overly vulgar or engage in conversation about inappropriate topics. Cute people are shocked by some of the more unseemly aspects of life.
Don't dominate a conversation. You can still be smart and state your opinion, but cute people let other people talk too.
Learn to blush. If you blush because you're a bit embarrassed or shocked by a particular topic, you will look very cute.
 Cute people may be a little bit shy, but they are always friendly to the people they know and the new people they meet. Cute people are approachable and people always want to get to know them. Here's how to be friendly while being cute:


Be interested in others. Attractiveness comes from being happy, vivacious and bubbly. This translates to being a person who engages others in conversation, takes an interest in what others say, and shows a genuine concern for the other person's interests.
Take the time to really listen to people. Active listening is a very important part of appearing attractive to others.
Give compliments. Everybody loves someone who sees good in others and makes them feel good. It can be a great conversation starter sometime too.("Where'd you get your shoes? They're so cute!") Just make sure you mean it; say it in your normal tone of voice, not a squeaky, overenthusiastic one.

