 One of the most commonly used and recognized pallet types in Australia,  CHEP pallets virtually set the standard of pallet sizes in Australia, being considered very durable and affordable for companies to rent hundreds of pallets, although their disadvantage is their weight, the pallet alone weighing over 40kg. It is for this reason manual handling of CHEP pallets is generally discouraged  due to reasons of muscle strain/back injury; forklifts, pallet jacks, or other mechanical assistance should be used to  move them. CHEP pallets are easily identified by their blue colour and bearing of the "CHEP" logo.
 Virtually identical to CHEP pallets in popularity, size, shape, weight, and other physical properties. However they are except they are red in colour. Loscam pallets are also easily identified by their red color and bearing the "LOSCAM" logo., Also known as a "plain pallet", these pallets are generally privately made from region to region and all differ in construction, from size, to strength, etc, however it is worth noting in General, these pallets are much lighter, and much less durable than CHEP or Loscam pallets. These pallets are often identified solely by their size and shape, additionally ensuring they are not export pallets. These pallets are usually unpainted or  given just a oil coat to protect from the elements if stored outdoors., A classification that generally only applies to wooden pallets (due to possible contamination), these pallets have been either heat or chemically treated in order to ensure  export travel free of any possible environmental contaminants (virus, fungus, insects, etc.). These pallets are identified by the IPPC stamp, located on one or both sides of the pallet.
 This is often incorrectly referred to a pallet, a skid is identified usually by its relatively small size, and also absence of bottom deckboards, most skids are also generally weaker, and also due to the absence of bottom deckboards, can be extremely unstable when lifted by forklifts., Many other different types of pallets exist, for the purpose of the article the rest can be summarized into groups of:

4-way pallet – A pallet that can be moved by all 4 sides instead of the standard 2-way pallets
Plastic pallet – Usually  comes as a 4-way pallet, generally used in chemical industry for storage of raw materials, though overall generally not usually used for any racking or dispatch applications
Metal pallet – Uncommon overall except in few manufacturing plants or  specialist industries, durable and lightweight but expensive.
Cardboard pallet or skid – Uncommon in most large manufacturing plants or warehouses, although sometimes used to move small amounts of stock around the floor space using pallet jacks,  surprisingly strong as holding distributed loads, but easily crushed with concentrated force (e.g. a person standing on it)

