 You may feel stuck in peaceful coexistence with your spouse without truly engaging with each other. While the relationship may appear stable on the surface, you may be distancing yourselves, which affects your ability to relate to one another.Stay involved with one another. Ask about each other’s day, friends, work, and life. Don’t become strangers to each other, but keep that daily connection, however small.;
, Don’t just get lost in the daily ho-hum of life, work, children, and running the house; make sure you are connecting on an emotionally intimate level.Make time to talk about your intimacy, goals, dreams, feelings, thoughts desires. Talk about your failures, letdowns, and disappointments. Talk about you, your partner, and your marriage.


Intimacy occurs when you are able to be vulnerable with your partner. Create an atmosphere of trust and safety, letting your partner know that you love and support him or her.
 If your partner has a passion, don’t squash it, even if it’s uninteresting to you. Instead, support your partner by supporting what is important to your partner. And similarly, make sure you communicate to your partner what is important to you.Showing your support of your partner can go a long way.


Make compromises based on what is important to each of you.
If your partner loves to play Bridge, show up at his or her Bridge tournaments. If your partner is a dancer, show up to his or her performances.
 Your partner’s cues may differ from your own. For instance, you may want to come home from a stressful day and receive a massage from your partner, while your partner may want to come home from a stressful day and throw himself into cooking dinner to let off steam. Be sensitive to the information your partner gives you, both verbal and nonverbal.Learn to understand your spouse’s cues and respond to them.


You may respond to conflict verbally, while your spouse may respond nonverbally. Learn to read his or her cues and respond to them in a meaningful way for your spouse so that you better meet the needs and wants.
 It’s easy to tell your partner how annoying you find him or her, or how upset you are with the lack of help you receive with kids. But when was the last time you expressed your heartfelt gratitude? Let your spouse know that you appreciate the ways he or she makes your life better.Write a note or a card for your spouse to see expressing why you are thankful.
Remark on how thankful you are for the little ways your spouse contributes to making you (and your family) happy each day.
Tell your spouse the reasons you are happy you married him or her.
 Don’t come at your partner in anger or hostility. Keep your judgments to yourself. Instead of putting blame on your partner, express your needs and how you feel (not how he or she “made you feel”).And when you don’t interact kindly, apologize.
If you’re trying to avoid blaming your partner, instead of saying, “You never talk about your feelings”, say, “I want us to be open and honest in our relationship, and to do this, it would really help me if you told me how you are feeling.”

, Connect physically with your spouse by holding hands, putting your arm around each other, resting a hand on his or her leg, and embracing. Focus on connecting your bodies in a way that feels safe and intimate, yet nonsexual. Connecting with skin contact can be beneficial for your own health as well as for the relationship.Often affection can be playful and fun. Steal a kiss while your spouse doesn’t expect it, or playfully pat his or her butt while people aren’t looking.
 Sensual touch is one step up from affectionate touch. Sensual touch can include giving a luxurious massage, caressing, passionate kissing, and gentle or slow sexual touch.You don’t have to have a sexual expectation with sensual touch. You can just focus on exploring and enjoying touching your spouse’s body and enjoying having your body touched and explored.
 Be clear in your desires, dislikes, and expectations. Couples that talk about sex have more and better sex!Make sure you understand your partner’s wishes and expectations, too. The more understanding there is around sex, the more fulfilling it can be.


Don’t avoid discussing sex because of embarrassment, guilt, or shame. It’s important for you to feel sexually fulfilled with your spouse.
 Yup, dive right in, even if it’s been awhile since you’ve had sex.You can start slow and then try new and more interesting things. Even if you feel fearful or embarrassed, create an atmosphere of safety and trust that you can enjoy with your spouse.


If you want adventure, consider trying new positions. Research different sex positions online or get creative and create your own!
If you feel anxious or fearful to return to sex, try a Bottom-up approach: practice nourishing the friendship first (spending time together, enjoying each other’s company), add physical affection then sensual affection, and when you feel comfortable, engage in sex.Take each stage as you feel comfortable, remembering that this is your life partner, whom you trust and love.
 Find a babysitter and spend an entire evening focused on your physical and romantic connection. Let your spouse know that this evening is just for the two of you two enjoy your physical and sexual connection.


Take turns giving massages or take a bath together.
Spend a whole evening together naked.
Engage in sensate focus by being blindfolded or blindfolding your partner. Focus on the sensation of being touched, then touching your partner.
 Commit to doing something together regularly. Making an activity a ritual means that you can regularly look forward to spending time together doing something that is special to you both. Engage the activity regularly and know that this is time set aside for you to be together.


You may choose to watch a tv show together weekly, share coffee in the mornings, take a daily walk together, or regularly engage in an activity together, such as camping or a dance class., Relive the day you told your spouse you loved her, or the day you became engaged. Go to the same restaurants, see the same movie, and go back to the places that are special for you. Reliving a memory can ignite the feelings of those moments when they first happened. Reliving the memories can help you reconnect to what brought you two together.Recreate the day as best as you can. Remember any important people or events that made the day especially memorable. Recapture the joy and excitement and have it again for a second time.
 Trying something new together is a fun way to connect and share a new experience as a couple.Trying something new can be as easy as trying a new restaurant or exploring a new activity, like going to a hot spring. The more interesting the new experience, the more vivid the memories.


Try something exciting together, perhaps even a little scary, like bungee jumping or skydiving. The adrenaline of the sport with the excitement will make it an unforgettable experience for both of you!

, Bring home a special dinner for your spouse, or go an a surprise adventure together. Take a surprise vacation together or even a surprise weekend trip together. Surprises are fun ways to add excitement to a relationship while having fun together.You can also surprise your spouse with gifts “just because” like flowers or something meaningful to your hobbies.
 The more laughter there is in a marriage, the more fun you allow yourself to have together. Approach even difficult situations with a light side.Even in the bleakest times, find something lighthearted to share with your spouse.


Make a habit of laughing together often. Perhaps you can set a time each week to devote 10 minutes to enjoying funny things. Maybe you make silly art together or watch funny video clips.

