 Negative thoughts can seem to rule your life when you are afflicted by an eating disorder. You might bully yourself about gaining an extra pound or criticize yourself for eating an entire meal as opposed to a partial serving. Overcoming these thought patterns is essential in your recovery.Use a few days to notice what you’re thinking. Label certain thoughts as negative or positive, helpful or unhelpful. Think about how such thoughts might affect your mood or behavior.
Combat negative, unhelpful thoughts by identifying if they are unrealistic. For example, if you find yourself thinking, “I will never get to a healthy weight,” you might ask yourself how you could possibly know such a thing. Can you predict the future? Of course not.
Now that you have identified your unproductive thoughts, you can replace them with more helpful, realistic versions, such as, “It is taking me awhile to get to a healthy weight, but I can do it.”

, Stress can often serve as a trigger for the unhealthy behavior patterns that drive eating disorders. Therefore, developing positive methods for stress-management can help you maintain recovery. Some great ways to fight stress include:Get regular exercise.

Sleep at least 7 to 9 hours each night.

Get a hobby.
Listen to music and dance.
Spend time with positive, supportive people.
Walk your dog.
Take a long, relaxing bath.

Learn how to say “no” when you’ve got too much on your plate.

Release perfectionistic tendencies.
 Eating and physical activity are an important part of overall health. However, people with eating disorders have unhealthy relationships with these things. You must work closely with your doctor and dietitian to determine a safe balance of exercise and a well-rounded diet that allows you to maintain optimal health., Aim to feel good about the clothing you wear. Select items that are flattering and comfortable to your current body size and shape rather than choosing clothes for your “ideal” body, or wearing clothing that completely hides your figure., Recovering from an eating disorder is a process. You may relapse several times before you successfully overcome the negative behavior patterns that drive your disorder. Keep at it. Don’t give up. Recovery can be yours if you are persistent.

