 Ask for what you want. Be vocal about what you like, and don't be afraid to speak up when something doesn't work for you. If you aren't clear about your needs, then your partner won't know how to meet those needs.


Be as frank and open as possible. Cultivate a relationship that is build around clear communication. The more you talk about this, the easier it will be!
If you want more sex, don't be afraid to say so. Do not demand it or expect it. Explain why you don't feel that you're getting enough, and try to find a solution that the two of you can agree upon., Make sure that you and your partner have a mutual understanding about the rules and expectations of the relationship. A relationship is a mutual understanding, and it is your responsibility to maintain that understanding. Define the sort of relationship that you want, and make the relationship itself an act of discussing that balance.Talk about when and where it's okay to have sex. Remember that it's okay for your preferences to change over time. Remember also, however, that the onus falls upon you to keep your partner up-to-date with these changing preferences.
Decide whether you are exclusive. If not, make sure that you agree about who each of you can and cannot have sex with. Be clear and be truthful. If you leave this part murky, then you could damage your relationship and seriously hurt someone.
 Each of you should feel equally empowered to negotiate the terms of the conversation. Someone will probably need to initiate the conversation, and that person may well be you – but you can still create space for your partner to speak his or her mind. Listen. Be patient.


Avoid accusatory "you" statements like, "You never want to have sex anymore!" Instead, focus on the way that things make you feel, or try to remain objective. Say, "I feel that our sex drives have been unbalanced lately," or "I want to open up a dialogue about the way that our sex life has been lately."Again: a relationship is a mutual understanding. A healthy sex life is built upon communication. Don't let one person make all of the moves!

, This can be a great way to get comfortable discussing intimacy with your partner. Bring it up when you both have free time to talk. Check in to see that you're on the same page, and that the current arrangement is working for both of you. Be unabashed and matter-of-fact about this sort of communication. If you don't act like it's weird, then it won't be weird.