 Food costs vary wildly, but more often than not they are calculated by the number of guests. You will be asked to supply a guest list to the catering company, which will then return to you with the total cost. More food, of course, costs more, but the variability amongst different caterers will be stunning.


A small wedding in Minnesota might cost $25 per person whereas a Manhattan wedding might cost over $150 a person.Know your cost before committing to a caterer.
 Don't feel like you need to offer a handcrafted, 5-star meal to make your wedding memorable. Having servers drastically increases the cost of your food, and most people won't mind getting up to chose their food themselves. Skipping servers and a waitstaff will keep your wedding small and on a budget.
 This may seem like a hassle, but it is a great touch of personality for your party that can save hundreds on food costs. If you have a small wedding it becomes even easier: choose a recipe that you can make and freeze later, then have someone you trust heat them up before the reception. Some recipes to try include:Mini-pizzas
Quiches
Gougeres
Crackers and cheeses
Fruit spreads

, Whether you tell your guest to B.Y.O.B. or you bring all of the alcohol yourself, skip out on the exorbitant prices of the bar and bring your own drinks. While this may seem cheap to some, the ability to personalize the menu will make your wedding night special and intimate in ways that are difficult with big weddings.


Invent a "couples cocktail" to serve at your wedding.
Buy bottles of wine from grapes grown the year you met or got engaged.
Limit hard alcohol, as wine and beer will last longer and cost less.
Alternatively, set up a "cash-bar," which is when the venue supplies its own bartender for free/cheap but charges your guests for each drink., Don't forget that, by the time it comes out, most people will have already eaten and the cake is often destroyed by the bride and groom's "first cut." The wedding cake is mostly a showpiece, and you'll be lucky if even half of it is eaten. Knowing this, skip the 5 tier cake and go for something simpler.


Smaller weddings, however, give you the chance to share your cake with everyone.
If you require extra cake you can always have a sheet cake baked so that there is an adequate amount for all. Serve the wedding party from the fancy cake and the rest of the guests from the sheet cake.