,, If the Orthodox Church and her agencies do not provide a whole witness for right Christian behavior, then who will? The modern world brings challenges to the local parish that are substantially different from the demands of the past: secularism is more virulent; the social and cultural fabric does not support Orthodoxy; distractions and temptations abound from media, sports, entertainment and a myriad of local issues. Faced with these challenges, in addition to the cycle of services, sermons and pastoral counseling, local issues of fund raising, baptisms and classes, how can one more issue such as ecology find a place in the parish?

, Some pastors and parishioners see ecology as competing with an already overloaded schedule of parish concerns. But is this an accurate way to view ecology? Ecology, in an Orthodox context, is not a new thing: it is the ancient ‚Äúeconomia‚Äù of salvation as applied to daily life; it is the context of all issues; most especially, it is God‚Äôs providence extended through human agency into social activity. To allow this process to begin, a list of introductory principles and functions follow. The process of awakening parish ecological activity is divided into four general areas of focus: priest, parish, and parishioners.
 There are many activities embraced within the framework of a healing spiritual-ecological activity. The basic theme for the pastor is teacher by example.


The parish priest starts in his home and begins to make deliberate, step-by-step changes, modeling the direction in which the parish will proceed.
The parish priest is the shepherd of the flock. He demonstrates the virtues of temperance and restraint and teaches that immersion into the consumer mentality involves the sins of greed, gluttony and lust, which lead to what the Fathers call ‚"insensibility." He invokes the Orthodox saints to obtain inspiration on working with the deeper elements of Western culture. He prays for the spiritual growth and the ecological awakening of his parishioners and the whole community. He teaches the acquisition of the virtues and family ascesis as defined within the gospel as it relates to consumerism and lifestyle. He embraces elementary ecological practices, such as recycling, the elimination of all styrofoam, and the use of recycled papers.
Offer an occasional class as well as a series of sermons on Orthodoxy and the ecological predicament which is open to other interested people. He explains that ecological degradation involves hidden and unaddressed sin. The priest transmits a spiritual vision of Christ in all things. His emphasis is that ecological practice is not a new thing, but the traditional Orthodox patristic teachings as applied to the decadence of modern culture.
Essentially, the priest presents the ecological crisis so that it gets to peoples‚Äô hearts. Without this felt dimension of ecological sin, there is little motivation for change to take place. This is a pastoral responsibility. Overall, the priest‚Äôs goal is to teach the Orthodox theology of creation and its implications for lifestyle and to emphasize these as integral elements of Orthodox Christian practice.

