 For these purposes, a picture is considered light if it weighs 5 lbs (2.25 kg) or less.Also consider the standard humidity of the room when choosing this method. If the room is frequently humid and the walls are often moist, this method will not work well, since moisture will cause the adhesive bond to weaken quicker.;
, Before you attach an adhesive to a plaster wall, you need to clean the surface of the plaster to strip away any oils and dirt. Dry the plaster thoroughly when finished.


Adhesive glue will not stick to a surface that is rough, dirty, or damp.
Thoroughly drying the wall is important for the sake of the adhesive, but plaster is also fairly porous, so mildew and similar problems may develop if you allow it to stay damp. As such, drying the wall after washing it is twice as important.
There are a few different ways you can clean plaster, but the simplest is to use warm water and mild liquid dish soap.Soak a non-abrasive washcloth in warm water, then place a bead of mild soap on the cloth. Work the soap into a small patch of suds on the cloth.
Rub the area of your wall down with your soapy cloth. Scrub gently, using a circular motion.
Rinse the cloth in warm water, then use it to wipe away any soap residue on the wall.
Use a dry non-abrasive washcloth to wipe away all the moisture on your wall, using a circular motion again. Be as thorough as possible.
 A simple adhesive picture hook should be enough to hang a light picture, but these hooks come in different shapes and sizes. When selecting one, look on the front or back of the package to determine whether or not the hook you've chosen is sturdy enough to support the weight of your picture.


Keep in mind the side of the picture loop or wire hanging off the back of the frame. You should try to choose a hook thickness that this loop or wire will be able to fit onto.
Extremely light pictures without frames might hang on the wall will nothing but a piece of double-sided tape. Similarly, moderately light pictures without frames might be able to hang directly on the adhesive square instead of needing a hook. If you want to be on the safe side, though, using the picture hook will still be your best bet under most circumstances.
 One side of the adhesive square should be labeled “wall side,” while the other should be labeled “hook side,” “picture side,” or something similar. Attach the wall side of the adhesive to the wall, then press the hook on the hook side of the adhesive square.


Place one hook on the wall at the location your picture loop or wire will sit.
If your picture hooks are too thick to fit into the hoop hanging off the back of your frame, consider placing two hooks on the wall where the bottom edge of the picture will rest. These two hooks will need to be evenly positioned horizontally, and the space between them should be just a little smaller than the bottom width of the picture.
 Once the hook is in place, all you need to do is rest the picture loop on the back of your frame on the wall hook.


If using two hooks instead of one, you will use these two hooks like a shelf by resting the bottom of the picture on top of them.
This step should complete the process.

