 One of the most famous quotes often attributed to Bruce Lee is “absorb what is useful. Reject what is useless.” Bruce Lee was known for his extremely focused intensity.


Even if the quote wasn’t actually said by Lee (that’s debated), it captures a lot of his philosophy. He used this ability to focus to his advantage while fighting, but he employed discipline and focus through all aspects of his life.
While being focused on the task at hand, Lee was extremely open to experimentation. He was focused on achieving top physical and mental fitness, but he did so with a wide range of activities and ideas.Bruce Lee was extremely disciplined. Be unpredictable when fighting, though. Bruce Lee had a legendary style of fighting that relied on what was called “the way of the intercepting fist.” That meant that he was an unpredictable fighter who altered his strikes depending on his opponent’s incoming attack. He was entertaining because he was not predictable.
 Bruce Lee believed in internal balance. He was interested in wu wei, which is a term in Taoist philosophy that means “not doing.”The goal of wu wei is to only undertake natural action, and to, thus, allow things to come easily or naturally, rather than partaking in activities that involve struggle or extreme effort.A lot of people misunderstand wu wei. To practice it, clear your mind and get in the flow. Wu wei does not mean laziness. It means not overthinking things and making them more difficult than they need to be. Bruce Lee was known for his metaphysical wisdom.He once wrote that wu wei was “not being without emotion or feeling, but being one in whom feeling was not sticky or blocked. Therefore in order to control myself, I must first accept myself by going with and not against my nature.”

, In order to be like Bruce Lee, you should exercise the mind, not just the body. Read books about philosophy because Bruce Lee merged his philosophical beliefs with his fighting. In fact, while a student at the University of Washington, Lee studied philosophy.


Lee was an atheist who was influenced nonetheless by religious traditions like Taoism, Joddu Krishnamurti and Buddhism. Bruce Lee believed that knowledge led to self-knowledge.
He expressed himself through martial arts. He wrote poetry that spoke about the deeper and darker areas of human psyche. He was interested in human enlightenment.One of his most famous quotes is “Be formless… shapeless, like water.”Bruce Lee once wrote in admiration of water: “Water is so fine that it is impossible to grasp a handful of it; strike it, yet it does not suffer hurt; stab it, and it is not wounded; sever it, yet it is not divided.”, Bruce Lee didn't back down from what he believed in. Primarily, this was because, above all, Bruce Lee believed in himself. He had the confidence to set his own path in life.


Don't confuse that with arrogance. He had enough humility to know that he, himself, did not hold all of the answers, so he turned to many other teachers and disciplines in his quest to find them.
He mastered his own mind and body, taught himself everything he wanted to, and loved himself for it. So you need to know what you want to do in your life, start doing it now, and believe in yourself!
One way to describe Bruce Lee accurately is to say that he was a knowledge seeker. He had an unquenchable thirst for self-improvement, both physical and of the mind. Lee didn’t let oppression hold him back. He shattered cultural barriers and fought back against those who would hold him back.

