


For each trait, consider whether you would describe yourself as ‘high’ or ‘low’ on that dimension or more or less like that trait.
Compare your list of traits, attitudes, and behaviors to the descriptions of the Big Five personality types to help define your personality.
 If you’re highly focused on your goals, organized, detailed-oriented, considerate of your impact on others, and reliable you can consider yourself conscientious.Conscientious people are less impulsive and more deliberate in their actions and plans. On the other hand, you may be low in conscientiousness if you are more impulsive and spontaneous.


For example, if you’re more conscientious and are invited on a spur-of-the-moment vacation, you would think about how much it will cost or how it benefits you.
A less conscientious person would just go on the vacation without worrying so much about these things.
 You are likely to define yourself as agreeable if you are kind, helpful, trusting Or if you think about ways to bring people together and make things run smoothly.You might describe yourself as less agreeable, or disagreeable, if you are more skeptical and suspicious of people, and look out more for your own interests, or if you find that you often come into conflict with others.


If you tell yourself things like, “I can cut some of the tension in this situation and help us compromise” you are probably high in agreeableness.
Thinking things like, “They probably have a secret motive. I’ll just do what’s best for me” is characteristic of people that are more disagreeable.
 Be honest and ask yourself if you are very emotional or sensitive, moody, or unpredictable and emotionally intense.If you cry frequently, apologize unnecessarily for things you do or say, or find friendly physical contact stressful, these may be signs that you are high in neuroticism. People that are lower in this dimension are calmer, less excitable, and more emotionally stable.


For instance, if everyday things like traffic jams or missing the bus completely ruin your mood and your day, you may be neurotic.
If you aren’t bothered by small nuisances and daily challenges, you are probably low on neuroticism.
 If you have an open personality, you are okay with change, like new experiences, and learning new things. You are flexible, view life as a chance to explore, and define your personality by your curiosity.You might be more closed if you are more conservative and prefer routine and tradition to new experiences.If you say to yourself, “This is a chance to have a new experience that could turn into an epic adventure with amazing people” you are likely open.
If you would rather stick with the safe, conservative plan rather than try the risky one, you are probably more closed.
 You could define yourself as extroverted if you are outgoing, enjoy spending time with others, and like doing things in public. On the other hand, if you are more quiet, enjoy time alone, and less energetic you would define yourself as an introvert.For example, you are extroverted if you think to yourself, “How can this be fun? What new people can I meet?” when your friend tells you about a party. You may be introverted if you would prefer to stay home and read or work on a craft project than go to the party.
Keep in mind that shyness and introversion are not the same. You may be good with others but prefer to be alone, or you may want to be social but struggle finding common ground. Look at your desire to be with others as an indicator.

