 Before you completely bail out on your bad date, be patient with them and cut them some slack. It could be that they’re nervous, just like you, or that they just don’t know what to talk about.Remember that first impressions aren’t always true. Give your date some time (and potentially more than one date) to get to know who they really are., Try to let yourself relax a little bit more into the date. It’s anxiety-provoking to meet someone new, so your nerves could be playing into your impression of how the date is going. Focus more on your date rather than your own inner dialogue, worries, or judgments. Listen closely to your date, or focus on the activity you’re doing together.This may help make the date better.
 If your date is shy, he or she may have difficulty opening up to you on the date. Take the pressure off and get the conversation started, but avoid rambling about yourself. Instead, show your curiosity and interest in them. Ask them fun and unexpected questions or find things you have in common.Ask them questions they can't answer with a "yes" or "no," like:What's your family like?
What's your biggest goal in life?
What's your favorite place? Why?

, Your date may start talking about something that makes you uncomfortable or is inappropriate, like a past relationship or politics. Redirecting to a previous topic may be easier and more polite than starting a completely new conversation.You can say, "That's interesting, but I'm more curious about what you were saying earlier about your project at work. Tell me more about that."

, If your date doesn't get the hint, you may have to be more direct with them. You can be polite while still being clear that you're uncomfortable with whatever your date is saying or doing.


If your date is talking about something inappropriate and you want it to stop, you can say, "I'm sorry, but talking about sex makes me feel uncomfortable on a first date. How about we talk about your job instead?"
If your date is doing something inappropriate, like drinking too much or being rude to the waiter, you can say, "I am feeling uncomfortable with how you just talked to the waiter. That's not okay. Please stop."

, Since you're on a date, naturally your date may try to talk about intimacy or may try to touch or hug you. Know what your limits are and stay in your comfort zone with intimacy. Physical touch may be inevitable on a first date and could bring you two closer together, but avoid anything you're uncomfortable with. Be direct when you need to if your date keeps trying to touch you.If your date is making you uncomfortable with touch, you might say, "I appreciate you wanting to hold my hand, but I'm feeling a little nervous. I'd like to talk more and get to know you a little better first."

, Remember that you two just met! It’s perfectly normal that you may be awkward around one another. In fact, acknowledging that it’s weird or that you’re nervous may help turn the bad date around.If you’re feeling like the date isn’t going like you hoped, chances are they are too, so speak up.


You can say, “I’m a little nervous right now, aren’t you? It’s so different talking to someone online and then meeting up in person.”

, Your date may try to impress you and sometimes this could lead to little white lies or bigger lies about who they are. Keep an eye out for any inconsistencies in what they say and call them out for it.You can be gentle and remind them that you just want to get to know who they really are.


You might say, "Hey, it's okay if you don't really speak Spanish. You don't have to impress me. I appreciate honesty."

, Changing the setting of your date or taking a break from the conversation may help to ease the tension of a difficult date. Some ways you can leave the date temporarily without leaving include:


Taking a short bathroom break.
Texting a friend to get advice/tips to help.
Suggesting doing something else fun or different from what was planned.
 You don’t have to stay out on a difficult date forever. Take notice of any warning signs or red flags that this person is not someone you should be spending time with. There is no rule that says you have to stay out on a date just to be nice, particularly if the person is being rude, offensive to your beliefs, or aggressive. Some red flags to take note of include:Your date starts using terms of endearment for you after you just met.
Your date says something sexually inappropriate or uses sexual innuendo.
Your date makes inappropriate comments about your figure, race/ethnicity, or religion.
Your date violates your physical boundaries or makes you uncomfortable.
 Pay attention to your instincts once any red flags come up and/or if you just aren’t enjoying the date anymore. You may want to continue to give someone the benefit of the doubt, but take a moment to really listen to your feelings and evaluate if you can put up with your date anymore tonight or ever. Only you know who and what is best for you., If you’re really not interested in the other person, you won’t be able to fake your way through the rest of the date. Your date will notice that you’re not really listening to him/her. They likely won’t want to continue a relationship with you if you’re not interested, so just be genuine and honest with them.


You can say, “I’m just not feeling a spark with you. You seem like a really nice person, and I’ve enjoyed chatting with you over dinner, but I’m going to go home now. I’m sorry it didn’t work out.”

, Sometimes it may be too confrontational, uncomfortable, or dangerous to be overly direct about ending the date. Instead, keep it focused on you or something you need to do. Some excuses that might be useful include:"I'm sorry, I didn't realize how late it was getting. I need go home now. I have an early morning at work."
"I'm sorry, I'm just not feeling that well. I think something I ate disagreed with me. I need to go home before I get sick on you."
"I'm sorry, I just got a call from my best friend. I forgot she and I had plans later tonight. I need to go."

, When you leave your date, ensure you're own personal safety and that you don't get followed. You may want to let someone know the date has gone badly and make sure you have safe transportation home. For example, you can:Call or text a friend to let them know who you were with, when you're leaving, and when you expect to be home. Or ask them to come pick you up directly.
Let the manager of the bar or restaurant you're at know what's going on. Ask them to call you a cab or walk you to the car. Ask them to distract your date if you need to leave undetected.
Stay on the phone with someone as you leave until you're safely inside your home.
 Make sure that your expectations of the person you’re trying to date are realistic. Honestly assess if you’re trying to connect and enjoy your dates, or if you automatically write them off as “not good enough” because of a bad cologne, being too short, or not having an interesting job. Let go of your expectations and give people more of a chance. Remember that everyone has value, you just have to find it., Try to stay positive and remember that with time and practice, you’ll start to find and enjoy better dates. Don’t give up. Keep dating and think of difficult dates as opportunities to work on your conversational and flirting skills.Rejection is a normal part of dating. Be happy that you were able to reject someone earlier rather than later and save yourself from a difficult relationship., Dinner dates or movies can be time-consuming. It's awkward to try to get out of those dates as they happen. So, actively try to plan shorter dates. You could try:


Meeting for coffee.
Meeting on your lunch break.Meeting for frozen yogurt or dessert.
Meeting at a dog park with your dog.
 Remember why you’re going on dates in the first place to give yourself some motivation. It can be difficult to do if you’ve gone out on several difficult dates, but chances are you’re trying to date people because you want a healthy and fulfilling relationship with someone. Try to remember that and keep that in mind, even after you’ve gone on some difficult dates and aren’t having fun anymore. You can think about and write down:What you want from a relationship.
What you want from a partner.
Why dating and relationships are important to you.
 If you find that you’re constantly going on the same type of date and not having success, reevaluate and add variety. For example, maybe most of your difficult dates have occurred when you’ve scheduled dinner, a movie, and drinks. Instead, add some variety to your dating experience and try doing something you find more fun or enjoyable. That way, if you don’t end up liking your date you’ll at least have a pleasant time on the date.Schedule activities that are time-limited, too, which will help keep the date from lasting forever if it’s difficult. You could try:


Going to a BYOB painting class.
Taking a guided tour or hike.
Going to your local zoo or aquarium.
 Plan dates that are at safe locations where you feel comfortable. Never let a date pick you up from your home until you know them better. Get to know the owners or managers of where you typically go on dates. Have safe transportation lined up and always tell a friend who you're with and where you're going., Instead of forcing yourself to go on more dates that may end up being bad, take some time off from dating to spend time with people you enjoy. Schedule dates with friends and family you may not have spent time with in awhile. Being around people who support you will help you feel more comfortable and relaxed, even if your dating life isn’t going so well. It may even reenergize you to put yourself back out there to date again.