 Line a 9 by 13-inch (22.86 by 33.02-centimeter) baking pan with aluminum foil. Leave a few inches hanging over the edges so that you can remove it later. Lightly grease the foil with cooking spray.;
, If you have not yet done so, melt the butter in the microwave or in a small saucepan over the stove. Pour it into a medium-sized mixing bowl, then add the sugar, eggs, and vanilla extract. Stir everything together with a whisk until the color is consistent and no streaks of egg yolk remain.
 Stir everything together once more until just combined. Be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often so that everything mixes evenly. Be careful not to over-mix, or the brownies will turn out tough.


Make sure that you use plain hot chocolate mix, and not the kind that has powdered milk already added to it.
Give it a Mexican twist by adding 2 teaspoons of ground cinnamon, 1 teaspoon of ground nutmeg, 1 teaspoon of ground ginger, and ½ teaspoon of ground cayenne., You don't have to do this, but it will give the brownies some extra texture and chocolately-goodness. Again, be sure to scrape the bottom and sides of the bowl often.
 Scrape the bowl clean with a rubber spatula so that you don't waste any batter.
 They are ready when they pull away from the sides of the pan and are set in the center., Do this immediately after taking the brownies out of the oven. The heat of the brownies will cause the chocolate chips to soften and melt., After about 5 minutes, the chocolate chips will have softened enough to be spreadable. Use a rubber spatula to spread them over the top of the brownie.The chocolate chips may still hold their shape after 5 minutes, but they should be soft enough to spread.
 Leave them in the pan for about 10 minutes first. Then, use the aluminum foil to lift them out of the pan. Transfer them to a wire cooling rack and let them finish cooling.
 Cut the brownies into 24 squares using a sharp knife. Top each square with three mini marshmallows foe the final touch.