 Some countries will have extensive lists of things you must include in the letter, whereas other countries will not have any requirements. You should check with your country’s visa office and ask if there are any requirements. For example, in Canada, you must include the following information about the person you are inviting to visit:complete name
date of birth
address and telephone number
the person’s relationship to you
the purpose of their trip
how long the person intends to stay in Canada
where the person will stay
how the person will pay for things
the date the person intends to leave Canada;
, The purpose of the letter is to put your country’s consulate at ease that your friend or family member isn’t getting a tourist visa so that they can enter the country and never leave. Accordingly, you want to make sure that the consulate knows the person intends only to stay for a limited period of time.


Go through your country’s requirements, if there are any. Make sure to include all required information.
Be sure to use your own language. The sample language provided in this article is used for illustrative purposes only. Say what you want to say in your own words and don’t worry about sounding “official.”

, You should open a blank word processing document. Set the font to a comfortable size and style. For example, Times New Roman 12 point works for many people, though you could choose something equally readable.


Set up the letter like a standard business letter. If you don’t know what a standard business letter looks like, then search online for a sample.
 At the top of the page, justified with the left-hand margin, you should insert your name and address. Include your full street address, not a P.O. Box number.
 You need to identify the people you are inviting to come visit.Tab two lines down from your address and then insert the address of the person who will be visiting you. Include name and full mailing address.
 Begin the letter informally. For example, you could write, “Dear Mom and Dad” or something similar.In some countries, you might have to address the letter to your immigration office. Check your country’s requirements.
 In the first paragraph, you should extend an invitation and state what you will do during the visit. Try to work in all necessary details, depending on your country, such as the purpose of the visit and the dates (or approximate dates) of the visit.For example, you could write: “I want to invite you to come visit me in the United States from June 1 to July 7, 2016. It would be great to show you my place and catch up. I also want you to meet my new wife, Sharon. During your visit, we can travel to San Francisco, which you’ve always wanted to see.”, You also need to include information about what financial support you will be offering your visitor.If you are offering financial support for a visit to the U.S., then remember to fill out Form I-134 Affidavit of Support, which you can get online.Sample language could read, “I will pay for everything involved in the trip: travel to and from Los Angeles, California, travel to San Francisco, and all meals and housing. I will make reservations and pay for the rooms on our road trip to San Francisco.”

, If your visitors will be staying at your home for the visit, then be sure to state that. Otherwise, include where they will be staying, such as the hotel where they have a reservation.


You could write, “You will stay with me in our guest room at my home located at the above-mentioned address. Sharon and I will provide for your food and other necessities.”

, Remember to end the letter in a natural way. You are not writing a professional business letter. Feel free to show emotion and excitement that you will soon be seeing your friends or family.


For example, you could write, “I can’t wait to see you! You will enjoy your time here, I can assure you! Love, .”Remember to include your full name (first and last). This does make the letter seem more formal. Nevertheless, the visa office will probably want the full name so that they know who is writing the letter.
 You might have to have the letter notarized. You should check with your visa office to see if this is required in your country.You can find a notary public in most courthouses and large banks. You can also use the notary locator at the website for the American Society of Notaries.Enter your zip code and find the nearest notary public.
Be sure to bring sufficient personal identification to show the notary. Generally, a valid driver’s license or passport is sufficient.
 In some countries, you will need to provide documents along with your letter. For example, in Canada you will need to provide the following documents, so you should get them before you sit down to draft your letter:a copy of your birth certificate, if you were born in Canada
a Canadian citizenship card, if you are a naturalized Canadian citizen
a copy of your PR card or IMM 1000 proof of landing, if you are permanent resident of Canada

, If your friends or relatives are visiting the United States, then you will need to fill out Form I-134, Affidavit of Support. The affidavit requires the following information:your name and address
your date and location of birth
your Certificate of Naturalization, Certificate of Citizenship, or other information if you are not a U.S. citizen
your age and how long you have resided in the U.S.
how many dependents you have
the names and addresses of who will be visiting
your relationship to those visiting
information about your job, such as the name and address
your annual income (attach an income tax return if self-employed)
amount of savings, personal property, and stocks and bonds
how much you intend to make in direct contributions to your visitors, if any

, Once you complete the letter, make a copy for your records. You should then mail the letter to your friend or relative. He or she will have to show the letter to the consular office when trying to get a visa.To make sure that the letter was received, you should mail it certified mail, return receipt requested.

