 Your journal can also be a good source to turn to when you are creating a setting for your novel, especially if you have traveled to different areas or countries in your life. Search through your journal for entries on your experiences while traveling in a foreign country. You could then use these experiences to inform a character’s experience in a foreign country.For example, perhaps you have always wanted to set a story in a small town in New Zealand. You could then look at entries from a family trip you took to New Zealand and use information from your journal as part of your research for your novel.
 You can also lean on your journal to help you describe place in your hometown or your local area, especially if you go there often in real life and write about it in your journal. Drawing on real life settings can help you create scenes that feel detailed and engaging in your novel. Use your journal to do this well.Maybe you use notes from your journal about a local diner to help you write scenes set in the same diner in your novel. Or perhaps you use your childhood home as a setting in your novel and use notes from your journal to help you make the setting feel realistic.
 Make sure you pull as many sensory details as you can from your journal, especially if you are setting your novel in a place you have been before. Often in our journals, we tend to describe how we felt in a certain moment, as well as what we smelled, tasted, touched, and saw. Use all of the sensory details in your journal to make a setting in your novel feel more alive.For example, if you are writing a scene in your novel about a fight between the father and the daughter characters in a local diner, you may include sensory details from your journal about a local diner in your area. Look at journal entries on time you spent in the diner and use the details in these entries to inform the scene in your novel.
Or, perhaps you are writing about a character's experience swimming in the ocean for the first time and you use your own experiences as a guide. You may lift notes from your journal that describe how it felt to dive into the warm water, feel the sand under your toes, and smell the seaweed and salt in the air. You could then use these sensory details in your novel to describe a character's first time in the ocean.

