 You can find it online or at your local home improvement store. You may also find it labeled as "liquid stainless steel." Note that this will not change the texture of your appliance, just the color. This means that if your appliance has a wrinkly texture on it, your finished product will also have that same wrinkly texture.


Some places also sell kits that contain most of the supplies you need for your project. You might want to buy some extra foam brushes in different sizes, however.
 If there are some items that you cannot remove, don't worry about them for now; you will be covering them with painter's tape later.


If you are painting a refrigerator, it might be a good idea to take the food out, and put it into an ice box.
If there are any rusty spots, be sure to clean and sand them., This includes the parts what the door seal/magnets touch. Also, make sure to clean off all bits of grease and grime, as they will prevent the paint from adhering. When you are done, spray the appliance down with some window cleaner, then wipe it dry.If you are painting a fridge

, This will keep the door from being pulled shut while you are working on it. If there were any plaques or handles that you weren't able to remove, you should cover them with painter's tape as well.Consider spraying any metal parts with rust-inhibiting primer. This will not only help keep the rust at bay, but also prevent it from coming back.Painting can be messy. It would be a good idea to cover the floor around your appliance with newspaper, butcher paper, or a cheap tablecloth.
 You will be painting your appliance in two sessions, so if you pour all of your paint out now, it will dry out before you use it all.


If you plan on keeping your paint tray, line it with a sheet of aluminum foil. This way, all you have to do is throw the foil away when you are done.
 It is very important to apply a thin coat of paint. If you apply the paint too thickly, you will end up with paint streaks. The thin coat will look messy at first, but the more coats you apply, the smoother your finish will look., This time, go in the opposite direction you painted in: bottom to top. Try to drag the foam brush in a smooth, single stroke without any stopping. Instead of holding the brush by the handle, consider holding it by the edges instead. This will give you more control over direction and pressure.The foam brush will help give you that streaked texture stainless steel has.
Take your time, and try to make the strokes as straight as possible.
 Always let the paint dry before applying another coat; depending on the brand that you are using, it may take around an hour for it to dry.When you get to smaller areas, don't hesitate to switch to a smaller paint roller and a smaller foam brush.
While you are waiting for the paint to dry, keep your paint covered with plastic wrap and your brushes inside plastic bags. This will prevent the paint from drying out and ruining them.
As you continue to work, your foam brush may start to collect too much paint. If this happens, place the brush over the lip of your tray, and drag your paint stick over it, squeezing the excess paint back into the tray., Wait for each coat of sealer to dry before applying the next. Depending on which brand you are using, it will take about two hours for it to dry.You do not need to drag a foam brush through the sealer; simply apply the sealer with a clean foam brush., For a nicer touch, coat the handles with spray paint before attaching them. This is not necessary, but it can add a bit of freshness to your appliance.

