 Pull together as much information as you can about the perpetrator and the crime before you begin the complaint process online.


Supplying as many details as possible allows investigators to best process your complaint and get the correct agencies involved to apprehend the suspect and keep you out of harm's way.If you have any documents or other information, you typically can attach them to your complaint as digital files. You should convert anything you have to digital format before you begin your complaint.For example, if the person left threatening messages on your voicemail, you may be able to convert those messages to MP3 files.
The FBI prefers direct copies of emails, including header information. However, if the threatening messages you received were transmitted through other services, including social media accounts, you can create screen captures of those messages to attach to your complaint., The IC3 is run by the FBI and collects, analyzes, and disseminates information on internet crime to state and federal law enforcement agencies.The IC3 program works specifically with crimes that were committed over the internet, so you can use the service if the person extorting you has sent you an email, contacted you over social media, or otherwise used the internet to deliver threats.Once you file your complaint, IC3 staff evaluate the information to determine whether the incident falls under federal or state jurisdiction, then forward your complaint to the appropriate law enforcement agency., Before you can begin filling out the complaint form, you must read and agree to the terms and conditions.


Keep in mind that when you're entering information to build your complaint, you're doing so under penalty of perjury. False or incorrect information could lead to fines or imprisonment.Your information may be shared with state, federal, or even international law enforcement agencies; however, whether to follow up on your complaint or initiate an investigation is entirely within the discretion of those agencies., The complaint form requires your own name and contact information, as well as all the information you have regarding the crime you want to report.In particular, make sure you include as much information as possible about the person threatening you. It may be that you aren't the only one this person is attempting to extort, or that they have committed extortion in the past. Identifying information about the person can help law enforcement track them down and potentially link them to other crimes.
Make sure to include your own name, address, phone number, and email address so law enforcement agencies or prosecutors can contact you if they require additional information through the course of an investigation.Include as many specific details as possible, including dates and times threats were made, the context of those threats, and the exact words that were used. You also might include information regarding the credibility of the threat, or why you believe the person intends to harm you or someone you care about unless you meet his or her demands.
 Once you're satisfied that your report is complete, you're ready to submit it to IC3 for evaluation.


Make a copy of your complaint for your own records. You'll receive a confirmation email with a username and password to use if you want to check the status of your complaint or add additional information.You can use your username and password to access your complaint and add information at any time. However, once you've submitted your complaint, it can't be deleted or cancelled.