 Make sure the fabric of your garment will not react negatively to the solution in a Tide to Go Pen. Before using it on your food or drink stain, test it out on another small area of fabric that is not easily visible on your garment.


To use the pen for a test, take the cap off and press the tip of the pen firmly onto the area you want to test on until a small amount of solution comes out. Rub the stain with the pen tip, then wait several minutes until the solution mostly dries on the fabric to determine its effect.
The Tide to Go Pen should be safe for use on most garments labeled as a colorfast machine washable or dry cleanable item. However, some fabrics may be more susceptible to change colors or other adverse effects, so it’s important to do this test first.;
, Gently dab or wipe at a food stain that has any excess matter, like a thick sauce or crumbly food item. Take care not to spread the stain any wider than it already is while doing so.


The best way to remove this excess is typically to lay an absorbent paper towel or napkin directly onto the stain, then lift straight up. Or, scoop the excess off with a spoon or knife. Avoid rubbing or swiping at the stain, which could make it spread and worsen.
Note that the Tide to Go Pen works best on spills from food and drink, and will not perform as well or at all on stains from materials like blood, grease, ink, and grass., Uncap the pen and press the tip onto the area of fabric where your stain is located, until enough solution comes out to cover the area of your stain.


A couple of quick presses with the tip is typically sufficient to release enough of the solution. It doesn’t need to be pressed down continuously.
Press the tip straight down, rather than at an angle as if you were writing or beginning to rub the stain with the tip. The tip should actually push into the pen, allowing the solution to be released.
 After pressing the tip down to release solution, rub gently with the pen tip across the area of the stain. The microfiber cloth tip helps to absorb and pick up the stain that the solution pulls out.


Rub until you see the stain begin to lighten or disappear altogether. Make sure you are getting solution and rubbing with the tip over all areas of the stain.
Add more solution if necessary by depressing the tip again. Each part of the stained fabric should be lightly saturated with solution before rubbing.
 Wait several minutes for the fabric to dry to determine the success of the stain removal. Repeat the process of releasing the solution and rubbing with the pen tip if the stain is still very visible.


Note that the Tide to Go Pen is formulated for stains that have recently occurred and is used to pre-treat a stain quickly before it can be washed. Further laundering is expected.
After treating with the Tide to Go Pen, the stain on your garment may still appear slightly discolored, show faint residue from the solution, or have a slight odor. These will all typically be removed with further laundering.
 Blot away any excess solution once you’ve treated the stain with the Tide to Go Pen. You can also let it air dry until you can take the garment off and clean it further.


Use a dry and clean cloth, napkin, or towel to gently blot at the fabric. There may be some visible residue of the solution after it’s dry, which will go away when you wash it later
You should use a damp cloth or napkin to further remove residue of the solution if the treated area of your garment will be exposed to sunlight. This will prevent any lightening that may occur with sun exposure.