 One of the best things you can do after a breakup in order to move on is to make time for the people that are important to you. Reconnecting with people that you care about can provide you with support and encouragement. They can also help you deal with the fact that your ex seems fins after the breakup.Make time to just hang out with each other. You don’t have to have plans to do anything or go anywhere. You can just enjoy each other’s presence.
When your friends and family invite you places accept their invitation. You could have a good time with them and meet new people.
 Breaking up is a difficult process, and you may be feeling upset about everything that has happened. To help make yourself feel more positive, change your thinking about the breakup. Take the breakup as an opportunity for new growth and experiences. Use it to learn something new about yourself that you can apply to future relationships.

For example, think about why the relationship ended. Take those problems, and improve on them in your next relationship.
 Journaling can help you deal with an ex who seems fine after your breakup in a number of ways. Journaling is a way to express your feelings, organize your thoughts, and set post-relationship goals for yourself.Make regular entries in your journal about how you feel about the breakup and how you feel about your ex.
Include goals and action steps for moving on after the breakup in your journal. For example, you might write, “One of my goals is to save the money I was spending on date night.”

, A breakup can cause depression, grief, and anxiety, but you can get help to ensure that you heal in a healthy and supported way. Reach out to a mental health professional who can coach you during this time.

The therapist may ask details about your relationship, such as the state of the relationship before breaking up, how long you had been together, and whether the breakup was mutual or not.
You can also reach out to friends and family members during this time.
 No matter how the relationship ended or how you’re your ex seems to be handling it, dealing with a breakup takes time.In order to cope with the breakup and deal with the fact that your ex seems fine, you should give yourself time to move on.


Don’t let anyone tell you that you are taking too long moving on from the relationship. Give yourself time to heal and be okay.
Remind yourself that everything takes time. Tell yourself, “There’s no deadline for moving on and being fine, so I don’t have to rush myself.”
Consider talking to a professional if you have been having difficulty for a long time dealing with the breakup or seeing your ex seem fine.

