 When you are searching for your investment area, look for a place that has clear signs of growth and economic stability. If you aren’t familiar with the area, take a drive around the town or city and get to know it. Check to see if there is adequate shopping and amenities close by. If you like the area and what it has to offer, chances are your renters will too., See if the properties you are interested in have desirable features, like a great view or ample parking. If so, take that into consideration. There are other issues to consider when picking your property, as well.


If you're deciding between investing in a house or an apartment, keep in mind that houses seem to have a better capital growth rate and apartments tend to have a better rental yield.
Also, the quality of the neighborhood in which you buy will most likely influence the type of tenants you attract. For example, if you buy near a college, you may be renting to students. There is a possibility of vacancies in the summer when the students return home.
Make sure you find out what the property taxes are. Take into consideration that high property taxes may not be such a bad thing if the property is in an excellent area and suited for long-term tenants.
Check to see if the area has any criminal activity. Go to the local police department to learn about the specific area you are interested in. Things to ask about might include vandalism, gang activity or any recent serious crimes. You have a better chance of finding out the facts from the police department, than from the person selling you the property.
Make sure the property isn't in a natural disaster zone. The insurance on the property can get pricey if you are in a questionable area so it is worth checking into. Many property owners are underinsured for natural disasters which can lead to devastating property loss in the event of a major storm or earthquake., You want to make sure the property is in good shape and has up-to-date repairs. You are looking for a property that, with a few minor repairs, will attract tenants who are willing to pay higher rents. In addition, find a contractor who you trust to give you the right advice on any repairs that may be required, especially for older properties. There are some things that you can check yourself, however.


Check the drains to make sure there are no problems with flooding.
Open and close all the windows to make sure they are in working order.
Turn on all the faucets to make sure they are working.
Light a fire in the fireplace to see if it's working.
Flush the toilets to make sure they flush properly.
Open the electrical panel and make sure there are no loose wires.
Turn on the heat and air conditioning to see if they work.
Make sure there is no basement moisture as this can be a sign that there is a more serious problem.
Pull the carpet back to see if there are hardwood floors underneath.
 If you're investing in commercial real estate, your choice of tenant should influence the type of property you buy and where you decide to buy it. For example, families with children will potentially be interested in different amenities than young, single people.See if the property is near any schools.
Check to see if there are any parks in the neighborhood.
See if the shops and cafes are within walking distance.
Find out how close the transportation options are.

