 Use distilled white vinegar and, if possible, distilled or filtered water.If you don’t have those on hand, tap water will work fine. Put them in an empty spray bottle, attach the nozzle and shake briefly to combine them.Spray this mixture on kitchen and bathroom countertops, stovetops, backsplashes, toilet surfaces, tile, flooring and almost any smooth surface you wish. Wipe it up with a paper towel or sponge.
Vinegar and water solutions can help eliminate dirt, soap scum, sticky spills and hard water.;
, Mix one part lemon juice, one part white vinegar and two parts water in a spray bottle. Replace the nozzle and give it a shake. Spray the solution on smooth surfaces you want to disinfect, such as in the kitchen or bathroom. This mixture can typically eliminate 99% of bacteria from surfaces, making it ideal for sanitization., If the vinegar and water solution isn’t getting rid of a carpet stain, add a teaspoon of mild dish soap to the spray bottle. Give it a shake, then spray it directly onto the stain. Allow it to soak for about two minutes, then gently blot at the spill with a clean towel or sponge., To clean heavy soap scum and mineral deposits, skip the water and pour white distilled vinegar into a spray bottle, straight from the jug. Replace the nozzle. Spray the solution onto the affected area, scrub with a brush or sponge and rinse with water.


Use undiluted solutions for soap scum on shower walls and hard water deposits. For toilets, pour straight vinegar right into the bowl.Try disinfecting cutting boards with undiluted vinegar., Mix equal parts white vinegar and water, then pour them into a heat-safe bowl. Place the bowl in your microwave or conventional oven. Microwave or heat the solution long enough to bring it to a boil. Let it cool down a bit before you open the door.Odors will be eliminated and splattered food will be loosened and easy to wipe away.
 Measure out 1 cup (120 mL) of rubbing alcohol, 1 cup (120 mL) of water and 1 tablespoon of white vinegar. Pour them into a spray bottle. Spray the mixture onto glass, mirrors, ceramic tiles and chrome finishes, then wipe with a paper towel or microfiber cloth.This mixture is effective for cleaning and polishing glass surfaces.
For a pleasant citrus scent, add one or two drops of orange essential oil to the mixture.