 Place paper cases into your cupcake tray, or spray the cupcake tray with non-stick greasing spray.


You can use your own recipe. Prepare it as you usually would, then click here.;
, Sift the flour into a large mixing bowl. Add the cocoa powder, baking powder, and espresso powder. Mix the flour well with a whisk until the cocoa and espresso powders are distributed evenly throughout. Set the bowl aside., Keep mixing them together until the mixture is light and fluffy. You can do this by hand in a bowl with a handheld beater. You can also use an electric stand mixer or a food processor., Add the eggs in one at a time, beating the batter well after each one. Next, stir in the milk and the vanilla extract. Keep mixing until the color and texture are consistent. There should be no streaks or swirls of unmixed vanilla or egg yolk.


If the egg mixture curdles, stir in 1 tablespoon of your flour mixture.
 Pour half of the flour mixture into the butter mixture. Stir it in well, then add the remaining half. Keep mixing using a medium speed setting until the two are just mixed together. Be careful not to over-stir.
 Tear open a 5-ounce (141-gram) bag of M&M's. Stir them into the batter with a rubber spatula. Be sure to scrape the bottom of the bowl so that the M&Ms mix in evenly.


You can use plain M&M's, but the "Crispy" kind would be much better.
 Fill each well no more than ⅔ to ¾ of the way, otherwise the batter will overflow as it bakes.Use an ice cream scoop or a soup ladle to fill the cups. This way, you can be sure that each cup gets the same amount.


You will need about 3 tablespoons (45 milliliters) of batter per cupcake., Bake the cupcakes for 18 to 30 minutes. They are ready when a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean. Let them cool in the tin for 5 minutes, then pull them out and let them finish cooling on a wire rack.


The cupcakes must be completely cooled before you frost them. If they are warm, the frosting will melt.
 Mix together the butter and half of the icing sugar. Add in the rest of the sugar and the cocoa powder. Mix well until the color and texture are consistent. You can do this with a handheld beater, an electric mixer, or a food processor fitted with whisks.


You can also use your own frosting recipe if you prefer.
If the frosting is too smooth, add more icing sugar. If the frosting is too stiff, add in 2 to 4 tablespoons (30 to 60 milliliters) of milk.
 Fit a piping bag with a large, open star tip. Fill it with frosting, then pipe the frosting onto each cupcake.

For a twist, pipe the frosting around the outer edge of each cupcake two times to create a well., You can use the M&M's whole, or you can crush them into smaller pieces using a blender or food processor. You may not end up using the entire bag of M&M's.


For a twist, fill the frosting wells with M&M's.