 With the origami paper color-side up and oriented like a diamond (instead of a square), fold the paper in half vertically and press the crease.


Open it, then fold it in half horizontally, pressing the crease.
After making the creases, open the paper and flip it over to the back.;
, With the color-side down, turn the paper so that it sits like a square (instead of a diamond). Fold the paper in half vertically and press the crease.


Open the paper again, then fold it in half horizontally and press the crease.
Open the paper once more. The creases should separate the paper into eight notable sections.
 Rotate the paper into diamond form. Fold the left, right, and top corners down until they meet at the bottom corner.


Note that you should start with the color-side down, but after folding in the corners, the color-side should become visible.
Flatten the paper model after making the folds.
 With the model in diamond form, fold the left and right corners of the upper layer toward the center of the model. Fold the top corner of the upper layer downward so that the corners of this fold meet the top corners of your side folds.


Crease all three folds well, then unfold the paper.
 Use scissors to carefully cut along the vertical center of the upper layer. Only cut up to the top crease line.


Do not cut any of the upper layer creases and do not cut into more than the upper layer.
 Fold the newly cut sections of paper upward. The base of each section should connect from the side corner to the cut at the top crease.


These folded sections will eventually become the legs of the horse.
 Fold the outside corner of each leg section into the shared center corner.


At the completion of this fold, the entire top half of the model has been folded.
 Flip the model over to its other side. Repeat the same folds used on the original top half, making both sides identical.


Start with the upper layer creases and continue through the previous steps until you've folded the leg sections in half.
 Rotation the model until the single corner points upward and the two base corners point down.


Fold the right section upward until the right corner meets the top corner. Crease and unfold.
Fold the top corner down along the left section only, folding no more than one-quarter the length of its long side. Crease and unfold.
 Apply an inside reverse fold along your previous two creases. Doing so should form the head and the tail of the horse.


To make an inside reverse fold, push the corner opposite the crease in between the layers of paper. Continue until the reverse fold hits the crease line. Press along the crease again to reinforce the fold., Fold the tips of all four leg sections upward and along the inside of the model, just enough to flatten the tips into blunt lines.
 Gently separate the four legs, if necessary, and stand the horse upright on its feet. This completes the process.


If done correctly, you might be able to make the horse do a somersault by sharply tapping upward beneath the point of its tail.

