 The only person that you can change is yourself. You cannot change anyone else’s words, feelings, opinions, or actions. However, that does not mean that this will not affect your life. If someone else’s actions are affecting your life negatively, consider the things you can change and accept the things that you cannot change.For example, if a co-worker always has a negative attitude and brings down your whole office’s morale, you must consider the things that you can change. You could find another job, ask to move departments, or simply chose to meet your co-worker’s negativity with love and kindness.;
, Try to think about positive outcomes to any situation. It is much easier to immediately think about all of the things that could go wrong instead of thinking about all of the things that could go right. Try to match your thoughts to the kind of person that you want to be.After a job interview you may think, “I completely failed that interview.” Instead of thinking of all the things that went wrong during the interview, consider the positive things. You made it through the first phase of the application process and secured an interview. You got the chance to practice your interview skills. The more practice you get, the better you’ll be.
 We live in a society where so many people strive for perfection. Recognize that nothing and nobody is perfect. Finding your inner peace will require you to release the need to be perfect. Realize that there is no perfect career, no perfect relationship, and no perfect body or life. The only person you need to please is yourself. Not others. Be your normal human authentic self and stop striving to be someone you're not. In the process you may empower others to follow your lead and do the same., Spending your time with angry people will in turn make you an angrier person. Living with so much anger can lead to turmoil in all aspects of your life. Surround yourself with positive and uplifting people.Choose to spend your time with friends that treat their spouses and children with kindness and respect instead of friends that always fight and argue with their family members.
 Take some time each day to stop thinking about your life and think about nothing. Clear your mind for a few moments each day to help reach your inner peace. This can be done formally and informally throughout your day. You can spend 30 minutes each morning practicing meditation or spend two or three minutes several times throughout the day to focus on nothing but breathing.Keep in mind that mindfulness doesn’t mean we have to eliminate every thought that flows through our minds. All mindfulness means is that we are living in the moment. As your thoughts come through, acknowledge them, and just let them flow out by refocusing on something in your present moment. Remember that you cannot change anything that has happened in your past (so let it go), and you cannot truly know what will happen in the future. The only thing you can affect is the moment you are in right now.
If meditation is difficult for you, consider a guided meditation or a meditation class.
Even if you are busy, find time each day to practice meditation or mindfulness. It can be done in the shower, while brushing your teeth, or on your commute to work.