 If an autistic person stims around you, it often means that they trust you to let them be themselves. It also has meaning depending on the situation. It may be an expression of emotion, a way to reduce stress or overload, a focusing aid, or something else.Here are ways to get hints.



Facial expressions—Stimming while smiling usually means something different from stimming while frowning.

Words and sounds—What they say, or the sounds they make (crying, giggling, etc.) can give clues towards their feelings.

Context—A woman who waves her arms when shown a puppy is probably excited, while if she is waving her arms and whining while working on a difficult project, she may be frustrated or in need of a break.
Sometimes stimming has no emotional meaning, similar to how standing up and stretching is not an indicator of your mood.
 Eye contact can be distracting or painful for autistic people,so they may look at your shirt, your hands, the space next to you, their hands, et cetera.Their eyes may be unfocused during this time. This is usually because their brain is focusing on your words.


If you think they may be zoning out, try saying their name, verbally getting their attention, or gently waving your hand in front of their eyes (if nothing else works).
 Many autistic people relax their facial features when their mind is busy. This may include a faraway gaze, a slightly open mouth, and a general lack of expression.


Some autistic people assume this expression by default when they are focusing on listening to someone.
If an autistic person is staring into space by themselves, assume they are deep in thought. They can still hear you (but get their attention first if you want them to listen).
 Stimming can help with self-calming, focus, and feeling good in general. If an autistic person is stimming while talking to you, assume that it enhances rather than detracts from their focus.
 Some autistic people will make odd faces. Usually this means that they are comfortable enough around you not to censor themselves, which is a very good sign! Here are some potential meanings...



Happiness—Their unique way of smiling and having fun.

Stimming—They need to get their facial muscles moving, similar to how you might play with a zipper or toss around a baseball if you haven't had enough activity.

Being silly—They want to make you smile.

Natural expression—Some disabled people's normal expressions look different from non-disabled people's expressions.

Frustration or pain—Look for contextual clues to see if this matches.
 Movements that seem jerky, clumsy, forceful, or "angry" may not mean anger—it may be dyspraxia, cerebral palsy, sensory processing disorder, or other disabilities that can affect ease of movement. If they often move this way, attribute it to their natural physical challenges, and be wary of misreading them as upset when they're just trying to do something., Autistic people are at high risk for anxiety, and may experience sensory issues that cause discomfort or pain. Unusually agitated movements (including stims) paired with a blank or upset facial expression may mean that the autistic person needs a break.


This can be useful for meltdown and shutdown prevention.
 Autistic people can do all sorts of different things, from calling "Beep! Beep! Beep!" in tandem with the microwave timer to smiling and going limp when hugged. Don't worry about it. Recognize the value in their differences, and appreciate them for who they are.

