 Make sure you follow the manufacturer's instructions when using any electrical appliances or equipment. Do not use the products in ways that are not recommended by the manufacturer.You should also never use defective appliances in your home or office. Get them inspected by the manufacturer or by a qualified electrician.
 You should try to get into the habit of disconnecting small appliances like electric kettles, toasters, and hair dryers, once you are done using them. This way, you save electricity and you lower the risk of an electrical fire due to these appliances.You should also make sure you unplug all appliances before you clean them. You do not want water to come into contact with the appliances while they are plugged in.
 You should only use light bulbs that match the wattage of the fixture. Do not use light bulbs that have a higher wattage than recommended on the light fixture. This is an electrical hazard.Check that the light bulbs are screwed in properly. Improperly secured light bulbs can lead to overheating, which can then lead to an electrical fire.
 Ground Fault Circuit Interrupters (GFCIs), can help to prevent electrical fires by shutting down automatically if a circuit is overloaded or at risk. Your home or office may already have GFCIs installed in the electrical outlets. There will be a small black "test" button and a small red "reset" button on the outlets. You can then use these buttons to reset your electrical current if there is a power overloadThe most common type of GFCI is the "receptacle-type" GFCI, which can be installed in your electrical wall outlets by a qualified electrician.You should have GFCIs installed throughout your home, such as in your kitchen, your bathrooms, your laundry room, your workshop, your basement, and your garage.
There are also temporary, portable GFCIs available for construction sites and outdoor areas where you are using electric tools or yard equipment like lawn mowers or trimmers.
GFCIs in your home or office should be tested on a monthly basis to ensure they are functioning properly. They should be tested by a qualified electrician.

