 This will allow you to add moisture back into dry frizzy hair. You can then blow dry and style your hair.


This works especially well for working kinks out that may have developed overnight.Just wet the kink and blow dry the spot while using a round brush to quickly pull down on your hair.;
, Let your hair air dry.


It's generally good practice to allow wavy or curly hair to dry naturally, since blow drying it can quickly create frizz or triangle hair. If you do choose to blow dry your hair, use a diffuser and your fingers to hold curls and waves in place.
 This works for any type of hair texture, though you may have to dampen hair along the part to make the volume uniform.


You can also blow dry damp hair with your head upside down to restore volume that you might have lost overnight.Make sure that you don't completely dry your hair as it could cause frizz., You can either gently brush your hair, starting at the ends and working your way to the scalp. Never pull to get knots or kinks out.


If your hair is frizzy, rub in a drop of leave-in conditioner and brush using an all-natural bristle brush, which will also reduce static. If you're really running short on time, you can gently rub a dryer sheet over your flyaways. The wax coating on the sheets will smooth back hairs.
Avoid brushing your hair too much when it's dry. This can create flyaways. Better yet, just wet your hair and run your fingers through it to detangle it.Allow your hair to air dry.
 After styling your hair, seal the look with hairspray since the alcohol in it will help soak up any remaining grease.If you find that you constantly have greasy hair, you might consider avoiding conditioner on your scalp and using really hot water to wash your hair. These things can cause your scalp to increase oil production. Also, try not to wash your hair every day as this can strip nutrients from your hair and lead to an oil imbalance., Some good styles that work well with frizzy hair include sleek ponytails or pigtails. Braids are good choices for greasy hair, since the texture of the braids can hide the oil.Keeping a messy look can also hide somewhat kinky or wavy hair. Consider pulling hair up into a loose top bun or a low twist., If your bangs are curling, wet your fingertips to flatten them down or you can push them to the side and secure them with a clip.You can also dampen the root of your bangs and then quickly blow dry in the direction you want the bangs to hang.If you have the time, shampoo and dry just your bangs. They're often the first thing people will notice and can distract from most morning hair problems.

