 Aim for 150 minutes or two-and-a-half hours of moderate-intensity physical activity each week. Incorporating regular aerobic exercise into your daily routine will support your weight loss.


Aerobic activities can include exercises like: walking, jogging, swimming, biking or hiking.
Exercise is a great support to weight loss, but it is only part of the weight loss picture. Exercise alone will not always cause weight loss. Instead, exercise best helps you maintain your weight loss long-term.If using cardio machines (like a treadmill or elliptical) be wary of the "calories burned" feature. Many times, these machines are highly inaccurate. Try to think of exercise as a weight loss support and not to cause weight loss., Weight lifting or resistance training is another important part of your exercise routine. It's recommended to include 2 days of strength training each week.Strength training includes activities like: weight lifting, Pilates or isometric exercises like push-ups or crunches.
 Getting started with an exercise plan can be hard — especially if you're doing it alone. Working out with a friend or partner can be a great motivator to keep you on track and showing up for your weekly sweat sessions.Ask friends, family members, or co-workers to get moving with you.
Get a group of co-workers together to go for a quick lunch-time walk break.
Ask a friend for a weekly "date" to catch up. Plan a walk or a gym session where you can chat and move at the same time.
 Keep your exercise routine fun and exciting by engaging in a variety of different exercises. This can also help prevent over-training or over-using certain muscle groups.If exercising in a gym is not your thing, try a dance class or team sport instead. You will be more willing to stick to it if it is enjoyable for you.
Try incorporating some outdoor activities like hiking, kayaking or biking.
Keep in mind that exercise does not have to be rigorous in order to be effective. Take a stroll or ride a bike. Any movement is beneficial in helping with weight control and is necessary for muscle maintenance.

