 Since it's common to work with many photos at once in Lightroom, before you save your work, you need to specify what, exactly, you want to save. There are several ways to do this — see below:Click on a photo thumbnail in the grid view or film strip. You can use Ctrl + click (Command + click on Macs) to select multiple photos individually or Shift + click to select a continuous range of photos. See this site for more shortcuts (scroll down on the page after it loads.)
Select items in the Library module from the Catalog, Folders, or Collections panel. You can use the Library module's filter options to sort your choices.;
, This should open the Export dialog box, which gives you a wide variety of options for how (and where) to save your files. Since you want to save your files to your computer or a storage device, select "Hard drive" from the "Export to" menu at the top of the window.Realize that, while this "Export" option allows you to save your work, it doesn't affect your master files the way a traditional "Save" option would. In other words, rather than changing the "starting" files you used for your photos, Lightroom makes a new copy of the photos with the changes you made. This means you can't ruin your photos accidentally!

, Below the "Export Location" header, you should see a drop-down menu labeled "Export to:". Your options in this menu are: "Specific folder," "Choose folder later," and "Same folder as original photo." You can't export your work without picking one of these options.


The "Specific folder" option is generally what most people are looking for. This allows you to browse through your computer's directories and pick a specific place to save your files. If you have an external hard drive connected to your computer, you will be able to save in it with this option.
"Choose folder later" will require you to make a decision about where to save the file when you finish. This is usually used when creating a preset (see section below.)
The "Same folder as original photo" does exactly what it sounds like — saves your work in the same file as the original photo is located.
If you check the "Put in Subfolder" box, your work will be saved to a new folder (with the name you provide) located in the directory you chose.
 Under this tab, you should see several options that can be used to give your work a name. Since Lightroom projects often are made up of many different photos, several of these naming conventions are designed to make sorting through long lists of photos easier. A few of these include:



Custom Name (x of y): You supply a single name for all of the files. Each individual file is labeled with its order in the list of photos you've selected (e.g., for a batch of photos labeled "Family," the files would be named Family 1 of 10, Family 2 of 10, Family 3 of 10, etc.)

Custom Name - Sequence: You supply a single name for all of the files. Each individual file gets a numerical label. (e.g., Family 1, Family 2, Family 3, etc.)

Custom Name - Original File Number: Same as above, only based on each photo's order in its original directory.

Custom Name: You pick the name for each individual file (e.g., Birthday Party, Cake, Afterparty, etc.)
The rest of the options use similar naming conventions, only using the date the file was created or its original file name in place of the "Custom Name" value above.
 Not all image files were created equally. Use the options under this tab to determine the quality, color space, and, most importantly, the format of the files you want to save. Your options in the "Image Format" dropdown menu include:


JPEG: Good for most general usage.
PSD: Good for use in Adobe Photoshop.
TIFF: Preserves any layers that have been added to the file with Photoshop.
DNG: Universal file for Adobe products.
 While the tabs discussed above are generally the most useful ones for casual users, the Export dialog box has many other options for customizing the way you save your work. These include:



Video: Allows you to specify format and quality for any video files in your project.

Image Sizing: Gives resizing/resolution options.Output Sharpening: Gives options for improving image quality based on the medium the image will be viewed on (e.g., matte paper, glossy paper, screen, etc.)Metadata: Allows you to specify metadata "tags" for your project for organizational purposes (e.g., keywords, author's name, etc.)Watermarking: Gives options for watermarking your photos to prevent unauthorized usage.

Post-Processing: Allows you to apply touch-up and other effects to your files.
 When you have your export options exactly to your liking, click the "Export" button at the bottom of the dialog box. Your new files will be saved to the location you specified.

