 Find a mild, cream cleanser that suits your skin type. Gently massage your face using light pressure and circular motions when applying to improve blood circulation and to make your skin glow.









Depending on if you have oily, dry, or combination skin, there is a cleanser to help balance, repair, and moisturize your skin.
 This is the best way to thoroughly deep clean your pores. Steam your face once a week to loosen debris that may be embedded into your skin causing it to look dull. The steam works to widen any clogged pores and soften the skin in order to more easily cleanse out impurities, traces of makeup, dust, and dead skin cells that naturally build up.


Boil a pot of water with herbs like thyme, peppermint, rosemary, lavender or lemon. It you have sensitive skin try chamomile or lime.
Carefully hold your face over the steam for about ten to fifteen minutes and then cleanse with face wash. This process will allow your skin to detox.
 For the best results, exfoliate your face immediately after steaming it. Exfoliating removes dead skin and debris that clogs your pores and causes a dull and patchy complexion.









Use a cream based exfoliator that suits your skin type and scrub with gentle, circular motions, avoiding the eye area. Don’t exfoliate your skin for more than 2 minutes, otherwise you can irritate it.
Regular exfoliation prevents problems like blackheads, whiteheads, pimples and acne.
 These masks add moisture, luminosity, and work great to bring back the natural glow to your face. They contain vitamin C which is known to give an especially bright glow to your skin. The best time for applying a face mask is after steaming your face, because the pores are open and the mask will be able to penetrate deeply into the skin.


There are great firming, nourishing, purifying and hydrating facial masks you can try that are designed for every skin type.
 You cannot have glowing skin if you don’t nourish it properly. Right before going to bed, apply a thick layer of face cream that uses natural ingredients such as aloe, honey, chamomile, almond oil, olive oil, vitamins, minerals and essential oils. Thoroughly rub the cream into your skin by using gentle, circular motions.









No matter what age or skin type, this is essential for everyone to practice.
Invest in a good eye cream. Use a peptide-containing eye cream with light-diffusing ingredients to mask dark circles, the inevitable cause of lack of sleep.
When you do apply eye cream, gently massage a small amount using circular motions to increase circulation.
 The lactic acid in milk has a natural exfoliating effect that is easy on the skin. Pour whole milk into a bowl, and soak a wash cloth in it until fully wet. Lightly ring out some of the milk and gently lay it on your face. After five minutes, take it off and wash your face with a cream cleanser and water.
 Mash one banana together with milk and apply it to your face for 20 minutes. This natural mask will give the skin a healthy glow. Honey is another great household item to use on the face to get that fresh glow.









Leaving honey on the skin for around 20 minutes will keep the skin tight and healthy looking. Wash your face with a cleanser after.

