 One way to avoid a run-in with AHB is to make sure they're not in or around your home. Make sure there are no gaps larger than 1⁄8 inch (0.3 cm) around chimneys or plumbing, as this is a favorite spot for bees.


Install screens fine enough to prevent a bee from fitting through.
Inspect any openings for bees coming and leaving your home regularly.
 If you have drains, tubs, or evaporative water coolers, this can attract bees as a water source. Add a few ounces of pine-scented cleaner in the water, as long as its not a water source. If it is a bird-bath add 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of vinegar to deter bees in a way safe to the birds. , With the sheer aggressiveness of AHB, you should never try to remove a nest on your own, especially by hitting it, throwing rocks at it, or burning it.


Look in your local yellow pages for a pest control company to call. You can also call a local beekeeper who may want the bees for their own purposes or have a more humane way to remove the colony without killing the hive.
 Run away as fast as you can. Pull your shirt over your face to protect your head from stings. Do not run toward water as they will likely wait above the water for you. Run toward a well-lit area that may disorient the bees or shelter that can shut them out. Do not swat or flail your arms as you run. This movement will attract the bees further and possibly cause them to become more aggressive.
If you see someone else being attacked, encourage them to run and find shelter but do not physically intervene. This will only increase the risk of you being dangerously hurt and do little to help the person running.
 If you do get stung, do not pull the stinger out as this will release more venom. You should scrape the stingers to the side with a finger nail, dull knife, or credit card. , Since AHB swarm and sting so aggressively, you may not be aware of how many times you were stung. If you begin to feel ill, or know you were stung more than 15 times, seek help immediately.


Other signs of when to seek help: itching, trouble breathing, dizziness, vomiting, and the swelling of your face, tongue or throat. These are all life threatening and you should not wait to see if the symptoms subside before getting help. , If you were only stung a few times and do not require emergency medical care, you can help alleviate the symptoms of the venom. Take an antihistamine immediately and apply hydrocortisone cream to the sting to help reduce swelling and itching.


Use a cool, moist towel or ice to help alleviate sting site symptoms. Do not apply ice directly to the sting and do not use heat.

