 The "right boots" might not be boots at all. Many people who've suffered through heel blisters have found sweet relief by hiking in lighter shoes that don't wrap around the ankle. The common reaction to this suggestion is "but I need the ankle support!" Consider that maybe, with the right conditioning, you can strengthen your ankles and feet, and do not need heavy boots.If you'd rather wear boots, however...;
, There's a lot more to your feet than the size, and normally the other stuff doesn't matter...But when you're racking up miles upon miles walking on uneven terrain, it becomes painfully obvious when your footwear does not conform to your unique foot. If you go to a good shoe store, you can get your feet measured accurately for all of the following:


How wide are your feet? Width comes into play around the balls of your feet. If your boots are too narrow, you've probably suffered the dreaded black pinky toenail.
How narrow is your heel? Many people who get heel blisters have narrow heels, and this contributes to heel lift because the heel area of the boot is too big to snugly hold the heel in place.
Do you have a low, medium, or high volume foot? In rough terms, this describes how "bulky" or "skinny" your feet are. Two people can have the same exact shoe size and width and still have a totally different fit in the same pair of boots.If you tend to get irritation or blisters on the top of your foot (rubbing up against the tongue of a shoe) you probably have high volume feet. Having low volume feet can contribute to heel blisters because your foot will slide up into the extra room in your boot and let your heel lift from the sole.
Note that each factor can vary from one of your feet to the other. It's not uncommon for people to have feet in two different sizes.
 Some manufacturers tend to favor boots that fit certain criteria.


La Sportiva boots are reputed to have a good fit for people with narrow, low-volume feet.Vasque and Asolo boots tend to run narrow.Search the web for the specifics of your feet, such as:

hiking boot brands narrow heel wide toes
best hiking boots low volume feet
finding hiking boots narrow feet heels



, The REI store chain is best known for its generous return policy; you can buy boots, try them out on several hikes, and if they are not a good fit, you can return them within a year of the purchase date., You might think sizing is pretty straightforward, but it's not...


People are at least twice as likely to buy shoes that are too small rather than too big.Feet swell throughout the day, and more so during a hike. Try on shoes at night.
Bring the hiking socks that you actually wear when you go hiking. Wear them as you try on shoes.
 Don't get too ambitious and go on a 15 mile (24 km) hike with your new boots! Give them a chance to conform to your feet (and give your feet a chance to conform to the boots). Be patient and hike in small increments, gradually increasing distance and elevation gain, for the first 15–30 miles (24–48 km) you spend in your new boots.
 For example, if you want to keep the toe box loose and wide but you want to tighten the boot around your ankle, you would lace loosely around the top of your foot, use a surgeon's knot, then lace more tightly the rest of the way. To make a surgeon's knot:


Cross the laces.
Bring one lace over and under the "bridge" you just created. This is the simple knot everyone makes when tying their shoes.
Bring that same lace over and under the "bridge" again. This extra loop creates extra friction that locks in the tension.
Tighten by pulling the laces apart.



Lace your shoes normally through the lacing holes. Stop before you get to the hooks (there are usually two on each side of a hiking boot, at the ankle portion).
Instead of diagonally crossing the laces, have them go straight up to the hooks.
From the hooks, cross the laces and bring them underneath the section that went straight from the lacing hole to the lacing hook.
Bring the laces back together and tie them tightly. Pull and you will feel the pulley system you just created locking your heel into place.
 Many people have reported success in addressing heel blisters with Superfeet insoles (the green version)., This is a piece of foam that goes either between your foot and the tongue of your boot, or between the tongue and the laces, to fill out the extra space if you have low volume feet which push up into the tongue area (and let the heel come up) as you climb.

Wear a liner sock under your hiking socks to wick moisture away and provide a barrier for friction.
Use wool hiking socks, which manage moisture better instead of holding it in like cotton socks do.
Apply duct tape, moleskin, or leukotapeon hot spots as soon as you feel them forming.
 Better yet, switch out your socks for something drier.

