 There are many music festivals that are specific to one genre, such as the Chicago Blues Festival and Hardly Strictly Bluegrass Festival in San Francisco. Going out to music festivals will not only expose you to up and coming bands, but will also put you in contact with others who enjoy listening to the same type of music and you may find end up getting even more recommendations from them.


Music shows and festivals have the added benefit of experiencing the music in a new way, which can make you appreciate not only the new music, but the genre in a different setting.;
, Though we all have specific genres and artists we really like, sometimes we will randomly hear a song that we really enjoy. Do your best to find out what the song is and if it’s an artist you’ve never heard of before, then you’ve already expanded your inner music library a bit!


For example, if you hear a song you like in a bar or restaurant, ask an employee if they know what it is.
You can also use music apps, such as Shazam, if you have a smart phone. Such apps will pick up on the sounds around you and can be surprisingly effective in identifying the song title and artist if no one around you recognizes it.
 Record stores in particular are a great place to find new music in the genres you like as the music is divided into different sections. Employees also tend to be knowledgeable about music so feel free to ask them for recommendations.


If you don’t know of any music stores in your area, trying looking up “music” or “record stores” on Google maps.
You should start by browsing the different sections of the store that carry the genres of music you like. However, if you want to find music that is similar to specific artists, you’re better off asking the employees directly.
Try not to be too specific. If you really, really like an artist, you probably will not be able to find another artist which sounds exactly the same, so don’t get frustrated if the employees give you recommendations that take you out of your comfort zone. After all, it would be boring to listen to music that all sounded exactly the same, so listen to their suggestions with an open mind.

