 The lid switch signals that the door is closed. It should be an oblong hole opposite the door. It will be aligned so that a rod on the inside of the door will fit into it.Because this part takes a lot of wear and tear, it is prone to break.
 You can often get a good sense, just from appearance and touch, whether the lid switch is broken. The switch should be level with the top panel that it is on. It is broken if it is not flush with the surface of the panel.


Touch the lid switch to see if the spring underneath is functioning properly. If you press down on the lid switch and it does not give or spring back into place, it is probably broken., Because of variations in design, it is important to review the instruction manual to see recommendations for how to replace your lid switch. Alternatively search online for “remove lid switch” with the model number and serial number for your dryer., Generally, you will need to remove the lint screen to open the dryer. Pull out the lint screen. Then, use a screw driver to unscrew the lint screen housing panel that the lint screen fits into. After the screws are removed, pull out the housing panel.Always unplug the dryer before opening it up.
 Place putty knives under the left and right side of the top panel of the dryer. Lift simultaneously on both ends to pick up the cabinet top. Move it out of the way., Once you open the top of the dryer, you should be able to find a pair of wires connecting to the door. There should be a locking mechanism where two large plugs connect wires in the control panel to the wires in the door. Disconnect these two parts of the locking mechanism.


You might need to insert a slot screwdriver between the two plugs to release the locking mechanism., There should be two screws on either side of the lid switch, inside the door. Use a screw driver to unscrew these and pull out the lid switch., Put your replacement lid switch where the old lid switch had been. Screw it into place. Connect the wires on the lid switch to the locking mechanism that you disconnected earlier., Lower the top of the dryer back down. Screw the lint trap back into place. Plug the dryer back in.