 Anyone can act heroic by recognizing when someone else is in need and taking action to help them. For example, if you see your neighbor struggling with shoveling snow from their driveway, offer to help. This might not seem like a significant gesture, but to your neighbor, who might be suffering from an illness or injury, you have acted heroic.;
, Whether it’s a friend, colleague, or family member, reaching out and supporting someone when they are in a rough place is a heroic act. For example, if you have a friend who is dealing with a divorce, offer to talk a weekly walk with her. Listen to her and be supportive.
 People around the world suffer from bullying each day. This can happen in a seventh-grade classroom or in a boardroom at a Fortune 500 company. No matter the venue, it is important to act heroic and take a stand if you witness someone being bullied.If you see someone being bullied at school, step in and say, “Jeremy, it’s not okay that you’re making fun of Liz.”
If you witness bullying at work, consider stepping in and reporting the behavior to your supervisor.
 Standing up against racism can help support the victim. It also can demonstrate to the perpetrator that their behavior is unacceptable; it can even stop the perpetrator from engaging in racist acts in the future.If you see racist behavior in public, say something. It can be as straightforward as asking, “Why don’t you leave her alone?” If you don’t feel safe, tell someone who might be able to help like a security guard or bus driver.
If you witness racist behavior online, report it. If the perpetrator is a friend, say something like, “Your Facebook post is racist. It is not okay to make fun of someone because they are Asian American.”

, Discrimination and harassment based on sex is unfortunately a regular occurrence. If you witness sexism, take a stand and speak up. You can act heroic by responding to sexism at work, at school, and in public.If your boss is making sexist comments about your co-worker, report the behavior to human resources or through the appropriate channels.
 The world is filled with children who don’t have the mentorship and guidance they deserve. Do you know of a child or teenager who could use your guidance and support? Offer to spend time with them and help them with life’s challenges, such as applying to college or dealing with a difficult social situation.
 You might also consider joining a community group or even participating in local politics. At the very least, stay up to date on local news, politics, and events to stay in the loop and learn about ways that you can help.