 Sparkling wines are made throughout the world and are known by many names. By understanding the country of origin, you can appreciate the flavor profiles each type of sparkling wine embodies.


Vintners in Champagne, France, a region in the northeastern corner of the country, produce the most commonly known sparkling wine. Only certain approved grape varieties, such as Chardonnay, Pinot Noir, and Pinot Meunier, are allowed in Champagne according to French law. French Champagne is commonly drier than other sparkling wines.Prosecco is an increasingly common sparkling Italian wine. Known for its fruity aroma and large bubbles, Prosecco is often blended into mixed drinks. The main grape used to produce Prosecco is Glera, and it has been cultivated since Roman times.Spanish sparkling wine is known as Cava. Typically dry, many agree that Cava often has a flavor profile similar to Champagne, but for a fraction of the price.Sparkling wine is a common term used to describe any non-Champagne carbonated wine. Despite the non-specific nature of its name, many sparkling wines, particularly those from California, are known for their high quality and good value.;
, Champagnes and sparkling wines vary regarding how much residual sugar remains in the finished product. This determines how sweet or dry the resulting wine tastes.


Brut champagne, a common option, is defined as having less than 15 grams of sugar per liter. In other words, it will not taste sweet at all. Extra brut is drier than brut, and brut zéro is the driest choice. Surprisingly, the flavor of extra dry Champagne is between a sweet and a dry choice. It has a slightly sweet flavor profile, and it is also a good option for pairing with a variety of foods. For a dessert option or sweet choice, consider a champagne labeled “sec” (sweet) or “demi-sec” (semi-sweet). Moscato is a popular dessert choice for sweet, sparkling wine. , Depending on the type of grape used in production, as well as other factors, champagnes and sparkling wines vary in color from white, to pink, to red. Color can affect flavor and how “heavy” the wine feels in the mouth as well.


Champagne made from all white grapes is known as “Blanc de Blancs” or “white of whites.” These wines are usually delicate and taste lighter on the palate than those made by adding red grapes. They are often served as an aperitif.”Blanc de Noirs,” or “white of blacks,” refers to wines made with black grapes (e.g., Pinot Noir or Pinot Meunier). These wines are still light in color, but not as white as Blanc de Blancs. They can range in color from straw or golden yellow to light pink, and their flavor is a little heavier than a Blanc de Blanc.
Rosé wine, which has increased in popularity lately, is typically dry with a berry aroma and a pink or coral color.
An unconventional choice for a sparkling wine is a red one, such as a sparkling Shiraz from Australia or a sparkling Malbec from Argentina. , The crisp acidity and effervescent nature of Champagnes and sparkling wines make them a perfect partner for a variety of dishes. Depending on the type of grape used in production, each kind of Champagne or sparkling wine has optimal food pairings.The lighter quality of Blanc de Blancs compliments foods such as seafood, creamy cheeses, and vegetarian dishes. Blanc de Blancs are sometimes served at the beginning of a meal as an aperitif or while appetizers are being served.
Heavier foods, such as roasted duck or turkey, pair well with Blanc de Noirs. Other options with Blanc de Noirs include pork tenderloin and aged cheeses.
Sparkling rosés are a versatile choice, as they pair nicely with a range of dishes, including Mexican food, holiday hams, and garlic foods.
Grilled and/or spicy foods are enhanced by pairing them with a sparkling red, such as Shiraz or Malbec.

