 This app resembles a white envelope on a purple background with "YAHOO!" written below the envelope.


If you haven't downloaded Yahoo Mail yet, do so from the App Store (iPhone) or the Google Play Store (Android) before continuing.;
, It's at the bottom of the screen.
 You'll need to type in the following information:


First name
Last name
Email address - Your preferred Yahoo email address. If your email address is already taken, you'll have to type in a different one.
Password
Mobile phone number - Without a mobile phone number, you can't create a Yahoo account.
Birth date (month, day, and year)
Gender (optional)

, It's the blue button at the bottom of the screen.


If you've neglected to fill out any of the required fields or your selected username isn't available, you won't be able to proceed until you correct the problem.
 Doing so will prompt Yahoo to text a code to the mobile number you entered earlier.


You can also tap Call me with an Account Key to have Yahoo call you and recite the code.
 You'll see a message from a six-digit number here.
 Doing so will open it. Your five-digit code will be listed like so: "is Your Yahoo Account Key."


If you decided to tap Call me with an Account Key, you should write down the spoken number before continuing.
 This field is in the middle of the screen, just below the "Enter the Account Key we sent to " heading.
 It's the blue button near the middle of the screen.
 Doing so will take you to your Yahoo inbox where you can proceed with setting up your account preferences.
 This option is in the top-left corner of the screen.
 It's in the middle-left side of the screen. Doing so will open your inbox's settings. You'll see two primary options at the top of the Settings page:



Manage accounts - Tap Add account at the bottom of this page's options to enter the account information for another Yahoo account.

Passcode - Change which actions will require re-entering your account's passcode.
 These comprise any settings in the "General" heading of the settings menu. Here, you can tap the following settings to view their options:



Themes - Tap a color at the bottom of the "Select theme" page to change the color scheme for your Yahoo inbox.

Notifications - Slide Enable notifications to the "On" (right) position to turn on app notifications for Yahoo mail. Opening this tab may prompt you to tap OK or Allow for Yahoo notifications.

Signature - Type in a new signature at the bottom of the screen to change what text appears at the bottom of your emails. If you wish to disable the signature, slide Signature to the "Off" (left) position at the top of the screen.

Photo upload - Slide Upload photos to the "On" (right) position to automatically upload your photo library to Yahoo.

Cloud storage - Tap Dropbox or Google Drive to sign into your selected cloud service. Doing so will connect your Yahoo account to the selected cloud storage account.

Block images (switch) - Slide this option to the "On" (right) position to prevent images from appearing by default in received emails.

Confirm delete (switch) - Slide this option to the "On" (right) position to receive a prompt asking you to confirm your choice whenever you delete a message.

Confirm mark as spam (switch) - Slide this option to the "On" (right) position to receive a prompt asking you to confirm your decision whenever you mark a message as spam.
 It's in the top-left corner of the screen. Your Yahoo account is now set up.

