 For some people, it is the grandchildren who come up with a name, while for others, they have a name already clearly determined that they wish to be known by. There are common names such as Gran, Granny, Grandad, Grandpa`, Grandma/Grandma, Nanny, Nan, Gammy, and so forth but you may also prefer your own real name or some other name you've made up. Decide in advance and make your preferences known.


Family tradition may dictate how you are referred to. If you're okay with this, that's great. If not, you may need to have a family discussion over what you'd rather be called.
 As already discussed above, this is something that you must determine. If you don't want to be the 5-day a week childcare stopgap, make this absolutely clear from the outset. On the other hand, if that's something you really want, say so. Consider the following when deciding how you'll help out with raising your grandchildren:


How active a carer do you wish to be? Do you want to take on full-time or part-time regular care to allow your children to keep working?
Are you close enough geographically to be of actual help? If not, how do you plan to connect with the grandchildren regularly?
Can you be of help with the more challenging tasks, such as helping with mealtimes, bedtimes, etc. when the grandchildren are newborn and very young? By assisting with the more challenging parts, you can give your children a much-needed break.
Consider vacation times. Are you willing to have the grandchildren stay with you? Do you wish to travel with them?
How is your health and how easily do you fatigue? These are really important considerations when determining how much help you'll give toward raising your grandchildren.
Consider your finances. Are you willing to help finance aspects of your grandchildren's upbringing (such as school fees, after-school activities, etc.) or is this absolutely against your wishes or abilities? If you do decide to help out financially, how will you draw the boundaries on this help with your children?

, Not only do they have parents to do this for them, but this is where your freedom comes in. You can advise your children as to things you think need attending to but you don't need to parent the grandchildren directly. Moreover, always see yourself as a helping hand, not as someone taking over. New parents, especially new moms, can feel criticized or trampled on if a grandparent takes over control of raising baby and dictates how things ought to be done. Remember that you're not in charge and that you must defer to the new parent's wishes.


Realize that times have moved on since you parented young children, at least two decades and maybe more. A lot changes in a few decades, including the wisdom on parenting. Do not try to interfere or boss the new parents around with old parenting advice. Some modern parenting advice is based on scientific studies about safety, that has overruled unsafe older practices. Unless you've done the latest research, do not presume old parenting habits are accurate.
Learn to send grandchildren back to their parents for permission, when they're present. If your grandchild insists on another cookie or to go to bed later and tries to use you as the decision-maker, help the child to learn that it's not your place to override the parents. Simply say something like: "If your mommy or daddy thinks you can have another cookie/go to bed later, then it'll be okay. But you will have to ask them first."

