 Cats, in general, like to be up high where they can see everything going on. This is one of the reasons cats like to climb on top of tall shelves or the fridge. Providing your kitten with a tall cat tree or cat condo will give her a spot she can go to that makes her feel comfortable.Having a spot like this when something scary is happening can be especially helpful. For example, your kitten may prefer to sit in the cat tree when you are running the vacuum or watching a loud movie.
 While you don’t want to have furniture that has a hiding spot where your kitten can get stuck, it is a good idea to provide your kitten with a safe spot to hide when she’s feeling nervous or scared. A cat tree with a cubby, or a cat tent, are great options.Since you are probably already aware that cats love boxes, providing one or more boxes for your kitten to hide in will also work.
It is also a good idea to have more than one of these hiding spots for your kitten. You might want to put one in each of the main rooms your kittens hangs out in.
 A nervous kitten is likely to be scared of everything. The best thing you can do for a nervous kitten is to remove as many of the scary items as possible. This includes keeping the house (or room) as quiet as possible and slowly introducing sounds over time.Scary sounds might include the TV, radio, vacuum, washing machine, dishwasher, fans, etc.
If your kitten is in her own room, try playing calming sounds or a radio at a low volume in that room to acclimatize your kitten to noises.
 There are several herbal remedies made specifically for cats that can help them keep calm and reduce anxiety. Depending on the type of remedy, you may be able to put it in your kitten’s water, or in her ears.Some cats are also calmed by the scent of lavender or honeysuckle.
Using either the essential oils of lavender or honeysuckle, or a spray made from the essential oils, may help keep your kitten calm.
Do not put the spray or essential oil directly onto your kitten. Instead spray it on their bedding, toys, etc.
 Feline pheromones keep cats calm and reduce their anxiety. Man-made versions of these pheromones are available in spray and plug-in formats that can be placed in your home to help keep cats and kittens calm. These pheromones are similar to the ones cats release when they rub their chins and faces against something when they’re happy.