 For local residents, this will be a simple step, since the Museum is easily located and can be visited and toured in a few hours, but out of town travelers will find the following information helpful:




 The Blue Angels in formation in the sky behind the museum.

Plan your visit during the months of March through November to coincide with the Blue Angels practice schedule, and from the rear of the museum you will have the opportunity to watch these skilled aviators push F-18 Hornets to their limits as they exhibit precision flying at its finest. You can check the Blue Angels practice schedule online at BlueAngels.com for specific times and dates, but typically, practices are held on Tuesday and Wednesday mornings from 8:30-9:30 AM.
If entering the Greater Pensacola Area from Interstate 10, the main traffic corridor through the area, you will want to exit at Pine Forest Road, and travel south to Blue Angel Parkway. Take a left, and continue travelling south until you reach the West Gate to board NAS Pensacola. Once on board the Navy base, continue driving until you see the large, white building on your left with the F-14 Tomcat fighter jet mounted on a steel pylon in its front. You will see signs indicating the entrance to parking lot, and the front entrance of the museum itself.




 The large sign in the front of the museum is hard to miss.

For travelers arriving at the airport, you will need to either rent a car, or take the ECAT (Escambia County Area Transit) bus system to NAS. Bus schedules and routes are available at the courtesy/information desks located in the terminal building at the Pensacola Airport. The route from the airport grounds to NAS is to travel west on Airport Blvd. to 9th Ave., then south to Fairfield Dr. Turn right, then continue on Fairfield to Blue Angel Parkway, take a left turn, and follow the directions in the bullet point above.;
, When you arrive, and as you walk to the entrance, view the static display of the Tomcat, with the bronze statues of Navy personnel who appear to be preparing the aircraft for flight. You will also see a large anchor to the left of the front door, which will give a novice an idea of the size of the Navy ships which serve as floating airfields for the aviators who launch and land their aircraft at sea., Hanging completely restored and intact aircraft from special beams in the building's ceiling allows the museum to accommodate almost 150 aircraft in a relatively small space., They will offer you a museum guide, which is a helpful pamphlet with interesting information and photos detailing the many exhibits of the museum., There is a ticket office inside for those who want to attend the IMAX theater or ride the Flight Simulator ride, which is similar to rides at theme parks. There is also a schedule of movies playing in the IMAX theater, and their viewing times.






Take a break and enjoy such breathtaking movies as The Magic of Flight in the IMAX theater. Movies start on the hour, from 10 AM to 4 PM daily, and the IMAX theater/movie format will make you believe you are in the cockpit of aircraft, flying over beautiful vistas across the country.




 Here is the ticket counter and entrance to the motion flight simulator ride.

Ride the Theme Park-like flight simulator ride, and feel the rush of excitement as the machine tilts, vibrates, and shakes giving the riders the illusion of being in an actual aircraft in flight.
 These Aircraft Carriers have sailed and served in wars beginning during World War II, up through conflicts occurring around the world today. Many of these models are twelve feet long, or longer, and are detailed exactly to represent the ship they represent, including the aircraft you would have seen if you were looking at the ship during its actual service.,,, The original bar top, with its many carved messages from sailors who visited it at Subic Bay, along with patches and decals from their squadrons is there awaiting visitors who want to take a break, and have a cold beer or a burger in this historic atmosphere., In front of this display you will see the World War I recreation of a sandbagged observation post, complete with a propeller driven aircraft, a machine gun nest, and other artifacts from this time period., Try your hand at piloting the simulator, even attempting a carrier landing, one of the most difficult aviation maneuvers there is, where a supersonic warplane is landed on a moving deck scantly wider than a football field, and less than a quarter mile long., Here, you will find seating and a stage used for military functions such as change of command ceremonies, medal awards, and museum fundraising activities hosted by the museum foundation, which is the source of operations and construction of the facility you are visiting., Along the rails of this walkway you will see signage describing the aircraft immediately in front of you with historical information to help you learn more about the exhibit you are viewing., The actual wood planks that were in place of the aircraft carrier are now tread upon by tens of thousands of visitors each year., This library contains manuscripts dating from 1910 until the present, and is open to researchers and scholars who have interests in Naval Aviation and other historical information about the United States Navy. Materials in the library are not circulated, but facilities are provided for visitors to read and view them within the library itself. Appointments are recommended if you expect to require the assistance of library staff to meet your research needs., Outside you will see the many aircraft which are not housed inside the museum building itself, along with others that are awaiting restoration by the museum's staff of dedicated workers., You can also purchase souvenirs at the Flight Deck store, located behind the IMAX theater.