,,







DO NOT let the caliper hang by the rubber hose. Always either tie it to something that's not coming off, or find a nice place for it to rest that it won't drop off. Her it is set on top of the coil spring.
,,, When this nut is removed, the hub assembly will be free to fall off., The outer wheel bearing and washer will come off with the hub assembly, and will be free to fall. The inner bearing SHOULD stay in the hub assembly, but it may stay on the spindle if your seal is bad. Leave it on and it should come off in the next step.,, Thread the nut back on a few turns to keep it from falling completely off of the spindle initially. Once it's separated from the spindle, you can take the nut off and lay it out of the way., Spin it out of the way and have a look at the ball joints. First to come off is the bolt for the pinch joint and camber adapter on the upper ball joint., Same deal as the tie rod end, thread it back on a few turns so it doesn't fall completely., A ball joint separator might be handy here, but it should fall right out after a few good hits.,, Remove the lower ball joint first by setting up the ball joint press with a receiver cup bigger than the ball joint on the upper part of the ball joint, and the forcing screw on the bottom part of the ball joint. This image is set up for installing the lower ball joint, so the only thing you would do differently is not having a receiving cup and adapter plate on the bottom (Only the forcing screw needs to be on bottom). Repeat with the exact same setup for the upper ball joint. The forcing screw will actually go through the hole where the lower ball joint was when pressing out the upper ball joint., Use the setup in the picture for the previous step., Put the inner bearing into the hub assembly, and then tap the seal into place over the bearing. Ensure that the seal is flush with the hub assembly to confirm proper installation., Just install the nuts back at the proper torque on the ball joints, tie rod ends, and wheel lug nuts.