 Turning a pair of boot cut or flare jeans into skinny jeans is easy, as long as you have the right materials. You will need:a pair of boot cut or flair jeans
pins
a sewing machine
thread;
, To figure out how much of the material you will need to take in, you will need to try on your jeans. First, turn them inside out and then put them on normally, with the zipper in front., Stand in front of a mirror and figure out where you want to take in your jeans. This will depend on how loosely the jeans fit you and how tight you want them to be.For example, if the jeans are tight around your hips and thighs, but loose around your calves and ankles, then you will need to take them in around the calves and ankles.
 Once you have decided where you want to take in your jeans, place pins to secure the material along the edges of the outer seam.If the crotch is baggy, then you might want to pin along the inside edges of your jeans instead. That will make it easier to take in the crotch as well. If the jeans are extremely baggy, then you may need to pin the inner and outer edges of your jeans.Make sure that you can still move around in your jeans and get the over your ankles and feet. Do not pin them so tightly that you cannot bend your knees or take them off.
When you are happy with the placement of your pins, you can take off the jeans. Remove them carefully so that the pins do not come loose.
 Sew a straight stitch along the pinned edge of the jeans. Try to sew right along where you placed the pins, but pull out the pins as you go. Do not sew over the pins or you may damage your needle.Remove the pins as you sew.
Sew the other leg after you finish the first one.
 After you finish the first straight stitch on the outside of each pant leg, sew another straight stitch alongside the first one. Try to make the stitch about ¼” away from the first one.Repeat the same stitch on the other leg.
 To make sure that the stitches are firmly in place, you will need to sew a zigzag stitch along the outside of the second straight stitch. Place the zigzag stitch about ¼” away from the second straight stitch., After you have finished stitching the zigzag stitch, you will need to cut the excess material next to the zigzag stitch. Do not cut any of the zigzag stitches though, just cut off the fabric outside of the zigzag stitches.Try to leave about ¼” to ½” of fabric past the zigzag stitch., Try on your new skinny jeans and inspect the hem. If the hem is lower than you’d like it to be, then you can easily adjust it. This is really up to you. If you like the look of a longer hem, then you can leave it. However, if you’d rather have the hem up around your ankles, then you will need to adjust it.


Try on a pair of shoes that you want to wear with your skinny jeans to determine if the hem looks right.
Keep in mind that you can always fold, tuck, or scrunch up the bottoms of your skinny jeans if you decide not to hem the bottoms., When you have decided where you want the hem to be, fold the bottoms of your jeans up to level where you want the new hem to be. Add a few pins to hold the hem in place while you take the jeans off., First, measure the distance between the bottom fold and the original hem. Use a measuring tape to find the distance between the bottom of your jeans and the beginning of the original hem. Write down or remember this number.Then, divide the distance between the bottom fold and the start of the original hem in half. For example, if the distance was three inches, then 1 ½ inches is your new number.
Measure from the edge of the original hem to the new number. Then, pin the bottom of your jeans at this level.
 To make your new hem permanent, stitch along the edges of the original hem. Stitch all the way around the pant legs. When you are done, flip the edges of the pant legs down and try on your jeans.