 Thousands of visitors, veterans, and family gather on this day to honor those whom have died back in 1941. You may call Pearl Harbor toll-free at 1-877-MIGHTYMO (1-877-644-4896) for more information about visiting and tours.
 This event runs from mid-November through mid-December every year in different parts of the North Shore. Top notch surfers from around the world come to compete in surfing competitions & take home prizes up to one million dollars. Note that the surfing forecast determines whether or not an event is held for that day., Throughout the month of December, several special happenings are held.


Honolulu Marathon: Held on the second Sunday, this 26.2 mile (42.2 km) run starts from Ala Moana Beach Park, loops around downtown Honolulu, Waikiki, Diamond Head, Kahala, loops around Hawaii Kai, and finishes at Kapiolani Park.

XTERRA Trail Run: In early December, this race is held at Kualoa Ranch. Aside from the actual championship trail race, they also offer 5 and 10K races, kid races, and more activities.
Christmas Biathlon: Also in early December, the biathlon is held at Ala Moana Beach Park. This race is a 5K run around the park with a 1K swim.
 Located at the corner of South King Street & Punchbowl Street, the city tree is lit throughout the month & a parade is conducted on opening night. What makes Christmas in Hawaii so unique from any place else is "Shaka Santa". Shaka Santa, Mrs. Claus, and other enormous floats & decorations are featured all over the field next to the Hale.
 This bowl game is always on December 24th at Aloha Stadium. There's also family friendly activities offered in the stadium's parking lot prior to the game. If you can't be there in person, check out places around the island that have related events or watch the game on cable., Both Pearlridge and Ala Moana Shopping Center features a "kiddie train", where kids can ride through the mall level. Check out each individual mall website for different entertainment and activities for the holidays. Each year, the Ala Moana Shopping Center Santa is placed on top of the mall, overlooking the beach park.
 In the Blasidell Exhibition Hall, you can create your own gingerbread house and go wild with your imagination. Registration for this event is before Thanksgiving., Held on the 3rd weekend of December, it is packed with crafts & other purchasable gifts for loved ones. You can also donate a can of food to provide for the Hawaii Food Bank., Dozens of entertainment, firework displays, and parties will fulfill a person's interest. Major firework displays are presented at the Ihilani Resort and Spa & Wet 'n' Wild Water park (both in Kapolei), Aloha Tower Marketplace, and Waikiki. Be sure to book early & keep updated on dinner cruises and other events.