 If you want to make a very basic design, you can use three strands of thread. In this example, we're using violet, pink and blue. You may want to make a more elaborate design later on, but this pattern will teach some of the basics of knotting.


Cut out the strands to the length you wish. Keep in mind, as you'll be knotting during the process, the original length of of your threads will be shorter than the final product.
Lie your threads out side-by-side on a flat surface to start.;
, To begin, you'll need to tie a knot near the end of your stands of thread. These will connect the strands together. Tie your knot roughly two centimeters away from the ends of the threads.


As you move forward, you'll have to use specialized types of knots. However, at this point that is not necessary. Just use a basic knot, like a knot you'd use when tying your shoes. Just make sure your knot is tight enough. If it comes undone, your bracelet could unravel.
 Take the outermost strand on the left. In our example, this is the violet thread. Use this thread to make what is known as a forward knot.


To make a forward knot, take your violet thread and bend it at roughly a 90 degree angle, laying it over the pink thread. This should look something like the number four.Then, loop the violet thread under the pink thread, moving upward towards the knot connecting all the threads together. Pull upwards. Then, repeat the process. It's very important you knot twice using forward knots. If you don't knot twice, your bracelet will have too much slack., Continue working with the violet string. Use this string to make a forward knot around the last string in your row. In our example, this is the blue string. Follow the same process you did before, making sure to remember to double knot and tighten the string.
 Once you've made a row with the violet string, repeat this process with the pink string. The pink string will now be the outermost layer of your bracelet, followed by the blue string. Make a forward knot, looping the pink string over the blue string. Then, make a forward knot by looping the pink string over the violet string.
 The blue string will now have taken its place as the outermost string. Make a forward knot around the violet string. Then, make a forward knot around the pink string.
 Now, the violet string will be the outermost string again. Repeat this process, making forward knots with the violet string, followed by the pink string, followed by the blue string.


You can continue knotting until your bracelet is as long as you want. This depends on your needs, wrist size, and other factors.
A bracelet that is too short may not fit. However, a bracelet that's too long may slip off. Pause on occasion while working to wrap what you have around your wrist. Stop when you reach a point where the bracelet can be slipped on and off easily, but remains in place.
 When you reach your desired length, tie the remaining loose threads together in a knot. As with the knot you made at the beginning, just use a basic knot to do so. Then, pull the remaining strings through the loop on the other end of the bracelet. Tie the strings around the loop, forming a circular bracelet.

