 Your natural instinct may be to blow your nose when it feels blocked, but the jury's still out on whether this is actually a good idea or not. Some studies have shown that forcefully blowing your nose can actually lead to a build-up of pressure and trapped mucus in your sinuses, which may become infected.On the other hand, some experts claim that it is important to blow your nose when you're suffering from a cold, as this rids the body of surplus mucus, helping you to decongest.As a compromise, try to only blow your nose when absolutely necessary.


Whatever you believe, make sure to blow your nose gently to avoid excess pressure and use the recommended blowing method, which involves pressing one nostril shut with your finger, while blowing very gently to clear the other, then repeating on the other side.You should avoid sniffing and snuffling as much as possible, as this only draws the mucus back into your head.If you have to be out of the house, be prepared and carry a handkerchief or tissues at all times.
You should always wash your hands after blowing your nose to prevent spreading the cold virus.
Frequent blowing can irritate your skin - use some soft, good quality handkerchiefs to avoid irritating your skin. Use moisturizer on your nose if you need to.
Avoid using paper tissues or Kleenex; they irritate your nose more than cloth handkerchiefs.;
, This is a simple yet effective cold relief remedy that has been around for a long time. To make the honey and lemon tea, boil some water, pour it into a mug, stir in 1 1/2 tablespoons of lemon juice and two teaspoons of honey. The honey will help soothe your sore throat, while the lemon helps to clear up a blocked nose. The vitamin C is also good for fighting infections generally.


The tea should take effect immediately and should ease cold symptoms for at least a few hours.
For optimum feel-good factor, drink this tea while curled up in a comfy chair in front of a roaring fire. You will feel a lot better very soon. Nasal virus thrive in cool temperatures, which is why they thrive in your nose out in the cold air or wind. Studies in Israel showed that breathing warm air reduced cold symptoms. Holding a warm hand over a cold nose for half an hour, breathing through the mouth, can also give the cold-loving virus a set-back.
 Nasal decongestants can provide immediate relief from congestion, by reducing inflammation of the nasal passages and slowing mucus production. Nasal decongestants are available in both tablet and sprays and are sold over-the-counter at most pharmacies.Just be aware that overuse of nasal decongestant sprays (over 3 to 5 days) can actually worsen mucus production, potentially trapping bacteria., One treatment for nasal decongestion which has become very popular in recent years is the practice of flushing out the sinuses with a Neti pot. The Neti pot contains a saline solution which is poured in one nostril and out the other. This thins the mucus in the nasal passages, allowing it to be flushed away. The saline solution can be purchased at most drug stores, or you can make your own.To use a Neti pot, lean over a sink and tilt your head to one side. Insert the spout of the pot into the nearest nostril and pour in the saline solution. The salty water should flow in one nostril and out the other. By reclining and tipping your head back, it can flow into sinuses too.
Once the water stops dripping, gently blow your nose, then repeat on the other side., Consider taking an expectorant medication which helps to clear decongestion by thinning mucous and loosening phlegm, freeing up your airways and allowing you to breathe more easily.Expectorants come in liquid, powder and capsule form and are available over-the-counter.
Side effects of expectorants include nausea, dizziness, drowsiness and vomiting. If you experience any of these symptoms you should contact your doctor immediately., Essential oils such as peppermint, eucalyptus, clove and tea tree oil can help to clear the nasal passages and make breathing easier. There are several ways you can use essential oils. One way is to add a drop or two of your chosen essential oil to a bowl of warm water. Soak a clean face cloth in the water, wring it out, then use it to cover your face and let it sit there for a couple of minutes. Try to inhale deeply and you should feel a noticed improvement in your breathing in just a couple of minutes.


You can also mix a drop or two of essential oil into a little petroleum jelly to make your own vapor rub to massage onto your chest or feet before bed.
Alternatively, you can add a drop or two to your pajamas or to a hot bath, making it easy to inhale the vapors.
 The steam from the hot water will help to clear your nasal passages, while also encouraging relaxation. If the heat leaves you feeling a little dizzy, consider putting a plastic chair or stool in the shower.


If you have long hair, use a blow dryer to minimize losing your body heat after the fact.

