 If you have a vet already, contact them and let them know you’d like your rabbit spayed or neutered. If you don’t have a vet yet, contact local vets in your area. Look for one with experience dealing with rabbits.If you have a friend with rabbits or other pets, you could ask them for a recommendation.
A list of doctors associated with the House Rabbit Society is available on their website at rabbit.org/vet-listings.;
, Don’t hesitate to ask your vet questions if you’re looking for answers to specific questions relating to your rabbit. You should definitely ask about the cost of the surgery, as well as pre and post-surgical care. Find out, for instance, what your rabbit can eat after the operation. Other questions you might want to ask include:Will my bunny be in pain?
How can I help my rabbit recover after the surgery?
Do you anticipate any problems based on my rabbit’s age and health?
What is your success rate for spays/neuters of rabbits?
How much does is costs to spay or neuter my bunny?

, Before spaying or neutering, most vets recommend that you keep your pet’s diet stable. You might administer acidophilus to your rabbit. Acidophilus a probiotic, a bacterial supplement that can aid digestion and minimize risk of infections.Check your local pet store to find rabbit-friendly acidophilus supplements if you’re interested. Follow manufacturer directions .
Some people are surprised that they do no need to withhold food before their rabbit get anesthetized. But because rabbits cannot vomit, there is no need to disrupt their eating schedule., Your vet will not come to you. Therefore, it is important to find a carrier in which you can safely and securely transport your bunny to and from the vet. A good carrier will have a gated opening on both the front and side. The carrier should offer some room for your bunny to move around, but should not be too big.When turned sideways in the carrier, your bunny's front and back legs should be able to touch the sides.
Place a warm blanket or towel in the bottom of the carrier so your bunny can stay warm after the surgery.
Drive slowly and carefully when your rabbit is in the car. Handling your rabbit gently is especially important when bringing it home from the operation, since moving too roughly with it could cause pain and loosen its stitches.
Do not use cardboard boxes or containers of nylon or cloth to transport your bunny. Your bunny might chew through these materials.
 Spaying and neutering are some of the most common surgeries for pets. Vets who perform these surgeries have likely done them hundreds of times with a high rate of success.Other people worry that spaying or neutering will change their rabbit’s personality. But if you spay or neuter at a young age (younger than two years old), your rabbit’s personality should remain intact.


Rabbits spayed after the age of two will also basically remain the same, but could be slightly less affectionate.
Although the surgery itself only takes around 30 minutes, your rabbit needs to be prepared for surgery and then monitored after they recover. Expect to leave the rabbit with the vet and collect them later in the day.

