 One of the biggest hazards to a successful relationship with a Capricorn woman is that, if your goals don't seem compatible, she'll probably simply move on. Save yourself the pain of having this difficult conversation after a years-long relationship by double-checking your long-term goals for compatibility within the first six months of your relationship or so. Questions that you'll want to be able to answer include:


Do either of you plan on getting married in your lifetime?
Do either of you want kids?
Do either of you want pets?
When do you want to settle down?
How much would you like to save and how much would you like to spend?
What major purchases would you like to make?
How do you plan on living your life?

, No couple's long-term plans align perfectly — some amount of compromise is necessary for a long-term relationship to work. When the time comes to start talking about which specific compromises you intend to make, be sure to make her an equal partner in the decision-making. Not only is this common courtesy — it's also a smart move for long-term happiness. Your partner is much more likely to respect your desires if you're willing to sacrifice things so that she can achieve hers.
 Unless you're a Capricorn yourself (or you have a temperament like one), there's a very good chance that your female Capricorn lover will take a longer time to warm up to additional commitments in your relationship than you will. Let her take her time. An initial reluctance to dive head-first into a new relationship isn't likely a reflection of her feelings toward you personally — it's a result of her naturally cautious, deliberate approach to life's decisions. Give her time to open up to you and you'll be glad you waited.
 This may seem like a no-brainer, but it's worth mentioning because this tends to be more important for a Capricorn woman than it does for the average woman. As noted above, Capricorn women are somewhat status-conscious. This means that they tend to notice when they're treated in ways that diminish their status and that they may get embarrassed about certain breaches of etiquette that other women might not even notice. Be respectful to your Capricorn lover — this doesn't mean that you have to be deathly serious around her, but it does mean that you'll want to act differently around her than you would around your closest friends. Things to consider include:


The language you use around her (especially with regards to crude words, etc.)
The way you speak about her in public
The way you talk to your friends about her
The minor courtesies you show her (holding her hand to help her up a step, giving her your coat when it's cold, etc.)

