 You can send an email, a letter, or call the company. Don't fill out forms directly from the website. Send an email to a provided email address or send a letter to a mailbox. Calling is a good option, because you can speak to someone who can answer your questions directly. Calling is the best if you're complaining or requesting, whereas email or mail is better for compliments.;
, Find the product you'd like for free or like a coupon for. Now, get your story straight. Maybe it's mascara, and the tube was completely dried out. Or maybe it's shampoo, and the bottle was less than half full.
 If you call, make sure your tone of voice is slightly upset, but calm. State your problem, tell the company you are disappointed, and mention the competition. Companies don't want to lose a customer, so if you mention you might switch to another brand, they are a sucker for making you happy.
 Once again, find a product. Write down two or three great things about the product itself, then write a thing or two great about the company, then another thing or two about why it's better than the competition. Now, condense it up into a letter.
 At the end of your letter, write something along the lines of...."I love your product, and I'd like to try something else from your company. Can you possibly send me a coupon? Or a product?" Be polite and considerate. Use excellent vocabulary and spell correctly.
 This is the easiest way to get your samples, but sometimes, it doesn't work at all. Send out a letter or call a company asking for a sample of their product. Sometimes, you can include a story about why you need a sample. For a school event, or for a review blog, or anything else you can think of!

, It's a fact-- companies are usually willing to give out samples of products. But, some companies only give out samples they offer to EVERYONE. Check your favorite product's sites or call the company to see if they have any samples open. This method is the most effective.
 Your sample won't be express-shipped to you. Some samples or products take a week, others, 6 to 8 weeks. Be patient.
 They will be more interested in your hand written letter than your three sentence email.
 After you get your sample or even request one, thank the company! Give them a call, email them, or write a letter. Heck, they may send you ANOTHER coupon or free product!

