 Using your campaign media staff, come up with a way to get your name out there. Some ways to do this are billboards, newspaper ads, TV ads, online ads, etc. Give speeches and set up fundraisers. Be creative.


You may want to start with the early caucus states like Iowa, New Hampshire, and South Carolina. These states can give you an early lead that is hard to catch up with in the long run. They'll also give you a boost in being considered for the party nomination.
Be ready to travel. If it wasn't already clear, you'll need to quit your job. You'll be racking up those miles daily, so load up on Dramamine, deodorant, and sign up for a Premier Member card at your favorite chain of hotels.
Campaigning requires vast amounts of money. Come up with an easy way to accept donations and to stay in touch with your initial backers. They're your bread and butter for a long time coming.
 Luckily, you've probably been public speaking for months, so the basics shouldn't be foreign to you. But when you get in front of those bright lights and that timer, the gloves come off. Start practicing ASAP -- you'll be glad you did.


Know what you believe and are advocating. What's more, know what everyone else believes. Not only do you have to have you down, but you have to have your opponents and the world down too. Study precedents, current events, and all your competitors so you know what to expect when you get in the inquisition arena. If you come unprepared, the whole country will be watching your darting eyes and unsteady hands.

Do the research on debating techniques while you're at it. You need to be forceful but not a stick-in-the-mud, caring but not a pushover, and charismatic to boot.
 You've spent a lot of hard-earned time and money campaigning and now you're getting down to the nitty gritty. If you're vying for a spot with the Republican or Democratic party, you have your work cut out for you. Failure may be inevitable.


Surround yourself with a sturdy support system before you get in too deep. They'll be able to catch you when you fall. Running for President of the United States is an incredibly stressful endeavor and should not be taken lightly if for no other reason than your health.
Generally, Americans likes a candidate they can relate to -- at least a little. Keeping your feet on the ground and a good head on your shoulders will benefit you, come failure or victory.

