 Most people experience a wide range of emotions. Sometimes, this even includes experiencing emotions to an extreme extent, but this can be problematic when you experience one extreme (anger, depression, happiness) regardless of the situation, or bounce back and forth between extremes frequently. If you are unable to control how you act in response to an emotion, this is considered to be a lack of impulse control. If your emotions fluctuate frequently or you lack impulse control, you should see your doctor.For example, many people get angry, but if you cannot stop yourself from hitting or shouting at someone in a fit of rage, you are displaying a lack of impulse control.
 You cannot diagnose yourself with personality disorders or emotional dysregulation, nor can a friend or family member diagnose you. The criteria for these conditions are specific and they can only be diagnosed by a mental health professional. If your emotions are interfering with your quality of life, make an appointment with your doctor or a mental health professional., Counseling is a good way to express your emotions. You can also receive feedback and support. Most counseling for emotional conditions will focus on teaching you ways to cope with your emotions and give you a place to practice techniques such as deep breathing.
 Sometimes, emotional imbalances must be addressed with medications that help regulate the chemicals in your brain. If counseling and self regulating fail, you may consider talking to your doctor about a medication. Always follow your doctor's instructions on medications, and never try to self medicate. Ask friends or family for recommendations if you are unsure of how to find a good counselor.
 A personal support system will give you a place to turn when your emotions are overwhelming. Trusted friends and family members are crucial for having a healthy, balanced life. If you are lacking this kind of support, you should reach out and make new friends and begin building this support system for yourself.

