 Sometimes moving the furniture around in your current room can significantly reduce noise pollution at night. You want to make sure that there are large, thick objects blocking or separating you from whatever is causing the most noise. For example:Put a thick bookshelf against a wall you share with a noisy neighbor to help muffle the noise. The more books you place on these shelves the more noise it will muffle!
If your bedroom shares a wall with a noisy neighbor’s living room, move your bed to the side of the room that is farthest from the source of the noise.
Move your bed to be far away from any windows to help reduce the amount of noise you hear from the street.;
, Acoustic tiles are most often used in recording studios and theaters to absorb and diffuse sounds; however, you can use this technology to help block out sounds at night as well. Available online or from many hardware stores, acoustic tiles come in a variety of shapes and colors and when installed can often look like wall art.


You can apply acoustic tiles permanently if you are a homeowner or temporarily if you are a renter. Put these on the walls where the source of the noise is coming from, and the tiles will absorb and diffuse the noise to block out sounds at night.If you can’t find acoustic tiles or don’t like their appearance, try hanging a thick tapestry or rug on the wall for a similar effect.
You can also hang acoustic tiles or thick tapestries from the ceiling to block out noises from above.
 If the loud noises are coming from the outside, the best way to block out noises at night is to make sure your windows are insulated. If you choose to install new double-paned windows to your home, then this can be an expensive solution. But there are other more cost-effective ways to get similar results:Seal any gaps or cracks in the windows with an insulating foam from your local hardware store. This foam won’t harm the existing frames or windowsill, but it will stop noise from entering your bedroom through these cracks.
Hang thick curtains or soundproof curtains on all of the windows in your bedroom. The thick fabric of these curtains will create a buffer to effectively reduce the amount of outside noise that gets into your bedroom at night.
 If the offending noises are coming from below you, a great option for blocking this out is to insulate the floor, making the layer between your floor and their noise thicker. If you rent the apartment or home, this can be done by laying down thick carpets or rugs, or even installing new, thick carpet if your landlord agrees.If you own the space but don’t like the look of carpet, you can also install insulate below the baseboards of your hardwood floors.Cork is the best kind of insulating floor material, but there are other options for insulating the baseboards as well, including fiberglass inserts and acoustically rated floor tiles.
To really block out sounds from below, double up on floor insulation by insulating your hardwood floors and putting down thick area rugs.
 Sometimes the noises at night are amplified simply because of where your bedroom is located within the house or apartment. If your bedroom is a room that is on the main road of the street or next to a room where there is a screaming infant, then switching rooms can help block out a lot of noise at night.


Changing rooms is not always an option if you don’t have another room to switch to, but if it is a possibility, try staying a few nights in a possible new room to see if the noise levels are reduced enough for you to get some sleep.