 Check the weather to make sure you won't get too cold or hot in the clothes you choose, especially if you'll be going outside. Make sure you have gym clothes for all weather stored in your locker so you can choose what to wear based on weather conditions. Most schools won't allow tank tops, so go with a T-shirt and shorts or sweatpants.


Your sweatpants or gym shorts should be breathable and loose-fitting, but not so baggy that they easily fall down.Similarly, your T-shirt shouldn't be restricting, but it also shouldn't be too baggy. T-shirts can be fun... wear a graphic tee or wear bright colors if you want to mix it up!Check the tag... Don't wear all cotton clothing because it will absorb your sweat, and a wet T-shirt against your skin is not ideal! Wear fabrics that will keep you dry such as CoolMax or Dri-FIT.;
, Regular bras are uncomfortable to run in.Wearing a sports bra will ensure you are comfortable while working out. Remember to put on your regular bra after gym class so you don't smell like your sweaty sports bra for the rest of the school day!, If your gym class is in the morning, put your gym clothes on before school so you don't have to change back into them once you get there. Otherwise, quickly put them on in the locker room at school. If you're uncomfortable changing in front of others, go to a private area of the locker room to change.


Be sure to apply plenty of deodorant after you put your shirt on.
 Yes, you will be changing into your gym shoes, but try not to let your bare feet hit the floor. Catching warts from locker rooms is more common than you may think, so it's best to cover your feet. It's also polite and respectful of other people who may have hygiene concerns when it comes to locker rooms., If you don't want your feet to be stinky for the rest of the day, change into a fresh pair of socks for gym class, then change back into your other socks right after gym., Wear athletic tennis shoes that are comfortable on your feet. Sit on a bench while putting on your tennis shoes and socks, and make sure your bare feet don't touch the dirty, germ-covered floor. Lace up your tennis shoes tightly in a double bow so you don't trip on your shoelaces while playing sports or running!Don't wear flip flops, flats, slip-ons or any other shoe that might fall off during physical activities, as it could lead to injury.
 Put your jewelry in a small bag and keep the bag in your locker during gym class. You can even place the post of your earrings through a button hole, then clasp the back end on. This will ensure that they don't fall off during physical activity, and you can easily find them in the bag you keep them in., Washing your face before gym ensures that extra dirt and oil isn't going into your open pores while you're hot and sweaty. You wouldn't want your pores to get clogged!, Although washing your face will keep your pores from clogging while you sweat, the process is time consuming. Use a facial wipe if you don't have time to wash your face before your gym class starts., Avoid applying moisturizer because it could run down your face and into your eyes if you sweat during gym class.Quickly apply a sunblock made for sports to the visible areas of your skin if you're going outside., Use little to no makeup and a tinted lip balm to liven up your face. You're going to be doing physical activity, so it's likely you will sweat some or all of your makeup off. Plus, your pores open up when your face gets warm which could lead to makeup clogging your pores., Squirt a small amount of deep conditioner in the palm of your hand and quickly apply it to the ends of your hair, avoiding the root area. Wash it out after gym class and follow up with shampoo.Your hair will look shiny and moisturized after gym class so you won't have to do much with it while quickly preparing for your next class., Pull your hair up using either a scrunchie or a hair tie. Wrap your hair up in a bun if you want the deep conditioner you applied to keep your hair looking healthy and moisturized. This way, you'll be prepared to run around in gym class without your hair falling all over you.There's no need to brush your ponytail so that it's perfectly free from bumps! You're probably just going to fix it again right after gym class so your hair looks on point for the rest of the school day.
Put a headband on if you really want to even out the bumps and keep your hair in place.Keep extra hair ties on hand in your gym locker because they're easy to lose.
 If you're going for a more girly look, pull your hair back in a loose braid to keep your hair intact during gym class. You can keep it up for the rest of the day after gym, or undo the braid so your hair falls into luscious waves.