 Ask your student how to pronounce his or her name, and try to say it that way. Your student may even have another name they wish to go by, so asking what to call them up front can ease their transition.


For example, many Asian students choose to use “English” names. These may sound similar to their home-language name (e.g., “Jenny” for “Zhenni”) or may be a name they just like the sound of.
You should also tell the student what they should call you and your family. Many students come from cultures that place a high value on respect for elders, so they may feel uncomfortable calling an adult by their first name unless you tell them it’s all right.
You could even have the student offer names or nicknames for you and your family in their native language. This could be a great opportunity to learn something about your student’s language and cultural traditions.
 It is perfectly acceptable for you to enforce reasonable ground rules for your exchange student. For example, if your own children must be home by 10PM on school nights, you should let your exchange student know that s/he has the same responsibilities. Participating in a family’s home life is a big reason why exchange students choose an exchange experience.Students on exchange programs are usually told that they must follow their host family’s rules and expectations. Other common areas for rules and expectations might include:household routines
policies about inviting friends over or having sleepovers
phone and internet use


Remember that your student may be coming from a family with very different rules and traditions. Be patient and accept that your student will probably make mistakes just as your own children will. Remember, they’re just kids too!, Your exchange student has come to your country to learn about your culture and country. However, the learning experience runs both ways -- this is one of the most exciting things about being a host! Never assume that you know everything about your student’s culture. Encourage your student to share their experiences and traditions with you, just as you are doing with them.


Even if you are fairly familiar with your student’s national culture, you don’t necessarily know what their individual and home life is like. Be open to asking questions and learning.Ask open-ended questions, such as “What do you like to do for fun at home?” This will encourage the student to share their experiences with you., Part of the reason the student has chosen to participate in an exchange program is to learn how people in your country live their daily lives. A run to the local supermarket or department store might seem humdrum to you, but it could be an enjoyable new experience for your student. Doing everyday things will also help them feel more at home, rather than feeling like a tourist.


This is especially true if you are an American hosting a foreign student. American grocery stores and supermarkets are often excitingly huge to international students, who may be used to more compact shops., If your family has children, they can offer to introduce the exchange student to some of their own activities. It’s a good idea to encourage your student to get involved in school activities, such as sports and clubs. This will help them build a network of friends.


If your community offers fun activities, let the student know about these opportunities too. Don’t push the student into anything they don’t want to do, but let them know what options are available.
 Your exchange student is in your country to be more than a tourist. S/he wants to learn about a new culture and get experience interacting with new people and new customs. However, it’s a good idea to show your student around your hometown. Let them get to know the community they will be living in.If you have local attractions or landmarks, take your student to visit! Student exchange programs aren’t a vacation, but getting to see local places of importance are a big part of getting to know an area.
 Your student may have many questions about the new culture they’re immersed in. Foreign customs and social matters can be very difficult to figure out as an outsider. Make sure that your student knows they can ask you any questions they have about school, daily life, culture, or anything else.If your family has children, encourage them to share their own experience with the student. There’s no better way to learn, for example, how to deal with social cliques in a foreign high school than to hear all the details from a student who deals with them every day.
You might want to consider visiting with your school’s counselor to make sure your student is adjusting to school., Exchange students must be able to speak their host family's language with basic proficiency. There’s no need to talk painfully slowly unless they request it. Don’t assume that they don’t understand what you’re saying.On the other hand, be aware that your student’s understanding of your language may be limited, especially at first. S/he may not understand everything you say. Don’t condescend to them, but be willing to repeat and explain things.
 You shouldn’t treat your exchange student like a pampered guest with no responsibilities. That isn’t why the student has come to your country on an exchange program. However, you should always try to be kind and supportive of the student.


Remember that politeness and etiquette can be very different across cultures. For example, your student might seem standoffish to you, while they might feel as though they are just being respectful. Talk with your student about his or her home customs.
 If you have chores or simple tasks in your households, let them be a part of it too. Chores could include dishes, taking out the trash, or even walking the dog. Most programs encourage you to involve your student in the daily responsibilities of your home life. This encourages the student to feel more like a family member than a visitor., Most exchange students report loving their exchange experiences. After the first few days or weeks, they will usually adjust to their new life. However, your student might have more difficulty adjusting. You should know what to look for in case your student is having trouble. Warning signs include:Continuing difficulty with the language. For example, the student’s language skills do not improve even though you are involving them in conversations and explaining new concepts to them.
No interest in activities or socializing. Your student should be making new friends. Hopefully, they will also find activities they enjoy. If you don’t hear anything about this, it could be a sign that the student isn’t adjusting well.
Excessive isolation. If your student spends most of time in his or her room and doesn’t seem interested in making new friends, this could mean they are not happy.
Constant calls home. Too many calls and emails home can be a sign that the student is dealing with severe homesickness.
Behavior changes. If the student seems more anxious, depressed, or irritable than usual, they may be having trouble.
School performance. A big part of the exchange experience is academic. If your student isn’t performing well in school, they could be having trouble with the language or the school culture.
Talk with your student if you see any of these things. Offer to help find them assistance, such as a language tutor. Encourage them to see a school counselor. Notify your host program. Don’t let your student’s stay be marred because they have a few difficulties!

