 What part of the tree is it stuck in and how high up is it? Figuring out exactly where the cat is will help you decide how to help it out of the tree.;
, Dogs will just get over-excited by having the cat up a tree and cause the cat more stress.
 Call up to the cat. If the cat is not yours, try to find its owner and have them call to the cat. A cat is more likely to come to a person that it knows.


Clicker training can be very helpful if your cat repeatedly gets stuck in trees. Using a clicker to reinforce the behavior, you can train your cat to come when you call their name. This kind of training can sometimes override fear and hesitation in the cat.
 If it's your cat, use the treat that they like best. If you don't know the cat, try using a treat that smells strongly, such as tuna.


Leave a bowl of dry food at the base of the tree and then walk away. If the cat doesn't know you, it's best to walk away and let the cat come down for the food.
 If the cat likes to play with the dot from a laser pointer, you may be able to side track it into coming down to chase it. Obtain a laser pointer and aim it at a spot where the cat can see it. Almost all cats will be interested in little light like your pointer


Move the point of light down the tree trunk. Repeat this as many times as needed to gain the cat's attention and interest. With any luck, the cat will follow the dot of light down.
 Try cautiously waiting before proceeding with any of the other methods of getting it down. Cats often come down of their own accord, given time and space. The cat may just need space, quiet, and reassurance that no other animals or people are hanging about to bother it.


Also, if you wait, the cat will become hungry and may try to come down on its own.
 This should only happen after you have waited for the cat to come down on its own for a significant amount of time, about 24 hours. Remember, a cats claws are good for climbing up a tree but they are not as good for climbing down. Your cat may genuinely be stuck and need your help!