 Each sport has different regulations and procedures, and you will need to be certified as a referee for a specific sport.If you are not sure which sport you want to referee, some things to consider may include:


Which sport are you most passionate about?
Which sport are you most familiar with?
What refereeing opportunities are available in your area?
Do you have friends/family/children that play a sport you could referee?;
, Observe how the game is played, the signals and procedures referees use, how calls are made, and how disputes are arbitrated. Attending games is also a good way to become acquainted with sporting opportunities in your area, and to meet fellow referees.
 If you are not sure which association certifies referees in the sport you are interested in (or how to contact it), attend games and ask coaches or referees.


Some sports associations have regional representatives who can guide you through the process of becoming a referee., Lots of people can be referees; you don’t have to be perfect or even great at your sport.There can be great, unfilled opportunities for refereeing in your area, or ways that you can give back to your community by refereeing.


For instance, a youth soccer league in your area might be in need of a referee. Even if you aren’t a spectacular player or have no previous refereeing experience, you can learn to become a referee and make a difference in people’s lives.
 Some sports associations will require you to be above a minimum age (such as 21) in order to be certified as a referee.If you are below this minimum age, you can still find out everything you can about refereeing in your chosen sport while you wait.
 To become a referee for many sports, you must have normal vision, hearing, and mobility.Some certification processes will also involve physical fitness tests, so you should begin training even before you expect to become certified.
 These regularly-offered courses may be as short as a few hours, or be more extensive. Usually, there is a fee tor taking the course. You may be assigned books, websites, practice tests, or other materials to help you learn the rules and regulations of your sport.Courses typically cover information such as:Making signals
Using game time correctly
Positioning
Arbitrating violations
Specific concerns depending upon whether you will be refereeing children or adults

, Sports associations will post schedules of regularly held rules clinics. In some cases, rules clinics are held as face-to-face meetings, while in others they may be offered online.In many cases, you will need to attend a rules clinic regularly (such as once a year, or every other year) even after becoming a referee.
 In some cases, you will have to be periodically re-certified as a referee by taking an updated examination. Tests typically cover items such as:Regulations of your sport
A physical fitness examination
A practical evaluation, in which you demonstrate your ability to make sound calls

, The referee certification process for some sports associations will entail a background check and/or fingerprinting.This is especially the case if the refereeing position will involve working with children. Your sports association and training program will explain this requirement and how to fulfill it.
 Many sports associations require you to pay a fee to be licensed as a referee.The fee may cover either the cost of membership in the association, or a specific referee’s fee. The fee amount will vary depending on the sport you are interested in.
 To actually serve as a referee for a game, you will need certain equipment. As a referee, you are expected to wear a uniform that meets your sport association’s regulations. In addition, you may need other items particular to your sport, which may include:Flags
Cards
A whistle
An approved watch

, Referees can go beyond these basics by:


Modeling fair and honest behavior, especially for youth
Keeping records of all games officiated
Refereeing tournaments in addition to regular games
Making reports to the sports association when necessary

, Many sports associations will require regular recertification if you want to continue as a referee.
 For many sports, once you have served as a referee for some time, you may be able to advance to a higher level of referee. This can mean having the responsibility of directing other referees, the ability to referee non-local games, and other services.


In order to advance, you must usually have refereed a certain number of games, attended regular rules clinics, and passed additional certification tests.Specific requirements can vary depending upon your sport.

