 Using any web browser you have on your computer (Google Chrome, Firefox, Internet Explorer, Safari, etc.), go to YouTube’s home page.;
, Click the “Sign In” button on the upper left-hand corner of the web page to go the Google Account Login page. Enter your Google or Gmail account details on the username and password text fields, and click the “Sign In” button to proceed.


If you don’t have an account yet, just click the “Create an account” link at the bottom center of the page, enter your full name, username of choice, and password to get a Google account instantly.
 Now you can start making your slideshow.
 On the right side of the page, you should see the “Photo Slideshow” option. Click the “Create” button right under it to start selecting the photos you want to use for the slideshow.


Click on the “Upload photos” tab and select the “Select photos from your computer” button. A small explorer window will appear.
Using the explorer window, navigate to the location of the pictures you want to use for the slideshow. Select the photos and click “Open” on the explorer window to upload the selected image files.
Once the photos have been uploaded, click the “Next” button on the YouTube page to continue and proceed to the Edit Settings page.
 After choosing the pictures to use, you can now start editing the video settings of your slideshow. Simply click the following drop-down list on the Edit Settings page to start.



Slide Duration – This sets how long your photo slideshow will be. You can choose anywhere between from 1 to 10 seconds, or select “Fit to Music” from the drop-down list to match the video length to the length of the music you’re using.

Slide Effect – If you want some special effects on your photo, click this drop-down list and select “Pan and Zoom” to add a zooming effect on the slideshow.

Transition – Click this drop-down list and choose from the numerous choices of effects that will change the looks of how one picture changes to the next one.
 On the right-hand panel of the Edit Settings page, you’ll see a list of music you can use for your slideshow. Simply click any track from the list to select and add it.


You can choose from over 150,000 music tracks for your slideshow.
 You’ll find this button on the lower right-hand corner of the Edit Settings page. The slideshow will begin uploading.


Uploading may take a while, depending on the sizes of the images you used and the speed of your Internet connection.
 This will add the photo slideshow you created to YouTube. It will now be available for all your viewers to watch.

