 Some illnesses and/or their associate remedies will prevent you from studying due to extreme symptoms like pain or intense drowsiness. In these cases, prioritize getting better over getting a good exam score and be realistic about what, if anything, is achievable. In other cases, although you feel rotten and can't get much further from your bed than the bathroom, you may still be able to read, do online test questions, or use other revision strategies to keep learning.


If you are seriously ill, most schools will offer alternate arrangements for exams. Go to the doctor immediately to seek help and get an official note that can verify your illness to school officials.
 Being sick can make studying feel like a hopeless endeavor and increase your anxiety about exams. Adopting an optimistic mindset (for instance, by reminding yourself that you’re doing your best in spite of the circumstances) and avoiding destructive thoughts (such as, “I’m so sick, I’ll never be able to pass this exam”) will help you pull through a tough time.Keep in mind that any revision that you’re able to do is going to be useful, no matter how minimal. It’s better to study as best as you’re able, than to give up or not study at all.
 To study effectively, you need an environment with minimal distractions; this is even more true when you’re sick and distracted by all your symptoms. Take some time to prepare an appropriate space that’s conducive to studying and has everything you need at your fingertips.Minimize your distractions. Find a quiet place with no other people. Turn off your phone, television, or other electronic devices that you don’t need for studying.
Make sure that you’re comfortable. Avoid studying in bed since it’s likely to make you sleepy, but do pick a seating arrangement and position that will be relaxing for the length of your study session. You don’t want back pain to add to your other bodily woes when you’re sick.
Study in a well-lit room. Even when you’re not ill, poorly lit spaces can cause headaches and eyestrain. When you are sick, you’ll want to avoid exacerbating these symptoms or risk falling asleep.
Keep the means to quickly address your symptoms at hand. For instance, be sure to have a box of tissues and a waste bin to catch all those sniffled-in tissues. You may also want to have cough drops, medicine, water, and snacks with you so that you don’t need to interrupt your revising to get them.
 It’s tempting when you’re revising to go for quick meals and snacks of take-out and junk food. When you’re sick, food in general may seem like a dismal or distasteful prospect. But, the best way to keep yourself going is to eat fresh, healthy food that will give you much needed energy and nutrients.Avoid greasy and sugary foods that can zap your energy. Make sure fresh fruits and vegetables, which are rich in healing vitamins, minerals, and antioxidants, are a key part of your diet.
If your sickness allows, be sure to eat fiber-rich carbs, like oatmeal and whole grains. They’re not only an important part of a healthy diet, they’re also vital to keeping your mind sharp since your brain uses up glucose when you study., Doing so will help you stay hydrated, bolstering your immune system and replacing any fluids lost through coughing or runny noses.Avoid alcohol since it makes you dehydrated and will certainly not help you to study.
 Being sick with a cold or the flu is proven to make your brain less sharp. It negatively affects your mood, reaction time, thought processes, and memory. You can help counter these side effects of sickness with small doses of caffeine, such as drinking a coffee, tea, or other caffeinated beverage.Caffeine causes dehydration, so be sure to drink plenty of clear, non-caffeinated fluids to address its dehydrating effects. For instance, if you have a cup of tea, drink an equal amount of water with it., Being sick often leaves you with fever and pains that can distract from your studying. Using over-the-counter or prescribed medicines can help relieve distracting symptoms.For instance, try acetaminophen, ibuprofen, naproxen or paracetamol for aches and fevers. Cold and flu medicines can also help with congestion and sore throats. Look for non-drowsy varieties to avoid any sleep-inducing side effects.
Always pay attention to any medical warnings on medication labels, and stick to the recommended doses. Avoid taking more than one medication at a time.
 You might be tempted to stay up all night when you’re cramming for an exam, but this will only make you more sick and less likely to perform well on your test. Your body needs sleep to help itself recover and to strengthen your immune system.Not getting sleep will likely make your symptoms worse. Missing a night’s shut eye decreases your ability to think and retain information for as much as four days, which could negatively impact your revision and lower your exam results.