 One of the best ways to like your current boyfriend is to get to know more about him.There are things about him that you already know and like (or else you wouldn’t be with him), but there’s probably a lot about him that you don’t know yet. Learning more about your boyfriend’s interests, hobbies, quirks, etc. will make it a lot easier to like him even though you still love your ex.


Learn what things you have in common. For example, while you may know that you both still watch cartoons, you might not know that you both really enjoy classic Disney cartoons.
Find out what you can learn from him. Your boyfriend might be really good at painting, something you have always wanted to learn.
Discover what makes him smile and laugh, what upsets him, and what his fears, hopes, and dreams are.;
, Your new boyfriend will make mistakes, but you shouldn’t hold these against him. Don’t use his small mess-ups as a reason to not like him. Unless he is doing something that you consider a deal-breaker, cut him a little slack.No one is going to have all of the qualities you are looking for or do things the way you prefer all of the time.
Don’t expect him to know all your likes and dislikes yet. The relationship is still new, so give him time to get to know you.
When he does make a mistake, avoid telling him he is acting like your ex (or how your ex would have handled it better). That can hurt him and make him mad.
 It’s hard to like someone you don’t have respect for. So, to like your boyfriend, respect him. Value him as a person, as well as his presence and his opinion. Treat him like he is important to you when you are alone and in public.


You can show your boyfriend respect by not bringing up your ex a lot or doing things that indicate that you still love your ex.
Show respect for your boyfriend and your current relationship by acting like you are in a relationship (not like a girl trying to get over her ex), spending time with your boyfriend, and getting to know him.
 Comparing your current boyfriend to your ex is not a good idea for several reasons. Mainly it’s a bad idea because in order to compare the two, you have to think about your ex. A lot. It’s also not a good idea because you should like your current boyfriend for who he is — not because of how he is different from (or similar to) your ex.Try not to think about what your boyfriend does better or even similar to your ex.
Don’t look for things that your ex did better. It will reinforce your love for your ex, not help you like your boyfriend more.

