 Your health starts with what you eat since your body needs vitamins, minerals, and proper nutrition to function at its best. Eat green, leafy vegetables, fruit, whole grains and lean meats. Focus on nutritious sources of protein, carbohydrates, fats, and fiber.


Drink at least eight glasses of water daily.
Make sure you eat at least 40 grams of fiber every day.Avoid processed food, excess salt, empty calories, and fast food.;
, Your body requires a period of rest to heal and rejuvenate itself. When we are awake, the body and the mind are active and busy, using our energy to keep us functioning at this level. However, when we sleep, this energy can be used for healing, instead.Make it a habit to get at least 8 hours of good quality sleep every night.


Stick to a routine—go to bed at the same time every night.
Keep work and stimulating activities out of your bedroom. Relax and unwind before it’s time for bed.
Stop worrying about what you haven’t finished or what you have to do the next day. Focus on everything you have accomplished that day., Stress can impair your immune system and make it more difficult for your body to heal and repair itself. When you are sick, ill, or injured, your body needs to focus on repairing the damage instead of working hard to regulate a stressed system. Avoid stressful activities, places, and people as often as possible. If there is something in your life, such as work or a relationship, that is drawing a lot of your energy and creating a stressful environment, then consider ways of improving or alleviating the source of stress.
 Participating in an enjoyable workout regularly can help alleviate stress and promote wellbeing. Try walking, running, swimming, yoga, tai chi, or other group activities. Stretching is very beneficial for healing and can help you stay flexible and healthy., Learning to relax is very important for your wellbeing as well as body and mind health. You should practice some form of relaxation every day.Deep breathing exercises can help relax us physically and mentally.


Take a breathing exercise break for at least five minutes throughout the day.
To breathe for relaxation, close your eyes and place one hand over your belly. Inhale through your nose with a slow, deep breath. Feel your abdomen rise as you breathe in. Now, exhale slowly through your mouth, feeling your belly lower., Your usual routine may lead to chronic stress and begin to wear you down. It is good to pamper yourself every now and then by taking a break from the troubles of your daily life. Take time off work to explore a new hobby, vacation in a new place, or just to relax at home. This can help keep stress at bay and allow your body and mind time to focus on overdue self-care and healing.
 Focus on the people who love and support your healing, and avoid those who bring you down. Your social support system is important for your self-healing endeavors. Spend time with positive friends and family who make you laugh, trust that you can help heal yourself, and reinforce your goals.
 Pay attention to the physical and emotional sensations your body communicates to you. If you feel pain, tightness, nausea or dizziness, then try to find out what is happening to cause the stress response. Consider what you can do to alleviate the stress, such as meditation, expressing yourself creatively, spending time with or talking to someone, laughing, getting a massage, etc. Use your symptoms to change your life for the better., Many people find that the process of creating, whether it is writing, making art, sculpting, playing an instrument or some other creative activity, can be very enjoyable. These activities can promote healing and lessen the effects of stress. They also allow you to express yourself in new and fun ways.
 Smoking can slow healing because it decreases blood supply and prevents enough oxygen and nutrients from getting to damaged tissues. It can also increase the likelihood of developing certain diseases. Other potentially destructive habits and activities that you engage in regularly should also be discontinued as well, such as drinking too much alcohol or caffeine.
 You may need someone on your side with the education and experience to guide you on your self-healing journey. This can be a spiritual teacher, alternative healer, doctor, or therapist. The most important thing is that the healer nurtures you and shares your optimism for self-healing.