 This type of living isn't for everyone, and you'll need to rely on survival instincts to make it each day.;
, Since you simply cannot run to a shower house, flip on ESPN or hit the gym, you must mentally prepare yourself for life away from civilization. This means you'll need to learn food growing, basic survivalist skills and mentally training yourself to live with literally nothing more than what you choose to bring.
 The new paradigm in primitive living is to plan ahead, unlike the days when you had a Swiss Army knife and some clothes. Several items would come in handy should you wish to remain technologically engaged with society: a small or medium solar panel charger, small rainwater collection kit (water stowage), a tent large enough to stand and not feel cramped up in, a means to cook food, at least two weeks worth of easy-to-carry rations and either a consistent financial source, or the skills to barter. Remember––you'll be living outside of a city that is relatively small and without much work.
 Niland sits on California Highway 111, which runs near Interstate 10. You can also take the Route 86 South exit off I-10 as 86 joins 111 near Mecca, CA. From Niland, take Main Street until it joins Beal Road; once you pass Salvation Mountain, you're just around the corner from The Slabs.
 The area is considered 'deserted territory' by the United States government;however, those living there have set up their own camps, so find space that is a comfortable distance from your nearby neighbor. Many 'courtesy' rules exist at The Slabs, such as allowing perennial RVers the courtesy to have the same spot, although these rules are not enforced since they, essentially, cannot be enforced because nobody owns the land.
 If driving, you'll probably want to set up camp near your vehicle to allow others the opportunity to have space; if walking, perhaps 'mark' your territory with a flag, stick sign or something similar. Set up your tent, prepare your bedding, then start mingling with the locals, in order to learn more about The Slabs and their 'community courtesy rules'.
 Many kind folks may have rations to give or loan from time to time, yet it's ultimately your responsibility to feed, water and bathe yourself. Ask if different outposts have been created to help people learn about survival. Again, The Slabs are not governed by any specific body, and nobody can do more than to ask you to leave their particular campsite.
 If you can hitch a ride with someone to town every couple of weeks to gather rations or water, take the opportunity to do so. If hitchhiking back and forth, you should only carry what you can, and maybe make several trips each week.
 Although most individuals are down to earth, rude and disruptive individuals are dealt with, most of the time not very kindly.

