 You can’t become friends with everyone at the workplace, regardless of your best intentions. At best, you can remain civil and tolerate each other. Recognize that people have different values.By acknowledging these differences, you can look at the situation neutrally.


Try to put your failure to build bridges in perspective.Is it that big of a deal? Do you intend to stay at the business much longer?

, Some people might rub us the wrong way because they remind us of someone we don’t like outside of work.For example, a co-worker could remind you of your mother in law or step-father.


Alternately, your coworker could have flaws that you identify in yourself.Maybe you are secretly overly-critical of other people. By forgiving the other person, you forgive yourself for your weaknesses.
By identifying the reason you don’t like someone, you can cope more effectively. You might realize your coworker isn’t intentionally doing anything to annoy you—this is just how the person is.
 Keep conversations as brief as possible. Nevertheless, remember to remain cordial and polite so that you don’t cause any unnecessary tension.Think through what you want to say ahead of time so that you don’t ramble when you’re standing in front of the person.


Also choose the communication method they prefer. If they want an email, send an email.Communicating with their preferred method helps limit face time.
You can also try to communicate through another person as much as possible. Ask your secretary to call your enemy’s secretary to schedule appointments or obtain required information.
 In spite of your best intentions, your enemy might continue to attack or undermine you. You might be left with no choice but to go to HR and report the person for harassment or bullying.For this reason, it is best if you never retaliated against your enemy. Hopefully you didn’t stoop to their level and counterattack them.
You can write a complaint letter to HR. However, you might want to talk to your direct supervisor first, unless it is your supervisor who is harassing you.

