 Belittling, humiliating, disrespecting, or intimidating are not present in healthy relationships.To determine whether you may be dealing with an abusive person, ask yourself the following questions:Do you feel constantly criticized, as though you aren’t good enough?Does the other person call you names or abusive terms?
Does the other person tell you that you don’t “deserve” anything good, or that you will never find anyone better than him or her?
Does the other person make fun of or ridicule you?
Do you feel like you’re always put down, dismissed, or ignored?
Does the other person scream or yell at you?
Do the things the other person says make you feel bad about yourself?

, It can be hard to recognize abuse as such if physical abuse hasn’t happened. However, you might feel like something is “off” about the relationship. You may feel like you’re “walking on eggshells” around the other person, or like you never know what will set him or her off.You may feel like you are to blame for any problems in the relationship. These are very common signs of emotional abuse. Abusers often try to manipulate their victims through blame and guilt. Ask yourself the following:


Do you feel exhausted or tired all the time, especially around the other person? Does it feel like this person “sucks the life” out of you?Do you feel uncomfortable around the other person? Embarrassed? Angry?
Does the other person tell you that his or her feelings or actions are your fault?
Do you feel bad about yourself when you are around this person?
Do you feel responsible for the other person’s actions?
Do you feel “nitpicked” to death over small things?

, Healthy relationships, whether they’re between a parent and child, romantic partners, or coworkers, should make both parties feel safe and supported. If you feel threatened, unsafe, or as though the way the other person treats you is contingent on what you do, you may be with an abusive person.


Abuse isn’t limited to personal or family relationships. Work relationships can also be emotionally abusive. An employer may threaten to fire you if you do not do something s/he wants, or refuse to promote you if s/he doesn’t like you., An abusive person does not accept responsibility for his or her actions. S/he will likely try to blame other people for her/his own feelings and actions. S/he may blame a lack of success on fate or other people.Especially in romantic relationships, blaming statements may sound flattering to you, at least at first. The other person may compare you favorably to other people, such as saying “Those other people I dated always made me so weird” or “You’re so much better than the other horrible people I went out with before.”Abusive people push the responsibility for their feelings and actions onto to others. For example, an abusive person who uses physical violence may say “you make me so mad that I have to hurt you” or “I wouldn’t have to hit you if you learn to do what I want.” Remember: each person is responsible for their own actions. You are not responsible for what someone else does or says.
Abusive people are often very resentful of others. They feel as though life is constantly “unfair” and they blame others for this., Abusive people are often self-absorbed. They generally feel entitled to special treatment and benefits, and they become angry or sensitive when they don’t get what they want.They are usually emotionally volatile and may “go off” over even minor issues.Abusive people are often unkind or cruel to others, especially those in positions with less power, such as restaurant servers and others in the service industry. They may belittle, scream at, or mistreat these people. They generally have a strong sense of superiority to others, and may belittle others to make themselves feel better.
Abusive people often lack proper boundaries. They may push for romantic intimacy or commitment very early, or talk about things like “love at first sight.” They may make overly personal or inappropriate revelations very early on and demand the same from you.
Abusive people often have unrealistic expectations. They may expect perfection and become angry if they don’t see it. They may also rely on you for all of their emotional needs and expect you to do the same., Abuse is a pattern of behavior that is specifically designed to exercise control and power over another person. Abusive people do not allow other people freedom. They are usually exceedingly jealous and controlling. Consider whether you notice any of the following:The other person requires you to “check in” with him or her all the time
You are not “allowed” to be on your own, go to places by yourself, or see friends without the other person present
You are required to get permission or confirm all of your plans with the other person
You are not allowed to use a cellphone or computer without the other person’s knowledge, or your use is heavily monitored
You are isolated from others, including friends, relatives, and coworkers
Obviously, the level of freedom you have depends on your age and other factors. Parents not allowing a teenager to go to a party at 2AM on a school night are not improperly restricting their child’s freedom. However, something like not allowing a child to see friends or go to school could be a sign of abuse.
 Refusing to acknowledge your needs and desires is a common tactic among abusive people. If you consistently feel as though your needs and opinions don’t matter or are dismissed, you may be with an abusive person.


Healthy relationships still have conflicts. The difference is that in a healthy relationship, both partners listen to each other and work together to find a resolution to the issue. Abusive people do not collaborate. They blame the other person for failures and dismiss ideas and opinions that aren’t theirs.
Abusive people insist that their version of events is the “right” one. Abusive people will usually not allow you to have a different opinion about a situation or experience. They may insist that you accept the “facts” that they are giving you as absolutely true.
This applies in work situations, too. You should always feel as though you are able to raise questions and concerns at work without fear of retaliation.

