 It is important to prepare the area where you will build the stand well ahead of the time you plan to begin hunting. This will ensure that your scent is clear of the path by the time you want to hunt. You should clear away some of the noisy ground brush so that you will be able to access your stand without making too much noise., There are several different kinds of hunting stands to choose from. Decide which one works best for you and the area in which you want to hunt. Both types of blinds should be built in areas of heavy deer traffic to increase your chance of encountering a deer while you wait. Be sure to do plenty of scouting around the area before you choose the location to build your stand. Look for deer beds and signs of grazing.


Ground blind/stand. A ground stand requires less work to construct than a tree stand. You can actually build it out of natural materials. Try to find a tree to rest against and then use sticks, leaves, and brush to build up a natural cover that blocks your lower body. Make sure you pick a slightly elevated spot so that you can see animals that approach.Tree stand. A tree stand is a good idea if you are in a heavily wooded area. But make sure there is plenty of leaf cover or branches surrounding your stand, otherwise your silhouette will be noticeable. Use all safety features for the stand (like a climbing harness during construction) to make it completely secure and be cautious when entering and exiting the tree stand. One misstep could mean disaster if you fall.

Make sure you follow all of the manufacturer’s directions when constructing the tree stand. If you skip a step in the building process, it could easily make your tree stand unsafe and dangerous for you to use., Install a rest for your rifle. Some models are designed to wrap around the hunter while they are seated; these are ideal for use in tree stands. Make sure all pieces of your blind/stand are silenced in whatever way possible. Cover your seat with fleece, lubricate any moving parts, encase chains in tubing, and bring a piece of old carpet for the floor of your stand. All of these things will help reduce the noise while you wait.
 Deer travel all day, so you may be waiting for a long time.Bring a book or something to keep yourself occupied. Bring plenty of food and water to last the duration of your hunting excursion. Be prepared to exit your stand when necessary to stretch, or take care of other personal needs. Occasionally moving around will make the waiting more tolerable.

