 With the common cold, as with most every other illness, proper hydration is key to the body’s fighting abilities. Dehydration will only add further complications for your body to deal with, and lessen its capacity for battling the cold.


Generally speaking, drinking plain old water is the best way to hydrate when you have a cold (or anytime for that matter). The traditional recommendation is eight, 8-ounce glasses of water per day, but it is very difficult to drink too much water.When you have a cold, you may also want to try electrolyte drinks (such as sports drinks). This is more important when you are actively losing fluids due to an illness, but it may also be beneficial in this case as well.;
, We all know the discomfort of the scratchy throat and stuffy nose that usually accompany the common cold. Thankfully, there are simple home remedies that can help provide some relief.


Try gargling and spitting with tepid or warm salted water. This can help soothe the throat irritation caused by inflammation, and the antibacterial properties of the saline solution may aid in your battle against germs.Some people like to use a Neti pot or similar device to irrigate the nasal passages with salted water, but you can also achieve a similar decongestant effect with saline nasal sprays.Try a hot shower, a steam, or some other source of warm, moist air. Humid air helps open breathing passages and can assist in soothing irritation. Even a room humidifier will offer some benefit., Not all "tried-and-true" remedies have stood the test of time based on scientific evidence, but others do seem to have legitimate reasons for success in treating cold symptoms.


Prepare chicken soup. This old wives’ tale has some scientific basis to back it up. The combination of broth, vegetables and chicken seems to inhibit part of your immune system response that creates respiratory symptoms. In addition, the hot broth reduces mucus and improves your hydration.Substitute green, echinacea and herbal teas for coffee. You should drink plenty of water while you are ill, and these teas don’t have high diuretic effects like coffee. They will also thin mucus, helping it to leave the body faster.Eat a spicy meal for lunch or dinner. Try chili peppers in a chili, curry or stir fry, which contain high-levels of capsaicin. It is an antioxidant that can also clear out mucus from your nasal passages. This could cause further throat irritation, however.

