 Fill a large stockpot with water. Bring the water to a rolling boil over medium heat. When the water is boiling, add the pasta, and stir immediately so the pasta doesn’t stick to the bottom of the pan. Wait for the water to return to a boil, and then cook the pasta for eight to 10 minutes.The pasta is ready when it is al dente, which means cooked through and chewy but still firm.
When the pasta is ready, transfer it to a colander to drain the water.;
, Melt the butter in a large saucepan over medium heat. Whisk in the flour to make a roux, and cook it for two minutes. Stir in the milk and cook the mixture for another two minutes. When the sauce thickens, remove it from the heat and stir in the cheese.Continue stirring the mixture until the cheese melts.
A roux is a sauce made from flour cooked with a fat, and it’s used to thicken other sauces.
 Return the macaroni to the pot you cooked it in. Pour the cheese onto the macaroni, and season the mixture with salt and pepper. Gently stir the mixture to coat the macaroni with the cheese sauce.

You can use any cheese you like in this recipe, including white cheddar, mozzarella, Velveeta, and more.To help bring out the flavor of the cheese, add a pinch of nutmeg to the dish as well.
Mac and cheese typically only calls for 8 cups (800 g) of grated cheese, but because the mac and cheese balls are going to be cooked twice, it’s important to start with an extra cheesy sauce., Grease a large, shallow baking dish with a light layer of butter or cooking spray. Transfer the mac and cheese to the dish. Cover the pasta with a sheet of plastic wrap and transfer the dish to the refrigerator. Chill the mac and cheese for at least two hours.If you decide the mac and cheese looks too good to pass up, you can serve it warm and garnished with extra cheese!

, Use a cookie scoop, ice cream scoop, or large spoon to scoop the mac and cheese into 1.5-inch (3.8-cm) balls. Use your hands to compact each ball slightly and round it out. Transfer the balls to a baking sheet lined with parchment paper.The homemade recipe made enough mac and cheese to make about 36 balls of this size.
 Transfer the baking sheet to the freezer and let the balls chill for at least two hours. This will help the balls stay together when you fry them. If you have time, you can let the balls freeze overnight., Fill a Dutch oven or heavy-bottomed skillet with at least 2 inches of oil. Heat the oil over medium heat. You want to fry the mac and cheese balls in oil that’s between 350 and 375 F (171 and 191 C). This is the ideal temperature to form a crunchy crust on the outside while also cooking the balls through evenly.Good oils for frying include peanut, canola, and vegetable.
You can also use a deep fryer to make these mac and cheese balls.
 Sprinkle the flour onto a large plate. One at a time, roll each mac and cheese ball in the flour to coat it. Dip the ball into the egg to coat it with egg, and then roll it through the breadcrumbs. Return the ball to the baking sheet. Repeat with each mac and cheese ball until they're all breaded.

You can use any breadcrumbs you like for the balls, but some favorites include panko and seasoned breadcrumbs. You can also use cornmeal if you prefer, or a mixture of cornmeal and breadcrumbs., Transfer the balls to the hot oil using tongs or a spatula. Be careful not to squeeze the balls too hard, or they may fall apart. You will probably have to fry them in multiple batches. Fry the balls for three to four minutes, until they're golden brown and crispy.Cook as many balls at a time as you can without crowding them in the skillet.
After each batch, add more oil if necessary and wait for the oil to return to the right temperature.
 When the balls are golden brown, remove them from the oil with tongs or a spatula. Transfer the cooked balls to a plate lined with paper towels. The towels will absorb excess oil. Let the balls rest for about five minutes before serving to give them time to cool., Pasta dishes always pair well with fresh herbs, and the same is true with deep fried mac and cheese balls. When the balls are still warm, sprinkle them with some chopped fresh herbs or spices, such as:Garlic powder
Onion powder
Chives
Thyme
Oregano
Parsley

, Nothing goes better with macaroni and cheese than more cheese, and grated Parmigiano-Reggiano or another variety is a great way to finish fried mac and cheese balls.Sprinkle the grated cheese on top when the balls are still warm. That way, the cheese will melt on the balls and won’t fall off when you take a bite.

You can garnish the balls with fresh herbs and cheese. Sprinkle the herbs first, followed by the cheese, so that the cheese melts into the herbs.
 Fried mac and cheese balls are a great party food because they're single-serving finger foods. To help guests keep their hands clean, stick a toothpick into each fried ball when it’s still warm and let the balls cool to room temperature before serving., There are a number of different sauces that you can serve mac and cheese balls with, such as a marinara sauce, like the type restaurants often serve with fried mozzarella sticks.You can also get creative and serve the balls with other sauces, such as:

Honey mustardAlfredo sauceBarbecue sauce

