 It should be clear by now that choosing a Montessori school requires a lot of research and planning. Preschool programs often fill up well in advance. So, start your research early and when you've made your decision, alert the school the right away.Generally, it's a good idea to to start your research and preparations a year before you plan on starting your child in preschool.
The sooner your start your research, the more options you will have.
 In addition to evaluating whether the Montessori approach is right for your child and assessing the individual schools based on how well they employ this approach, you should also consider other needs you and your child may have. For example:Consider your work schedule, commute, and geographic location. How far are you willing to drive? Which school's schedules fit with your own?
Do you need full time childcare from the preschool, or are you looking for a part-time experience?
Does the school meet your child's language needs? For example, if your child speaks Spanish at home, can the school accommodate this? Do you want your child to learn a specific second-language? If so, does the school teach it?

, The cost of Montessori preschool varies a great deal from one school to the next. Look into how much each school you are considering costs, as this will probably impact your choice.


A year of Montessori schooling can cost as little as a thousand dollars or as much as 14 thousand.On average, a year of Montessori school for children aged three to six is between five and eight thousand, depending on how many hours per day your child will attend. For infants and toddlers, the average ranges between three and nine thousand dollars.
 Some Montessori preschools offer grants, scholarships, or discounted tuition for families in need of assistance.Look into what options might be offered by those in your area.


Check the websites of preschools you are considering. If you don't find any information there, ask the Head of School what assistance the preschool might be able to offer.
The National Association of Independent Schools also offers financial aid to some families, and provides other resources for funding your child's preschool education as well. You can apply for aid via their website. Have your most recent tax document and pay stubs ready., Once you've determined that Montessori preschool is right for your child, researched the schools, and looked at pricing and other logistics, the final step is to select the best school you can afford.


You might find it helpful to create a ranked list of preschools, starting with the school you would most like to send your child to. Then, note the cost of each, taking into account any scholarships or grants you might be eligible for. Finally, choose the school highest on the list that you are able to afford.

