 Sign up for classes at a local university or community college. You may also want to look into taking courses at a school specifically geared toward languages; these often offer intensive programs that are designed to help you learn a foreign language quickly. Check online for course opportunities as well, since they're often less expensive than in-person options.


Do your Italian homework. There's no sense in taking a language class unless you're going to do all of the homework and exercises. They may seem tedious, but they're absolutely necessary, since learning a brand new language takes hours and hours of practice.
Participate in class discussions. Raise your hand a lot to answer the instructor's questions. Speaking out loud as often as possible and getting feedback on your pronunciation will help you improve much faster than if you listen quietly in the back of the classroom.
 Companies like Rosetta Stone offer software to help you learn languages quickly and on your own time. These language packages have an audio component so you can hear Italian pronunciation and practice it yourself, too. Language software can be expensive, so look into buying a used CD collection or going in on it with a friend who wants to learn Italian, too.
 Having one-on-one instruction is invaluable when it comes to learning a new language. Hire a tutor to help you excel in the classes you are taking. Even if you aren't taking classes, consider meeting with a language tutor a few times a week so that he or she may provide the instruction you need to effectively learn Italian.


Check your university's message boards for graduate students or others proficient in Italian who may advertise tutoring services. Your university's language department may also have a list of tutors available for students.
If you aren't affiliated with a university, look online for people advertising tutoring services. You can work with someone who is actually in Italy by using Skype or another online video program.

