, Shooting, is simple to throw the ball you must have the ball face up in your hand. The ball must be thrown over head height otherwise it's a foul. To throw the ball you don't have to have it in both hands you can use the palm of your hand of a closed fist anything. If you're laying on the floor, you must extend your arms all the way up to throw the ball. If you're on your knees, then you should throw it a bit above your head height.
 Scoring every time your opponent does not get to the ball in time and the ball hits the floor you are awarded 1 point to a preset number usually 2 sets of 21 if it continues to be a draw then go to penalties.
 If you throw the ball out of the ring or the last person to touch the ball (that is if it's a legal throw) a point is awarded to the other player. If you catch the ball and you slide out of the circle court it is OK as long a tiny bit of your body still in the court. Hitting the ball on the line does count as in.
 To start you flip a coin the winner of the coin flip is in the center of the circle court. The loser of the flip has there feet touching the circle but the rest of his body out of the court (laying down) they must throw the ball. As soon as he does he can get up the person can then throw it anywhere in the circle. Alternating. If it's a penalty from a foul then the fouler is the one laying down. If this is the start of the game or the start of a point you cannot win.
 To play doubles or triples its the same rules but you must have an order so you always throw to the same player once the point is over alternate so you throw now only to the other player. During the start, penalty or foul two players must be anywhere outside the circle until the person laying down has the ball.


For Uneven numbers, You go around in a pattern until someone says at the end a point switch and then the order reverses. Penalty, foul, beginning of game and point you do it normally with the extra player out on the side.
 Last team to have players left wins.
 This game has no preset court; it can be square, circle (usually it's a circle), oval. Just make it the correct size fitted for who you playing with and have fun!

, Same rules as doubles but no set person to throw to just anyone on the other team.

