 Be sure to check local codes.;
, Replacing the glass is far easier if the window/door is laying flat on the work surface and is clamped down, caulked side of window facing up. If this isn't possible, you can replace the glass in place; make sure you have a solid footing and are at eye level with the upper third of the pane.



Wear protective gloves and remove the broken glass. Put it in a cardboard box or sturdy paper bag.

When all the glass is out of the frame, tape the box/bag up for disposal and mark it clearly "Broken Glass." Place the box/bag wherever your trash pickup might be.

Use a vacuum to clean up any small shards.
 You may need to heat it up with a heat gun to get it completely loose. Also remove any of the old glazier's points from the broken pane; it's a good idea to save them in case they're a different size from the modern points. Use the metal brush to get the surface as clean as possible.


Optional step: carefully brush linseed oil on the surfaces that will be holding the caulk. This extends the life of your caulk job, but it takes a day or more to dry, so plan your time accordingly.



Measure at both top and bottom to see if the window is plumb. If the shape of the window isn't square or rectangular, make a paper template.

There is a very narrow shelf-type area that the glass lays on; there may also be one side, usually the top, slotted to receive the glass. Remember, you're measuring where the glass lays, not the visual opening.
 The replacement glass should fit on the "shelf" from side to side and top to bottom fairly snugly, but to allow for expansion and contraction, have the glass cut up to 1/8" (.31 cm) smaller on the top and one side.



With the frame secured to a flat surface and the bottom of the window closest to you, hold the glass at a slight angle top to bottom.

Guide the whole pane slowly on the "shelves" and work toward the top. When you're just about there, carefully lay the glass almost flat, then guide it as you slide it into the groove at the top of the window. You may need to use one hand on top of the glass, the other on the bottom.
,


Open the compound can and put a lump about half the size of a tennis ball (use more when you get the hang of it) into your left hand (right if you're left handed).

Work it until it's soft and warm. You may have to replenish the supply in your hand more than once, depending on the size of the window.
 Using the knife or tool at an angle, smooth the putty along the shelf.
Be sure that the putty doesn't show from the other side of the window, that is, the width of your putty shouldn't be greater than the shelf width. Continue spreading and smoothing until the sides are covered.
 These can be tricky. Just remember that water will slide down the window and the caulking will guide the water away from the glass. You want the corners to be mitered, but smoothly mitered. Use the angled end of the glaziers tool.
 You'll need to wait up to a week for the putty to cure enough to hold paint.
 You've now saved yourself about five times the cost of having the glass replaced by a professional.

