 Sound, logical advice and planning is great, but when you feel stressed and overwhelmed, most of the time you want to be heard and feel validated. After this, you can think more rationally about the issues that you are dealing with. Keep this in mind while you are dealing with stressed out parents. Giving them your attention as well as validation and reassurance can go a long way in lowering the emotional intensity so that solutions can eventually be discussed.


Keep reassuring the parents that you value their worries and opinions.
 Reflective questions are questions that start with why, what, who, or when. Try to avoid questions that are black and white or just yes or no. Reflective questions validate the experience the parents are having. It also makes it easier for you as the listener to gather as much information about what is going on with the parent and begin to think about possible solutions. Reflective questions also allow the parent to explore their own feelings and why they are stressed.


Sometimes talking through a stressful time with someone the parent feels is a professional can really help the parent feel supported.Try questions such as "What can I do to help with this situation?" or "What exactly do you think is causing this issue for your child?" These require long, in depth responses that the parents can answer. These questions will also help you figure out the exact problem and figure out what to do to fix it.
 Holding back all judgment, focus on the fact that the feelings the parents are having are very real for them. Make statements that validate their emotions. Validate how difficult it is to be a parent in general as well. Validating the parent and their emotions can also help calm the parent down. If you feel like someone is listening to you and understanding you, it helps you feel less defensive and more open to talking about options and solutions.Tell them something like, "I understand your frustration with this situation," or, "I can see the stress and upset that this event has caused you."

, Allow yourself to feel what the parent is feeling and try to put yourself in their shoes. Humans have a unique ability to empathize with others, and if you are working in childcare or youth work, you most likely are familiar with how much empathy can mean to another person. The parents that are stressed, emotional, and reaching out for help need your empathy too. Remember that youth work is really family work, and by empathizing with what the parent is going through, you are not only supporting the parent, but you can also empathize better with the child and their home situation.


Even though you are not at the solution stage yet, by truly empathizing with the parent, you can begin to form questions of your own about what you would do in that situation, which will help you create an action plan. Keep those questions in the back of your mind and stay focused on listening, validating, and empathizing with the parent., When parents get overly stressed, it can be really helpful for them to know they are not alone, and that other adults are here to support them. You are in a professional position and represent someone who they feel they should be able to trust with their children. Make it very clear that they are not alone and that you are listening.


This will help validate their feelings and show that you empathize with them so that you can be supportive. Tell them that this is a part of your job that you are ready and willing to do.Assure the parents with phrases such as "I am here to help you with every concern you have," or, "I understand your frustration and I am here to help you until you are satisfied with the result."

, If you have listened attentively, presently, validated, and empathized but the parent you are dealing with is getting more upset and escalating in their emotions, gently suggest that you both engage in deep breathing. Even if you are on the phone with a parent, ask them to place a hand on their belly and breathe deeply into it. Express to them that you are doing deep breathing too in order to help dissipate the emotion and stress. Also tell them that you want to be calm and centered enough to help them.


Do not rush this step. Allow plenty of time for the parents to vent and speak, but also realize when it’s time to calm down and start being productive.
Be conscious of your time and energy as well. If thinking about solutions is not appropriate because the parent is just too emotional, try to set up another meeting or phone call when you can talk again.
 If you are not sure how best to help the parents, ask them what the best way is for you to help them. Give them the power and control, which may also help ease their stress levels while you are talking to them. Ask what they need from you in this moment to best serve them, their distress, and their child. This can help them focus, feel nurtured, and also feel heard and as though they have a voice.

