 In New York, a person can change only his surname through marriage. To change your first or middle name you must obtain a court order. The new surname must be either:The surname of the other spouse or any former surname of either spouse,
A name combining into a single surname all or a segment of the premarriage surname or any former surname of either spouse or
A combination name separated by a hyphen, provided that each part of such combination surname is the premarriage surname, or any former surname, of each of the spouses.
 A couple who marries in New York must apply for and obtain a marriage license before their marriage ceremony. Obtain an application at your nearest clerk's office or online. If you are in New York City, you can fill out the application online by visiting the website for the Office of City Clerk (https://www1.nyc.gov/cityclerkformsonline/). In the section of the application titled "Personal Information," indicate you would like to change your name. Then write out your new name in the box below. Submit the application in person to your nearest town or city clerk's office. Both applicants must sign the application in the presence of the clerk., Once your marriage ceremony is complete and the officiant has returned the completed license to the town or city clerk's office, you will receive your marriage certificate in the mail.The certificate should arrive within 15 calendar days of the date on which the officiant returns the marriage license to the clerk's office.
If you have not received the certificate within 4 weeks of your marriage ceremony, contact your local clerk's office.
 Your marriage certificate will serve as proof that you legally changed your name. However, to ensure that government agencies recognize your name change, you will have to present the certificate at each agency and request that your name be changed.Visit your local Social Security Office Administration to notify them of your name change. This will allow you to use your new name at work so that you can continue receiving credit for all of your earnings. Take your marriage certificate and any identity document that shows proof of your old name.
Visit your local DMV office to change your name on your driver's license. Take your current driver's license and your marriage certificate.