 Provide some perspective on the rejection. Tell your child that most people are left out of a group at some point, and it doesn’t mean anything is wrong with them. If there’s an obvious reason your child has been excluded, help them understand why.For instance, if your daughter’s friend was only allowed to invite five people to her birthday party, explain that her friend simply couldn’t invite everyone she likes.
It is common for children to blame themselves for being excluded. This can decrease their self-esteem over time, so it is important to address this and talk with them about other reasons why exclusion might happen.
 If your child has an unshakeable sense of self-worth, being excluded won’t sting so much. Help your child learn to value themselves, instead of depending entirely on other people for validation. Talk to them about how to behave with dignity after being rejected by a peer.You can help your child accept themselves by teaching them to use positive self-talk instead of beating themselves up after a setback.
Discourage your child from trying to get back at someone who rejected them.
Teach your child how to praise themselves instead of looking for praise and validation from other people. It will help them to feel more confident in the long run., Help your child get their mind off the rejection by encouraging them to pursue their individual interests. Make sure they have enough time, space, and resources to work on personal projects. If your child doesn’t have many hobbies, sign them up for a class or help them find a club to join.Developing a skill, like drawing or playing the guitar, can go a long way towards repairing a kid’s damaged self-esteem. Overcoming obstacles and accomplishing tasks helps children to build confidence and develop self-esteem.
 While your praise can’t replace validation from your child’s peers, you can still help them feel good about themselves. When they do something well, give them a high-five or offer a few words of praise.For instance, say something like, “Michael, I’m proud of you for working so hard on your English paper. You really earned that A.”
Don’t over-praise your child, or they might not take you seriously. Save your words for when you truly mean them.
 Pay attention to whether your child bosses others around, is a poor sport, or doesn’t stop when other people want them to. If so, they might be alienating their peers without realizing it. Help your child develop better social skills to improve their friendships.Role-playing or practicing different situations with your child is a good way to help them improve their social skills.
For instance, if your child is a sore loser, you could play board games with them and coach them on the appropriate way to act when they lose.
Your child may also benefit from joining an organization or club to build better cooperation and team building skills, such as the Boy Scouts or Girl Scouts of America., Social media can make kids feel like everyone else is having fun without them, and it can even lower self-esteem.Set some reasonable limits on your child’s Facebook use, so they don’t stew over feeling left out 24/7.Help your child understand that appearances on social media don’t always reflect reality.
 If your child is chronically excluded, or if they seem depressed, make them an appointment with a therapist. A professional will be able to help them deal with difficult feelings and improve their social skills, if necessary.A few signs of depression in kids include persistent sadness or crying, irritability, changes in sleeping or eating habits, and loss of interest in favorite activities.

