 These dried herbs may be difficult to locate in a grocery store, but should be available in most health-food stores or may be purchased online.Since cats can be very sensitive to certain chemicals, it’s a good idea to purchase dried herbs that are organic so you can be confident they have not been treated with pesticides that may harm your cat.
Do not use neem oil, lavender oil, or peppermint oil as a substitute for the dried herbs because these could be toxic to your cat. As long as they are not in essential oil form, these herbs are safe to apply to your cat even if it ingests the mixture while licking its hair or skin.;
, In a mason jar or other container with a secure lid, mix the apple cider vinegar and herbs.Vinegar kills fleas, and the herbs also repel fleas while offering skin-soothing benefits to your cat.
If you are unable to locate these herbs or are looking for a faster solution to your cat’s flea problem, you can add 2 cups of white vinegar to your cat’s bath or comb the vinegar through their fur., Store the mason jar in your fridge, and allow the mixture to steep for 1 to 2 weeks to increase the effectiveness of the spray. Shake the mixture on a daily basis because the herbs can settle., Using cheesecloth or a fine strainer, separate the dried herbs from the vinegar, which has been fully infused. You can discard the dried herbs at this point.
Cheesecloth, a gauze-like cotton cloth, can usually be purchased at grocery stores or hardware stores.
 After you’ve allowed the mixture to steep for the appropriate time, pour it into a clean spray bottle.If you are repurposing an old spray bottle or if it had a different mixture in it previously, it’s important to carefully clean the bottle to make sure there are no chemicals in it that might hurt your cat.
A funnel can be a useful tool to fill the spray bottle without spilling any of the solution.
 Now that the vinegar-herb mixture is in the spray bottle, add in the appropriate amount of aloe gel and mix in enough distilled water to fill the 8 ounce spray bottle.The aloe vera is optional, but it will help soothe your cat’s irritated skin.
 Spray the flea remedy on your cat’s body, avoiding the eyes and nose.You might find it easier to do this while grooming your cat with a flea comb or brush. This will ensure that the spray is applied evenly to all areas, and you’ll probably get rid of some fleas right away. To dispose of fleas with the comb, dip it into a container of water with a little dish soap., Allowing the solution to dry on your cat will give the spray more time to eliminate fleas while soothing your cat’s skin., Reapply the herbal remedy to your cat daily to increase its effectiveness against fleas.