 See what common interests you have before initiating a conversation, so you have something to talk about. If most of his profile is set to private, you can ask him about his favorite movie or book to help get the conversation started.For instance, you could say, "I see your profile is set to private, so I'm curious why you're hiding your favorite book from people. What do you like to read?";
, Most people are willing to chat for a few minutes if you need some help. So ask for help with a problem you're having. If you don't actually have one, you could ask something about Facebook, such as the following: "I can never figure out how to break up my paragraphs in a post without making the post send. Do you know how to do that?", If you're new to the area (or even if you're not), try asking him for restaurant recommendations as a way to open up the conversation.Try asking a question such as "Hi, I'm new to the area. Can you recommend any good Japanese or Thai places in the area?" If he says yes, ask him if he'd be willing to meet you at one.
 That is, ask him if you've met him before. You can mention a place you go often. He'll say "no," but you can move on from there.For instance, you could say, "Have I met you before? You look so familiar. Do you go the Panera Bread on 10th Street?"

, People love to laugh, so you can draw him in by making him laugh. The best jokes are ones that will connect you.If you see he likes the same sports team as you, you could make a joke about how bad the team is doing, such as "I noticed you liked our local baseball team. They're doing so bad this year, I think my kid's little league team could beat them."

, People like to hear good things about themselves. Pick something you notice on his profile. It can be about his appearance, but it doesn't have to be. In fact, studies show that compliments not focused on appearance work best.You could comment on his taste in books: "You have great tastes in books! I loved The Ocean at the End of the Lane, too."

