 When it comes time to cleaning the kitchen with the spring cleaning method, aim to do it after breakfast in the morning so that you can arrive home to cook in a clean one in the evening. You could also clean your kitchen after the preparation of your evening meal so you can wake up to a clean one too. Complete the following routine after each usage to maintain an orderly kitchen daily:


Wash all dishes, dry them and put them away. By doing the entire process of washing the dishes every-time, you can easily avoid playing the 'tower stack' game where dishes continually pile up until someone has to put them all away.
Wipe down all surfaces with a surface spray and cloth.
Wipe down the stove ( don't forget the switchers).
Clean your microwave ( if you have one), with a cloth and disinfectant spray. This will avoid having to do an extensive clean once a week or even month. This can take as little as 1 minute to complete and it also aids in maintaining food preparation hygiene.
Keep up-to-date with your refrigerator by surveying food entering and food currently residing in it. If any item is protruding an unpleasant smell, remove it. Quickly wipe down each shelf of the refrigerator just in case anything has leaked. By doing this every-day it again helps avoid a lengthy and grueling clean that usually gets done whenever you get around to doing it.
Sweep or hoover the flooring to remove any items that may have been dropped. By doing this regularly, you are removing the risk of contracting mice or rats.;
, This room may be one of the most central areas in your house. Guests and Visitors will most likely reside in this area the most so by keeping it fairly clean, they will assume the rest of the house is like it; even if the rest of the house isn't completely spot-less. Follow these steps daily for the spring cleaning method to maintain order in your living room:


Dust down cabinets, coffee-tables and television with a feather duster.
If you have leather seating, again use the damp micro-fiber cloth to wipe them down. If however you have fabric seating, fend to brush surplus lint, fluff and pet hair with a lint roller.
Re-arrange décor if it has been misplaced. ( positioning cushions, straightening picture frames etc).
Replace items that are out of place like DVD's, Remotes and used dishes to the kitchen to be washed and put-away.
Wipe down dining table with a cloth daily.
Hoover the flooring and also mop if you have tile or wooden floor boards.
 A hygienic bathroom is developed by daily cleaning rituals, follow these steps to keep your bathroom in good working order:


Start by putting on your gloves. Fill the toilet with the product of your choice and scrub the bowl. Spray the exterior of the toilet with a disinfectant spray and wipe it all down with paper towel and then flush. It takes only about a minute.
Remove everything from the shower and clean the flooring and walls or window with the product of your choice. By scrubbing the shower daily, you are removing any stains that will accumulate over time and be a grueling process when it's definitely time to clean it.
Spray and wipe down the sink to remove toothpaste residue, wipe down bath-tub (if you have one).
Wipe down the mirror with Windex and paper towel.
You can hoover, sweep or mop the floor daily or maybe every second day.
 If you have a spare bedroom, or a music or study room; it's ideal to keep it tidy daily as well. Follow these steps to maintain a dust free miscellaneous room:


Hoover flooring.
Organize item out of place. Aim to have a spot for everything in rooms like this so you or other people you live with know where it goes. Thing's like paperwork, books in shelves and stationary draws.
Dust down musical instruments, computer keyboards, printer or fax machine, photo frames or other surfaces and items with a feather duster.
Put all toy's away (if you have small children) and scourer the house for other toys that may have wondered.
 Many people forget to clean their laundry or at least keep it in a tidy and orderly fashion.


Wash a load of towels every second day to accumulate a full load and save water and power. You can also throw in face washers or dish towels.
Acquire a dirty washing basket for you or other people in the house to put their used towels, face washers etc. It would be best for other people in the house to have their own clothing basket to put their own dirty clothes into them.
Encourage people to regularly do their washing throughout the week to save time and energy. It can become a meticulous task of washing everything on the lot on a prescribed day on the weekend.
Wipe down your washing machine daily to avoid the build of grime, lint and dirty. Washing machines can be ironically the dirtiest appliance under your roof.
By following this formula, you're allowing time for yourself on the weekend rather than doing loads of housework.

