 Start introducing whole foods to your dog’s diet by adding portions to its regular kibble. Be sure to reduce the amount of dog food your portion out to accommodate the whole foods that you’re adding. To start, or as a regular addition to a regular kibble diet, new ingredients should make up about 25% of your dog’s meals, and can include:Eggs (raw or cooked), which provide high quality protein and fat
Canned fish (e.g. sardines or pink salmon), supplying omega-3 fatty acids that are good for your dog’s skin and coat, and which help regulate the immune system and reduce inflammation
Leafy greens, which can allow you to increase the amount you feed your dog without increasing their calorie intake significantly
Healthy leftovers (e.g. meat offcuts), preferably in small quantities to prevent weight gain

, While dogs’ teeth and digestive tracts show carnivorous traits, dogs also have the proven ability to digest carbohydrate-based foods. There is, however, a carnivorous bias that makes meat an integral part of the canine diet; whatever your personal choices may be, never force a vegan or vegetarian diet onto a pet that’s body is optimized to consume meat. Give your dog a balanced diet of meat, grain, and fruits and vegetables to provide optimal health without turning away from its ancestral diet., Raw food diets, or B.A.R.F. diets (Biologically Appropriate Raw Food diets), have grown in popularity and aim to mimic what dogs would eat in the wild (i.e. raw meats, grains, vegetables, and bones.) There is no definite evidence that this sort of diet is more beneficial for dogs than other diets, but there are a number of health risks associated with it, including exposure to dangerous bacteria and injury from bones. While dogs’ digestive tracts can process raw meat, the presence of bacteria can still pose the threat of gastrointestinal distress and illness for both a dog and its owners. If you pursue a raw food diet for your dog, play it safe by:Following the U.S. Department of Health guidelines for food preparation and safety (visit https://www.foodsafety.gov/)
Removing small or splintered bones from your dog’s food
Making sure that you and your family are all diligent about maintaining a clean food preparation space

, Outside of your dog’s regular meals, snacks can be a great way to add whole foods to its diet. Feed fruits and vegetables (raw or cooked) to your dog as snacks, keeping in mind those that fall onto the “never” foods list (e.g. grapes). Feel free to let your dog snack on:Green beans, as they contain omega-3 fatty acids, vitamins A, C, and K, calcium, copper, fiber, folic acid, iron, niacin, manganese, potassium, riboflavin, thiamin, and beta carotene
Spinach, which is high in iron and helps fend off inflammatory and cardiovascular issues
Apples, which are high in vitamin C and antioxidants
Watermelon, a good source of vitamin A, B-6 and C, and thiamin
Pumpkin, a food high in fiber, vitamin A and anti-oxidants, which can also alleviate diarrhea and constipation

, Making your own dog treats is not only a healthy choice for your dog (free of preservatives and byproducts), it can also save you money. You also have the option of sneaking beneficial ingredients into your treats, such as fish oil to improve your dog’s coat; other healthy ingredients to include in treats may include peanut butter, oatmeal, honey, bananas, and berries. While most homemade dog treats will generally last about a week, you can also freeze them to keep on hand for your pet.For example, try making your own jerky treats as an alternative to store-bought raw hides – cut chicken or sweet potatoes into 1/8 inch strips and bake at 200 degrees F for 2 hours.
 During the initial period when you introduce whole foods into your dog’s diet, take note of the changes in its health and mood. For a detailed account of changes, keep a journal where you write down exactly what you are feeding your dog, and the notable differences in its health (for example, an increase in energy, or a shinier coat.) Tracking your dog’s diet on paper is a reliable way to identify possible food allergies; symptoms of food allergies may include:Recurrent ear problems
Itchy skin that doesn’t respond to steroid treatments
Skin problems that occur all year round, regardless of season or climate
Hair loss

