 Unlike Superman, whose look evolved early and has remained fairly constant throughout his appearance in the comics, Batman's look has been revised a number of times during his years of crime fighting. Both his physical appearance and his costume have changed, with the most notable changes being the addition of the yellow oval around his Bat-insignia in 1964, which has been dropped in more recent renderings of the Gotham Guardian, as well as no longer showing him wearing trunks that match his cowl and cape, coupled with a different rendering of his utility belt.

You can find examples of your favorite Batman look online, in comics anthologies such as "The Greatest Batman Stories Ever Told," or in shows such as "Batman: The Animated Series" or "The Brave and the Bold."

, When not behind the wheel of the Batmobile or in the cockpit of the Batplane, Batman can often be seen swinging through downtown Gotham City on his Batline, crouching on rooftops, breaking through skylights or tumbling his way into or out of danger. These action poses require knowledge of perspective and foreshortening to render the Caped Crusader correctly. If you haven't mastered these techniques, you may instead want to draw the imposing figure Batman casts when he's standing still., In general, you'll want to draw Batman's body to be about 3 times as wide and 7 1/2 to 8 times the height of his head. The Dark night Detective is described as standing 6 feet 1 inch (1.85 meters) tall and weighing 185 pounds (84 kilograms). If you're showing Batman from the perspective of a terrified thug seeing the Masked Man hunter drop down on him, you'll want to lengthen the body parts nearest the viewer and shorten those furthest away., Draw a circle initially to represent Batman's head, a square for his jawline and a rounded rectangle for his chest. Use sticks to represent his lower torso, arms and legs until you work of the specifics of his pose and the perspective needed.

Because Batman's cape is so voluminous, you need to plan what parts of the Caped Crusader's body it will cover when you begin your sketch. You can start with a set of curved lines to show where the upper part of the cape will rest with respect to Batman's back.
 Start roughing in Batman's chest, arm and leg muscles. Batman should have a well-defined chest and abdominal muscles and a neck thick enough to bear the weight of his head, cowl and cape. Work the shape of his face from the original circle to be more squarish; if you're going for the look Sheldon Moldoff created in the 1950s, you want an especially square-jawed Batman.

Although Superman is much more physically powerful, Batman's physique should be roughly the same as Superman's, as the two heroes used to trade costumes to confuse their enemies in 1950s and '60s issues of "World's Finest Comics." Other than in Frank Miller's rendering from "The Dark Knight Returns," Batman should not appear musclebound, either; his physique should most closely resemble that of a decathlete.

