 Facing long-term stressors without healthy coping mechanisms can be dangerous to your health and well-being. Stress can either cause health troubles or worsen already existing medical conditions. You need to see a doctor if you suspect this is happening. Here are some of the physical signs that you are stressed:Headaches
Weight gain or loss
Depression
Anxiety
Insomnia
Difficulty breathing
Sleep problems
Changes in appetite

, When you are feeling stressed, engaging your social support system can be a great way to fight it. Your social support network gives you a sense of belonging, increased self-worth, and security.Calling a friend or family member to vent or simply take your mind off life's problems can be a great way to cope.
 In truth, hobbies help us recharge, relieve stress, learn new things, connect with others, and gain a new perspective.A hobby can be anything that you enjoy doing. Try reading, writing, sports, hiking, canoeing, skating, painting, gardening, etc. There are endless possibilities for finding something you like to do and doing it regularly.
 You have probably heard about the importance of getting 7 to 8 hours of sleep (more if you're a teen or child). But, getting good quality and duration sleep relies just as much on how relaxed and calm before you climb into bed. When you are struggling with problems in life, it can be hard to sleep. Try a pre-sleep routine to make it easier to drift off to dreamland.


Do something relaxing like stretching, listening to soothing music, taking a long, hot bath, or getting a massage., You shouldn't. Being physically active can actually make you feel much better about your life. Exercise promotes the release of feel-good neurotransmitters in the brain called endorphins.These chemicals improve your mood and give you that euphoric feeling many refer to as "runner's high."

, When life gets you down, you need a few tools to keep handy that help you battle stress and give you peace of mind. Relaxation techniques can be performed virtually anywhere, and at any time.Practice deep breathing by taking a deep breath in through your nose for 4 counts. Hold this breath for a moment, and then release the air for another 4 counts. You should see your lower belly rising with the inhale and deflating with the exhale.
Try progressive muscle by sitting quietly and comfortably in a chair or on a cushion. Move slowly through each muscle group in your body, tensing and releasing the different muscles. Start with your toes. Tense them for 5 seconds and take notice of how this feels. Next, release the tension and simply remain in the relaxed state for about 30 seconds before moving on to a new muscle group.

