 Talk to your doctor about exercises that are safe for you to engage in. Selecting the appropriate exercises is particularly important if you have diabetes, heart conditions, or high blood pressure. Not all are safe for people with these conditions and consulting with your doctor before attempting any exercise is extremely important.


In addition to making your body physically healthy, exercise can also help your mind. People who experience psychiatric episodes may experience a better quality of life from getting regular exercise because staying active may help to improve brain function., If you are taking antipsychotic medications and struggling to manage your weight, changing your diet may help. You will likely find that you can start to maintain your weight or that you’ll drop the extra pounds.


Research also shows that lifestyle changes such as keeping a food diary can have a positive impact on weight, too. Writing down everything you eat everyday can prompt you to start making healthier decisions.Following a specific diet, such as the Atkins, Ketogenic, or Mediterranean diet may be an effective way to control your weight.Try out different options to see what works best for you.
 There’s more to losing and maintaining weight than just diet and exercise. To become healthy, you’ll need to alter your lifestyle. Stopping bad habits and creating healthy new ones is key to feeling and looking good.


Alcohol, drugs, and cigarettes can all affect the way that antipsychotic medications work. Alcohol may also intensify the effects of antipsychotic medication.Therefore, it is best to abstain from these substances to ensure that your medication is working properly and to keep yourself healthy.
 Getting enough sleep can help to promote good mental health.Therefore, you should try your best to meet your sleep requirements every night. Aim for between 7 to 9 hours of sleep every night.

Stress can interfere with sleep and lead to weight gain by increasing the hormone cortisol in your system. Therefore, it is important to manage your stress. Make sure to include some relaxation techniques in your daily routine to help you sleep and relax. You can try things like deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, and meditation., Some medications make patients more prone to gaining weight than others. Your doctor may be able to place you on a different treatment that either doesn’t cause weight gain, or doesn’t cause you to gain as much.


However, you’ll need to weigh the risks and benefits of changing before you do. For example, switching medications may cause you to lose weight, but may not manage your symptoms as well.
Antipsychotic medications that will likely cause weight gain include Seroquel, Clozaril, and Zyprexa. Additionally, drugs like Depakote, Paxil, Pamelor, Sinequan, and Tofranil also tend to make patients pack on the pounds.