 Since you will go under some kind of anesthesia, you need to have someone take you to the clinic and drive you home. You should not expect to drive afterwards since you will be recovering from the anesthetic and may be experiencing minor pain.

Ask a family member or friend if they could help you. Since the procedure with waiting times may take as long as two hours, you can have one person drop you off and another pick you up.;
, The doctor will numb the area of your abdomen where the needle will go. Then, they will clean the area to remove any bacteria. The doctor will insert the thin needle through the abdominal wall and into your pancreas. The needle will then take cells from the pancreas.Imaging scans are used to help the doctor guide the needle to the correct area of your pancreas.
This procedure usually takes around half an hour.
 Another method used to biopsy the pancreas is through an EUS. The doctor will numb your throat or place you under anesthesia. Then, an endoscope, which is a thin tube, is placed down your throat. A small needle is used with the scope that will go through the wall of the stomach into the pancreas to take a sample.The endoscope also completes up close imaging tests of your pancreas, stomach, and intestines.
This method results in less discomfort. It is also usually the most accurate biopsy method for the pancreas.
This method can take up to an hour.
 A brush biopsy is conducted with an endoscope. In this procedure, your throat is numbed or you are put under general anesthesia. A brush is inserted into your abdomen through the endoscope. The brush will collect cells from the pancreatic or bile duct.This particular procedure may be used if they need a sample from the bile duct or pancreatic duct.
This method is generally not as definitive as other methods.
 A forceps biopsy is also done through an endoscope. After either having your throat numbed or being put under anesthesia, the doctor will place the endoscope into your abdomen. Forceps will be inserted through the endoscope, where they will remove a sample of the tumor on the pancreas.New technology using forceps has made this type of biopsy promising. The forceps may be used to take a large sample., Another way a doctor can take a biopsy is through a surgical procedure called laparoscopy. The surgeon will make small incisions on your abdomen. Then, they insert thin video tubes into the cuts so they can look at the pancreas. The doctor will then insert a cutting tool to remove a small sample of cells or of the tumor.Though this method isn't as common, the doctor may choose this type of biopsy if they believe cancer has spread to surrounding organs.