 Joining your spouse at doctor's and visits and therapy can be a great way to gain more insight about the disorder and address any issues that arise. These professionals can help you determine ways to help them cope and provide you with resources for support.Use these visits to ask questions, too. You might ask, "Are there any lifestyle changes my wife can make to improve her symptoms?"
You might ask the therapist, "How can I support my spouse while still taking care of myself?";
, Understanding the hallmarks of the disease and side effects of medication can help you better care for your spouse. You can know what behaviors to expect and watch for, and what kind of support your spouse requires. You can also explain to your family what your spouse is experiencing and how to respond.


Talk with your spouse before speaking with family members. Make sure your spouse is comfortable with you sharing this private information with others.
When talking to your family about the disease, use age-appropriate information. When speaking with your children, use care to prevent them from becoming scared. Let them know in a gentle way what is happening with their parent, and what you can do as a family to help., Structure is important when you’re caring for someone. Keeping a schedule creates a sense of stability and comfort to both the caregiver and the spouse. It helps both of you to know what you need to do, and what is expected.


The schedule can serve as reminder for the patient to take their medicine, go to the doctor, take a shower, go to work, and help with some of the household chores. Writing down a schedule also gets these tasks off your mind, so that you can concentrate and focus on other things.Decide if you want to use a written schedule, such as a large calendar, and post it in your home, or if you'd prefer to go digital, using reminders and timers on your phone and using a shared electronic calendar. Discuss with your spouse what items need to go on the calendar (doctor's visits, therapy appointments, etc.) so that you're not micro-managing your spouse's life. Try using alarms or reminders on your spouse's phone so they take their medication at the right time.
 A chronic mental illness can cause major shifts in the way families and households are run. You might lose the primary breadwinner and take on the role as primary caregiver. One way to adjust to these changes and cope as a couple is to maintain some semblance of who you are as a couple.Use your strengths as a couple to help you through this confusing time. For example, if humor has always been a major bonding factor between you and your spouse, try to maintain some humor. If you always had a standing date night on Thursday, keep it — even if this means watching a movie together on the couch after the kids are asleep.
 Some mental illnesses, like schizophrenia, can cause people to behave dangerously. If you are to take care of your spouse, you must ensure that you and your family are safe. If you are in constant fear, you won’t be able to care for your spouse, or your family the proper way.


If you worry that your life is in danger, call the police or a crisis team. Your spouse may need to be admitted for professional help if you fear that your life or safety is in jeopardy.