 A basic deck is not that powerful and contains only 20 basic cards. Visit the Hearthstone app on your device or computer, and log into your account. Click "My Collection" and select "Create Deck". Select the Priest and choose the right types of cards to create your own deck.;
, Minions can help more since usually spells just deal low damage, keep to the curve:

,


Choose good and powerful low-cost minions since when you have too many high-cost minions, you will not be able to put any good minions down in a battle at the beginning, and by then, the enemy will have several minions on his battlefield that you cannot destroy.
Find good quality spells that are helpful for the priest, such as ones that restore health, give ""attack"" to other minions, weapons, or spells that destroy strong enemy minions. A good spell you can choose is giving ""attack"" to other minions since the priest doesn't have many high attacking low-cost minions.
Choose a good number of spells and minions, and be sure they are balanced. 10 spells and 20 good minions would be helpful. 15 and 15 of each will also help.
 These can help you win a battle more easily. With Battlecries and Deathrattles, minions can do helpful things when they die or when they are put on the battlefield. Choose minions with Charge as well. Minions without Charge have to wait for the next turn when they are put on the battlefield to attack; while Charge minions can attack right away.


A minion with ""Battlecry"" does something when it is put on the battlefield. This can be ""drawing cards"", ""dealing damage"", or ""giving other minions more attack power"". It can also even be giving a minion ""Taunt, Charge, Spell-Damage or Stealth"".
Add minions with ""Deathrattle"" as well. These minions will do something when they die, and if it is severe, your enemy will probably not want to kill it, e.g Sylvanas Windrunner, otherwise keeping the minion on the battlefield and ""silencing it"".
Charging minions can be useful as well. They can be used not only to attack the enemy hero right away but also to kill powerful enemy minions. Charging minions are almost made to kill an enemy minion and come another time, even when they die too.
 If a minion with Taunt is put on the board, the enemy will not be able to attack your hero until they kill the taunt. Minions with taunt act as a shield for your hero, and if you have several of them, you're in luck.


Find more low-cost minions that have Taunt, even if they don't have much health. The Goldshire Footman is a good choice, as well as the Ironfur Grizzly. They can still be hard to kill when the battle just starts since there is not a lot of mana for cards to kill the taunt.
Choose Taunts with a lot of health, along with some spells that might be useful. Most Taunts have health like 6 or 5. Those Taunts can be helpful, especially if you have some spells you can use to reinforce them. Spells like the ones that double health or give Divine Shield/more attack and health can be helpful, since it makes the Taunt harder to kill.

