 Sweet-Page typically installs several different programs. The first step to getting rid of this infection is to remove these programs from your computer.


Windows 7 - Click the Start button and select "Control Panel."
Windows 10, 8.1 - Right-click on the Start button and select "Control Panel."
Windows 8 - Press ⊞ Win+X and select "Control Panel.";
, The option you see will depend on how your Control Panel is organized. This will load a list of all of your installed programs.
 Sweet-Page may install any of the following programs:


Sweet-Page uninstaller
WPM17.8.0.3159
Sweet-Page.com Browser new tab extension
IePluginService
SupTab

, This will begin removing the selected program. Repeat this for any other programs listed above, or programs that you don't remember installing.
 Even if you don't use Internet Explorer on a regular basis, you should reset it as Windows relies on it for many things.


Open Internet Explorer and click the Gear button in the upper-right corner.
Select "Internet options" and then click the "Advanced" tab.
Click the "Reset" button and check the "Delete personal settings" box.
Click "Reset" to clear Internet Explorer's settings. You'll be prompted to restart your computer.
 If you use Google Chrome, you'll want to reset its settings so that Sweet-Page is removed. If you don't use Chrome, skip down to the next step.


Open Google Chrome and click the Menu (☰) button in the upper-right corner.
Select "Settings" and then click the "Show advanced settings" link at the bottom of the menu.
Click "Reset settings" at the bottom of the expanded menu.
Click "Reset" to clear Chrome's settings.
 If you use Firefox, you can quickly reset your settings and remove Sweet-Page. If you don't use Firefox, skip to the next step.


Open Firefox and click the Menu (☰) button in the upper-right corner.
Click the "?" button at the bottom of the menu and select "Troubleshooting Information."
Click "Refresh Firefox" and then click "Refresh Firefox" again to confirm. This will clear all of your Firefox settings and extensions.
 If you use a browser not listed here, reset its settings as well. The process will typically be similar to one of the other browsers listed above. You can also find reset procedures on the browser's Support website., Sweet-Page will add links to all of your web browser shortcuts, which will force the browser to continue loading Sweet-Page even after resetting your browser settings. BleepingComputer has developed a tool that will scan all of your shortcuts and remove the redirects. You can download it for free from www.bleepingcomputer.com/download/shortcut-cleaner/

, Run the program after downloading it. You don't need to install it, and it will begin scanning immediately. Any infected shortcuts will be fixed automatically. The scan will only take a few moments to complete.
 After the scan is complete, a text file will be created on your desktop labeled "sc-cleaner.txt." Open this to see the shortcuts that the cleaner found and changed.
 This is a free utility that will scan your computer for malicious software.


Download AdwCleaner from toolslib.net/downloads/viewdownload/1-adwcleaner/.
Run the program after downloading and confirm when Windows prompts you to open it.
Click the Scan button in AdwCleaner to begin scanning your computer. This will take about 15-20 minutes.
Click the Clean button after the scan has finished to remove anything it finds. You will be prompted to reboot your computer after it finishes cleaning files.
 This is a free utility that will scan your computer for malware and adware, including Sweet-Page. It will remove files that are left behind after you uninstall the programs. You can download it for free from malwarebytes.org. Click the "Download" button and then download the free Home version.


Run the installer to install Malwarebytes on your computer. Most users can leave the settings at their default.
 When you run Malwarebytes for the first time, you'll be prompted to update the program and scan your computer. Follow the prompts to update and scan for malware. The scan will take about 20-30 minutes.


If you aren't prompted, click "Scan Now" and then "Update Now" when prompted.
 This will quarantine all of the files that Antimalware found during the scan, which will keep them from interfering with your computer.
 The files will be quarantined, which may require you to reboot your computer.
 After your computer has finished rebooting, perform another scan with Malwarebytes Antimalware. This will ensure that all of the malicious files are gone and are not replicating themselves.

