 You can make some really fantastic sculptures using polymer clay, but if you're just getting started, have some fun with simple shapes and easy projects. That way, you'll get familiar with how the clay feels, how to work it, and how to bake it.






;
, For example, a simple, smiling frog takes just a few little pieces of clay, and will be a toy might have in your keepsake box years and years from now!

Take a piece of green clay that will fit in your closed fist. Shape it like a football, flatten it out, and then curl up the ends, like cheeks.













Roll out a thin strip of red clay, like a little red worm. Wet the bottom of the strip, and press it into place as the mouth.













Roll two bits of white clay into balls. Flatten them down, and use them for eyeballs.













Add two smaller dots of blue clay into the center of the eyeballs.













Bake it in the oven as directed by the manufacturer of the clay. Presto, you have a happy frog!














,

Start with a round piece of plain, uncolored clay about three or four inches around—about the size of a Magic 8 Ball.













Use a wire or clay knife to cut off the top part. Set it aside for later. You should now have a little round sphere with a flat top.













Using your thumbs, make a dent in the clay, and working around the inside of the bowl and pressing towards the outside, work the clay to hollow out the bowl.













Keep working around and around, till the bowl is nice and deep, and the sides are about 1/4-inch thick near the top, and about 1/2-inch thick at the bottom.













Work the top part that you cut off earlier so that it will rest on top of the bowl like a lid.













Decorate your pot with paint, then bake it in the oven till done.
 Once you're used to working with clay, you can try something a little more artistic or adventurous, like the cat pictured below.

Roll out one ball of clay about the size of your fist. Flatten it out so that it's about 1/2-inch thick. Use a toothpick to rough it up a little, and give it some texture.













Roll out another ball of clay, a little smaller, and set it towards the back of the first, flattened lump of clay. This will be the body and butt of the cat.













Roll a third piece of clay, smaller than the cat butt. Put that in the front—that's the cat head.













Using smaller pieces of clay, make little ears, legs, and tail. Wet them, press them onto the clay, and smooth into the original parts.













Use a toothpick to draw little lines for whiskers and mouth, and use a fork to rough up the rest of the body so that it looks like fur.













Add finishing touches like the fish bones, if you like.













Bake in the oven, and when done, you have a pet cat you never have to feed!














