 Before you choose a treatment, it is essential that you know what scarring you are dealing with, as some treatments will only work for certain types of scars. You should always consult with a dermatologist before pursuing any treatment. The main scar categories include:



Keloid scars: these are large, growth-like scars that result from a wound that heals itself too aggressively. Keloid scars may grow larger over time and sometimes even return after treatment. They are particularly common in people with darker skin tones.

Hypertrophic scars: these are raised scars which are initially red or pink. They will fade on their own over time. These scars may be the result of burns or surgery and can be itchy.

Atrophic scars: these scars are the deep pits that are left behind after severe acne or chicken pox.

Stretch marks: these are thin, reddish-purple scars which happen because of rapid weight gain or loss. They are particularly common in pregnant women. Over time, these scars will fade and become white-ish.

Contracture scars: these scars are usually caused by severe burns and may cover a large area of skin. These scars may feel tight, especially if they are around the joints, and can potentially limit body movement.

Dark spots: these types of marks are not actually scars, but a type of post-inflammatory hyperpigmentation, usually caused by mosquito or other insect bites.;
, You should begin treating your scar - with a suitable cream or other treatment - as soon as the wound has completely healed. Most scar treatments will be much more effective on newer scars than on old ones, thus saving you time and money down the road.
 Most scars will eventually disappear on their own as skin rejuvenates itself - shedding old layers of skin and growing new ones. You can help this process along by exfoliating your skin regularly in the shower, using a body scrub or a bristled brush.
 This is one often overlooked piece of advice that can significantly reduce the appearance of scars. What many people fail to realize is that new scars are extremely sensitive to UVA rays, and exposure to sunlight can cause them to become much darker than they would be otherwise. By applying a sunscreen of at least SPF 30 to newly scarred skin, you can significantly minimize discoloration.
 Regularly massaging your legs can help to break down the fibrous tissue which causes scarring. It also improves circulation which can aid with discoloration. Your can massage legs in the shower using a body brush, or you can use your hands to rub each leg using long, circular strokes.
 A good concealer can do wonders to hide scars on the legs. Make sure to get a concealer that matches your skin tone, and that you blend it in well with the surrounding skin. A waterproof concealer is best if you will be exposing your legs to unpredictable weather conditions, and theatrical make-up (which is much thicker than regular make-up) can work wonders for those with particularly bad scars.

