


Use ivory scrapbooking paper to make white poinsettias.






If you want to make bigger flowers, cut the strips along the long edge instead., Run your fingernail or a bone folder along the crease to make it nice and sharp.If you want to make larger flowers, use 7 strips instead., Make sure that the folded ends are all facing in the same direction. Each group (with 5 or 7 strips) will make one poinsettia flower., Make sure that you are stapling the loose ends together, and not the folded. If the stapler doesn't go through the entire stack, flip the stack over, and staple from the other side. This is your flower base.Keep the stapler on the table and put your weight on it while stapling. This will make it easier.
 Cut the paper along the short edge of the paper for both sizes (small and large) of flower. This will make the leaves and the connectors for your garland., Take your flower base, and fold the first and last strips together. Slip a green strip between them, then staple the three strips together, as close to the base as you can.


Do not staple through both layer of the red strips. When you fold them together, they will make an oval-shaped loop. Slip your stapler into the loop before stapling.
 Your flower base should start looking a little more like a poinsettia by now. It will have several petal-shaped loops. Insert your stapler into each loop, then staple two strips together, as close to the base as you can.
 You can use yellow, gold, or even glittery scrapbooking paper for this.


If you are making larger flowers, use a 1½-inch (3.81-centimeter) circle hole punch instead.
 Draw a swirl of hot glue on the back of your first circle, and press it against the center of your flower. Flip the flower over, and glue the other circle to the back. Make sure that the circles align as best you can.
 Whenever ever you join the first and last red strips together, insert the green strip from the previous flower between them. Insert a new green strip three petals over.
 You will need to twist the ends of the green strips so that they can lay flat against your wall or window. Do not hang this garland above a mantle.

