 Failing to do so is technically a felony, even if you're just "borrowing" without permission. Driving a car while committing a felony can invalidate both your car insurance coverage and the coverage for the owner of the car.If you have "tacit permission" to drive a friend's car, such as a general understanding while a friend is at work, this counts as permission. However, you should focus on the express permission you received as you came to the understanding during any communication about the accident.
If you get in an accident, the owner of the car will be responsible for the damages unless they can prove that you didn't have permission. Therefore, it is in your best interest to have proof that you have the owner's express permission.;
, In general, you should read your policy carefully to make sure you understand what you are paying for. However, for the purpose of this task, read the section on the circumstances under which your coverage is valid carefully.


Sometimes the language can be rather complex. If you are not sure you understand what you're reading, ask someone to help you interpret it.
 The best way to be certain about whether you will be covered in someone else's car is to speak directly to a representative of the company. Ask them to explain under what circumstances you would be covered in another's car, and under what specific circumstances you would be excluded from that coverage.


Get the response in writing. Asking the question via email is a good technique since it automatically produces a written record of the conversation. Be sure to store the copy in a permanent file. Your email program may delete old files automatically unless stored properly.
If you have spoken to a representative on the phone, ask them to send you this information in writing via email or post.
 After discussing the matter with a representative, and after reading the contract, you should be certain about whether you will be covered; however, you should also double-check that the wording of the contract matches the answers you received from the representative.


Immediately bring any discrepancies to the attention of your agent or customer service representative. It's common for the insurance company to be held responsible for what their employees have said, but you shouldn't wait until you've had an accident to find this out.
 Car insurance policies that normally cover you while borrowing a car from someone often won't cover you for a car that belongs to an immediate family member who lives in your home.This is because, in this case, all members of the family who might drive the car, should be added to the policy as named drivers.
The reason behind this is to discourage a practice known as "fronting", where older, more experienced drivers would put their name on an insurance policy rather than naming new drivers (who are more likely to get into accidents) which would, in turn, raise the cost of the policy., While you likely pay one sum for your policy, the policy is broken down into several types. When trying to figure out whether you are covered in someone else’s car or vice versa, there are many types of coverage you should be aware of.


Liability. This type of insurance is the basic requirement in every state except one (New Hampshire) in the United States, and covers damages to the property of others, meaning it doesn’t cover damages to your own car.This insurance usually covers the driver, and in most cases will cover the driver even if he is not driving his own car. This type of insurance can be broken down further into two types of responsibility--property damage and bodily injury.Comprehensive and Collision. This type of insurance is typically not related to the driver, but instead, to the automobile itself.While this often means that anyone driving the car will be covered in the event of an accident, your insurance company may have stipulations in place which will exclude certain drivers.For example, your policy may not cover a driver if they live in a different state, or they may exclude non-family members from driving the car.
Med Pay/Bodily Injury. Typically, this type of insurance follows the driver, not the car.This will cover medical expenses, pain and suffering, and income lost as a result of the accident (e.g. not being able to work).Be aware that these are generalities! Each type of coverage typically follows the driver or the car, but each insurance company and each policy may have stipulations that limit the circumstances of coverage. The only way to know definitively and under what circumstances each type of insurance covers you is to read the fine print of your policy, or to discuss the terms and conditions of this coverage with a representative of your insurance provider.

