 Aloe vera contains antifungal and antibiotic properties and has been used as a natural skin healer and moisturizer for decades. You may want to give it a try and see it can help reduce skin itching caused by menopause.You can purchase aloe vera gel from pharmacies.
You can also buy the plant if you want a pure source of aloe vera gel. Break off a leaf from the plant and cut it open lengthwise. Scoop the gel out of the plant and rub it directly onto the irritated area., Clay has been used for centuries to heal and protect skin. Although it has not been scientifically proven to reduce itching caused by menopause, you may want to give it a try.Mix clay and olive oil in a bowl with filtered water until it is creamy. Dab the paste onto the itchy skin areas and allow to dry. Rinse off the dried clay and repeat as needed.You can also try a clay pack by spreading the clay on a piece of fabric. Then place the fabric on the itchy area with the clay directly touching the skin. Keep the clay pack on for roughly four hours or until the clay is hard and dry. Rinse off.
 Apple cider vinegar has been used as an antiseptic, anti-fungal, and anti-bacterial agent that may also help treat itchy and dry skin.Put a few drops of apple cider vinegar onto a cotton ball or washcloth and dab it on the affected area.
Try to use raw, organic, and unfiltered apple cider vinegar if you can.
 Although using peppermint for menopause symptoms is not proven, it helps soothe itchy skin and may be worth the try to reduce itching caused by menopause. As an added bonus, it also provides a cooling sensation that can give you much needed relief.Crush up peppermint leaves in a bowl and rub them directly onto the affected area.
You can also make peppermint ice cubes to numb itchy skin and bring down inflammation. If you want to try this, mix the crushed peppermint leaves with filtered water. Fill an ice tray with the mixture and freeze. Apply the ice cubes over the affected area in a towel (do not use directly on the skin as this may results in freezing injury).
You can also try peppermint oil to reduce itching by rubbing it over the affected area.
 Oatmeal contains compounds that help reduce inflammation and sooth itchy skin. You can make an oatmeal paste or take an oatmeal bath to reduce itchiness.Add water to a cup of plain uncooked oatmeal and let it sit for a few minutes until it becomes a paste. Apply the paste over the itchy area.
Or you can try an oatmeal bath by mixing olive oil, baking soda, and ground oats in water. Soak the itchy skin area for 20 minutes.
You can use oatmeal flakes from the store or purchase colloidal oatmeal preparation from a drugstore.
 Applying a towel dampened with cool water over the itchy area may help reduce the irritation. This is specifically helpful overnight if the itching causes you to lose sleep.Covering the area with a wet towel also helps protect your skin and prevents you from scratching it during the night.
You can also try other remedies to reduce nightly itching mentioned here.
 Topical creams that contain chamomile (Matricaria recutita), chickweed (Stellaria media), marigold (Calendula officinalis), hazel (Hamamelis virginiana) and/or licorice (Glycyrrhiza glabra) may also help relieve itchy skin.Before using these creams, talk to your doctor, and stop using the cream if any irritation or worsening of symptoms occurs.
Another herb that may help is St. John's wort (Hypericum perforatum). In a clinical study, people with eczema who used a topical cream with St. John's wort experienced improvement in symptoms compared with people using placebo cream., Acupuncture has been shown to reduce symptoms of eczema and thus, might be worth to try to reduce itching caused by menopause. However, keep in mind that more study is needed to confirm the safety and effectiveness of acupuncture for itchy skin.You may also want to try homeopathic medicine to reduce itching. Calendula, sulphur, Urtica urens, and Rhus toxicodendron are used by some homeopaths to treat eczema. Ask your homeopath if they could be used to treat itchy skin resulting from menopause as well.