 You may want to apply a nail hardener to help strengthen and protect your nails while they grow.Nail hardeners will help to prevent chips and breaks that force you to trim your nails back before they reach the desired length.









Remember, your nails will only be harder while the nail hardener is on them. Once it wears off your nails will return to their normal strength. Reapply the nail hardener daily to keep your nails strong.
Nail hardener should be used only as a temporary supplement to a more long-term nail health plan in which you improve the nail’s natural strength.;
, In addition to applying lotion, remember to always wear gloves or mittens when you're outside in the cold. If working with any type of chemicals — from household cleaning products to art supply products — protect your nails with latex or heavy duty work gloves, depending on what the situation calls for. This will help to prevent your nails from breaking.
 That, in turn, results in having to trim them back more frequently.


For longer nails, make sure to protect your nails from water by cutting down on exposure — wearing gloves while washing the dishes, for example.
 You already probably eat more than enough protein for your body, so unless you're protein-deficient (which, per the average U.S. diet, is highly unlikely), you don't need to add more protein to your diet to grow your nails. In fact, too much protein can cause obesity, accelerate kidney damage, and possibly cause diabetes.


For strong nails, try to eat a wide variety of healthy foods, including fruits, vegetables, lean protein, whole grains, and low-fat dairy products.
 Biotin can help to strengthen brittle nails so that they will not break as easily.Taking a biotin supplement may help you to grow your nails longer and faster. Eating foods that contain biotin can also help with growth.You can purchase biotin supplements in drug stores, grocery stores, or health food stores. A common dosage of biotin for adults is 30 micrograms per day.