 The absolute best way to learn Chinese is just to speak it with a native speaker -- this will force you to think on your feet, help with your accent and expose you to more informal or colloquial forms of speech that you won't find in a textbook.


If you have a Chinese-speaking friend, ask them if they'd be willing to sit down with you for an hour or two each week. They'd probably be happy to help -- as long as the coffee's on you!
If you don't know any Chinese speakers personally, you could try placing an ad in your local paper or online forum. Alternatively, you could look into finding a Chinese conversation group or oral Chinese class in your local area.
If all else fails, you could try to connect with a Chinese speaker on Skype, one who'd be willing to exchange 30 minutes of Chinese conversation for 30 minutes of English.
 Listening to Chinese podcasts or CDs is a great way to immerse yourself in the language -- even when you're on the go!


It doesn't matter if you can't follow everything that's being said -- just try to be an active listener and attempt to pick out key words and phrases. Slowly but surely your overall comprehension will improve.
This is a great option for people who have long commutes as they can simply stick a Chinese CD on in the car or listen to a Chinese podcast on the train. You could also try listening while exercising or doing housework.
 Watching Chinese films and cartoons is a more fun, relaxed way of immersing yourself in the language, however, it will still help to expose you to the sounds and structure of Chinese.


Try watching short cartoons or clips on Youtube, or rent a full length Chinese film from your local movie store. You may need to use subtitles at first, but try not to rely on them too much -- see how much of the dialogue you can understand on your own.
If you're feeling particularly proactive, you could pause the film after particular words or phrases and try to repeat them -- this will help your accent to sound more authentic.
 The biggest obstacle that will stand in your way of learning Chinese is your fear of making mistakes.


You need to try to overcome this fear -- and even embrace it -- if you are to reach your goal of fluency.
Remember that everyone makes mistakes when they are learning a new language, and you are bound to have your fair share of embarrassing mistakes and awkward moments, but this is all part of the process.
Remember that you are not aiming for perfection when you are learning Chinese, you are aiming for progress. So go ahead and make as many mistakes as you like -- as long as you learn from them and continue to improve.
 Can you think of a better way to immerse yourself in the Chinese language than a trip to its native land?


China is an amazingly diverse country -- from the busy, bustling streets of Beijing to the ancient majesty of the Great Wall. There is something for every traveler -- whether you're looking to immerse yourself in traditional ethnic cultures, to sample the many delicious Chinese delicacies or to travel to the sites of ancient ruins and epic battles.
Alternatively, you could take a tour of other places with large Chinese-speaking populations, like Taiwan, Malaysia, Singapore and the Philippines. Just make sure that you are prepared for differences in dialect (not all are mutually intelligible) before you book your flight!

