 Because autistic people can have difficulty recognizing their own emotions, your loved one may not realize that their feelings are different from usual, or that they are suffering. This makes it especially important to speak up if you see them struggling; they may lack the self-monitoring skills to recognize it themselves.
 Extreme behavior, personality shifts, and mood swings may follow trauma. Your loved one may display one or more of the following:


Overachieving, overly compliant, eager to please, afraid to say "no"
Hyperactive
Passive, lethargic, flat affect (compared to their usual)
Crying often, frequent meltdowns
Acting out, aggressive, impulsive, angry

, The onset of a mental illness (PTSD, anxiety, depression) may be characterized by a person withdrawing from their loved ones, talking less and spending more time alone. This sign can be a symptom of trauma, and/or an illness such as depression. If your loved one begins self-isolating, it may mean that something is wrong.


It is normal for autistic people to be introverted, have trouble making friends, not want to socialize much, and/or go through periods where they want more alone time. Compare your loved one's current behavior to what is normal for them.
 Your loved one may start avoiding things that remind them of the traumatic event,whether this means crying whenever they see a pale man with a mustache or avoiding driving near the place where they had compliance therapy.
 A traumatized person may get bored easily, lose interest in friends and hobbies, and show signs of isolation and depression. Try to involve the autistic person in conversations or pastimes related to their special interests and notice how they react.


Not all autistic people will display this symptom; being able to be distracted for a little while does not disqualify them from being traumatized.
Some autistic people may attempt to hide their pain from others and put on a cheerful mask in front of others because they think that's how to be nice. This can make trauma more difficult to detect.
 It is normal for autistic people to have a favorite object or two, such as a stuffed animal or piece of string for stimming, and be upset if they cannot find it. However, if the person starts clinging and panicking at the slightest idea of being parted from the person or item, it suggests that they may not feel secure on their own.


Do not try to separate them from a comfort object. Taking the comfort item away will not make the person feel better. Instead, work on getting them help for the fear that is causing them to cling, and in time, they will not need it so much.
 Trauma can involve fatigue and difficulty concentrating,so their performance at school may slip, or they may find it harder to maintain the same level of performance. Young children may appear listless and disinterested when offered an activity they usually enjoy.
 They may have a harder time trusting others, because no one could prevent the traumatic event, or because people made things worse when they needed help.
 If the autistic person seems to be fixating on fears, sadness, or death, then they are probably suffering psychologically.


Obsession with safety or deathBlaming themselves for the event
Fears that the traumatic event will re-occur
Reporting frequent nightmares
Suicidal thoughts

, If your loved one is traumatized, they may show it right away, or it may take weeks or months to surface. Keep an eye on them for a while in case it takes longer for symptoms to show.


In general, males are more likely to show anger-type symptoms early on, where females are more likely to experience delayed and heavily internalized reactions.This is a generalization, and your loved one may or may not follow the pattern.

