 If you've just washed your hair, wait until it's completely dry to work on your Farrah Fawcett locks. This is important as you'll be using a curling iron. Applying heat to wet hair can cause damage., Even if you've recently brushed your hair, run a brush through it before doing your Farrah Fawcett look. You want to make sure your hair is relatively tangle free so you'll be able to easily section and handle it throughout the process., Opt for a mouse that is volumizing and provides heat protection. The mousse will help your hair set as you curl it and the heat protectant is vital when curling your hair. It will help protect your hair from becoming damaged during the process.If you don't have mousse, or prefer not to use it, it's okay to simply use a heat protectant. However, while you can forego mousse, never forego the heat protectant as you do not want to damage your hair curling it.
 A staple of the '70s style is a middle part. Before you begin curling your hair, part it roughly in the middle of your head. This will help your hair really emulate Farrah Fawcett's., Separate the upper half of your hair using your fingers. Then, secure this hair with a clip. You will be curling your hair in sections to achieve Farrah Fawcett locks., Use a curling iron with a big barrel to curl your hair. There is no one heat setting that works for all hair. Make sure you choose the heat setting on your curling iron for your hair type. For damaged or fine hair, use a setting between 250 and 300 degrees. For medium or average hair, use a setting between 300 and 350 degrees. For thick or coarse hair, use a setting between 350 and 400 degrees.If your curling iron does not have specific sections, it may be best to err on the side of caution and use the lower setting.
 Using your fingers, separate out a section of your hair. The section should be about one-inch wide. This will help you create the many feathered locks associated with Farrah Fawcett's hair., When your curl your first section, curl away from your face. Twist the the hair around the curling iron moving outward. When you're done, slip the hair out of the curling iron and let it fall to the side of your face., Continue to curl your hair in one-inch strands. Remember to always curl your hair in the opposite direction of your face to create the Farrah Fawcett look., After you've curled all the locks on the bottom section, you can move on to the top section. Unclip or untie your hair. If the top section has become tangled, run your fingers through it to smooth it out first., Do the exact same thing to your upper hair that you did to your lower hair. Curl your hair away from your face in one-inch sections until all your hair is curled., If you have longer bangs, they should be curled as well. Instead of curling your bangs in sections, curl all your bangs at once. Again, curl your bangs away from your face for the full Farrah Fawcett effect., Take a blow dryer and run it over your bangs while using your fingers to fluff them. This will give your hair the big, puffy '70s effect., Apply a large amount of a strong, setting hairspray to complete the look. You want your hair to stay intact throughout the day. A strong hairspray is necessary to hold your curls.