 Floor-to-ceiling length bookshelves may seem expensive, but you can replicate the effect without purchasing high-end custom furniture. Measure your wall. Instead of building one giant bookcase, purchase four identical smaller bookcases that will fit in that space. Place two side by side for the base, and stack the other two on top. Be sure to bolt all four bookcases to the wall for stability., An easy way to add a customized twist to an old bookcase is to wallpaper the back of the shelves. Find a wallpaper that matches your theme or color scheme. Cut the wallpaper to size of the backing of each shelf. Paste it on using wallpaper paste. Let it dry before you put items back on the shelves.If you are using the bookcase to display decorative objects like vases or figurines, you might want to choose a solid color for the wallpaper, so that more attention is drawn to your collection.
If you are just using the shelves for books, you can choose a bold pattern, such as chevron stripes, polka dots, or a floral design. This will make the shelves an accent piece in their own right.
 Small ceramic tiles are great for decorating the backsplash of kitchens or bathrooms, but decorated tiles are expensive. Plain white ceramic tiles, on the other hand, can be cheap.With a little time and effort, you can turn tiles into something stunning and extravagant.


Find a stencil of a design you like, such as a fleur-de-lis or a bird. Press the stencil down on the tile, and paint over the design. Let the tile dry, and you have an easy, beautiful tile. You can then adhere it to the wall using tile mastic.
Good places for painted tile backsplashes include underneath cabinets or above a countertop. Do not paint the tiles on your floor or along your shower or bath. Too much water damage can ruin the paint., Fresh flowers are beautiful, but they can become costly. Instead, look for convincing fake flowers. Put together your own centerpiece, and arrange them in an inexpensive vase. You have an easy, reusable centerpiece.


Go for flowers that look as close to real as possible. You might even be able to find ones that also feel soft and natural. Your guests probably will not know the difference.
You can swap out flowers for each season and event, reusing the same flowers every year. Friends probably will not notice, but it will make it seem as though you are constantly updating your centerpiece.
Artificial flowers can easily become dusty. If so they do not look luxurious. Also, this can be problematic for allergy sufferers and asthmatics

, Vases are easy to find, and they can be relatively inexpensive. To help jazz up an empty vase, you can fill it with some small items. This will add a touch of character to your décor without costing a ton of money. Some things you can fill it with include:


Potpourri
Shells
Pieces of coral
Marbles
Buttons
Sticks
Wine corks, Nice picture frames can be expensive, but you can manage a high quality look without paying a lot of money. Find inexpensive picture frames at a dollar store, craft store, or thrift store. Paint the frames with a color or design that pleases you.Gold and silver paint are easy to find if you want a more distinguished shade.
You can add words as you like such as “Sisters” or “Friends Forever.” This will make it seem personalized.
Painting designs on your frames gives them a unique look. You can paint stripes, dots, or other easy geometric shapes.

