 Aside from weapons, there are other items available for pick-up, most of which should be reserved for tense or serious situations.



Pain Pills: Gives you a temporary boost of health, though it will disappear after some time. This is incredibly helpful, however, for final events, where the extra boost saves a Medkit and gets you through the challenging events, allowing you to heal later fully.

Adrenaline Shots: Provides a small health boost, and boosts your running speed. Most importantly, it keeps you from "flinching," which is when you are temporarily unable to shoot after being hit. Use them right before huge moments, or if you need to get to a teammate to save them quickly.

Bile Bombs: A grenade that causes all regular zombies to flock to the spot where it fell, ignoring you. If you throw it on another Zombie, the other Infected will attack them instead of you.

Pipe Bombs: Like bile bombs, these cause Inflected to leave you and flock to the spot where you threw it. After a few seconds, as the infected crowd the spot, the bomb explodes, killing them all.

Molotov Cocktails: Explode on impact, and leave a temporary lake of fire that hurts all Infected and humans that walk through it. Great at creating walls against the hordes of dead, and essential against the monstrous "Tanks."

, There is a variety of items and weapons available in Left 4 Dead, each with their own pros and cons. When you start out, you will only have access to a small variety of them, but more powerful weapons and items will appear as you progress.



Shotguns: Coming in chrome, pump, and automatic options, shotguns are great options in close quarters. They deal a lot of damage and have a wide spread of fire, but they are inaccurate at long distances. Use them in hallways and other tight locations.

Rifles: Powerful and accurate at long ranges, they are almost useless in tense, swarming situations because they take a while to aim and shoot. But they are great in a group and can clean up long-range, incoming enemies while the rest of the team waits patiently for them to reach shotgun range.

Automatic Weapons: Submachine guns, M16s, and their ilk are your bread and butter. They have good power and a high rate of fire, allowing you to mow down medium and close range enemies. When in doubt, choose automatic weapons.

