 The best way to gradually and safely lower your resting heart rate is to introduce regular aerobic exercise into your routine. The Centers for Disease Control (CDC) recommends healthy adults get 150 minutes moderate intensity aerobic activity (brisk walking) per week and muscle strengthening activity 2 days or more per week. Muscle strengthening activities should work all major muscle groups (legs, hips, back, abdomen, chest, shoulders, and arms).For a healthier heart, aim for 40 minutes of moderate to vigorous exercise three or four times a week.
Include stretching and flexibility exercises such as yoga.
Try to combine this with muscle strengthening exercises twice a week., To really target your resting heart rate, you can tailor your exercise routine so that you aim for a target heart rate when you are exercising. This way you can track the intensity of the exercise and how hard your heart is working, gradually increasing it as you become fitter. To do this you need to determine your maximum heart rate. All of the safe methods for this are approximations, but they can give you a general picture.


One basic method is just subtract your age from 220.So if you are 30, your maximum heart rate will be approximately 190 beats per minute.
This method is considered more accurate for those under 40.
A slightly more complicated recent method is to multiply your age by 0.7, and then subtract that figure from 208.
With this technique a 40-year-old has a maximum heart rate of 180 (208 - 0.7 x 40)., Once you know an approximate value for your maximum heart rate you can determine the target heart rate zones for your exercise. By exercising within your target heart rate zone you can keep better track of how hard your heart is working and organise your exercise regime more precisely.


As a general rule heart rate during moderate activities is about 50-69% of your maximum heart rate. When you are first starting to work out, you should aim to keep your heart rate in this, the lower range of your target zone.Hard and vigorous activity will be between 70 and 85% of your maximum.You should gradually work up to working out at this level — it should take about six months to safely and comfortably reach this point if you are just beginning to exercises., To keep track of your heart rate during exercise just take your pulse at your wrist or neck. Count for fifteen seconds and multiply the number by four. When you are exercising you want to keep your heart rate between 50% and 85% of your maximum. If you are dropping down, try to up the intensity.If you are relatively new to exercise, increase gradually. You will still reap the benefits and will be less likely to sustain injury or to become discouraged.Be sure to stop exercising for a moment while you take your pulse.

