 Let your actions speak for themselves. You don’t need to brag for others to perceive you as intelligent. You can be confident in your abilities without boasting about them.Sharing the spotlight with others rather than taking all the credit shows that you’re both humble and confident. For example, if you are an athlete who won a competition, credit the success to your teammates, coaches, and people who supported you along the way rather than boasting about your own hard work.For example, perhaps you are awarded the title of valedictorian. When someone congratulates you, try saying, “I have to give the credit to my teachers and parents, who supported me the whole way through.”

, It can be difficult to be intelligent: for instance, in meetings when you have to listen to a long-winded explanation of a point you easily understand. But remember that the tone of your voice and your body language can relay messages beyond what you say with your words.Be patient. Try your best to be an active listener who is considerate of other people’s feelings during conversations.When someone else is speaking, indicate with your demeanor that you are listening, for example by nodding and making eye contact with the speaker.
Don’t be quick to give your opinion or rush to judgment. When you are listening to someone else talk, focus on the speaker. Learn to quiet the inner voice in your head that wants to interrupt and inject your own opinion. That voice can actually shut down your learning, because you end up focusing on what you already know instead of grasping the entire premise of what the speaker is conveying to you., Be wary of developing an overachieving personality that projects your lofty goals onto others. It’s okay to set the bar high for yourself, but don’t push other people too hard to accomplish more or be faster. Not everyone will have the same abilities as you do – let others work at their own pace.For example, don’t speak to your employees the way a parent would speak to a child. Keep your tone respectful and encouraging rather than disciplinary.
Try saying, “Take your time and work at your own pace. Give it your best shot!”

