 Removing a washing machine's agitator is generally a simple, easy procedure with minimal risk of danger. However, accidents are possible even during the most routine acts of maintenance, so, just to be safe, disconnect your washer from its power supply before beginning. Doing this ensures that you won't accidentally be shocked or injured if the "on" button is somehow pressed accidentally.


Though injuries from washing machines are very rare for adults, they are, in fact, possible and can be quite serious. However, it's important to keep in mind that most washing machine injuries occur when the machine is full of clothes — in other words, during normal use.;
, Many models of GE washer have agitators that are mounted in place with a single metal bolt (specifically, compact washers 1996 and earlier, regular 1992-1995 models, and handwash agitator models). To remove agitators on these models, this fastening bolt must first be removed. To access the bolt, remove the cap at the top of the agitator — this can usually be done either by hand or by prying with a screwdriver.


Take care if the cap is glued down. Bolt caps that are glued in place are usually fairly fragile. If bent during the removal process, they may require special glue from the manufacturer to replace.
 Once you remove the cap, look down into the barrel of the agitator. You should see a metal bolt or nut holding the entire agitator housing in place. Use a ratchet (with an extender) to unscrew and remove this.


Note that, in some cases, you may see large flathead, hex head, or #20, #40, or #50 torx screws rather than a standard hex nut or bolt. In these cases, use the appropriate screwdriver or socket.
When you're done, simply lift the agitator up. It should come out of the machine freely. If it doesn't, it may be stuck in place with accumulated soap or other washing chemicals. In this case, see below for more information.
 For bolted agitators, re-installation is usually quite simple. Place the agitator back in the wash compartment, replace the bolt or screw, re-tighten it, and replace the agitator cap. At this point, your maintenance is complete! Plug your washing machine back in and test the function of your agitator to ensure it's working properly.

