 Stay at home in bed as soon as you start to get nauseous. Laying down, avoiding exercise and sudden movements, and getting a bit more sleep will slow and stop your nausea and reduce your chances of vomiting. If necessary, take time off of work or school to do so.;
, Staying in a single sick room may be easy, but the air will go stale and make you feel worse. Keep your windows open to allow a breeze of fresh air, and when possible, take a few minutes to step outside.
 Taking a bubble bath may sound great, but adding in overly-scented perfumes will likely upset your stomach more. In general, avoid anything (perfumes or otherwise) with a very strong scent. Smell and taste are connected, so a strong smell can make you feel equally as sick as a bad taste. Kill two birds with one stone by keeping your window open to allow fresh air in, and to keep bad smells out.
 The brightness, noise, and movement associated with your television, laptop, tablet, and phone can be overly stimulating and make an upset stomach worse. Instead, lay in bed with the lights dimmed and read a book or relax in a similar way. Taking time away from your electronics will ease your stomach and prevent an associated headache as well.
 Nothing is worse than feeling sick and being too hot or too cold as well. Stay at a comfortable temperature to make resting easy; add or remove layers of clothing and blankets, or take a short shower or bath. You can change the temperatures of the liquids you are drinking to help as well.
 If the natural remedies just aren’t cutting it for you, switch over to a medication from your local pharmacy or drugstore. Look for medicines that advertise nausea and vomit-fighting, rather than taking a generic all-around medication. Make sure to check the dosage for your medication, and take the pills accordingly.
 If your stomach ache simply won’t go away and the urge to vomit is growing stronger, don’t stop it. Your body is trying to expel the cause of your illness from your body, so let it. Vomiting is certainly not an enjoyable activity, but it does an important job of helping you to heal. You’ll probably feel better afterwards anyway.

