 Do they seem to get more tense when they realize you're in the same room? Do they cross their legs towards you and keep their shoulders pointed at you at the same time? Do they try to appear good-looking? Do they every so often take a look in your direction to see if you're looking at them? If so, it could be a good sign that they're into you. Small things like this often can mean more than what it seems.


Another good sign is if you notice them hanging around you even though you're not having a conversation with them.
Looking straight into your eyes (although they may be a little nervous doing so) means they're paying attention to you. If you feel like they are looking deep into your eyes, that could also be a sign.
Most of the time, if a crush likes you, they'll jump at the opportunity to help you. Even with small things, they'll always be there to help out with your problems (especially if you ask).
Do they sometimes show off and tell jokes around you to make you laugh? Do they look straight at you when they deliver the punchline? How do you feel around them?;
, Do they ever tell you about something special they're doing, such as reading a book or playing a sport, out of the blue? Does He/She tell you secrets and random stories about their day? They might be trying to impress you.


Do they give you semi-personal information when you didn't ask for it? Giving people personal information is a sign that they trust you or want you to give them personal information back.
Do they talk about their family, their ex, or about the past? These topics are all things people are usually pretty guarded about. If your crush is letting you in on them, it may be a sign.
 Whether or not it's conscious, someone who likes you (more often girls) will generally find excuses to touch you.


They might put their hand on your shoulder, or accidentally walk into you in the halls, or wipe something random off your face.
Do they tickle you or tease with their hands? Do they ask you for piggybacks, or throw random things at you in an effort to get your attention?
Even gestures that don't seem playful or nice might mean they're attracted to you. Lots of people understand that their body language is giving them away, and try to make the body language mean or impersonal. Do they hit you lightly or play pranks on you? It might mean that they want attention from you, and they're trying to get it without telegraphing their true feelings.
 Do you ever see them looking at you when they think you cannot see them? If you catch him/her looking at you and you look back, do they look away? If they do, that could be a sign of nervousness.


On the other hand, do they always avoid looking at you, no matter what? Not looking at someone might mean they're trying to keep their crush secret and don't want you to know.
Get a trusted friend to look at them during class or at recess; have the friend see whether your crush looks at you, and for how long. If they're constantly staring in your direction for minutes at a time, they're really crushing hard.
 Are they more shy or attentive around, or when talking to you, than with other people?


If they're normally a super-confident person, and the sight of you turns them into blabbering mush, it's a pretty good sign they like you (especially if they're nervously playing with their hands).
Be careful, however, because shy people are usually shy all the time. You could misread whether your crush actually likes you. So it's best to use this information along with the other steps when you're making the call about whether or not they like you.
 Does it seem that they make it a point to happen to be near you or walk back and forth in front of you? Then it means that they are trying to get your attention, but in a very discreet way.


Does their voice get louder when they're talking to other people around you? It could be a sign that they want you to listen or pay attention to them.
Do they make little excuses to be around you? Do they ask you for the homework problems, or sit next to you in class, or pick you to be on their team for recess sports? It could mean something!

, If they act like a gentleman or gentlewoman to you, it's often a sign that they like you.


Does he or she open the door for you or give you parts of their lunch that they usually never give to other people?
Does he or she stick up for you when you get in a fight or when someone badmouths something you're doing? Do they say to their friends," Stop saying bad things about him/her!"?
Does he or she suddenly get along with a lot of your friends that they used to not care about?
Do they constantly look at you during class periods you have with them?

,