 You have a threshold for how much you can realistically manage. It’s important to know that limit and to stay in the sweet spot. If you are at maximum capacity and another opportunity presents itself, learn to say no. It may be better to miss out on something and actually get done what you already have than taking on another project and failing them all.Learning where exactly your limit is may take some trial and error. If you don’t get it right the first time, don’t give up on yourself. You have to find your limit somehow, even if it means dropping the ball once or twice.
Maybe the newly offered project is not something you can afford to pass up. Carefully consider when this is the case. You may burn a bridge by letting go of something you already committed to working on.
 When you have a team you work with or oversee, it is always best to delegate as much of the work as you can. You may tend to want to be in control, but you have people helping for a reason. Give people assignments at the outset of a project and let them do what they are assigned. Don’t take back control partway through.When you have good workers, a group of people can get more done than you can all alone. If you tend to do all of the work but delegating is an option, consider passing off some of the work. If you have workers available to you, don’t let their help go to waste.
If you are in charge, it’s still your responsibility to make sure everything is getting done. Set some times that you will check in on progress and then leave your team alone except during those specific times.
 You may be in charge of people who work very differently than you. To be effective, you need to accept that. Knowing how each member of your team communicates best will help you get more done. Without going overboard, cater a little to each person so you can get the best work possible out of them.This could apply specifically to forms of communication like phone and email. Some team members may prefer a call when you are giving them feedback. Others will value the efficiency of email.
It also applies to who likes to joke, who prefers to be serious, and how you need to frame feedback. You want to get along with your team as much as possible so they want to work with you.
Keep notes on your people so you can be sure to apply what you learn about them. You may ask them directly about some of their preferences or you may do better to figure it out over time.
 Whether you are in charge or you report to someone else, progress updates are important. Set times with people you are in charge of for them to update you. Be proactive about reporting to your supervisor as you get things done. Consistent, if not constant, updates will keep a project moving smoothly.


It can be helpful to have established progress report deadlines at various stages of a project. This could be daily for short projects, or once a week for projects that are ongoing.
This is especially important if one part of a project builds on the part before it. If Tom is waiting for Leslie to finish her part before he can work on his, he needs to know how far along she is.
Setting expectations in the beginning for how progress updates will be handled is important. You don’t want to get halfway through a project and surprise people with a progress check.

