 All of the assassination missions are completed by Franklin, and given to him by Lester.Because your targets are corporations or their competitors, the stock prices rise and fall dramatically because of your assassinations. You can use this to your advantage.


Never complete the next mission in the sequence until all your stock shenanigans are finished.;
, The Hotel Assassination is part of the story mode, so it usually needs to be done before you have much money to invest. Save the rest of the assassination missions until after you've got more money from the story mode.While the profit you make won't make much difference in the long run, you can take the opportunity to practice the technique:Save the game (just to be safe), then invest all your money in Beta Pharmaceuticals on BAWSAQ.
Complete the mission, then sell Beta stock immediately.
Wait for three in-game days, then purchase Bilkington on LCN. (You can make time pass faster by sleeping at your home.)
Wait at least a week, then sell Bilkington.
 It takes money to make money on the stock market. Finish the story mode to get roughly $25 million dollars per character, then continue with the steps below to transform that paltry sum into mountains of cash.
 Now that you have serious bucks to spend, you can invest it into ever-increasing stacks of money. This isn't infinite, but it's as close as you can get in GTA V. Here's the strategy for this second assassination mission:Buy Debonaire stock on LCN.
Complete the mission, sell Debonaire, and purchase Redwood on LCN.
Wait two in-game days, then sell Redwood.
 This one is simple: buy Fruit stock on the BAWSAQ exchange, assassinate the target, then sell Fruit stock right afterward. You can make some extra cash if you then invest in Façade, but that can take some resting and obsessive stock-market checking while you wait for it to rebound. Sell Façade at about 30% higher than the price you bought it at., The Bus Assassination doesn't get you any profit until after you're finished with it. Buy Vapid stock on BAWSAQ right away once you've finished, then wait two days before selling it.
 Your fortune should now be measured in the billions. Invest all of it into GoldCoast before completing the fifth and final assassination. Sell all your stock immediately afterward for a final 80% profit., You're done with the straightforward instructions at this point. Now that you have a fortune to play with, stock market trading can be effectively a source of infinite wealth – or crushing disaster if you're foolish. Always save before a big investments, and follow these tricks:


Buy a large amount of the same cheap stock, then save immediately. Stay on the "purchase stock" page so the price keeps updating. If it ticks up by any amount, sell all your stock, save, and repeat. If it ticks down, reload.Get stock tips from the in-game radio, or by investing in Tinkle and using Michael to pick up a passenger at Hitch Lift 1.Trade stock tips with other players at sites like /r/GTAMArket and /r/GTAVstocks.
 These exploits have been caught by the game developers, and no longer work if you have all the patches installed. You can delete the patches and get access to the exploits again, but this sometimes deletes your saves in GTA V or other games. If you're willing to risk this, try the following methods:


Xbox 360: Disable the internet connection. Turn off the console, then turn it on again while holding A.Jailbroken PS3s, JTAG Xbox consoles, and consoles that have never been connected to the internet should be able to use these exploits without deleting any files.
All other systems: You cannot remove the patch without deleting the entire game (including your saves), then reinstalling and playing only when the internet connection is disabled.
 Once you're back to the original version of the game, you can pick up packages of cash that respawn infinite times. Station one character at any of the locations below, and pick up the cash. Switch to the second character, then back to the first, and the cash will have reappeared. You cannot save during this method, since you'll be transported back to the house. Here are three sunken treasures that work with this exploit:The package to the right of the sunken plane in Paleto Bay.
Two packages in the Pacific Ocean, one at the end of a long pole., This is another exploit that only works in unpatched versions of the game, and also requires two characters. Buy the Bati801 motorcycle, pause the game, go to Options, and set your Spawn Location to "Last Location." Sell the Bati, pause immediately, then go to Options → Swap Characters. Select the same character that you were just using, and another Bati should reappear for you to sell again in the same way.You can customize the Bati so it sells for a higher value, but don't forget to save first before spending all your money, just in case.

