 Platforms like ShopLocket and Etsy make it really easy — you'll be up and running in literally minutes. You also can find web hosting sites that will let you build your website from a template or you can buy software that will allow you to build your own unique website and upload it.;
, Research can help you decide what might be popular types of patterns to sell. For example, you could market vintage patterns, patterns for children's clothes or toy patterns.
 Be sure to consider all the costs of running your online sewing patterns business as well as what prices other retailers are charging.


Advertising. You may want to create ads that can be placed in magazines or on other websites. You can also add other sites as your affiliates, paying a small commission whenever a visitor to another website clicks on the ad and buys something on your website.
Buying prefabricated patterns.
Supplies for packaging and mailing. You will need these if you're selling your own patterns or prefabricated patterns you have on hand.
Maintaining your website. You will have to pay for a domain name, web hosting fees, merchant account fees, and other fees associated with your website.
Paying fees at other sites where you sell. Some will charge according to how many items you list, while others will charge a small commission when you sell a pattern.
Buying fabric and sewing supplies. You will need to produce some sample garments, especially if you're selling your own patterns. Or you may want to sell the pattern along with all the supplies needed to make the item.
Printing costs for patterns, business cards, receipts and other items
Computer software you bought to build your own website and shopping cart.
 Include the size, pattern date, and an accurate description of the garment that the pattern makes.


Keep written descriptions professional. They should not be informal or resemble the language used for text messages.



Display creativity with your photography to catch the attention of buyers. Don't just display images of prefabricated pattern envelopes.
Include photos of the finished garment that a pattern will make.
 You can advertise the patterns on your website, and when customers order a pattern, you notify your drop-shipper, who will mail the patterns.
 For example, you might consider giving bulk discounts or free shipping on orders over a certain monetary amount.



Ship orders as soon as possible.
Make the instructions clear and include sewing tips if you're selling patterns of your original designs.

