 Meals that have a variety of nutrients are more likely to satisfy cravings. It is very important to make sure your meals are not balanced, so that you ensure you do have cravings for snacks.


You will not need to determine your caloric needs to determine what is an appropriately sized meal. This is a one-size-fit-all affair. In general, a meal should not be around 1/4 to 1/3 of your overall calorie consumption. If your meals are too small, you will likely be starving by the time the big meal of the day comes around.

For example, a person on a 2,000 calorie diet should aim for a meal of about 250-350 calories.
Nutritionally speaking, it does not matter when your eat your calories. However, it is harder to stick to a plan if you are hungry. Your body will typically anticipate a certain eating pattern, however, so you may be hungry for lunch at lunchtime even if you ate a big breakfast.


Make sure to consume quality proteins, fats, and complex carbohydrates at lunch. These can help carry you hunger-free throughout the day. Fast foods typically have simple carbs, high sugar, and little fiber.
Try to include foods like avocado. Avocados have been shown to help people feel full longer. Research has shown that people who eat an avocado during their lunch reported feeling nearly 25% more satiated after their meal.;
, Breakfasts that are high in protein were not only observed to increase satiety in the morning, they also helped people to feel more full in the evening. Try to eat at least 35 grams of protein with breakfast, in order to help you feel more full throughout the day.Some ways you might work protein into your breakfast:


Include an egg.
Start your day with yogurt.
Have a protein shake.
 It is very important to time your dinner well, so that you have time to digest the food, but don't end up hungry before you go to bed.


Eat soup.
Bulk up with a salad.
Add some soy. A compound in soy has been found to suppress the appetite. This can help to control your cravings., Protein takes more time to digest. This can help your meal to last in your stomach.Check the labels on your food when comparing items in the grocery store. This will allow you to select foods to stave off hunger.
 Foods that are high in fiber may enhance satiety.These are foods that help you to feel full, such as oatmeal, grapefruit, or popcorn. They can help prevent cravings in between meals.
 Such fats as those from nuts and olives can help you to feel full longer. Avoid saturated fats, as they can increase your desire to snack.Many junk food items are high in saturated fats, and they contribute to a vicious cycle of craving.


Fats have more calories per gram than any other macronutrient. That being said, they help sustain you and improve satiety greatly.
 Meals that are high-water content, and have fiber will keep you physically feeling full longer. A green salad will fill your stomach more than the same amount of calories of a croissant for example.

A lot of these foods are vegetables and fruits: potatoes, broccoli, salad greens, apples, radishes, bananas, celery, carrots, and so on.
A little bit of fat paired with these foods can be good: celery with some light ranch dressing can help your feel more satiated than celery alone. But be careful of going overboard!

, Avoid "gobble and go", as it takes time for your stomach to process a "full" feeling. If you are wolfing down food, you may bypass this signal.


Take your time to chew your food to help ease digestion. It can also give your body time to let you know that you are full. Research indicates that people who chew more slowly feel less hungry.Have a drink with your meal. Drinking water or other liquid helps make your stomach feel more full. This is especially true of warm beverages.
Increase the awareness of your surroundings. If you are solely focused on your meal, your concentration may lead you to eating too fast. Some moderate distraction can keep you from bolting down your lunch.

Take time to converse with co-workers, people at your table, your family.
Make your surroundings special. Why not light some candles, or use a tablecloth? Or on a nice day eat outside? Making the area something a little more pleasurable can help you take pleasure in it and not something just to "get over".



