 You can reward your child using a material reward like food. But, rather than simply give your child their favorite food, you may give them the opportunity to choose a special meal that you can enjoy together. This could be a favorite meal of homemade spaghetti or a takeout meal. Your child will enjoy the feeling of responsibility that comes with choosing a special meal.Keep in mind there is some debate around using food as a form of material praise. Some child specialist argue that using food to praise your child can lead to an unhealthy relationship with food in the future and undermine your child’s healthy eating habits. Allowing your child to have a special, unhealthy meal can lead to confusion around when eating unhealthy food is appropriate. Your child may associate unhealthy food with good behavior and positive self-esteem.Though you can use food as a form of reward, try to use it sparingly. Often, social rewards and verbal praise can be more effective and healthy for your child than material rewards, like food.
 Material items can be used as rewards but you should be careful not to simply give your child toys. Instead, you may go for practical items like school supplies or items for your child's room. This way, your child can still reap the satisfaction of a material reward and get use out of it.


You may give your child pencils, pens, and notepads that they can use in school. Or, you may give your child stickers to decorate their notebooks and their lunch box. Your child may also have specific school supplies in mind, which you can then buy for them as a reward for good behavior.
 You should also try to go for material items that feel specific to your child’s interests. Think about material items that complement your child’s favorite activity or hobby. This will ensure your child gets use out of the material item and does not see it as just another toy or material item.For example, maybe your child is really into a certain video game. You may then get your child a video game made by the same company or designer, or a doll version of their favorite video game hero. If your child is into other hobbies, like painting, you may get them a set of paint brushes or a new canvas.
 An allowance is a good option for children once they reach four or five, as at this age children tend to be more aware of wants and needs. Giving your child an allowance is a good way to teach your child the value of money and how be responsible with money.You may start the allowance by giving your child a small amount of money based on how old they are, such as $1 for each year old. So, a seven year old would get $7 in allowance. The idea is to give your child enough allowance to get one or two things they want but not too much, as you want your child to decide what to spend their money on and to spend it wisely.
Start by giving your child real cash so they can hold the physical money and learn how to count it. Then, as they get older and hit adolescence, you can give them virtual money, which they can manage through an allowance App on their phone or on the computer. Once your child is a teenager, they may be ready for getting their allowance through a bank account.

