 Make sure you and the event/venue manager are on the same page about when you're going on stage, what you need to bring with you, what equipment the venue will provide, and what compensation (if any) you're going to receive. If you're playing for a lot of fans and friends or at a big parties, you still want to confirm the basic details.;
, Don't rely on someone else, unless they know what you have and have a detailed list of what you need. Do make a list for everything; you will forget something, particularly if you haven't had a gig before.
 Broken gear can be easily replaced before you go on stage, and is less embarrassing.
 Knowing exactly what you're going to play and when will help all band members be on the same page. Find out how long you have on stage, and whether you can expect to play an encore, so that you can plan what songs to play. It's a good idea to have a few more songs ready to go too, in case you end up with extra time to fill.
 This should go without saying, but if you're going to play a gig, you need to practice. Make sure you and the other band members have practiced together enough to actually sound good; it's very unlikely you'll play a great gig without rehearsal.
 If some time has passed since you booked the event, confirm a few days before that you're actually playing when you think you are. The order that different bands are going on for a show or festival can often change at the last minute, as can the exact timing. So it doesn't hurt to touch base.
 Amps and PA systems will blow up at the worst possible times, broken strings will happen, even acoustic drums will tear their drum heads. Bring exact spares with you so that when something happens, you are prepared.
 For the best possible sound quality, remember that people hear better directly in front of them and at their sides of their heads, so set up where the audience can hear you.


Also try to mic up your amps along with getting your drummer electronic drums so that you can turn down their volume.
 Don't jam or talk too much on stage. Interact with the crowd, so that they will remember you more. Don't be too serious on stage either or curse or do silly things; the chances of you playing there again are next to none if you're just starting out and behave that way.

