 It is always a good idea to know your child’s friends. Invite their friends over for a play date, sleepover, or dinner. You can also offer to drive your teenage children to movies or other events with their children. This way you will get to know their peer group. You will also have the opportunity to see how they interact, and you can determine the type of peer pressure your child may encounter through this friendship.If your child’s behaviour begins to change as a result of a new friendship it is important that you do not overly criticize the friendship.
Your child obviously feels a common bond with this person or group and being overly critical may cause your child to pull away from you.
Instead, you can set parameters around the friendship. For example, you could say “you are only allowed to hang out with your friend two days a week after school.”
You could also say “You are not allowed to spend time at your friend’s house until your behaviour changes, but they are more than welcome to come over to our house.”

, Most children will feel excluded by their peers at some point. They may not get invited to a classmate's birthday or they will feel excluded from a clique or group of friends. One way to combat social exclusion is to provide your child with multiple peer groups. For example, find an extracurricular activity that your child can take part in. This way they will have friends from school and their other activities. It is important to foster these friendships throughout your child's life, both when they are young right through the teen years.Extracurriculars also take up a lot of time and will allow your child to avoid taking part in negative pursuits. For example, they will have less unsupervised time with peers, which is often when negative peer pressure takes place., You can also talk to your child about what they should do if they see another child being pressured to do something. If your child can support a friend and stick up to peer pressure with them, it will be a lot easier to resist. By having a few friends with common values who are willing to stick up for each other, your child can take some of the power away from peer pressure.For example, if your child sees a friend getting pressured to skip an important test or exam, they could walk up to the group and say to their friend “I’m with you, let’s go to class together.” This will make it easier for the friend to walk away from the situation.

