 Fat-shaming and a negative body image are linked to higher instances of eating disorders.One common symptom of eating disorders can be excessive exercising. If you punish yourself for eating certain foods by working out for hours on end, quit. This habit reinforces the unhealthy ideas that food is a reward and fitness is punishment. Instead, decide on an exercise routine that keeps you healthy and happy. Do not change that schedule based on how much you have eaten or how bad you feel on a given day.


View exercise as a healthy part of your lifestyle. Engage in physical activity because you want to reduce stress or improve health indicators—not because you hate your body.Yoga can be a great practice to start because it helps you see how powerful your body can be. The associated meditations and breathing exercises also promote self-love., Many times you may fall prey to fat-shaming when you see your friends or even celebrities wearing tight-fitting or revealing clothes. You want to wear them, too. But, because you have a different body shape and size, it doesn’t look the same. The truth is everyone can look sexy and attractive when they dress with confidence.


Consider having your clothes tailored to fit your body. A few more expensive pieces you love can make you feel more confident than a large number of trendy clothes that don't fit well.
If you have the cash, consult with a stylist who can help you select pieces that play up your best assets. If not, check out fashion blogs for people with your body shape and pay attention to the cuts and materials these individuals wear.
Also, keep in mind that you can wear whatever you want. Don’t assume simply because you have a larger frame, you can’t wear clothes that thinner people wear. Have the confidence to love your body and flaunt it, if you want., Oftentimes, you may become obsessed with the number on the scale, not factoring in that there are many variables that contribute to health. If you get upset about the number you see, stop checking. Besides, weight is a very subjective indicator. Two people, one tall and one short, can weigh exactly the same but have incredibly different body shapes.If you want to track your fitness goals, use other indicators, such as the physical activities you are capable of, or your physical health.
 You can defeat fat-shaming when you change your relationship with food. If you have been overindulging in sugary, salty, or fattening foods, you may feel terrible afterwards. Then, you shame yourself for eating those foods. When you listen to your body and eat only when you're hungry, you won’t feel negative about your food choices. Eat slowly and check in every few minutes to see if you feel full yet. Don't be afraid to leave your food unfinished. If you dislike wasting it, you can put the leftovers in the fridge or compost them.


Learn what kinds of food improve your health and your mood, and opt for these instead of convenience foods. Passing on fast food in favor of fruits and vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains, helps you support your health. Eating this way may also boost your self-confidence.
What’s more, eating healthy doesn’t have to mean you never enjoy a treat. Just practice moderation. Be mindful of triggers like boredom or sadness that may provoke you to eat when you’re not actually hungry. Start today actually listening to your body and feeding it what it needs.