 With any sort of procedure or treatment, infection is a concern. If you have an ingrown toenail, there's a good chance that the skin around it is tight, irritated and inflamed already, making it vulnerable. Clean your toe using antibacterial soap and water to start.

If you notice any signs of infection, such as pus or sharp pain, do not treat the toenail yourself. Cleaning it will not help at this point. Make an appointment with a doctor.;
, Before you attempt to remove an ingrown toenail, soak it in a warm bath. This helps soften your skin and reduce swelling, allowing you to get to the toenail easier. Place your foot in warm water with some Epsom salt and allow it to soak for a few minutes before attempting to remove the toenail., It's always a good idea to sterilize and wash any tools you're using prior to removing an ingrown toenail. You will be using tweezers and








To sterilize tweezers and nail clippers, wash them in warm water and mild dish detergent. Rinse them completely under running water and then pat them dry with a lint free cloth.
If a tool falls anywhere very dirty, like a toilet, throw it out. You're better off using a fresh pair of tweezers or nail clippers than risking infection.
 Some ingrown toenails can simply be clipped off. Use a small pair of nail clippers to clip the ingrown nail. Make sure to cut the nail into an oval or curved shape. Simply trimming off the ingrown portion may not be effective, as the nail may grow back in the same fashion. Cutting your nail into a curve can help it grow out normally.
 Another option with ingrown toenails is to separate them from the skin and let them grow out of the ingrown shape. To do this, roll a piece of clean, sterile cotton between your fingers to form a small roll or wick, or use a piece of dental floss (use the unflavored kind or it may burn). Slip the cotton or dental floss under the ingrown edge of the nail to prop it up. The cotton or dental floss will act as a barrier to prevent the nail from growing inwards. Replace the cotton each night before bed. Your toenail should grow out of the ingrown shape with the help of the cotton or dental floss.
 Regardless of the method you used, clean your nail again after removing the toenail. If you used cotton, clean around the cotton to avoid getting it wet. Always apply antibiotic ointment after treating an ingrown toenail. This can help prevent infection.








You can buy an antibiotic ointment at a local drug store.
 After treating the nail yourself, be vigilant. If you notice any complications, you should have the ingrown nail assessed by a doctor. Watch for the following:








Intense pain or sensitivity
Pus or fluid drainage
Abscess (fluid-filled sore or blister)
Major redness and swelling
Fever or flu-like symptoms

, While the home remedies described above may work well for non-serious ingrown toenails, they may not necessarily work for all ingrown toenails or cases that have progressed beyond a certain point. If your ingrown toenail doesn't seem to go away, becomes worse, or shows signs of an infection, make an appointment with your doctor or a foot specialist as soon as you can.








Medical professionals have a variety of options available for treating badly ingrown toes, including prescribing medicines and removing part of the affected nail. A qualified doctor will be able to find a method that works given your condition.

