 The Druid’s power is focused on acquiring early access to high tiered minions and spells by gaining additional mana early in the game. Malfurion may not have a weapon like the other heroes but his minions have unique effects – effects that give you options depending on how a duel is going on.


The Druid can have an early advantage as it allows him to summon minions such as the Chillwind Yeti (a 4/5 minion) as early as turn one. Make sure to use this incredible power to your advantage.
Mulligan for cards such as Innervate and Wild Growth if you want to take advantage of this power.
Shapeshift is Malfurion’s hero power. It adds one armor and attack to your hero. This is very useful in destroying minions, especially early in the game, with one life (HP). This can be more effective when that minion only has 1 attack since this will not damage Malfurion because of its acquired one armor.
Spells like Wrath and Power of the Wild have two effects each. These cards will give you options on which effect you would like to activate when you use them. It is like having two effect cards in one!;
, Playing aggressive using the Druid deck can be very effective considering its ability to acquire additional mana early in the game. That being said, there are minions and spells that work well with this ability if you wish to battle the aggressive way.


Try to have Innervate on your first set of cards. This will start the ball rolling for you since this card will allow you to summon more minions.
Keep your Savage Roars ready for board clears. Its ability to add two attacks on your characters will surely come in handy after you have a couple of minions on your side. And yes, even Malfurion himself will be affected by this spell.
Spells like Power of the Wild or Druid the Claw can be handy for they are spells that actually summon an additional minion. If you have enough minions already, you can use Power of the Wild’s other effect to add 1/1 on each of your minions and attack.
You might want to add Naturalize, Starfall, and Starfire for destroying threatening enemy minions, especially those pesky taunts. Swipe can also save you from being outnumbered.
Keeper of the Grove can help you silence those taunts that block your mass attack. Not only that, it has an optional effect to inflict two damage. Wrath has the same effect only, it has 3 damage. It can also damage just one but will allow you to draw one card. Very handy if you’re running out of cards in your hand.
Another dual effect card is Nourish. This card can actually be a life saver for it allows you to draw 3 cards or acquire two additional mana.
 Cards that have staying power and that allows you to have dominance in the board is priority in choosing neutral minions. This will prepare you for your surprise charge attack.


Creatures like the Imp Master and the Violet Teacher can provide you easy minion summons for they automatically provide you with token creatures. This works best with Savage Roar when your side of the board already has enough number of minions to attack.
Argent Squires can be perfect for an aggressive approach because of their divine shields. They surely have staying power compared to other one cost minions.
Acolyte of Pain can also be handy for this cards forces your opponent to allow you to draw an extra card. Very useful when you are waiting for that boost card such as Savage Roar.
During the end game, expect to see powerful minions from your opponent. Cards such as Big Game Hunter and Faceless Manipulator can be great equalizers. Time your use of these cards for they might save you from being dominated.
 There are three legendary cards recommended for building an aggressive Druid deck.


Ragnaros is an obvious choice since it has a sure 8 damage on each end turn. In case of multiple targets, Keeper of the Grove can easily silence it and make it attack directly to the enemy hero.
Alexstrasza can either save your HP from reaching zero in no time or instantly reduce your enemy’s HP to 15. Yes, it can easily set a hero’s HP to 15 just like that. Follow up a charging attack after you set your opponent’s HP to 15 and it might be a sure win for you.
Ysera can supply you an extra draw for each end turn. Mind you, the cards that Ysera draw are unique and are very powerful! Particular cards that you should watch for are Ysera Awakens, Laughing Sister, and Nightmare.

