 Look for images of the supermodel online, to help you copy her or his features. You also have the opportunity to print out any full length photo that you think could be used as the doll in its own right.


If cutting out an image of the whole supermodel, try to find one in bikini/beach wear/shorts, so that there aren't clothes in the way. If that's not possible, it's okay, just not as ideal.
Even if you're drawing the supermodel (see next step), it might be fun and easiest to cut out the supermodel's face from a magazine or print it off from online, as this will make it look real.;
, Following the prompts from the images you've searched online. Use plain card that is strong but not too thick, to form the basis of the doll. The doll should be drawn bare except for its undergarments.


If you're using a cut-out of a full-length image printed from the internet, cut around the design carefully. Glue this to the card, then cut around the card carefully. Although the doll will be clothed, you can cover this up with the clothes you design.
Use plain card; anything with patterns won't look realistic.
 You can draw the eyes, mouth, nose, etc. on the paper doll. Or, consider gluing on a printed picture of the supermodel's face and maybe even the hair, to make the doll seem more realistic.


Allow all glue to dry thoroughly before adding clothes, or the clothes might stick and will need to be ripped off.
 Be careful around areas such as the hands and feet; do not cut out individual fingers or toes, as this will make the paper doll too fragile and it's not needed anyway.
 Place the doll on a sheet of paper and trace around its outline.
 Put it to one side.
 Place tracing paper over the outline and draw trousers, tops, swimwear, dresses, skirts, shorts, etc.
 This paper should be thinner than the card used for the doll but thick enough so that it won't tear with use. Printer paper may be suitable, if of good quality.


Add tabs around the clothes at various points. These tabs will be folded onto the back of the doll to hold the clothes in place.
 It's might be easiest to color it in before cutting it out, as the surrounding paper makes it stronger until cut. However, if you're okay with coloring it while cut, that's okay too. When done, cut the clothes out, along with their tabs.
 You can update her or his wardrobe whenever you wish. Keep an eye on the latest catwalk fashions for inspiration.

