 German shepherds are affected by two types of cardiomyopathy: hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and dilated cardiomyopathy. These two conditions affect the heart muscle but in different ways.


Hypertrophic cardiomyopathy refers to a thickening of the heart muscle. The thickened walls of the heart cause a decrease in the size of the heart chambers whose job it is to fill with blood. Thus each heartbeat pushes a smaller volume of blood around the body, leading to the clinical signs.Dilated cardiomyopathy is the opposite problem, where the heart wall muscle thins and becomes soft and baggy like a balloon that has been blown up and let down several times. The lack of tone in the muscle means the heart makes weak pumping movements and is inefficient of sending blood round the body., The two conditions are difficult to distinguish on clinical signs alone. Therefore, a diagnosis is usually made via imaging, such as an ultrasound which is used to measure the thickness of the heart wall., There are several medical treatments available which improve the ability of the heart to pump and therefore improve the dog's quality of life. One is diuretics. These are drugs that shift retained water, such as fluid that accumulates in the lungs because of inadequate blood circulation. This makes it easier for the dog to breath and helps improve circulation.Typically furosemide and or spironolactone are prescribed. An initial loading dose may be given, and then a reduced daily dose by mouth is given to keep the patient stable. This is appropriate for both hypertrophic cardiomyopathy and dilated cardiomyopathy.
Furosemide is given two or three times daily, while spironolactone is given once daily by mouth.
 There are different medicine treatments available for hypertrophic and dilated cardiomyopathy. One treatment option for hypertrophic cardiomyopathy is beta blockers. The most widely used beta blocker for this condition is propranolol. This slightly slows the heart rate, which is helpful in cases of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. The medicine helps give the chambers longer to fill with blood, which improves the volume pumped out with each stroke.The beta blockers are given orally twice a day.


Calcium channel blocking agents, such as diltiazem, are another medicine used to help treat hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. These help the heart muscle relax more fully between heartbeats, therefore filling with blood more effectively. The regular formulation is given three times daily, or a slow release once-daily formulation is available.
 There are a couple different medications your German shepherd can take if they have dilated cardiomyopathy. Pimobendan is an important treatment for dilated cardiomyopathy which can extend life if routine screening is undertaken and a problem identified before clinical signs develop. Pimobendan can delay the onset of clinical disease and increase life expectancy. It acts by improving heart muscle contraction and acting on blood vessels to minimize the resistance to blood flow. This means it requires less work to push blood around the body.


Pimobendan must be given on an empty stomach. This is given twice a day by mouth, every 12 hours.ACE inhibitors is another treatment for DCM. It works by opening up small blood vessels in the extremities, so there is less resistance to blood flow. This is a tablet given once or twice daily.
 After diagnosis, your German shepherd requires regular monitoring to ensure they remain on the correct dose of medication. It is common to adjust the dose of medication in order to compensate for deterioration or to decrease the dose as the dog improves.


It is standard practice to see a stable patient every three months, but ultimately this is at the discretion of your vet and your German shepherd's condition.

