 The veins in your legs have to work against gravity to carry blood back to your heart. Certain habits can make this process harder on the veins, causing them to become strained and enlarged, which makes them visible.Aid the circulation in your legs by practicing the following habits:


Don't stay in the same position for long periods. Whether you're sitting at a desk all day or standing in front of a classroom for hours at a time, staying in the same position inhibits circulation. Find time to change things up by taking a walk around your office or putting your feet up between classes.
Don't cross your legs. This cuts off circulation and puts unnecessary stress on your veins. Sit with your feet flat on the floor to allow the veins in your legs to circulate blood unobstructed.
 Your feet are an important part of the circulation in your legs, and if you wear shoes that pinch or otherwise inhibit blood flow, it can lead to the appearance of spider veins.


Avoid high heels. Heels put extra pressure on your legs and make your veins work harder to carry blood back to the heart. Wear low heels or flat shoes instead.
Avoid tight boots. Knee-length boots, especially, can constrict your legs and inhibit circulation.
 Available at drugstores and other stores that sell medical equipment, compression hose provide extra support to your legs to aid in blood circulation and prevent your veins from getting strained.Compression hose are not the same as support stockings and other fashion stockings. Compression hose apply pressure in certain spots to help your circulation.
Prescription-strength gradient compression hose must be fitted by a professional but they offer even more pressure than regular support pantyhose and gradient compression hose.
Wear hose as often as possible, and not just when you're wearing a dress or skirt. Wear hose under pants, too.
Compression hose can also help ease the swelling or stinging that results from sclerotherapy or laser treatment.
 Keeping your skin healthy protects the veins beneath it and decreases the chance that spider veins will show through. Care for your skin in the following ways:


Wear sunscreen. The sun's rays damage and weaken skin, making veins below more apparent. Use it on your face to prevent spider veins from appearing there, and don't forget your legs and ankles.
Moisturize your skin. Keeping your skin from drying out helps improve your skin's elasticity and appearance, making it less likely that spider veins will show through.

