 If you have kids, then you will likely need to store their toys, snacks, and other items in places they can easily access. One great way to accomplish this is to use closet organizers such as shoe pockets. To use shoe pockets in your car, attach it to the back of your front seats and let it hang down. Place your child’s items into the pockets for easy organization.You can find hanging shoe organizers with small pockets in most department stores and online.
You may need to trim the shoe organizer to make it fit into your car. Depending on the size of your shoe organizer, you may be able to cut one in half and use one half on each of the car seats.
Secure your shoe organizer to the seat by attaching adhesive velcro to the back of it. The velcro should stick to the fabric on your seat. If it doesn’t, consider attaching the other side of the velcro to the back of the seat.
Teach your child how to use the pockets. Say, “This is where your books go. When you finish looking at one, put it back in the pocket.”

, If your car has back seats that are separated, such as in a van or SUV, take advantage of the space between the seat and the floor by adding a storage solution for your kids. Similar to the shoe pockets, you can find smaller pocket organizers that fit on the sides of seats. A remote control holder is perfect because it’s already made to fit under a chair cushion and then hang down to just above the floor.Place the items that your child uses most frequently next to them in their seat. For example, you could reserve one pocket to hold your child's snacks so that when they get hungry they can get the snack themselves.
 Use storage bins to organize toys, school supplies, and sports equipment. Depending on what you need to store inside your vehicle, storage bins can be a big help. You may try them in your trunk or hatchback, or you can designate one bin for each of your children.Try organizing sports equipment into bins. Not only can it make stacking your items easier and more convenient, but you’ll be able to easily find all of the equipment in one place.
Consider getting a special bin for each of your kids to use for their items. Tell them that they can only carry in the car what will fit into their bin, and then let them decide what to put in the bin. Put the kids in charge of keeping their items in the bins. If they fail to put an item away, remove it yourself and make them earn back the item.

