 You don’t have to enjoy every activity you do when you’re depressed. However, you can begin to reward yourself for the activities you accomplish and learn to find enjoyment in that practice. Even doing something small, like getting out of bed, going outside for a walk, or getting to work on time can be rewarded. Accomplishing small achievements can feel good and encourage you to keep making goals.Reward yourself for your successes.This can include taking a bath, downloading some new music, or lighting a fragranced candle.
As you reward yourself for these small tasks, notice how you feel. You may feel a sense of accomplishment or an increase in your ability to do things. Keep the momentum going by making more and more goals.;
, Music can help shape your mood and ease depression.If you want to motivate yourself to be productive, feel happier, increase your energy, and enjoy the moment more fully, look to music to boost your mood. Put on a song that makes you feel happy and joyful or that helps you release the past.


You may have a favorite song that always makes you feel good or a song from a happy period of your life that always brings a smile to your face.
Think about a song that you enjoy singing along to and put it on. Notice how you feel after listening to the song.
For more information, check out How to Treat Depression with Music Therapy.
 A mantra is something you say either to yourself or out loud that encourages you to live positively. You can say a mantra every morning when you wake up, or before you go to work or to other activities. If you’re having a hard time getting motivated, say something to calm, reassure, and encourage yourself. Saying one reassuring word can help you from thinking about your past or worrying about your future.Choose a word or phrase like, “I am calm” or “Doing activities makes me happy” or “Enjoy.”

, If you’re at an activity and thoroughly not enjoying it, listen to the thoughts going through your head. Are they relentlessly negative? If so, they are influencing your experience and enjoyment of the activity. Listen to your thoughts, then ask yourself, “Is this true? Does this matter? Is there a different way to look at it?” If you catch yourself in negative thoughts, replace them with more positive thoughts.If you overgeneralize (“Going to social events is never fun”), ask yourself, “What parts of this activity could be fun? What things may other people enjoy?”
If you focus mainly on negative things and don’t acknowledge the positive things, start noticing what goes right. Maybe one thing went wrong, but there were three or four more things that went well.
If you often jump to conclusions (“They must think I’m stupid”), ask yourself, “Is that a reasonable evaluation?”
If you get lost on the “shoulds” and “should not haves”, remind yourself to stay present. Ask, “Is it fair to keep a past version of myself to this standard?”

, Going through past events and wondering about alternative possible outcomes is not part of anyone’s healing process from depression. If your mind is stuck in the past, there’s no way for you to enjoy the present.


If you find yourself asking, “What if?...” find a way to distract yourself.This can include petting your cat or dog, reading a book, or going on a walk. Avoid getting trapped in rumination.
Remind yourself that ruminating on the past doesn’t help your future. Say to yourself, “Things didn’t go the way I wish they would have, but I have the power to influence how things go right now.”

