 Try not to compare your post-baby body to your friend who can somehow fit into a size 2 after giving birth or to celebrities who are photographed in bikinis after they have a baby. Giving birth affects every woman’s body in different ways, and comparing yourself to others will only lead to unrealistic expectations and negative thoughts. Focus instead on your body and your needs, rather than the post-baby bodies of others.Start by blocking out images from the media that show “perfect” post-baby bodies. Avoid looking at celebrities and models who appear perfect and skinny as new moms in magazines and online.
You may also have to unfollow other new moms on social media for a while.;
, Try to celebrate your new body shape and not stress as much about having the “perfect” body. Women who have recently given birth will often have bigger breasts, fuller hips, and carry more weight overall. Dress in ways that flaunt your new shape so you can see these changes as assets, rather than issues to be fixed.For example, you may wear a low cut top to show off your new cleavage. Or you may wear belts high on your waist to accentuate your new curves. You can also wear clothing that hug your new shape so you can feel confident and sexy in your post-baby body.
Put together a few outfits that are comfortable and that make you feel confident and rotate these outfits for a while. You might also consider buying yourself a few new outfits that you can wear during this time.
 Embrace your post-baby body by using positive affirmations on a daily basis. Remind yourself that you are beautiful, strong, and important person. Use “I” statements when you say the affirmations, preferably to your reflection in the mirror first thing in the morning.For example, you may use positive affirmations like, “I am beautiful and strong” or “I accept and love my body as it is.”
You can also try affirmations like “I will not worry about my body right now” or “I will not compare my body to others.”
Also, try to remind yourself of what your body allowed you to do: grow and give birth to a child. Verbalize your gratefulness for this experience.
 Some new moms have found it helpful to embrace their post-baby body with a photo shoot celebrating their appearance. You may arrange a photo shoot where you are naked, exposing your body in all its glory. You may also get photographs with your newborn baby to celebrate the new addition to your family.Search online for photographers who do post-baby photo shoots. You can also ask new moms if they have gotten a post-baby photo shoot and if they would recommend doing one to help celebrate their post-baby body.
Many moms avoid being photographed during this time, but having photos of you and your baby together will be something that your child will treasure when they are older.

