 India’s economy is growing, and the demand for English teachers is growing with it. There are ESL positions available to foreign nationals in nonprofits, primary schools, language schools, international schools, and companies. The advantage of finding a position through an established program is that they’ll help arrange visas, housing, travel, and other logistics for you.Be sure to read reviews of programs so that you can make an informed decision about whether or not they’re right for you and so that you don’t have any unpleasant surprises. If no reviews are available online, ask the program for contact information for current or past participants.
If you’d like to stay in India, remember that you can always find another ESL gig while you’re completing your first temporary assignment through a program.
 India’s a big country. You may want to search for programs in a specific city or region based on its culture, geography, and/or climate. At the very least, you should decide whether you’d prefer a rural or urban teaching situation.Nearly 70% of Indians still live in rural villages, where the need for education is greatest.
In general, rural communities have less developed infrastructures for transportation, communication, utilities, and sanitation. Therefore, the overall standards of living are lower.
Literacy rates tend to be lower and poverty rates higher in rural locales.
You should also look into the accommodations offered by each program. Check to see if room and board are included and what sorts of living conditions you can expect.
 Each program will have a different duration, ranging from weeks to a year or more. Figuring out how long you’d like to commit to ESL teaching in India can help you select an appropriate program.


If you have a finite amount of time or are worried about whether or not you’ll like it, go for a short-term program. You can also sign on for another program once you’ve given it a trial run.
 Would you like to teach kids or adults, students or professionals? Think about which age groups and experience levels that you would like to be instructing.


Remember, if you would like to teach at higher levels or in more professional contexts, it’s likely that you’ll need specific credentials first. Be sure to check if your program has any prerequisites in terms of education or certifications.
Also, look into the teaching resources and support offered by each program.
 Most teach abroad programs in India are voluntary. If you’re looking for a short-term, enriching experience, then doing a volunteer teaching program might be right for you. If you’re looking for a longer term assignment that will provide you with a basic income, focus on paid opportunities.Popular volunteer programs include Teaching Volunteer Project India, Global Citizen Year, Semester Abroad, WorldTeach India, and Asian College of Teachers.
If you’d like to find a paid position, you can find current listings at job sites like Craigslist India, Monster India, or Dave ESL Cafe.Because English is an official language in India, most paid ESL positions do not come with large salaries. The average pay is 10,000-15,000 rupees per month plus accommodation. This is enough to live off of comfortably and go on occasional holidays., At a minimum, most ESL teaching positions and programs require a Bachelor’s Degree in any subject from an accredited university and a valid passport. You may also need to get a teaching certification and/or a visa. Be sure that you can fulfill the basic qualifications before you apply.ESL teaching certifications are generally short, post-baccalaureate programs. They are available in most countries and online and qualify you to teach English as a foreign language around the world.
 Not all programs require you to take a qualifying Teaching-English-to-Speakers-of-Other-Languages course and exam. However, doing so will make you a more attractive applicant and qualify you for a wider range of teaching gigs.Most countries have TESOL (Teaching English to Speakers of Other Languages), TESL (Teaching English as a Second Language), and/or TEFL (Teaching English as a Foreign Language) programs available. You can take courses online or in-person in as little as four weeks.Many teach abroad programs in India offer TESOL/TEFL courses and certification as part of the program.
Go Overseas has a database of reviews for qualifying courses to teach abroad: https://www.gooverseas.com/tefl-courses

Companies and language schools often require or strongly prefer certified teachers.

