 You want to be good at your instrument! A bad bassist is the kind other band members will hold in contempt, but an excellent bassist is the kind who will impress anyone who hears the band and will receive generous amounts of solo time. (A generous amount of bass solo time is anything above five seconds of a song) Be sure to practice:


as often as possible
many different styles
various playing techniques (slapping, fingering style, picking, etc.)
writing
improv, especially short fills or embellishments
playing by ear
creativity (which goes hand-in-hand with improvisation);
, Realize that the bass is not usually a lead instrument and embrace the fact! The greatest bass lines can sometimes be the simplest, depending on the song. If you are upset because the bassline in a cover your band is performing is comprised of long strings of the same note, understand that you are probably playing a punk, emo, or mainstream rock song and the guitarist's long strings of power chords aren't much more exciting to play. When songwriting, don't go to ridiculous lengths to give yourself a technically complicated part. If it fits, great! If not, just make it simpler until it flows with the rest of the band.
 That way, you can still be part of the performance in a song that simply doesn't need a bass. An acoustic number, for example.
 This is especially important for live playing. If you have as much stage presence as the singer and guitarist, you will be paid at least as much attention as the guitarist. (Give the singer a break, they are the front person!) High-five any fans that hold their hands up to the stage, dance around, be fun to watch! It helps to be noticed if your appearance is radically different from the other members, but don't change your personality! Also be original!

, Listening to other genres can expose you to new styles that will turn your band's music into something unique! (ex. a country band with a bassist who plays with a funk style) Some good bands to listen to are:


Rush
Red Hot Chili Peppers
Reel Big Fish
Led Zeppelin
Black Sabbath
The Beatles
Primus
Tool (especially 1996-present)
Muse
System of a Down
Weather Report
Deftones
Funkadelic/Parliament

