


Many companies will guarantee the remote starter for as long as you own the vehicle. While the system is under a warranty, the remote itself is rarely warranted for more than a year or two, so find out what the remote replacement cost will be.;
, A dealer cannot void a warranty if equipment is added. It is against the law. The dealer can however, void the warrant if the installation of the equipment causes any damage to the vehicle. A professional remote starter company and shop should be used to avoid any damage and void of your warranty.



Don’t buy a starter with a shorter range than you need.
Consider the trips to the mall, movies and restaurants when choosing a range. You may find you wish you had gone with a larger minimum range for these occasions.



The monitor will watch your engine’s RPMs to avoid damaging your vehicle if the engine has problems when starting.
The RPM sensor will also tell the starter that the car has actually not started on a very cold day and try to restart it again. Without the sensor, your starter your vehicle will be cold when you get there.



It’s very important to have a cutoff switch installed under the hood so anytime the hood is open the starter can be manually turned off to avoid injury when working on the vehicle.
 If you have manufacturer keyless entry, you may consider adding the remote starter keyless entry feature with your remote starter. The starter usually has a much wider range making it a lot easier to lock or unlock your doors from farther away.
 The security system can even be added to vehicles that already have manufacturer security.




Heated seats are an option that can be put in with the car starter. Not only will your vehicle be warm on a cold winter day, your seat will be nice and comfortable too.
Add rear window defrost so your windows are thawed and ready to go without having to wait for the heat of the car to do it or scrape them yourself.
Look for anti-grind features that save your engine from a mistaken key turn once in your vehicle. Even if you have your starter for years, the tendency to get in and turn the key is still there. The anti-grind feature will save your starter on those days when you forget your vehicle is on and try to turn the key.
The car alarm for finding a vehicle is another easy addition to a car starter unit. The horn will sound with a click of a button so you can find your vehicle in large parking lots.
 Several systems now come with a 2 way remote which will have longer range and will actually confirm that your car started on your remote.

