 One way to gain admiration of girls around you is to act like a gentleman at all times. If you act like a gentleman, girls will see that you are serious, mature, and know how to treat them.


Practice the art of quiet confidence. Gentlemen are confident, but never find the need to brag. To be more confident, constantly tell yourself how capable you are. Don't question yourself or your abilities. Be sure of yourself.
Always be polite and show respect to the girls around you. In order to be polite and respectful, never force anyone to do anything they don't want to do. In addition, don't think you know what they want or what they think. Always ask people their opinions and thank them when appropriate.
Remember, you do not need to patronize or treat women in an inferior manner to act like a gentleman. Simply remember to be considerate and thoughtful. To be more considerate, always think of others as you are doing something. Ask yourself "how do my words or actions affect other people?";
, When talking to girls around you or anyone else, you should show that you are a positive person with a positive worldview. This is important, as many people admire people with positive outlooks and want to surround themselves with positive people.


Always try to emphasize the bright side or silver lining of problematic events.
Never say bad things about people.
Encourage your friends to better themselves and to achieve the goals they want to achieve., Another way to gain the admiration of girls is to be a good listener. Good listeners do just that – they listen. When you truly listen to people, you send the signal that you care about them.


Ask girls about themselves and what they like and think.
Don’t interrupt them as they speak.
Try to remember what people are saying., Empathy is one trait that most people admire in others. If you consistently show empathy to people, you’ll become known as someone who is empathetic. In the end, more girls will respect and admire you.


If someone you’re talking to or socializing with is going through a rough patch, let them know that you understand their struggle and that you care for them.
Avoid dismissing the struggles of others.
Show warmth to people as you talk to them.
If you have a hard time empathizing, just try to imagine yourself in their situation., Being a charitable person who helps others is also an admirable quality. If you consistently help people who need help, you’ll build a reputation as someone who spends your time helping others.


Volunteer at a homeless shelter or soup kitchen.
Organize a Toys for Tots drive around the holidays.
Collect money for UNICEF or do other fundraising for the less fortunate.
Invite others, like girls you know, to help., One thing that often gains the admiration of men and women alike is success. Many people like to be around others they consider successful. As a result, you should strive for success at whatever you do.


If you play a sport, strive to be the best you can be. You don’t have to be the star player, just succeed at what you do.
Try to get good grades in school.
Do your best at work and strive for a promotion or raise., While you don’t need to be a bodybuilder or an athlete to gain the admiration of the girls around you, being fit and healthy will certainly help. This is important, because taking care of yourself signals to girls that not only do you care about your appearance, but you’re willing to do what it takes to meet your goals. At the same time, being in shape will probably make you attractive to girls.


Commit to a regular cardio workout. Consider swimming or running as two good options.
Think about some light weight training. This could include working out with free weights, working on a weight machine, or simply doing pushups and crunches., Having positive body language is another thing that will gain you the favor and admiration of the girls around you. If you have positive body language and a welcoming demeanor, girls will see you as someone they want to spend time with.


Stand straight up with your shoulders up and your chest out slightly.
Smile when appropriate.
Avoid crossing your arms or taking any other defensive posture. , Another important thing to do in your effort to gain the admiration of girls around you is to work on your appearance. Fundamentally, the little things go a long way in getting others to think of you as a likeable person they admire and want to spend time with.


Make sure your clothes are clean and free of unintentional holes or tears.
Always brush your teeth twice a day.
Comb your hair and groom your facial hair, if you have it.
Use deodorant and cologne.
Shower every day and use a good soap and shampoo., One thing that that will help gain the admiration of girls is to be open to making a variety of types of friends. A diverse group of friends will show that you are open to different types of people, are interesting, and are successful socially. In addition, it will help you build a social network that is relatively large, and in which you will gain lots of experience socializing.


If you’re in school, attend different types of extracurricular activities. Attending a variety of activities will help you make friends of different kinds.
Interact with people you don’t normally interact with. For instance, try making friends with people from different religious, racial, or ethnic groups.
Don't ask or expect people who are different than you to adapt to your perspective or way of life. Part of growing and becoming an admirable person is that you try to expand your perspective by engaging others in equal relationships.
Don't view people from different backgrounds as people to "collect" or to add to your social media page or social circle., Kindness is one trait that most all people respect and admire. Showing kindness to those around you will definitely help you gain the admiration of girls that you know.


Whenever someone is feeling down or discouraged, try your best to pep them up.
When something bad happens to someone you know, like the death of a friend or family member, comfort them and do anything you can to make their time of loss easier. , Socializing is one way to get girls to know you. In addition, it is a great way to get girls to respect you. By socializing frequently, you’ll also gain more experience talking to girls and will likely build your confidence.


Attend any parties or events your friends invite you to.
Consider hosting a parties or gatherings at your house.
Join friends on outings to movies, bars, the county fair, or other events.