 During adolescence, your teen is just starting to explore and understand the things and people around him. Therefore, this is the best time to instill a sense of responsibility in your child, which will make him a stronger, better person in the long run.


This includes explaining how to become independent and what it actually means to be independent. Explain to him that he must do some things on his own and exercise his ability to make decisions for himself.
Explain that this will make him a stronger person and will help him to be more successful in life. If you can convince your child to actually want to be independent, you'll have won half the battle.;
, Let your teen study alone and do his assignments without your help, at least for the most part.


You can still guide him in the right direction by giving him some tips on where to find information, but then let him do the research on his own. Doing your teen's assignments for him is not a good idea, as he won't learn anything from it and won't develop the skill of thinking for himself when it comes to exams..
Also allow your teen to set his own schedule in terms of when he does his homework. If he prefers to have a break for a couple of hours after he comes home from school before doing his homework, that's fine. Along as the homework gets done in the end, you should allow your teen to find his own balance between leisure time and schoolwork.
 By leading the family in prayer, your teen can express himself and show what's in his mind and in his heart. Let him speak for himself and for the family during praying time.


This is especially important if your teen tends to be shy and has difficulty expressing himself. Encourage him to express how he feels and let him know that he can't go wrong and there is nothing to be embarrassed about.
Letting your teen lead the rest of the family in prayer will also give him a sense of leadership and responsibility. This will help to make him more confident and independent.
 You can also encourage independence in your teen by finding their talent and helping them to develop it. For example, if he loves to cook, sign him up for a cooking class. If he loves sports, encourage him to sign up for the school team.


Finding a talent and working hard to develop it will help your teen to become more independent. This is because being good at something will give your teen confidence and motivate them to try their hardest and become disciplined, without you needing to push them every step of the way.
Getting involved in a group activity or class will also allow your teen to meet new people and make new friends - another essential part of becoming independent.
 In order to become independent, teens should be allowed to have a little privacy and to take ownership over their own bedrooms. Allow your teen to decide how he wants to decorate his room, and give him the right to refuse other people entry (within reason).


However, make it clear that being in charge of his own room requires responsibilities. Make a deal where you agree not to enter his room without permission, provided that he tidies and vacuums his room at least once a week, and brings his dirty clothes to the laundry on a daily basis.
Allowing your teen to be responsible for his own room and to have his own space will help him to feel more grown up and independent., Self-expression is hugely important during the teenage years and plays a large part in becoming independent. Therefore, you should allow your teen to wear clothes and style his hair in a way that matches his personality.


For example, your teen may just want to wear soccer jerseys and running shoes everyday and refuse to put on a shirt or proper shoes. Or he may want to just wear black all the time, and never wear any colors. Don't worry too much about this - this is all a normal part of growing up and becoming independent.
Of course, don't be afraid to offer your opinion if they ask for it, or if you really think something is inappropriate (you are the parent after all), but try to give your teen as much personal choice as possible, as this will help them to become independent and make decisions for themselves.
 Encourage your teen to express his feelings and opinions in an open and honest way. Try to listen to what he's saying and avoid being judgmental or condescending.


Although you want him to be independent, you still want him to feel like he can come to you with his problems, not feel like he has to hide them from you.
Ask for your teen's opinion on certain matters, like a news item you just saw on tv or an article you read in the newspaper. This will help your teen to develop his own unique opinions and thought process and allow him to feel more grown up.However, you should help your child to understand that there are certain rules regarding self-expression; he should be rude or talk over other people, or believe his opinion is more important or more valid than other people's.Encourage him to think before he speaks, so he can practice being independent in a responsible way.
 Allow your teen to hang out with her friends by herself. Do not constantly nag your teen to find out where she is or what she is doing. Instead, set rules that you expect your teen to follow. If you do not hover over your teen at all times, you may find that she is more likely to respect your rules.
 Discuss situations with your teen, and ask her how she thinks she will handle it. If she isn’t sure, talk to her about looking both the pros and the cons, as well as the consequences of certain choices. Asking how your teen will handle something, rather than telling them how to do so, may help her to take responsibility for actions and her time.


For example, ask your teen about how she plans to manage her study time and her free time. If she isn’t totally sure, talk to her about the pros and cons, as well as the consequences of having more or less free time.
Always acknowledge when your teen has taken responsibility for something and managed it well. This will encourage her to continue to take responsibility.
 Be clear and consistent when you implement rules. You may opt to write down all of your policies so that your teen knows your rules are concrete. When coming up with the rules, talk to your teen about them so that you can work together to create fair expectations.


Similarly, keep your forms of discipline consistent. For example, if your teen comes home past curfew, then she is not allowed to hang out with her friends the following night.
 Just as your expectations should be concrete, so should the discipline that you give your teen when she does not meet those expectations. This does not mean your discipline should be strict or harsh; your discipline could instead simply be sitting down with your teen to talk about what happened.


Again, talk to your teen about what discipline she thinks is fair for not meeting your agreed upon expectations. For example, if your teen goes to a party, rather than studying for a test, and fails the test, then the discipline may be not being allowed to hang out with her friends in the week leading up to the next test.
 Making mistakes can help your teen to figure out what she should do in the future to avoid the mistake she made. The mistake will teach her about consequences to choices that she makes.Do not punish your teen when she makes a mistake. Instead, talk to your teen about what happened, and how she can learn from her mistake.
 Being independent begins with being responsible. You can assign your teen a number of household chores such as washing the dishes after dinner, taking out the garbage, cooking lunch for the whole family one or two nights week, bringing the dog for a walk, vacuuming the house, etc.


Make your teen responsible for completing these tasks on a weekly basis, without having to be reminded. You shouldn't need to bribe your teen into doing his chores - he should understand that he needs to contribute to the household and pull his weight around the house, rather than leaving everything to you.
Making your teen responsible for household takes will help to foster independence and will really stand to him when he eventually leaves for college or moves out of the house and becomes truly independent., While your teen may have a newer, larger amount of freedom, it is still important to promote a healthy family relationship. Plan some fun activities, like going on a hike or going to the beach, that your whole family can do together.


Find an activity that both you and your teen enjoy, and then do that activity together.
Have your teen help you to plan a trip for the family, even if it is just a day trip. Allowing her to pick out some of the activities may help her to get over her resentment of not being able to hang out with her friends.
 Your teen should have the ability to deal with safety and emergency situations. This is imperative because it is impossible for you to be with your teen 24/7 and unexpected events certainly happen.


Some emergency procedures you must teach your teen are related to fire, water, road, food, and natural disasters.
 Being independent will force your teen to be more responsible, which is an important quality for him to develop. The best way for him to learn how to be responsible for himself and do things on his own is by giving him the space to do it.


When your teen goes to summer camp for example, he will have the chance to interact with different people from the same age bracket without your supervision. He’ll also have to learn how to survive without your support and make his own decisions.
This is a perfect of example of how your teen will become responsible by being independent.
 When your teen becomes more independent, his self-confidence and self-esteem will increase. He will realize that he can do things by himself, without anyone else's help.


For example, when your teen starts working on a school project alone, it will give him the opportunity to identify his own talents and strengths.
As low self-esteem is a huge problem amongst teenagers, it's really important that your teen finds something that they love and that they're good at.
 The best way for your teen to acknowledge and accept God is when facing adversity without anyone there to help him.


When your teen faces this type of struggle, he will look for something or someone to hold on to. He may feel like no one seems to care or has time to lend him a hand, but then he will realize that he can always turn to God for strength and guidance.
In this way, your teen will learn to look up to God as you teach him to be independent.
 When your teen learns to be independent at an early age, he also learns how to face the difficulties in life.


Learning from experience is one of the main factors that determine one’s success in life. At this point in time, your teen will start to experience small dilemmas, especially when it comes to interactions with his peers.
An independent teen is more likely to be successful in dealing with these types of situations, and even if he is not successful he will learn from his experience and deal with it better the next time.
 If your teen is independent and takes responsibility for his own actions and endeavors from an early age, he is far more likely to go on to be successful in later life.


Being independent requires your teen to show initiative and to realize his own worth - two values which will come in very useful when it comes to finding employment later on in life.

