 Depending on your particular muffin tin, you will need square shapes that are between 2 ¼-inch and 2 3/8-inch to cover each muffin slot. You can measure your squares with a ruler, cut them out of thick cardstock, and then then add your decorations to each one by hand. You could also find images, clipart or illustrations on the internet and resize them for printing.Try searching for free downloadable advent calendar images online, which will most likely already be sized for you and ready to print.
If you want to do circle shapes instead of squares, measure 24 circles that are 2 1/4 inches wide., You can buy magnet paper online or pick it up at most office supply stores – it will be stocked near the regular printer paper. If you’re not using pre-sized printables downloaded from the internet, prepare your own image set by using desktop publishing software. Follow the directions included with the magnet paper to print out your images.Use scissors or a paper trimmer to cut out the 24 individual squares from the magnet paper.
Magnet paper is thicker than regular paper or cardstock, so you may need to adjust some settings before you can print successfully. Double-check the instructions to ensure you’re ready to print.
 Buy sturdy cardstock at any craft store. Use pre-sized printable images that you’ve downloaded from the internet, or prepare your own image set by using desktop publishing software. Print the 24 images onto the cardstock and then cut out the squares individually.

For a crafty, polished look, use a scrapbooker’s corner rounder punch to create rounded corners for each of your 24 cardstock squares., If your 24 squares are images only, without countdown numbers, mix and match the patterns and colors for an eye-catching overall look. Otherwise, arrange your squares over the empty muffin cups in numerical order. If you are using magnet paper, your squares will fit right over each slot and adhere to the tin on their own.

If you are using cardstock, cut four tiny squares out of adhesive magnet paper. Stick the tiny magnetic squares on the back of the slot cover and then place it on the tin.You could also use tape to attach the 24 covers. Put a small strip of tape along the top of the square so that the cover can be lifted up easily.

