 This woman's element is fire – she is intense with a gracious heart. She makes one of the most romantic of all lovers and she is devoted and generous. Like the sun, she is bright and draws people to her like the warmth of summer and tends to be quite popular. She is known for a thick mane of shimmery hair and almost cat-like eyes. This woman is the royalty of all zodiacs, so if you want to meet her needs, you have to act accordingly. Here are some of the things you have to know if you want to know how to treat her right:


Leo women think of mates with the utmost respect and will place them on a very high pedestal; she expects you to do the same. You are "Her Lion, leader."
For a truly meaningful relationship, she likes individuals who are more unique than her usual suitors. Wow her with your originality.
Ruled by the 5th house, her sign rules the heart. She is an extrovert and a fixed sign. Be prepared to be compatible with an outgoing personality.;
, Leo women love to be admired and to get praised for their uniqueness and creativity. Compliments will get you far and will sometimes even make the woman blush. Leo women are known to be creative and dislike the status quo. Win her by loving what's unique about her style, and the way she lives. Treat her well and show up on time to show that you think she's really special, or be prepared for a reckoning!


Don't give her fake compliments just for the sake of admiration. Instead, take the time to truly admire something about her and to make her feel special. If you're not genuine, she'll be smart enough to tell from a mile away.
Leo women love to be the center of attention. If you take her to a party, make sure she has a great time and enjoys talking to everyone instead of being left in the shadows. Make sure everyone knows who she is and that she's worth knowing.
Get comfortable with dating a girl who is extremely social and who loves the limelight. You don't have to be a wallflower to compensate, but you should be the kind of guy who is okay with his girl getting more of the attention.
 Leos are known to love fine things. She has tastes that are extravagant and regal. She purrs when she's romanced with finer wine or chocolate. If you can afford it, you should take her to an elegant, upscale restaurant to show that you appreciate her taste. If you can't afford it, take her out to a classy picnic, a slow walk in the city at night, or even to a dinner at your home. She likes shining lights and deep romantic situations.


This doesn't mean you can win a Leo woman over just by showering her with gifts. You have to show her that there's meaning behind the fancy things you do for her.
Like her personality, her taste is extravagant. She likes jewelry, fine clothes, beautiful hair clips, and other ornaments that can accentuate her beautiful appearance.
 A Leo woman tiptoes around love. She knows that love is Kryptonite to her fragile ego and is very reluctant before giving someone the power to break her heart. In the beginning, when you're just getting to know each other, she will be very protective and watchful of herself. When a Leo woman topples into love, she tends to be very shy, so you may have to prompt her and make first advances and assure her during the relationship. She craves your affection but she is too self-conscious to ask you for it; she will enjoy your advances.


The words "I love you" mean vulnerability to a Leo woman. Make sure you mean it before you say it.
 If you neglect your kitten's ego for too long, she will become distant, destructive, and sulky. The Leo woman's pride is always at stake, and no matter how loudly she roars, her ego is delicate and fragile. She can begin to get needy if she feels like she's giving and not getting anything back. But if you give her the attention she needs and deserves, then she can be warm, demonstrative, and even theatrical in her love.


Leo women are proud and may not admit it if they feel they are not getting the love and attention they deserve. It's up to you to notice when your woman needs a little extra love and support. Leo women are very loyal and forgive but many do not forgive. If a Leo woman is betrayed she will not hesitate to follow through with the relationship. Betrayal may inspire the Leo woman to ignore you, possibly forever.
 Leo women are fun and observant, and they'll love poking fun of you in harmless ways, and teasing you to make you smile. They are as playful as kittens and will more than likely begin to tease you regularly once she's comfortable with you. You should be able to take a joke, and dish one out, as long as you don't harm her feelings. Start off slow with the jokes and wait for her to warm up to you before you take it too far.


Invite her to do something a little kid would do, like play a spontaneous game of tag, Connect Four, or Twister.
Take her to the circus or the zoo. This may sound completely silly, but she'll love it!
Leo women don't like to be confined indoors and love to roam outside. Take her to a park, a beach, on a hike, or somewhere else where she can enjoy the fresh air and beautiful scenery.
 A Leo will love anything that spurs the moment and is romantic. Leos are dreamers and random moments, like an unexpected love letter, will make her day. She may even try to romance you back. Your Leo will appreciate anything you put thought into -- a sudden drive to nowhere, red roses hidden in her drawer, or a homemade card under her doorway, for example. If a Leo woman likes you, she will go more than half the way to make it work and make things rosy.


Court her or she will seriously doubt whether you're her man. She loves grand romantic gestures and the process of courtship. Nothing is ever too much as long as it's genuine.
 The potential partner of a Leo woman should be sensitive and intelligent. Intelligence is a must: Leos are constant questioners, so their mates should be able to reason, articulate, and keep up with them. She is sharp, quick-witted, funny, and very social -- she wants a man who can keep her on her toes. If you seem insecure, unsure of yourself, or just generally average, then she'll quickly turn away from you. You don't have to show off to her, but let her know that you can play ball and are ready for what she throws at you.


Remember that Leo women love the spotlight. If she thinks you're trying to hog it by showing off how smart you are, she may back off.
 You should also be strong and assured in yourself to take the lead with this lioness. These qualities are very attractive to her and she will purr with pleasure and enjoy the ride. Leos don't always want to make decisions or to take charge. She's confident in who she is, and she wants a man who is also strong in his beliefs and ideas and who isn't afraid to make decisions or to say what's on his mind. If you want to truly get her to like you, then you can't have her reassuring you or telling you how great you are all the time.


If you're confident, she'll be naturally drawn toward you.
 Leo women are independent and they want to be with men who are just as independent as they are. They want their mates to guide them, but not to control them. If you want to date a Leo, then you have to be strong and independent yourself, or she'll dominate you too much and will lose respect for you. It's true: Leo women do love controlling their men and having people look up to them. You can give her what she wants without letting her have total control over you.


Don't try to impose your beliefs on a Leo woman or tell her how she should act or what she should do. Though you can give her advice or suggestions, she already has a strong sense of who she is and may feel offended if she thinks you are ordering her around.
 If angered, a Leo woman can be hot tempered and dramatic. The best thing to do if she gets angry is to let her have her proud space and to apologize and show you care, no matter how stand-offish and distant she behaves -- she will be thankful for how much you care. Leo women love traits of loyalty. Make sure you have a firm but gentle opinion when handling the Leo, or you may be in for a harsh surprise.


If she's upset, apologize, but give her space to calm down on her own. Get used to the fact that being with a Leo is all about embracing the highs and the lows, and that being with her will rarely be a boring, tame affair.
 Beneath that shiny exterior of lace and nail polish, a Leo woman may be curiously insecure. She has a fragile heart that may be hidden by smiles and laughter, so you must have a sensitive heart and look out for a chink in the armor. She will be very timid when starting the relationship if she really likes you. Don't just date her; become her friend and talk to her. A way to a Leo's heart is through friendship, which they cherish and trust with a passion.


Let her know that you really like her for the person she is, not for something superficial like her money or her looks.
 A mature Leo female will be extremely generous and will show a level of care and consideration so large and warm that she may even forget about herself entirely. If she wants to give to you or take care of you, let her do it (even if you don't let her do this all the time). Though you should give her love and kindness in return, you shouldn't think that she wants to treat you well for ulterior motives. Leo women love to give to people in need, whether they are friends, family, or strangers.


Just watch out for the immature Leo. While a mature Leo is generous, the immature Leo will be arrogant, vain, and flashy. If you really care for her, then you can hope that this passes when she grows up a bit.
 Your kitten needs a man that can make her purr. Yes, being dominant in bed (when you get there) is a must. Your kitten is a people pleaser; she will do anything in her power to please you. In bed, a Leo woman wants you to be her leader (lion). Take charge, and show her passion and romance, and she'll be only yours. The Leo's favorite zone is thought to be the lower back. Stroking her back and neck is very pleasurable for her.


Some Leo women can be quite kinky and like the play of seduction, feathers and blindfolds. Make sure she would be up for this kind of thing before you try it, though.
 A Leo's family is her pride and her life, so expect your Leo girlfriend to cry buckets during family weddings and reunions and gaze at family photos with longing. Leos adore large numbers; think of the lioness and her cubs. Even if you're not ready to have children of your own yet, you should be family-oriented and excited to spend time with your family or hers. This is very important to Leo ladies, so you should feel the same way for best results.


If she starts talking about having kids with you, take the time to listen to her seriously instead of brushing her off.
 Leos can be self-indulgent, stubborn, and prone to sulking if they don't get their own way. This doesn't mean that you have to give in to her every time, but that you should be prepared to have a conversation if you two can't reach an agreement. If you're the kind of person who always has to get his way, then you and your Leo lady may not make it in the long term. You should be equipped with a person who can be stubborn and set on what she wants.


Leo ladies do not like to be met with opposition. You can disagree with her if it's necessary, but make sure you state things as kindly and gingerly as possible, or her temper will flare up.
 There's no such thing as a calm night in when it comes to dating a Leo. Your relationship will be fiery, exciting, unpredictable, and always new and intriguing. You have to get ready to be spontaneous, to keep your Leo on her toes, to create new things to do together, such as unplanned road trips or dips in the ocean in the middle of the night. Sure, you'll have some fights, but you'll make up in impressive fashion. If you're up for the challenge, then your relationship with a Leo woman will never cease to amaze you.


If you're the kind of guy whose ideal date is ordering in food and watching TV, then the Leo woman may not be for you. Sure, you can have a calm night in once in a while, but you have to work on keeping things interesting.

