 Fill a large pot with 2 quarts (2 liters) of frying oil. Heat it over medium heat to 350°F (177°C). As the oil heats up, cut the wonton wrappers in half diagonally to get triangles., Drop 4 to 6 wonton triangles into the pot. Let them fry for 1 to 2 minutes. When they turn golden brown, take them out with a pair of tongs and set them down on a paper towel., Continue frying the rest of the wontons, 4 to 6 at a time for 1 to 2 minutes. If the wontons start to turn too dark, the oil is too hot. Lower the temperature on the stove, wait for the oil to cool back down to 350°F (177°C), and continue frying.Don't try to cram all of the nachos onto one paper towel. Use another one if you have to.
 Fill a mixing bowl with 1 cup (256 grams) of salsa or pico de gallo. Peel, pit, and dice a ripe mango and add it into the bowl. Stir everything together with a spoon. For extra kick, add in some Sriracha or other hot sauce., Measure ½ cup (116 grams) of mayonnaise into a separate mixing bowl. Add 1 tablespoon (22.5 grams) of honey and 1 teaspoon of wasabi paste. Stir everything together with a whisk until the color is even and there are no streaks. Give the dressing a taste, and stir in some salt, if needed., Even though you will be searing the tuna, you still want to use high-quality tuna meant for sushi or sashimi. Ask the person at the counter if you are uncertain of the tuna's quality., Sprinkle both sides of each tuna steak with salt and pepper. Pour the sesame seeds into a plate or dish. Press the tuna steaks into the steaks, flip them over, and press again., Heat a skillet over high heat. Place the tuna steaks onto the skillet, and sear them for 1 minute. Flip them over with a spatula or a pair of tongs, and sear them for another minute.Do not oil the skillet.
Do not overcook the tuna. You want the inside to still be raw while the outside is cooked.
 Once the tuna is seared, transfer it to a cutting board. Let it cool down enough to handle, then use a sharp knife to cut it into ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) cubes., Spread the wonton chips across a large serving platter. Add the shredded cabbage on top, followed by the mango salsa. Scatter the seared ahi tuna on top, then top it off with some avocado slices.You can dice the avocado instead of slicing it.
 Use a spoon or sauce ladle to scoop up the sauce. Drizzle it over the nachos. You can do a random pattern, a zigzag, or even a swirl. Serve the nachos immediately.