 Take half a medium onion, and use the fine side of a grater to grate the onion. You should wind up with approximately 2 tablespoons (30 g) of grated onion, as well as some juice, which you can discard.If you don’t have a grater, you can finely dice the onion with a knife. Keep in mind that the onions will be more noticeable in the finished burgers if you dice instead of grating, though.;
, In large mixing bowl, combine 1 pound (approximately 454 g) lean ground turkey, the grated onion, 1 clove of minced garlic, 1 tablespoon (approximately 30 ml) Worcestershire sauce, 2 tablespoons (approximately 34 g) ketchup, ¾ teaspoon (approximately 4g) salt, and freshly ground pepper to taste. Use a fork to mix the ingredients until they are thoroughly combined.You may find it easier to use your hands to mix the ground turkey with the other ingredients. Just make sure to wash your hands well before and after mixing.
 Once all of the ingredients are well mixed, divide the mixture in 3 or 4, depending on how large you want your burgers to be. Shape each bit of the meat into a patty that’s approximately 1-inch (25.4 mm) thick.If you’re having trouble forming uniform patties for your burgers, take the lid from an old peanut butter or other jar, line it with plastic wrap, and use it as a mold to form a perfect patty., Find a skillet that’s large enough to hold your 3 or 4 patties without crowding them, and place it on the stove. Turn the heat to medium-high, and add 1 tablespoon (approximately 30 ml) of olive oil or canola oil. Heat the oil until it starts to shimmer, which typically takes 1 to 2 minutes.Instead of a skillet or frying pan, you can also use a griddle to cook the turkey burgers.
If you prefer, you can use a non-stick cooking spray in place of the oil.
You can make sure that the pan is hot enough to add the burgers by placing your hand over it. If you can feel the heat, it’s ready for the burgers.
 Once the skillet is hot for cooking, place the burgers patties in the pan. Make sure that they’re not crowded too closely together. Cook the patties for approximately 4 to 5 minutes, or until the bottoms are brown.To check if the bottoms of the burgers are brown, use a metal spatula to carefully lift an edge so you can take a peek.
 Once the bottoms are brown, use the metal spatula to carefully flip the burgers to the other side. Allow them to cook for another 4 to 5 minutes on the other side until it is brown and the burgers are cooked through.Turkey burgers are cooked all the way through when their internal temperature reaches 165 degrees Fahrenheit (approximately 74 degrees Celsius). Have a meat thermometer on hand, so you can check your burgers to see if they’re done.
 Like a classic cheeseburger, your turkey burgers can become even more delicious if you melt some cheese on them. If you are a fan of cheese on your burgers, place a slice of the cheese of your choice on the burger about 1 minute before it will be done.You can use any type of cheese that you like on your turkey burger, but American, cheddar, swiss, and gouda are tasty options.
Instead of sliced cheese, you can sprinkle shredded cheese on your burgers. It usually melts more quickly than slices, though, so you can wait until 30 seconds before you’re going to take the burgers out of the pan to add it.
 When you’re sure that the turkey has been cooked through, remove the burgers from the pan with a spatula and place them on hamburger buns. You don’t necessarily have to use buns that are marketed specifically for burgers. Use your favorite sandwich rolls or bread.If you prefer a low carb option, use one or two leaves of iceberg, butter, or green leaf lettuce to wrap around the burgers in place of a bun or bread.
 On the buns, dress up the burgers exactly as you would beef burgers. You can use lettuce, sliced tomato, chopped onion, pickles, relish, caramelized onions, diced jalapenos, mushrooms, or your favorite burger toppings to add extra flavor to your turkey burgers.A couple of slices of cooked bacon can not only add flavor, but some extra crunch to your turkey burger as well.
 Before you sit down to eat your turkey burger, it’s a good idea to add a condiment to the top of the burger or top bun. Go the traditional route with ketchup, or mix things up with a little mustard. You can even go with a combination of both if you prefer. Use your favorite condiment or burger sauce as a finishing touch to your tasty turkey burger.Barbecue sauce, mayonnaise, honey mustard, steak sauce, and bleu cheese dressing are all delicious condiments for your turkey burger.
Give your turkey burger some unique flavor by spreading a little salsa or even marinara sauce on top instead of the usual ketchup.
