 You will need to remove the two rear Phillips head screws holding the tower panel to access the interior of the computer.;
, If you can, avoid working near carpeted areas.
 Use the screwdriver to twist it slightly an pry it off do not lean the screwdriver on any electronic component while doing this step, doing so may damage your computer. Sharp edges of the aluminum tab can cut skin

, Align the PCI Sata controller pins with the PCI Slot on the motherboard. Always double check and make sure they are properly aligned. Once aligned delicately press down on the edge of the PCI Sata controller card. Avoid touching any of the chips and circuits with your fingers. Pressing too hard on them may break them off

, If your uncertain then pull it out and try again. Make sure you press down evenly this will avoid being half in and half out of the slot. The image below is an example of a PCI Sata Controller card.
 You can test this step by pushing very lightly on the outside of the tower upon the silver tab of the PCI Sata controller card, simply press inwards if its not solid it will pop out of the PCI slot. If this happens start back at Step 4.
 The driver usually comes with the card if you do not have the driver you can find the serial number of the controller card on to its board, search that serial number on the internet and find the driver for the PCI sata controller card.
 Take the hard drive you wish to install and place it into an empty hard drive bay of your computer tower. Make it solid by screwing both opposite side with computer screws (Screws usually come with the hard drive). Make sure it is solid and will not move. Your hard drive bays are usually at the front of the tower below your CD/DVD Rom drive. This location can change depending on your tower.
 The image below is an example of s Sata Connector cable.
 If you do not you will need an adapter that plugs into the older 4 pin power connector and converts into a Sata power connector. The image below is an example of an adapter.
 Verify that your computer has recognized your new hard drive. You can do this in several different ways if your comfortable in the bios menu you can verify there. Also in the Computer Management program in windows XP. This program is located under Control panel/ Administrative tools/ Computer management. Once in the program you will see a list of hard drives for your computer under the “Disk management” tab.
 Depending on which Operating system you use you will have different instructions at this point. If you verified your drive through the computer management program, the disk management tab will display your drive, right click on it and select create partition. Once partition is made go to “My computer” and the drive will appear. Right click on the new partitioned drive and select format disk. Some Older Operating systems will not accept the entire space of the newer hard drives, you may need to partition the new drive into two or three partitions to access its full potential.

