 There's a chance that the USB port you are trying is malfunctioning, or isn't producing enough power to charge the tracker. This is most common with USB hubs, or older USB ports. Try connecting the charger to a different port to see if it works.;
, The Fitbit doesn't come with one, but you can plug the included charging cable into any USB wall charger, like the one your phone or tablet uses. This may charge your Fitbit much faster and more efficiently than plugging it into a laptop or desktop computer.
 The Fitbit tracker's charging contacts tend to get smudged and dirty, even after minimal use. This can cause problems when you're trying to charge it, because the tracker cannot make solid contact with the charger.


To clean your tracker's contacts, you'll need some rubbing alcohol and a cotton swap. You may also need a thumbtack to scrape hardened residue off.
Examine the contacts. If they aren't shiny, dip the cotton swap in the rubbing alcohol and then vigorously scour the contacts.
If the cotton swab alone doesn't clean the contacts, use the thumbtack to scrape the contacts clean, and then apply rubbing alcohol again.
Examine the charger cable as well to see if it needs to be cleaned.
 Occasionally, a problem with the tracker may be causing issues with the charging process. Resetting the tracker can help fix this. The process varies depending on the Fitbit model you are using.


Flex - Plug the charger into a USB port, and then insert the tracker into the charger. With the tracker plugged in, insert a small paperclip into the pinhole on the back of the charger. Press and hold the paperclip for about ten seconds.
One - Insert the One tracker into the charging cable and plug it in. Press and hold the tracker's button for about 10-12 seconds. Remove it from the charger and then press the button until the screen turns on.
Surge - Press and hold the Home and Select buttons for about 15 seconds. The screen will flash and start to dim. Let go of the buttons and wait another fifteen seconds. Hold both buttons again to turn it back on.
Charge/Force - Plug the charging cable into your Charge, Charge HR, or Force. Insert the other end into a USB port. Press and hold the button on the Charge for about ten seconds until you see the Fitbit icon and version number. Let go of the button and then unplug it.

