 If you start feeling skin irritation while running, stop and check your shoes for debris right away. Even the tiniest pebble can rub against your skin, causing a painful blister.It's always a good idea to check your shoes for debris before you go running.;
, You will typically experience hot spots, which are characterized by pain and redness, before a blister forms. If you can, it's best to take action to prevent further skin irritation at this point. If you need to continue running, you can apply a protective covering to the affected area, such as moleskin, a water-based gel-pad dressing, a liquid bandage, or even duct tape. These will all help prevent further friction from damaging your skin and creating a blister.You can also try applying petroleum jelly, but this will only provide temporary relief, as the heat and moisture in your shoe will eventually cause it to dissolve.
 Moist feet are susceptible to blisters, so if you're starting to feel some friction and your feet are wet, do whatever you can to dry them out before you continue running. Carrying an extra pair of socks with you while you run is a great idea, as you can quickly slip off the damp socks, put on the dry ones, and keep running.You can also try applying a foot powder that is designed to keep your feet dry.
 Most minor blisters don't need much treatment, particularly if they are in a location where they are unlikely to burst. The best way to care for this kind of blister is to cover it with a breathable bandage and wait for it to heal on its own.Keep the bandage on until the blister has healed.
Change your bandage daily, or more often if it becomes wet or dirty.
If the blister is too large to be covered with an adhesive bandage, you can cover it with some gauze and surgical tape.
You can also cover it with a special blister pad, which is specifically designed to protect the area from further friction., Popping a blister increases your chances of infection, so it shouldn't be done unless it's really necessary; however, if your blister is causing you severe pain or making it difficult to walk, you may have no other choice. To pop it safely, use a sterilized pin or needle to puncture the blister in several different spots around the edge. Then soak up the fluid with a sterile cotton swab, apply an antibiotic ointment, and cover with a bandage.Keep reapplying antibiotic ointment and changing your bandage every day for several days.
Once the blister begins to heal, you can trim off the dead skin around it with nail clippers.
Make sure to wash your hands thoroughly before you do this.
 If you have any reason to believe that your blister has become infected, it's best to see your doctor right away. This can become serious quickly, so don't ignore the symptoms.Early symptoms of infection include swelling and yellow or green pus.
You may also notice red streaks on your skin in the area near the blister or a fever. These indicate a more serious infection, so get medical attention right away., Ill-fitting shoes are one of the most common causes of foot blisters. When you're shopping for your next pair of running shoes, take some extra time in the store to make sure they are truly comfortable. If it is pinching or rubbing your foot in any way, it's not the right shoe for you.It's important to buy running shoes, as they are specifically designed to support your feet during this activity.
Never buy shoes that are too tight in the hopes that you will break them in. This will only lead to pain!
When you are standing up straight, you should have enough space between your longest toe and the front of the shoe to fit your thumb nail in between.
Your foot should feel secured in place, but not squeezed, when the shoe is laced.
To get the best fit, shop for shoes later in the day, as your feet tend to swell as the day progresses., If you're a runner, you'll need to get new running shoes every six months or after every 500 miles you run (whichever comes first). Continuing to run in old shoes can increase your chances of developing blisters, as well as other sports-related injuries.Don't wait until your old shoes are completely worn out to buy new ones. You should start wearing the new shoes gradually to give your feet time to adjust to them.
 Caring for your shoes is just as important as purchasing the right ones in the first place. Make sure you store them properly if you want to extend their life and keep your feet happy.Make sure your shoes are totally dry before you store them.
If you won't be using your shoes for some time, put some newspaper in them to help them keep their shape.
Avoid leaving them near sources of heat, like radiators or campfires, as this may cause the shape to become deformed., Blisters are more likely to form if your feet are wet when you're running, so it's important to wear socks that will keep them nice and dry, even when you're sweating. Instead of cotton socks, try breathable nylon or moisture-wicking wool.You can also try wearing sock liners or two pairs of socks to reduce the friction against your skin.
Just like your shoes, your socks need to fit correctly. They should be nice and snug with no bunches., If you are prone to blisters, it's very important use the correct products to prevent them. There are two different ways to prevent blisters: by lubricating or by drying. You may need to try both approaches to discover which one works best for you.There are a variety of anti-chafing lubricant gels available for the feet. Try applying one of these under your socks before you run. Petroleum jelly also works, but will need to be reapplied more often.
Alternatively, you can try applying an antiperspirant spray or powder to your feet before you run. This will keep your feet from becoming wet from sweat, which should prevent blisters.
 If you tend to develop blisters on certain areas of your foot, you can help prevent them from recurring by applying a protective barrier on that section of your foot. Do this every time you run to protect sensitive areas.There are a variety of self-adhesive pads that are designed to prevent blisters.
You can also purchase liquid products that adhere to the skin and create a protective layer.
Moleskin and lambswool are also options, but you will need to use a liquid adhesive with them.
Tape may also work to provide a barrier, although it will not provide as much cushion as some of the other options.

