 Moisten several sheets of paper towel and arrange them over the concave (inwardly curved) surface of the wood.









Paper towels are ideal for this method, but a thin steaming towel or standard paper can also be used. The material you use must be moistened, however, and it must be large enough to cover the entire warped area.
Rinse the paper towels under water, then carefully wring out the excess. The material should be moist when you drape it around the wood, but it should not be dripping wet.
Only apply the wet paper towels to the concave side of the wood for this method. By concentrating the moisture on the side, you can help direct the warping back to its original flat position. The concave side will absorb more moisture while the convex (outwardly bent) side will dry out.
 Wrap several layers of plastic wrap all the way around the wood and the moist paper towels. The plastic wrap must be tight and secure.








The plastic should slow down the process of evaporation, keeping the paper towels and wood moist for a longer period of time as a result.
Make sure that the plastic wrap covers all sides of the wood, not just the side covered by paper towels.
 Place the wood in a clamp, over-tightening the clamp slightly until the warped area begins to straighten out.








Work carefully while tightening the clamp. If you tighten it too much, the wood might split apart instead of straightening out.
 Keep the wood clamped and wrapped in a warm location for one week.









Check regularly and remove the wood from the clamp if you see signs of possible damage.
The storage area should be as warm as possible during this first week. Ideal temperatures would be as high as 149 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius), but if heat that warm is impossible to maintain, the hottest room you have should suffice for most purposes.
You can keep the wood warmer if you let it sit in direct sunlight, beneath a heat lamp, beneath an electric blanket, or over a warming mat. Keep the heat on the wood for at least six to eight hours per day.
 After the first week, remove the wood from the clamp and take off the plastic wrap and paper towels.









At this point, the wood must be allowed to thoroughly dry.
Check the progress of the warp. If it has vanished, the wood piece is ready to use as soon as it dries and not additional pressure is needed.
 If some warping still remains, return the wood to its clamped position and let it dry that way for two to three weeks.









The temperature can be somewhat cooler for this stage, but the ideal temperature is still 77 degrees Fahrenheit (25 degrees Celsius).
The air of the room should also be dry during this stage. Do not store the wood in a humid room.
 As soon as the wood has completely dried throughout the entire piece, it should be ready to unclamp and use.









If the wood has not unwarped after you complete this process, the damage might be too severe to reverse.

