 Most dogs are known to savage the house for food. If your parents are the owners feeding them every night, your dog will always be next to them waiting for its next meal. If you are the one feeding your dog, he will get more attached to you.;
, Treats are another thing your dog is desperate for, and he will start to notice if one person is giving more treats than another. Don't give your dog too many treats, this is a prize that should be used to praise him after doing something good.
 Dogs love to be petted and loved by their owners. If an owner feeds their dog but ignores them for the rest of the day, the dog will find another person to pet them. Dogs can tell when a human loves them and tries to show it.
 This is another way you can show him your love. They will feel clean and happy, wanting to hang out with you more. Do not wash your dog too much, or your dog will feel smothered and uncomfortable. It is also unhealthy to bathe your dog too much, their coat has it's own natural oils that helps to him healthy.


If your dog does not like being bathed, try making this a fun moment for him by letting him play with his favorite toy, or giving a really special treat after the bath.
 Do not yell at it. If you hurt or yell at your dog, he will run away and be scared of you. The more you yell at your dog the more it will be hesitant towards you. If your dog does something wrong you can just scold him in a stern voice, using always the same word or words, but not shouting.


If you yell at your dog, he will feel threatened and will be distant. If you are nice, your dog will be closer and will be near you more often.
 It doesn't take long to throw a ball or squeeze a toy, but it can make a huge difference in you and your dogs' relationship. By spending half an hour with him every day, you will form a tight bond with your dog. Eventually, he will choose to be near you and not your parents. Even spending 10-15 minutes can change the way your dog acts towards you.
 If you give your dog fresh air and time to run around, he will act fondly of you and recognize that it's you who are doing this for him. If you spend hardly any time with your dog, he can treat you like a stranger, or even ignore you. By taking your dog for a walk or by taking him to the dog park, you are creating fond memories about you.

