 If you don't want to drill, a quicker method is melting. To make sure you don't get smelly, stuck-on plastic all over your oven, line a cookie sheet with aluminum foil to keep everything safe. Do this in a well-ventilated area with the windows open, and keep close watch on the die while you do this. It's easy to go too far, so you need to watch closely.


Another easy way of weighting the die is to melt it gently, just enough to shift the weight slightly onto the bottom of the die and change the effect of the rolling. You have to be extremely careful to avoid melting the die too much and changing the appearance of the die. It won't take much just to soften the plastic, widen the base of the opposite side, and land more regularly on that side.
 Keeping the temperature at a low setting will help ensure that you don't overdo it. 200 degrees isn't much, but it'll be plenty to heat and soften the plastic and change the shape of the die slightly.


Do not use the microwave. It will not melt the die the way you want, and you're more likely to warp the plastic and make it look funny. It's also dangerous. Avoid microwaving dice.
 Keep a close watch on the die and remove it before 10 minutes have passed. Remove the die using gloves, and dump it immediately into icy water to set the plastic and make sure it won't continue melting.


If you notice any bubbling or see that the shape has changed slightly, remove the die immediately and try it again, going for slightly less time. You should ideally remove the die before you notice any change, so it might take some practice runs. Keep the room properly ventilated. Inhaling melting plastic fumes is hazardous, and you need to be extremely careful that you only melt the plastic but don't burn it and start a fire.
 Go for a few rolls and test your new gimmicked die. If you're more consistently landing on the side you want to land on, you've got a good loaded die. If it's not working like you want, you can try to re-melt it, or you can just start over with a new die.

