 A colorful diet is recommended because the carotenoids and flavonoids that give fruit and vegetables their color are powerful antioxidants that help to fight inflammation. According to The Arthritis Foundation, you should try to consume roughly nine servings of fruits and vegetables each day.Vegetables you should eat include: dried beans and peas, sweet potatoes, red cabbage, pumpkin, squash, carrots, and beets.
Fruits you should eat include: blueberries, cherries (especially bing), other colorful berries, watermelon, tomatoes, bananas, and oranges.;
, People who eat whole grains have lower levels of C-reactive proteins (CRP); these proteins indicate the amount of inflammation in your body.You should try to eat roughly three ounces of whole grains each day. Whole grain foods include:


Whole wheat bread
Oatmeal
Brown rice
Popcorn
Crackers
Wild rice
Tortillas
Whole grain pasta

, Certain spices contain properties that can help to reduce the inflammation caused by arthritis. These spices include:


Ginger extract (blocks COX-2, which is a chemical in your body that causes pain).
Garlic.
Turmeric.
Cinnamon and honey (Drink a mixture of hot water, ½ teaspoon of cinnamon powder and a tablespoon of honey every day before breakfast.)

, The recommended daily intake of protein is 50 grams and a 3-ounce piece of meat has 21 grams of protein.Eating excessive meat may exacerbate symptoms of gouty arthritis by depositing urate crystals within your joints.Although meat is the main source of protein in a non-vegetarian diet, other sources of proteins are milk, cereals, eggs and yogurt. You can, however, eat a 3-ounce serving of pasture-raised meat once or twice a week. Pasture-raised meat includes:


Poultry
Fish
Lamb
Rabbit

, Omega-3 fatty acids are a type of lipids essential for your well-being.Omega-3 fatty acids can reduce inflammation because the eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) in omega-3 fatty acids replaces the arachidonic acid, reducing your body’s production of arachidonic mediators, which can cause inflammation.The American Heart Association recommends that you eat fish high in omega-3 fatty acids at least two times a week.These days many canned and processed foods are artificially enriched with omega-3 fatty acids, so read the ingredients before using processed foods. You can find omega-3 fatty acids and oils in:


Seafood: sardines, salmon, halibut, herring, mackerel, oysters, trout, and tuna.
Fresh vegetables: brussels sprouts, kale, mint, parsley, spinach, and watercress.
Oils: canola oil, cod liver oil, flaxseed oil, mustard oil, soybean oil, and walnut oil.

