 Farmer’s lung most often occurs in those exposed to mold spores that grow in hay, grain, and other crops, but can also impact those who work around farm animals, those who work in moldy and dusty buildings, and those that apply chemicals, paints, or solvents in an agricultural environment. Consider whether you regularly work with:Hay, corn, wheat, or other grains
Silage or silos where silage is stored
Farm animals with feathers, hair, or fur
Fish meal
Agricultural chemicals
Crop fields;
, Sub-acute farmer’s lung is more common than acute attacks, but is less intense and subsequently more difficult to recognize. Sub-acute farmer’s lung develops after continual exposure to small amounts of molding dust, with symptoms including:Coughing
Chills and a mild fever
Shortness of breath
Aching muscles and joint pain
Loss of appetite and potential weight loss

, Acute farmer’s lung occurs in about one out of every three farmer’s lung cases. The attack is generally intense and starts four to eight hours after an individual breathes in a large amount of moldy dust. Common symptoms of an acute attack include:Shortness of breath
An irritated, dry cough
A sudden feeling of sickness
Rapid onset fever and chills
Rapid breathing
Rapid heart rate

, Repeated acute attacks over a period of years can lead to chronic farmer’s lung. The chronic condition can last for months, leading to increased shortness of breath, frequent mild fevers, lethargy, and significant weight loss. It may also cause permanent lung damage that could permanently force you to distance yourself from the conditions causing the attack. If you or someone you know has had repeated farmer’s lung complications, seek medical attention immediately., Ultimately, a medical professional is the only one who can give a proper farmer’s lung diagnosis. Start by making an appointment with your family physician or general practitioner as soon as you notice symptoms.Let your doctor know what symptoms you’re experiencing, what type of exposure you think you may have had, and that you are concerned about farmer’s lung in particular. Otherwise they may consider your symptoms to be the result of another condition such as the flu or asthma.
If you or someone you know is having an acute attack that is causing a high fever or severe problems breathing, seek immediate medical help from an emergency room or urgent care facility.
 There is no one specific test to diagnose farmer’s lung. Depending upon your symptoms and your doctor’s request, you may have to submit to a blood test, a CT scan, a lung function test, an inhalation challenge test, a bronchoalveolar lavage test, or in extreme cases even an open lung biopsy.Your doctor may be able to prepare or conduct some tests, such as a blood test or an inhalation challenge test, in the office during your appointment. Other tests may require you to come back at a later date or see a specialist.
Be sure to follow through with any requested tests as quickly as possible. This allows your doctor to more accurately diagnose your condition and recommend proper treatment faster.
 Farmer’s lung can cause breathing obstructions. If you or someone you know experiences an acute or chronic farmer’s lung attack during which they are having difficulty breathing on their own, seek immediate medical attention. Do not wait for a doctor’s appointment. Instead, head immediately for an urgent care facility.

Let the doctor or attending nurse know upon arrival that the person experiencing the attack works in an agricultural environment and may have been exposed to moldy dust or other spores., A medical professional may prescribe a corticosteroid to help improve lung function following a farmer’s lung episode. Consult with your doctor or pharmacist regarding dosage and frequency of treatment, and take the medication as instructed for the full duration of treatment., The only true preventative treatment for farmer’s lung is to avoid exposure to the moldy conditions that caused the attack. Depending upon the nature of the attack, your doctor may recommend complete abstinence from the environment for a given period of time. After that, you may need to take additional precautions to prevent a future attack, including:Ensuring crops are fully dry prior to storage
Providing as much ventilation as possible in enclosed or dusty areas
Avoiding dusty work in enclosed or confined spaces
Mechanizing operations such as feeding when possible
Wearing a respirator when applying any agricultural chemicals or working with solvents
Having heating, air, and ventilation systems checked for mold in enclosed environments, When working in dusty or moldy environments, wear protective gear whenever necessary, including face masks or a respirator. Ask your employer to provide you with proper safety equipment as required by law in your area., Use mold inhibitors whenever possible to prevent dust from growing moldy. If this is not possible, consider wetting down grain or feed before moving or transferring it to prevent dust from kicking up. Remember to properly dry the grain after wetting it.