 You will overcome this, even though it may take a while. Things may seem bad now, but they will eventually get better.;
, You need to remember you liked or loved him/her a lot, or else you wouldn't have dated. You obviously weren't that great of friends if you were in love with this boy/girl. He or she obviously liked/loved you too and you guys decided that it was time to take your friendship to the next level. You guys both chose this, not just you. Do not think that you ruined your friendship because you both thought it was the right thing to do. It was nobody's fault.
 If you two have known each other for years and were very good friends, you may still be, but not right away. You need to allow yourself time to get over the other person. You don't want to fall back for them after you get over them. Therefore, it is best to think about how there might still be a chance that you two will be friends again, and things will get better in the end.


You probably thought things would go very well because of how good of friends you were and how well you knew them. However, you will never truly know this person until you have seen a certain side of them. People change when they start dating, especially friends. As the relationship matures and grows, things change and people change. It's life.
 Was he/she physically or verbally abusive? Was he/she trying to take it too far, too soon, or did they cheat? If any of those are true for you, this person isn't worth your time.
 If not, this is something that you need to think about. Don't cry over someone who isn't crying for you. Obviously, he/she wasn't mature enough for what you two had, and it didn't mean as much to them as it did to you. If this person is missing you, use this to your advantage. You think you want him/her, but going back out with this person will just end up making you more upset in the end. This person also may be trying to get you crawling back, because they want that advantage over you.
 There was most likely a time where this person hurt you and make you cry. Instead of thinking of all the reasons why this person was "perfect", think about the imperfections. No one's perfect, and this person is most definitely not if he/she let you go.
 It's hard, but after a while, you will realize that there really was a reason why you ended it. Maybe you just weren't happy. That happens, so don't regret getting over your friend. It does not help you, and you can't just undo it. It's over and it happened, so you need to accept it.
 Don't listen to sad music, watch a sad movie, read a sad story, or do things just to make you cry. You want to forget this person, so you don't want to be thinking about them.


Instead of sad music, listen to fast, upbeat music, and other music that usually makes you think of good times you have had with friends and family. In short, listen to music that makes you happy. Also, listen to movies and stories that make you happy, and maybe even write your own. Those are good relievers.
 Take a shower, sing, dance, listen to loud music, write, draw, or do whatever interests you. Doing your favorite activity can take the big things in your head out.

