 If you have never been to a public school, you may not even realize that in school, you must ask permission to go use the bathroom. And your teacher can actually say no! You never have to worry about this if you’re homeschooled. You can go when you need to go., In regular school, you are only allowed a couple of absences and after that, it starts hurting your grades. This isn’t the case with home school! You can take a day off if you’re not feeling good, or just if you got a lot done early in the week., Almost any place can be educational, but when you go to regular school field trips are often boring.You can visit the zoo, see a movie, or take a trip to the grocery store.
 Being stuck in school means being stuck at a desk all day long. When you are homeschooled, you can get up and move around when you need to. You can take breaks and run around outside, or just get up and stretch every once in a while. This is much healthier for you!Schedule time to play soccer with neighborhood kids or play tag with your siblings.
You could also try doing yoga or just running around your house.
 In regular school, you pretty much have to wait until lunch to eat. So what if you’re hungry at 9am and lunch isn’t for three more hours? That’s too bad. This isn’t a problem with home school. You can eat when you are hungry.Eat healthy snacks to fuel your learning.
Try ants on a log (peanut butter and raisins on celery), grapes, or fruit leathers.
 People might think that homeschooled kids are lonely and "unsocialized." But this doesn't need to bet the case! You can make plans (with your parents or caregivers) to get together with your homeschooled friends.


You can do school lessons together, such as science projects.
You can plan field trips together, such as going to the beach.
 Another way to hang out with other kids and have fun is to participate in other activities. When you are homeschooled, you have more time and freedom to join other clubs, take other classes, or try other activities.


You could take karate classes, try gymnastics, or learn about bird watching.

