 Distilled white vinegar is a common household acid with the ability to fight bacteria, mold, and other contaminants in your home. Vinegar is also usually significantly lower in price than commercial household cleaning products.Mix equal parts white vinegar with equal parts water, then pour the solution into an empty spray bottle.
Spray the vinegar and water mixture onto countertops and fixtures that need cleaning anywhere in your home, especially in your kitchen and bathrooms.
Wipe the vinegar and water mixture from surfaces you have sprayed using a cleaning rag or paper towels.
A vinegar cleaning solution can be used for counters, floors, dishes, and many other areas around the home.
 Diluted liquid dish soap can help fight stains and remove grime from various surfaces in your home. Liquid dish soap can be combined with water or hydrogen peroxide to remove stains from carpet, clothing, and windows, and is significantly cheaper than most other commercial household cleaning products.Add 2 to 3 drops of liquid dish soap to a dish or bottle, then add warm water to the soap to create a sudsy and soapy cleaning solution. Add a teaspoon of peroxide for increased potency.
Dip a rag, soft cloth, or brush into the soap and water mixture, then use the rag or brush to scrub away stains.
Rinse the soap residue away with a rag or towel soaked in fresh, clean water. Continue wiping away the soap until you can no longer see residue.
 Sprinkle a tablespoon or so of baking soda into your toilet bowl, and follow that directly with no more than a quarter cup of white vinegar. Use your toilet brush to scrub around the sides of your toilet and evenly distribute the solution.You can also dip a lemon half in baking soda to clean around the rim and on the seats of the toilet. Wipe down with a damp rag after cleaning.
 Make an oven cleaner at home by combining equal parts distilled white vinegar and liquid dish soap in a clean spray bottle. Apply directly to baked on gunk in the oven and scrub off with a steel wool or scrubbing pad.For best results, allow the cleaner to sit for five to ten minutes before scrubbing.
Heat the vinegar in the microwave before adding the dish soap to help the soap dissolve faster.

