 If you or the previous owner knows where Verizon previously placed the router, use that same location.


Locate where Verizon installed the ONT (Optical Network Terminal). This will normally be located outside on houses or in a closet in most apartments/condos.
Then locate a coax wall outlet closest to the ONT.;
,


Using the provided coax cable, connect the router to the coax wall outlet you located in step one. If you are installing a TV in the same location use the provided coax splitter to connect both devices.
Connect the provided power cable into the router.
 Verizon should have sent you a router that is pre-configured to connect to their services.


Look at the front of the device for the indicator lights
Ensure the Power light (A) is solid green.
Ensure the Coax WAN light (B) turns solid green. This may take a few minutes.
Once both the Power and Coax WAN lights stay a solid green color you have verified a successful connection to Verizon's services.
If both lights do not stay a solid green color move the router to a different coax wall outlet. Keep checking coax wall outlets until you find one that works. If none worked, call technical support (1-800-VERIZON).



On the bottom side of the router there is a sticker with the router's preconfigured settings.
Check the sticker for the settings SSID and WPA2 key.
On your wireless device, go to your wireless connection settings.
From the list of wireless networks locate the one that matches the SSID from your router and select it.
In the password window that appears, enter the WPA2 key from your router settings.



Using the provided CAT5e network cable, plug in one side of the cable into the router and the other into your device.
Verify the connection by looking at the indicator lights on both the router and your device.



Locate a coax wall outlet near where you wish to place your TV.
Using the provided coax cable, connect one end to the coax wall outlet and the other end into the back of the set top box.
Plug the set top box into a power outlet using the provided power cable.
Connect the set top box to your TV using either a composite video cable or HDMI cable.
Switch your TV to the input from the set top box, refer to your TV manual for instruction on changing your input device settings.
After turning on your TV and the set top box, the automatic activation setup will start. This can take up to 15 minutes.
After the activation is completed successfully, the Verizon TV Guide should appear on your TV.

