 Get a piece of paper out and write down all the names of people your age or 1-2 years younger (older not very preferred often) that are interested/probably interested in becoming a part of your club. Then notify everyone who's applied and ask those who you would like to have join your secret group.;
, Personal, uncomfortable questions should NOT be answered, like, "Who is your crush?" or "What's the name of your married uncle's wife, aka your aunt?" Those are unnecessary and often are considered private or personal!

, Don't care about double-agents unless you have enemies and you believe there may be a double-agent working for them. Only members of the organization know who else is in it and can't even tell "Santa" (if they believe in him) or their siblings/parents!

, You can cut out a piece of thin cardboard and paste small pieces of paper with their info on it or you can print out pre-made cards with their name, code name, and maybe even photos!


The ID cards must require the following:

Full Name (if they wish that their REAL first/middle name not to be printed on it, please follow and consider their request!)
Code Name
Age or Date of Birth
Their position (optional)
Their photograph, a drawing of them, or at least the organization/club logo
The head spy's signature to authenticate the card and make it obvious it is real



, Explain that there may be emergency meetings if necessary and that there will be meetings bi-monthly. (Or weekly or monthly, maybe even daily! Whichever you choose.) Discuss information about spy identification cards (ID membership cards) and any uniforms or essentials they must wear/bring/carry. Take questions and answer them full in detail. They may take notes. Discuss everything important to the club and don't forget; how to sneak around quietly and without anyone knowing! (See Tips)

,, This one is unofficial but the entire club will be creating a spy kit! The spy kit's optional but recommended for extra fun. It MUST include a few band-aids (in case someone gets a cut) and a roll-around bandage, in case anyone sprains their wrist or whatever. It can also include 2-3 back-up walkie talkies (turn off when in no use or when around enemies/targets!) and even a few water bottles, depending on how many members you have. Depending on the amount of items (and the sizes of them) you may need either a hiking backpack, a small backpack, a dark-colored tote/book bag, or something like a satchel. Many boys wear satchels like girls wear book/tote bags! Also, maybe a few disguises can be put in, but consider the size of the carrying pack/case! Is there enough room to put in a black hoodie? Maybe a wig? Sunglasses? Other shoes? Hair accessories for girls? Those are the only recommended clothing items. Other items may be too... "fantastic". (Fake.)

, You will have a file with the first ever mission, but it must be a LEGAL training mission. Maybe an obstacle course and a relative or friend not in the club can help you train the other members! Make sure it breaks no state/national laws and violates no one's security/privacy. Let the "victim"/"target"/"enemy" know what you are doing and approve of it and are HAPPY to help with it! Involve them and let the "target" know everything, the time the mission will start and so forth.
 This should be the third meeting. That comfortable, roomy walk-in closet in your bedroom that you used for nothing? Well, that can make a GREAT secret spy fort/HQ! Make sure your parents allow ALL of your members to come to your house during meetings or accomplished mission parties. The parties should be small and take place mainly in your room only!

, Put them up to the test! Don't eliminate anyone from the club unless they are horrible. Then they should be trained furthermore.
,