 Some Ramen enthusiasts like to break up the noodles while the bag is still sealed, making shorter soup-like noodles that are easier to eat with a spoon, while others choose to leave the noodles in a block to slurp traditional-style. It's up to you how you want to eat them.






;
, Typically, you'll need somewhere between 1 and 2 cups of water, depending on the size of the bowl you're using and the amount of broth you want in the soup.









To prevent splattering in the microwave, it's also a good idea to cover with a lid, or with a simple piece of paper towel to avoid making a mess. The noodles will sometimes float in the bowl, but that's nothing to worry about. They'll cook just fine.
Make sure your bowl is safe to microwave for several minutes. Plastic containers and styrofoam are controversial to some consumers, because of concerns about BPA and other toxins being leeched into the food during microwaving., Place your noodles in the microwave, set the timer, and start nuking. The exact cooking time may vary, since microwaves all behave somewhat differently.









To help the noodles cook evenly, and check to make sure they're not over-stewing (which can result in over-done and yucky noodles without any bite), stop the microwave about half-way through the cooking time and stir them with a fork. If you want the noodles to remain in a brick, just press on them a little, or flip the brick over to keep it whole.
 Don't take them out right away! Many are the burned tongues of the over-anxious ramen eater. Just let it sit for three minutes in the closed microwave, and you'll keep your fingers and your mouth safe, letting them finish in peace and cool down to a less-than-nuclear temperature.









If you must take the noodles out immediately use oven mitts or some other heat protection and be careful. Fortunately, this is a perfect time to add the flavor packet, while the water's nice and hot.
 It's go time. Stir noodles with a spoon or fork until flavoring dissolves, then pour your cooked Ramen into another bowl, if you want, and commence the deliciousness.









Alternatively, some Ramen eaters like to add the flavoring before the noodles cook. This is usually easier if you're cooking them over the stove, though it's still possible in the microwave. If you like the flavor to cook with the noodles some (it's a good way to get the noodles more tasty), put the noodles and the flavoring packet in the bowl first, then add the water on top to try to dissolve it some.

