 Ask them if they are ready to supply a response yet, and if they are, smile and thank them for considering your request. Ask them to sit down somewhere and bring them each a glass of water smilingly. Then, ask them to give you their answer.
 When your parents are speaking, even if you get an immediate "no", do not respond at once. Let your parents finish and nod along the way to show that you are listening attentively. When they are done, say to them, "Thank you for supplying your answer with eloquence and clarity."


Even if your parents' answer wasn't eloquent or clear, thank them in this way, and be sincere. It is worth telling a partial lie if it will please your parents, benefit your argument and convince them that you are not a thankless or spoiled son/daughter.
 This is only necessary if your parents said no. If they said yes, embrace each of them and thank them calmly, not ecstatically. If they refused, however, say one of your reasons with tranquility and clarity. Smile and ask them politely if they have any counterarguments against your reason. If they do, use another reason to cover the hole and ask for further objections. Keep saying reasons one by one, not all at once.


It is important to ask your parents if they have counterarguments after you have said each reason for your desire. This will tell your parents that you respect their opinions and decisions.
Never let the situation turn ugly if your parents refuse. Keep it eloquent, kind, calm and simple, and if you feel yourself getting angry, apologize for your anger and suggest that you continue the debate tomorrow. Go cool off and continue tomorrow.
Above all, be respectful of your parents. Bringing them a cup of water, tea or coffee will benefit all of you and your argument. It's worth doing something nice to get your way... and to make your parents happy!

, Keep politely debating until one party decides that th other is right. Lose graciously and win modestly. Remember that, whether or not you get your way in the end, you have debated wisely and are compassionate. Be proud.

