 Just like natural teeth, your should brush your false teeth at least once daily. Ideally, you should brush after every meal, although this can be difficult for those who work away from home all day. So at the very least, you should brush your false teeth at night before going to bed.;
, Use a soft toothbrush, or a toothbrush that is available specifically for false teeth. There are many brands (like Oral-B) which have launched toothbrushes designed exclusively for false teeth.


If you choose hard toothbrushes, the false teeth may get numerous scratches which will cause the loss of the original glaze.
 Or use a toothpaste which contains an extremely low percentage of abrasives. This is important, as strong chemical abrasives can scour the false teeth.


You can also brush your teeth without toothpaste because the main purpose of brushing is to remove the biofilm covering the teeth.
Buy a denture toothpaste that has a Radioactive Dentin Abrasion (RDA) value between 0-70. The RDA is an index used by the American Dental Association (ADA) to determine the level of abrasion of a toothpaste. RDA values higher than 70 indicate that a toothpaste is abrasive, and is therefore dangerous to your false teeth.
 Dish washing soap is the most ideal cleanser because it does not contain abrasives that can damage false teeth. It has bactericidal ingredients like Tetrasodium EDTA and triclosan that kill and inhibit bacterial growth.
 After you have chosen what denture paste to use, rinse your false teeth in running water. Apply a strip of denture paste on the bristles of your toothbrush.


Hold the brush such that the bristles face the gum part of your false teeth.
Do small, circular, vibratory brushing strokes to remove food particles. This is the best method to reach food particles caught in between false teeth.
Do a sweeping motion from the gum part towards the biting surfaces of the false teeth to flush out all the food debris.
Rinse your false teeth in running water to remove excess denture paste and food particles.
 Food debris or plaque can cause black/green/grey staining of false teeth.


When proper oral hygiene is not observed, this plaque will harden and absorb colored liquids like coffee, tea or soda.
Brushing your false teeth regularly removes debris and prevents plaque build-up.

