 The better you look on the big night, the more confident you'll feel. This confidence will show through and put you in the mood to break it down on the dance floor.


Ladies, wear shoes that you feel comfortable dancing in. It's perfectly fine to wear heels, but try to find a pair that you can move around in. The more comfortable you feel physically, the more natural it will feel to dance.;
, Dancing alone can feel awkward and isn't as much fun. If possible, go to homecoming with a group of friends and their dates so that you can share in the festivities together.
 Before dashing to the dance floor, take a moment to soak up your surroundings and familiarize yourself with the venue. Take a lap around the room, get something to drink, and head to the bathroom if you need to. Getting comfortable with your environment will make you feel less intimidated by the prospect of dancing in front of others.
 Instead of focusing so hard on what to do with your body, listen to the music first and find the beat. Pay attention to how fast or slow the song is, and how it makes you feel.
 Really listen to the song that's playing and bob your head to the beat in a way that feels natural.
 This is a basic move to get you started. Be sure to stay on the balls of your feet when dancing to avoid feeling planted onto the ground.
 People who are nervous have a tendency to tense up in the shoulder and neck area. Be conscious of this, and let your shoulders fall and sway back and forth as you dance.
 Remember to keep listening to the music as you dance. Try not to focus so hard on whether what you're doing is right, and pay attention instead to whether your body is moving in rhythm with the music.


Don't try to dance faster than you feel comfortable doing. Even during fast songs, you can move at a slow pace, as long as you are streamlined with the beat.
 If you are with a date, then it is expected that the two of you will slow dance together, so grab your partner when the song starts! If you'd like to dance with somebody who isn't your date, then make sure they want to dance by asking them first.
 Typically, boys put their hands around a girls' waist and girls put their hands around the guys' neck.
 You will have to coordinate which way to move with your partner; it may take a couple of seconds for the two of you to get in sync.


If you are dancing with a person with whom you are romantically involved, then pull them close and rest your head on his or her shoulder/neck area.
Don't step on your partner's toes! Be conscious of where you are stepping, especially if you are wearing heels.

