 This is the yellow app with a ghost icon.;
, Doing so will open your Snapchat account page.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen and takes you to the Settings menu.
 It's in the "More Information" section.
 It's the last selection on the screen.
, It's in the center of the menu. This launches a new page explaining how to delete your account.


If you want a new Snapchat user name but don't want to delete your existing account, you can just create a new account.
 It's in the second paragraph.
 Do so to verify that you want to delete your account.


If your username doesn't autofill, you'll need to enter that, as well.
 Your Snapchat account is now deactivated and will be deleted after 30 days.


If you change your mind, you can reactivate your account by signing into Snapchat within 30 days of deactivation.
As of February 2017, there is not a way to export your friends list from Snapchat. While many of them will be searchable by phone number from your device's Contacts app, you should screen shot your Friends list before deleting your account.
 It's a yellow app containing the outline of a white ghost.


Enter your username and password if you're not automatically logged in.
 Doing so takes you to the user screen.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen and takes you to the Settings menu.
 It's at the bottom of the menu.
 This will prompt you to create a new Snapchat account.
 Type your first and last name in the provided spaces.
 Then enter your birthday, when prompted, and tap continue.
 Choose the new username you'd like to have associated with your Snapchat account.
 This email address must be different from the one associated with your old Snapchat account.
 From here, you can skip steps and add new or old friends from your contacts.


Once you've got your account set up, you can go back and change your email and phone number from the Settings menu.
You can delete your old Snapchat account, if you like, or leave it active if you think you may return to it.
 It's a yellow icon containing a distinctive ghost logo.


Enter your username and password if you're not automatically logged in.
 Doing so will open your Snapchat account page.
 It's in the upper-right corner of the screen and takes you to the Settings menu.
 It's at the top of the menu.
 You can enter just a first name or both a first and last name. Be sure to choose a name that's recognizable to your friends.


If you choose not to use a display name, tap Remove Name. Users will still be able to see your username, but if your username doesn't identify you, it will be difficult for friends to find you.
, It's the arrow in the upper left corner of the screen. Now other folks on Snapchat will see the name you've just entered when you send them snaps or post a story.

