 Requesting typical US condiments (ketchup, salt, pepper, etc.) is a sure giveaway that you are an American tourist. Use the typical condiments in your host country, and if you don't like them or can't bear to eat without your American condiments, bring your own. Take small packets with you to use rather than insisting that the restaurant supply you with it.
 In many parts of the world, you will be served your drinks with little or no ice - much less than you're accustomed to in the US. Of course, if you want ice in your drink because that's how you prefer it and you're paying for it, you're perfectly entitled to ask for it, but the point of this article is to help you avoid being labeled as an American, and requesting ice is a definite giveaway. What's more, be warned the tap water of some other countries isn't as safe as the water back home. Your beverage may be made with filtered or sterilized water, but often the ice is not. You can get a bad case of food poisoning from drinking safe bottled beverages with unsafe ice.
 Many American tourists visit US chain restaurants for every meal, afraid to dabble in the local cuisine, but becoming a regular at the local McDonald's and Pizza Hut will tip everyone off that you're an American really quickly. You'll also deprive yourself of a fantastic window into the local culture. Don't be scared: if your host is eating it, it won't harm you. Let your host or waitress advise you about local specialties. And don't ever spit out the food you're given!

,


In Europe, a fork and knife are used differently than in the US. If you are right-handed, eat with the fork in the left hand and the knife in the right. Europeans cut each bite individually with the knife in the right hand and the fork in the left hand, and rest their arms midway between wrist and elbow. The elbow should stay off the table. Also, don't rest your arm in between yourself and your plate. This is considered as rude in some countries.
In some Asian nations chopsticks. It might be more appropriate than a knife and fork.
 In some countries, for instance, a salad is the last item served, not the first. In others, people don't eat what we in the US think of as a "salad".
, In some European countries there won't be one as it is illegal to smoke indoors in a public area. Alternatively, some places won't actually have a non-smoking area. If this is the case either try to live with the smoke or move outside. Don't kick up a fuss.
,, You will get grumpy stares. Accept the fact that you are going to get mineral water, with or without gas.

