 If you have recently started dating a caregiver to a dependent parent, you may need to revise your expectations of the relationship. Starting a relationship with this dynamic requires a good bit of selflessness and flexibility. There may be times where dates are canceled because the parent needs caretaking. It may also feel as though your date is constantly preoccupied with the worry or stress related to caregiving.If you are open-minded, your relationship with a caregiver can be just as rewarding.
 If your current partner's family is adjusting to a newly dependent parent, you and your partner need to be forthright about how it will affect your existing relationship. Caregiving can be a taxing job, and you may feel like your partner is completely consumed with caring for their dependent parent.


Express your concern by saying, "I know this is a troubling time for you and the family. I want to talk about how we are going to maintain our relationship. I think it's important that you have some free time to relax and unwind. Can we try to clear an evening off our schedules just for us? Maybe you can ask one of your siblings to look after your parent during this time?"
If you are married or cohabitating, a new situation may also change your household or lifestyle. Caring for a dependent parent may require financial support from your partner. What's more, your partner may be less available to care for your children or help out around the home., If your new date has a dependent parent, or your existing partner has a parent who recently became dependent, you will need to undergo schooling. In order to be supportive of your partner and knowledgeable about the situation, you should find out as much as you can about their parent's condition.You may be able to ask outright, "Can you tell me more about what's going on? I want to know how I can help."
You can also perform an internet search to learn more. Go to the right sources, such as national health websites, associations, or research foundations to ensure you have a clear understanding. Try some of the following websites:

National Council on Aging: https://www.ncoa.org

Administration on Aging: https://aoa.acl.gov

National Care Planning Council: http://www.longtermcarelink.net/eldercare/area_agencies_on_aging.htm

National Association of Area Agencies on Aging: http://www.n4a.org




, It can also help your partner if you offer to spend some time connecting with their parent. You can do this simply because you want to get to know them better. Or, you can volunteer your time in order to give the other caregivers time off.


Find out what your partner's dependent parent likes. This may involve films, books, or activities like golf or knitting. Find creative ways to connect with them through their interests. For example, you can check out library books and read aloud to them. Or, you can ask them to teach you how to knit.

