 In order to clone a Pokémon in X or Y, you'll need more than just your game and 3DS. Make sure you have the following, and consider asking a friend for help:


Two 3DSs (or 2DSs).
Two copies of Pokémon X or Y (They don't have to be the same game).
A timer or stopwatch.;
, This Pokémon will be lost during the cloning process, so make sure it isn't holding anything valuable or isn't a Pokémon you want to keep.
 This isn't explicitly required, but there are lots of reports of held items affecting the timing, making it difficult to make the clone happen.If you get a good feel for the timing, you can have the Pokémon hold items so that the item gets cloned as well. Try a few clones without items first to make sure you have a handle on the process.
 Make sure that your Wi-Fi is disabled so that the trade occurs over infrared.
 Accept the trade on both systems and get ready to start your stopwatch.
 This is the one that you will need to power off at a precise time in order to make the cloning occur.
 The system will inform you that you are trading away the good Pokémon, and that you will receive the Pokémon you don't care about.
 Right after receiving the Pokémon on the first system, the screen will fade to black. Start your timer.
 Make sure that you're turning off the system that is offering the Pokémon you want cloned (the one receiving the Pokémon you don't care about). As soon as the stopwatch hits 5 seconds after the screen went black, turn the power off on the first 3DS.Different guides suggest different amounts of time. Some suggest 4 seconds instead of 5, and some suggest as low as 3.5 seconds. If you can't get the cloning process to work, try fiddling with the timing.If you turn the power off on the other 3DS by accident, you'll clone the Pokémon you don't care about and lose the good one.
 You'll see a screen informing you that you'll need to power off the system to restart the game. Turn the system off, and then turn it back and start the game.
 If the process worked correctly, the first system should still have the Pokémon, and the clone will appear in one of the boxes in the second system's PC.

