 Doing a random act of kindness can be one of the best ways for you to show how grateful you are for the world around you. You can anonymously pay the toll of the car behind you, send a stranger flowers, put some change into a person’s expired parking meter, or do someone a courtesy just because. The best part of this is that your act is anonymous, so that you’re doing something kind without getting credit for it. Here are some other things you can do:


Donate money or clothes to a charity.
Teach someone a new skill.
Listen to someone who is lonely.
Help a person find his way.
 You can show your gratitude to strangers by offering to help them when they need it. Though you don’t need to overstep your bounds, you can help a lady carry groceries to her car, help a man with heavy packages by holding the door for him, or you can help a waitress clean up a big spill during a busy time. Just making an effort to help, no matter how big or small, is one great way to express gratitude.


Look out for opportunities to help people. While you don’t need to be pushy, a lot of people are really afraid to ask for help when they need it.
 Just the act of smiling at a person can help light up his day and show him that you care. Whether you’re smiling at a person who is walking down the street, sitting across from you on the bus, or serving you coffee, just a simple smile can make a person feel appreciated and feel better about his or her day. You don’t know what the life of a stranger you smile at is like, and as sad as it may seem, your smile may be the only smile he or she sees that day.


Smiling at people in customer service, whether they are ringing you up for a sandwich or helping you buy a cell phone, can especially show your gratitude. These people work long days and often feel a lack of gratitude, and you can turn that around.
 One way to express your gratitude is to give a tip to a person who has done a great job. This can mean leaving a big tip along with a kind note to your waitress, tipping the delivery man, or even throwing some coins in a tip jar at your local cafe. This small gesture can make a big difference in the morale and financial situations of the people you are helping.


Leaving a note to tell your waiter or the person who helped you just how much he or she meant to you can really make that person’s day. A lot of people spend their whole work day feeling completely unappreciated.
 Another way to express your gratitude is to be respectful to the people around you as much as possible. Respect the space of other people and don’t crowd them; respect their ears and don’t talk loudly on your phone in a quiet public place, and be kind and polite to strangers when you’re in the same room. Just making an effort to treat other people with the respect and kindness they deserve is a way of expressing your gratitude to the world.


Treat other people like you’d want to be treated. Don’t invade their space or privacy or make them feel inferior to you. Offer them your seat on the bus. Smile at a person who looks sad. Let a person on crutches pass by you.
Demonstrating good manners is a great way to show respect. Avoid cursing, don’t chew with your mouth open, and avoid interrupting people.
 Another way to express your gratitude to the world is to work on being a good citizen. This means parking your car in one spot only, cleaning up your own mess, letting pedestrians cross in front of your car, cleaning the lint out of your communal dryers, or really doing anything that shows a respect for society at large. If you litter or leave your shopping cart out in the middle of the parking lot, it shows that you’re not grateful enough for all of the advantages you have to put things in order.


Remember that the world isn’t your private garbage dump. Always remember to put things back in their places instead of expecting that someone will do the cleaning for you.
Do your civic duties. Vote for president and in local elections, don’t groan about having jury duty, and pay your taxes.
 Another way to show how grateful you are is to give a compliment to the people around you. Since we’re talking about strangers, you don’t have to say anything too extreme or make people uncomfortable, but a simple, “Cool shirt!” or, “I love those flowers you’re holding!” can make a person feel special and important. Make a goal of finding one thing to compliment today and soon you’ll make it a habit.


Look out for the unique, the odd, or the truly original things. If someone is wearing an amazing shirt with foxes with bow-ties on it, then you better compliment it, because there’s a good chance the person who is wearing it is really proud of this particular item.
If someone has a great smile, don’t be afraid of saying so. Just make sure you don’t say it in a way that can be misinterpreted to be a come on.

