 Planning an outdoor wedding will open up your venue options and save you money, and you can use the natural landscape to create a medieval forest vibe on a budget.


Look for local gardens or parks that offer wedding packages. If a family member or friend has a large yard, ask if you can have the wedding there to save even more money.
If you’re planning a fall or winter wedding, check the weather before booking an outdoor venue. If there’s a chance of snow or bad weather, have the wedding indoors or plan accordingly.;
, Look for museums, bed and breakfasts, or historical landmarks that operate out of old castles. Call and ask if they do weddings. Your medieval celebration will be beautiful and authentic with a castle backdrop.

If renting out part of a castle is too expensive for you, look for smaller historic buildings that still offer a medieval-like atmosphere.
 The sprawling stone interior, stained-glass windows, and high vaulted ceilings will go perfectly with a medieval or Renaissance theme. Most cathedrals already have ornate interiors so you’ll save money on decorations., Many Renaissance festivals offer themed wedding packages that include traditional medieval food, music, and decor. Call your local Renaissance festival and inquire about their wedding deals if you're interested in an authentic medieval wedding ceremony without the hassle of organizing it yourself., Offer guests an array of meats, vegetables, dried fruits, and desserts so they feel like they’re attending a royal wedding., Opt for old-fashioned meats like venison and duck instead of chicken and fish for your entree. Serve the meat with common medieval vegetables like carrots, cabbage, and onion., Use black pepper, saffron, cinnamon, nutmeg, and ginger to make your dishes taste like they would have in the middle ages. Use honey in place of sugar when you can., Offer tea and cider as non-alcoholic options. Serve guests their drinks in chalices for an extra medieval touch.If you want to offer guests a Renaissance-themed cocktail, make a rose soda using sugar, honey, water, and rose petals and mix in a spirit like vodka., Offer guests a variety of tarts, puddings, and custards with fruits like strawberries and figs. Serve dessert at the same time you serve the rest of your menu for a truly authentic medieval feast., Ask the baker to put a dragon or a crown on top, or ask that the entire cake be in the shape of a castle. Cut the cake using a miniature sword instead of a knife., Cover them with white or cream colored table cloths or use table runners to create the appearance of a royal feast. Sprinkle flower petals on the tables for an extra romantic touch. Have the wedding party share a table, with the wedded couple seated in the middle. You can also seat the wedded couple at their own, separate table that’s positioned so they can look out at all of their guests like a king and queen would., Candles will help create the pre-electricity, medieval vibe you’re going for. Use candelabras as part of your centerpieces or opt for smaller tea light candles and scatter them throughout your venue. Make sure the candles aren’t a fire hazard by placing them where guests won’t bump into them or knock them over., Use flowers that are earthy romantic colors like white, red, green, and pink. Make fresh floral table runners for your banquet tables. If you’re having a buffet-style feast, use some simple flower bouquets to enhance the presentation of the food tables.

Pink carnations symbolized marriage in medieval times. Use pink carnations in your flower arrangements to make your Renaissance wedding more authentic., Print your invitations on a scroll or parchment paper. Use a calligraphy pen with ink to give your invitations a genuine medieval look. Write your invitations using words that would have been used during the Middle Ages.


For example, instead of writing “You’re invited to our wedding” on the invitations, write “We request the honor of your presence as we celebrate our forever uniting in marriage.”
Make your invitations announcements of a royal engagement. For example, you could write “You and the rest of the kingdom are invited to this once-in-a-lifetime royal wedding celebration.”

, Find a long gown with a fitted bodice that is green or blue, and avoid wearing white. White was the color of mourning in medieval times. Accessorize the bride with a flower crown or a tiara.
Look online for a Renaissance-themed wedding dress if you’re having trouble finding one in stores.
 Find a high-collared jacket that goes to the knees and cinch it at the waist with a belt. Have the groom wear tights or tight-fitting pants with tall leather boots.

Accessorize the groom with a crown, cape, or faux fur jacket.
Grooms going for a medieval knight look can wear armor and a chain-mail shirt and pants. Attach a sword at the waist to complete the outfit.
 Dress them in long, ruffled dresses with puffed up sleeves. Make sure their dresses are a different color than the brides. Have them wear flower crowns and carry bouquets with matching flowers., Have them wear matching tunics cinched at the waist with rope or a belt. Give them swords and matching leather boots., On the wedding invitations, add a note about dressing up that says something like "Wear your finest medieval fashions." Check in with your guests before the wedding to make sure they understand the theme.

If you’re worried about guests not dressing up, have some spare costume items at the wedding just in case. Fill a box with flower crowns, swords, capes, and other medieval-themed props and leave it at the venue entrance so guests can pick something up as they arrive.

