 You and your roommate might not have much in common, but that does not mean that you cannot be friends. Work on trying to appreciate your roommate's differences and enjoy the experience of getting to learn some new things while living with him or her.

For example, your roommate might be a fan of a sport you have never taken an interest in, a type of music that you don't enjoy, or a hobby that you have never even heard of. While your roommate's engagement with these interests might get on your nerves from time to time, remind yourself that learning about these new things is something that not everyone gets to do. Try to be grateful for the experience.
It might also be helpful to remind yourself that living with a roommate is a temporary situation, but it can lead to a life-long friendship.
 If talking to your roommate doesn't work, try talking to your Resident Advisor (RA), Resident Assistant, or Resident Director.Your resident advisor can help you deal with the situation or help mediate the situation between you and your roommate.


See your Resident Advisor immediately if your roommate is engaging in unsafe behaviors such as binge drinking, illegal drug use, self-harm, or an eating disorder.If your roommate is breaking the dorm rules by drinking alcohol or doing drugs in your room, you can get in trouble too. It’s best to let your RA know instead of handling this issue on your own.
 It is likely that other people at your school are having problems with roommates too. This can be a great way to bond with friends, and to make more friends. Socializing with people who share similar problems is a great way to learn more about yourself and take advantage of all the benefits of college..


Talk to your roommate about the problem before you tell a friend. Your roommate will be very upset of they find out you were talking about them behind their back.This can actually make your problems worse.
A friend may have a suggestion that you have not thought of.
If you are looking for a new roommate, one of these friends might need a new one too

, You may be stuck with a roommate that you just can’t get along with. Consider spending more time in the library, coffee shop , or with other friends instead of in the room. If you spend less time with your roommate you may gain peace of mind and calm down by removing yourself from the situation.


Your school may not allow you to change rooms. This is not an ideal situation, but sometimes it is the only solution.
Remember that your roommate situation is temporary, and you just have to make it to the end of the school year.
 Some situations cannot be fixed. If you have tried talking to your roommate, compromising, and working with your RA, it may be time to request a room transfer. Room transfers are typically a last resort after all other methods have failed.Each school has a different process and criteria for a room change. Check with your RA or the Office of Residence Life to get the details.

