 Studies have shown that people who work too long become less effective. As a result, working for the right amount of time and taking planned breaks is an important element of making sure you can multitask effectively.


Try working for 45 to 50 minutes at a time.
Take breaks of 10 to 15 minutes every hour.
If you can, break your work day up into several hour increments. Depending on how you work, it might be most effective for you to work in 3 or 4 hour shifts, take an extended break, and then get back to work for another 3 or 4 hour shift., If you have the ability to choose when you work, try to work at times you are most productive. This is important, as different people are more awake, alert, or productive at different times.


If you’re a morning person, make sure you block off that entire time of the day to work.
If you find you are not very effective in doing complicated or involved tasks in the morning, instead use that time to organize and do less-involved work.Consider keeping a journal for a week or two to track when you are able to focus easily and when you struggle to stay focused.
 You should also create a schedule so you can plan when you’ll work on certain tasks. Without a schedule, your multitasking with be chaotic and you may find it hard to focus. To prevent this, make sure to block out your time for specific tasks or groups of tasks.


Allocate blocks of time to specific tasks. Before you start on anything, make sure you know how long you expect a task to take. If copyediting an article will take an hour, have that planned before you begin.
Be sure to also allocate time for breaks as well. Recharging will be important before your next block of multitasking.
Plan out your multitasking time over the course of your work week. If you plan to multitask for two hours a day, make sure you reserve space in your schedule for that., Another thing to consider is whether you will complete a whole group of projects/tasks at one time or will you add new projects as you finish individual ones. This is important, as you'll have to carefully manage your schedule and organizational system.


Think about how many projects you can do at one time. Reflect on if there is a max number of projects you want to be working on at any given time. You may determine that 6 projects is the max number you want to work on over the course of a given period of time.
Determine if there is a deadline for any specific projects. If there is no deadline (or it is far off), you may benefit from stretching projects out over time and working on more at the same time.
If you think you'd rather finish a whole group of tasks before moving on to new projects, that's okay.
If you are the type of person who can add new projects to your in-progress list as you finish individual projects, then do so.

