 Long cabbages have somewhat loose leaves and are somewhat rod-shaped. The most common variety is the napa cabbage.
 Use your hands to peel away damaged leaves on the head of cabbage.


Tall heads of cabbage with loose leaves lack the thicker outer leaves that round heads have. As such, you only need to remove leaves that are wilted, discolored, or otherwise damaged.
 Place the head of cabbage on its side and cut in half lengthwise, from the top of the head through the core.


You do not need to remove any part of the core when cutting a long cabbage. In fact, for wedges, it is actually beneficial to keep the core. The core holds the leaves together, which means that the wedges will be able to remain intact, as well.
 Flip each half over so that the cut-side faces the cutting board. Cut in half lengthwise once more, creating quarters.


Since these cabbages are tall and skinny, you probably will not be able to cut wedges that are any skinnier than this without causing the leaves to fall off the core.
 You can stop after cutting the cabbage into quarters, but if these pieces are too long for you, cut each quarter in half crosswise to reduce the length of each wedge to half.


Note, however, that any wedge not attached to the core is more likely to fall apart. Even if the wedge gets destroyed, though, the cabbage will still be edible.
 Gently rinse each wedge under cool, running water. Drain dry on layers of clean paper towels.


Even though the inside of a cabbage is usually clean, you should still rinse it under running water just to be safe.






Hold the cabbage wedges over a colander in case any of the leaves break off under the pressure of the running water. The colander will catch the leaves while letting the running water pass through.






You should not scrub the leaves when cleaning them.






To dry the wedges after rinsing them, lay them out in a single layer on a few dry paper towels for several minutes. The excess water should drain off on its own.







