 There are three primary business bankruptcies you can choose. Not all are available to all business owners. Consider the following:



Chapter 7. This is a “liquidation,” which means the bankruptcy trustee sells your assets and you shut down the business. Unlike a personal Chapter 7, there is no “means test” if most of your debts are business related, and you don’t receive a discharge of debts at the end of the bankruptcy.All business types can choose a Chapter 7. If you are a sole proprietor, however, you can get a discharge because there is no legal distinction between you as a person and your sole proprietorship.

Chapter 11. You can reorganize your business debts and keep your business open with a Chapter 11. You must come up with a repayment plan, which your creditors will vote on. They can either approve the plan or reject it. Even if your creditors reject it, the judge can still approve the plan if it is fair. Chapter 11 is often used by very large publicly-traded companies, but it is available for all business types.

Chapter 13. This bankruptcy is generally only available for sole proprietorships.You can reorganize the business debts and adopt a payment plan that lasts three to five years. The trustee doesn’t sell your assets, and at the end of payment period your unsecured debts are wiped. In many ways, it is like a Chapter 11.
 Go through your financial records and decide whether you think you can make the business profitable. Try to identify why you didn’t succeed initially. If you think your business faced temporary problems, then you might want to continue it by filing a Chapter 11 bankruptcy.


If you are a sole proprietor, you also have the option of filing a Chapter 13.
You might also be able to continue a sole proprietorship by filing Chapter 7 if you can shield your business assets using exemptions. For example, your state might have a “wildcard” exemption you can apply to any assets you own.This will keep the trustee from selling them.
 A Chapter 13 limits the amount of debt you can have. If you have more than the maximum, you’ll need to choose a different bankruptcy option for your business (such as Chapter 11).


Your secured debt cannot exceed $1,184,200.
Your unsecured debt cannot exceed $394,725.
 Many businesses are legally distinct from their owners. For example, the owners of corporations and LLCs are typically not personally responsible for business debts. However, exceptions exist:


You might have personally guaranteed a loan. For example, a bank might not have lent your LLC money unless you agreed to be personally responsible for the debt.
If you are the owner of a partnership or sole proprietorship, then you are personally liable for business debts unless you were in a limited liability partnership.If you are personally liable on business debts, you should consider filing a personal bankruptcy at the same time as a business bankruptcy. For example, a partnership could file a Chapter 7 and individual partners could file under Chapter 13 for all business debts they are personally responsible for.
Sole proprietors only need to file one bankruptcy because the law doesn’t recognize any distinction between you and your business.

