 This is one of the oldest mediums for visual marketing and can still be highly effective. Newspaper print ads are a good way to get the attention of regular readers, especially if your ad appears frequently.


To do this, contact your local newspaper by phone or email, which is usually provided in the newspaper's advertisements section.
Although they usually cost more, newspaper ads with pictures (or at least featuring a brand logo) will be much more likely to be noticed and remembered by readers.
Again, consider your audience. If you want to reach young buyers, newspaper print ads might not be the way to go. In addition, newspaper ads are a shotgun approach and the majority of readers may not be potential customers.
Newspaper ads may be cheap, but are not as targeted as other approaches.
 If you are interested in finding clients looking to sell their homes or properties, send out advertisements for your business to homeowners in neighborhoods where you have recently represented a seller. This tells potential clients looking to sell that you have already successfully handled similar deals in their area.In your mailer, highlight one or two specific homes sold by your clients and provide basic information about the house(s). Images are a plus!
Have your solicitations professionally designed and printed on heavy duty card stock or photo paper to convey a professional image to potential clients.
Don't forget to include several means by which your company may be contacted. At a minimum, this should include a phone number, email, and business address.
Consider including a photo of yourself on the mailer next to the company contact information. This might help recipients see the ad as more personal and make them less likely to toss it away before reading it.
 These kinds of ads can appear on anything from coffee shop flyers to freeway billboards and should be visually appealing, simple, and informative. Your approach should take into account your company's marketing budget, your clientele, and your real estate niche, if applicable.


Since many public advertisements will only be seen for a few seconds at a time by passersby, you should make your brand and contact information large and noticeable. Make sure that any pictures in the ad are colorful and not confusing to the eye as well. Also, be aware of the federal fair housing guidelines when you are planning your ads.
Make sure you comply with any state and/or local laws and regulations regarding business advertisement, such as being required to print licensing or brokerage information on the ad itself.
To get in touch with the proper individuals for setting up visual marketing arrangements, check online for advertising information pertaining to the exact location, agency, or business where you wish to have your ad displayed.
 Create signs that can be placed at intersections or neighborhood entrances while the properties currently listed with your company are on the market. This will not only help promote your brand, but also could help you make a sale! Use the following tips to help draw attention to your signage:


First, you must include a provision for your sign in the sale contract, so that the homebuyer can approve its placement.
Be sure to check local restrictions on the use of signs.
Keep the design simple and easy to read by limiting it to two or three contrasting (and eye-grabbing) colors.
Avoid using images on these signs other than your company brand so basic company information can more easily be seen in a matter of a few seconds by passing motorists.
For calm weather days, consider tying colorful balloons or other attention-grabbing objects to your signs to increase their visibility.
Be sure to retrieve portable signs at the end of a showing, even if you plan to put them up again the next morning. This will keep them from being stolen or vandalized overnight (and protects your investment, however small).
 These can be the most expensive types of marketing campaigns, but often reach the largest audiences. However, consider that only a very small portion of this audience may be potential clients. You will need to contact a cable or broadcasting company in your area (the specific radio or television station you are considering) to ask about your options. Consider public access TV or radio if you cannot afford private channel broadcasting costs.Design an ad that is memorable and that will resonate with your target audience. You can come up with a short tune ('jingle') or slogan to help accomplish this, or hire someone with experience in this area to assist you.
Be sure to feature an informative, concise speech about your company and its services in your ad. If you are not a good speaker, find someone who is and put them in the ad instead.
Repeat important contact information such as your web address and phone number so viewers/listeners can take note of it.
Consider incorporating a gimmick or tasteful joke into your ad that will grab the attention of inattentive audiences, but only if this fits your brand image and target clientele.

