 The challenge of being a student can dominate your attention, but your teacher works hard as well. Make sure to tell your teacher that you appreciate their work periodically. If they go to extra lengths to help you, acknowledge their extra effort appreciatively.


Your teacher does many things that you may take for granted. Look for times that you could tell them one of the following: “You really helped me understand that challenging idea, thank you.” “Today’s class was fun, thank you for making it easy to stay focused on the material.” “Your excitement for the subject is contagious!”

, Offer to help if desks need to be moved, or if the chalkboard needs to be cleaned. Teacher’s often juggle many responsibilities and they will appreciate small efforts to make their day easier. This is a good way to show your appreciation for the person who teaches you., Encourage your parents to attend parent teacher conferences. While these conferences are primarily about your progress, they provide an opportunity for your parents to acknowledge your teacher’s hard work. Your teacher will likely appreciate the gesture.
 Note something unique about your teacher that is not related to math. Compliment their classroom decorations, or something they have done for the school. This will show your teacher that they are appreciated beyond their teaching.


Appropriate compliments will come naturally once you think about them. Consider statements like: “I really like that art print you hung on the wall,” “It’s so clear that you care about our success,” “I like that you hang your child’s artwork, they are really talented,” or “You are such an important part of the school, you make each day better for so many students.”

, It can be difficult for some students to express an interest in math since it can be very abstract. If you have trouble finding math interesting, explore how it relates to other subjects and professions. You will find it easier to connect meaningfully with your teacher if you find overlapping interests.If you want to study business, ask: “What do you think is the most important math to learn for finance?” If you are interested in sociology, ask: “What do you think are the limits of statistics for understanding human interactions?” If you are interested criminal investigations, you can ask: “How is math used in forensic sciences?”

