 Polka-dots are a go-to if you are going for a retro look—like a modern (but more covered up) pin-up girl. Go for tights with small polka dots, large polka dots, or polka dots in a variety of colors. You can also find tights that look almost like polka-dots, but are actually cute, little hearts. Polka-dot tights are casual enough for any occasion, but they’re also pretty easy to dress up.Pair polka dot tights with a flowing retro skirt. It won’t be a problem if you have a Marilyn Monroe moment with tights on!
For a very casual look, wear polka-dot tights with a jean skirt. Don’t worry, you won’t look like you’re stuck in 2007 as long as the tights don’t cut off at the ankle.;
, Stripes aren’t just for tigers, but they can make you feel just as fierce as one! There are all kinds of stripes, like skinny, thick, vertical, or horizontal. If you’re looking for an elongated look, tights with vertical stripes would be the way to go. For a fun and colorful look, choose tights with thick, multi-colored stripes.Try out striped tights with a shimmer or glitter for an extra element of fun.
Mix your patterns by pairing striped tights with patterned skirt for a look quirky enough to match your personality.
 You can put roses and sunflowers out on your table, or wear them on your tights. You can find floral tights in a variety of colors and patterns—from large daisies to small, overlapping roses. Add a touch of femininity to a plain T-shirt and denim skirt, or go for a whimsical look by pairing floral tights with a flowing skirt. Your legs will look like the coolest and prettiest garden ever.Wear tights patterned with large daisies with a denim skirt and converse sneakers.
Pair a short, flowing skirt in a light color with tights patterned with small roses.
 Colored opaque tights are the easiest way to add some fun to your outfit. They are really easy to find, fairly cheap, and you can choose about any color. If you’re having trouble choosing a pair, think of your favorite color, and go for that. Your legs could look even better than ever in bright purple. You can pair colored tights with just about any skirt, whether it’s a short denim skirt or long wool skirt.Wear a pair of hot pink tights with a black miniskirt and chunky boots for a fun, edgy look.
Go for a pair of oxblood tights with a floral skirt and ankle boots.

