 Use a large microwave safe glass or plastic bowl to microwave your eggs. Place your eggs in a single layer in the bottom of the bowl. Do not stack the eggs on top of each other and be careful not to crack the eggs., Pour enough water over your eggs so that they are completely covered with water. There should also be about a centimeter (or half an inch) of water above the eggs. If the eggs are not completely covered with water, then they may explode.








To speed up the cooking process, you can pour boiling water over the eggs instead of room temperature water. You will still need to cover the eggs completely with water., Measure out a tablespoon of salt and then sprinkle it into the water. The salt will help to prevent the eggs from exploding while they are in the microwave.
 Set your microwave on medium power and begin microwaving the eggs. The eggs may take anywhere from six to 12 minutes to become hard boiled, depending on your microwave. The eggs may be ready sooner if your microwave is high-powered or if you prefer your eggs softer.








If you poured boiling water over your eggs, then you can just cook them for three to six minutes on high.You can check to see if your eggs are done by taking an egg out of the water, putting it in ice cold water for a few minutes, and then cracking it. However, if you do not want to check, then just cook your eggs for a little longer than you think they will need.
 When the eggs are done, the bowl and water will be very hot, so wear an oven mitt when you take the eggs out of the microwave. Do not reach into the bowl or touch any of the eggs until they have cooled down.








You can also drain the hot water and refill the bowl with cold water to speed up the cooling process. This will also prevent the eggs from becoming overcooked., After your eggs have cooled down completely, you can crack them open and enjoy them. Eat them or use them in a recipe. For example, you can use your hard-boiled eggs to make deviled eggs, egg salad, or Easter eggs.








