 Bike Dash if available on iOS and Android. Download it from your device’s app store. After it’s installed, locate its icon (a biker) and tap to launch the game.;
, Tap the bike icon on the main screen’s menu bar. Your currently equipped bike and all the other available bikes in the game will be listed. Each of the bikes has different abilities that can change your bike run and jumps. The bikes aren’t free, and you have to pay in coins to acquire and equip them. The prices are displayed right beside the bikes. Tap the one you’d like to equip.
 You can customize the way your biker looks in the game, from his headgear, top, and pants. To do this, tap the clothes icon at the top. The different clothes have different abilities or bonuses when used. These aren’t free and you have to pay in coins to wear them. The prices are displayed right beside the clothes. Tap the ones you’d like to wear.
 During the runs, you can find different boosters or power-ups. These can provide different effects on your run and scores. There’s a power-up that can collect coins; another that can protect the biker; another that can double the coins you collect, and many more. Open the Power-ups menu by tapping the star icon from the main screen’s menu bar. The power-ups will be listed on the screen. These power-ups can be upgraded so that their effects can be multiplied and these cost coins. The prices are displayed right beside the power-up. Tap on the ones you’d like to upgrade.
 Tap the biker icon from the main screen’s menu bar. The tricks your biker can do are listed here. Some of the tricks will be unlocked when you reach specific levels. You need to pay in coins to upgrade and use these tricks. The prices are displayed right beside the trick. Tap on the one’s you’d like to upgrade.
 Tap the trail icon from the main screen’s menu bar. The available trails in the game will be displayed. Only the Forest Trail is available by default. You need to pay coins for the others to unlock and use them. The prices are displayed right beside the trail. Tap on the one you’d like to use., From the main screen, tap the “Play” button on the bottom right corner. All the customizations you’ve made earlier will be loaded.
 You don’t need to do anything to move your biker forward. Like all endless runner games, it will run by itself. You need to watch where it’s going though. You need to move your biker to collect the coins and avoid the obstacles.


Go right—Swipe right to move your biker to the right.
Go left—Swipe left to mover your biker to the left.
Skid—Swipe down to have your biker skid and go under an obstacle.
Jump—Swipe up to have your biker jump over obstacles.
 The trail will have coins on it. Move your biker to collect as much coins as you can. These coins add up, and you can then use them to unlock and buy the customizations and upgrades for your biker.
 Occasionally, you will see some special power-ups on the trail. Collect them to give you temporary special abilities, like coin magnet, shield, coin multiplier, and others.
 You can do tricks while jumping. Find ramps that will allow you to jump and make the tricks. Your biker can do different tricks depending on how you swipe during the jump and what tricks are currently unlocked.
 Your game will end once your biker hits obstacles three times. Watch your trail carefully and avoid these obstacles, including trees, huge rocks, deer, and disconnected bridges.
 Each run is scored in terms of the coins collected, distance travelled, tricks scored, and multipliers. Focus on these aspects in every run to beat your best score. Your score is displayed on the top left, the distance travelled on the top middle, and the coins collected on the top right.