 As much as we like to believe we are individual, adult and independent of others, this rings true only to a certain degree. Our actions, however positive or negative, impact on our siblings, parents, spouse, lover, etc. Taking others into consideration is a simple and very effective way to increase your level of maturity and responsibility.
 A perfect way to help your character grow and become a better person. Helping in little ways shows signs of maturity that go hand-in-hand with showing consideration for others. Enjoy doing chores as you strive for betterment. Don't consider it a sacrifice, a menace or some sort of irritation; instead, learning to accept responsibility and to practice self-discipline are signs of emotional balance and maturity.


If you let other people in the household do the housework with the excuse that you're tired after a day's work, studying hard or just not into housework, you are expecting other people to pick up your slack and give you some sort of special dispensation. This can soon create resentment and irritation from those you expect to do your fair share and it reveals selfish and immature judgment. No matter how much you have on your plate, you can always make time here and there to pick up after yourself and handle your fair share of household chores. Set an example by demonstrating that you are thoughtful and willing to pull your own weight.
 If you can repeat back to them what the nub of their issue is, with clarity and in a non-judgmental way, this shows that you've truly listened.


Play devil's advocate now and then. You may be dead set against the other person's idea but try to stand in their shoes and defend their side to get a feel for why they are so passionate or defensive about their issue. Doing this can be a real eye-opener and being even-handed is a sign of maturity.






Stay calm and level-headed when problems with others present themselves. Issues can be resolved calmly or angrily, you have the choice. And you always have the choice to request that the matter be dealt with when everyone involved has calmed down –– there is no need to escalate tension by continuing a discussion when your own mind feels confused or messed about.







