 Perhaps on the biggest first steps to reclaiming your life is admitting you experienced sexual trauma. There is a stigma attached to sexual trauma, and it may make you feel weak or dirty. But staying silent will only reinforce your victimhood and make it more difficult to recover. Instead, you should try to reframe your experience of sexual trauma and open up about what really happened to you. Owning your story can feel powerful.You may start by writing down your experience in a journal or a diary. Putting your experience down on paper can help you get a better sense of what happened and come to terms with your sexual trauma.
As you start to reframe your sexual trauma, you may decide to also share your story with others around you that you trust and feel will support you. Doing this can help you process your experience.;
, Another part of processing your sexual trauma is assigning responsibility to the person who deserves it: your abuser. Doing this can help you deal with feelings of guilt and shame around the sexual trauma. You are not responsible for what happened to you and you are not to blame. Be willing to assign responsibility to your abuser and not to yourself.You may do this by writing down your feelings of guilt and shame in a journal or diary. You may also find it helps to repeat out loud to yourself, “I am not to blame” or “I am not responsible for my sexual trauma.”

, It is important to take care of yourself both physically and emotionally after trauma. It is ok to take some time to focus on your own healing and emotions. Do not feel guilty or ashamed of taking this time.Choose activities and hobbies that make you feel positive about yourself. This might be a creative outlet, such as writing or drawing, or it might be a physical activity, such as soccer or dance.Surround yourself with loving, supportive friends and family. You may need to cut out toxic personalities during this time.
Reduce your commitments and obligations during this time. When you are ready, you can reach out to other people in need and help them. Interacting with others in a helpful, productive way may help you process your trauma and move past it.
 Triggers are external or internal reminders of your trauma. Many survivors of sexual trauma experience triggers as they try to recover. Triggers can lead to emotional reactions, such as a panic attack or flashbacks, or physical illness like vomiting or blackouts. Identifying your triggers can then allow you to acknowledge and react to them in a more controlled way. Ask yourself, “What makes me scared, upset, or nervous?” There are several common triggers that can affect survivors of sexual trauma, including:Intimate relationships and personal boundaries: You may have difficulty with being in an intimate relationship and may be triggered by being physical with someone else. You may also have difficulty with maintain personal boundaries with others, as your personal boundaries were invaded by your abuser.
People or places associated with the trauma: You may be triggered by people or places that remind you of your experience of trauma. You may feel anxious, upset, or physically ill if you are in areas or around people that cause you to remember the sexual trauma.
Certain sights, sounds, or smells: You can be triggered by other sensory details like certain sights, sounds, or smells. Identifying your triggers early on can make it easier for you to anticipate when you are going to be triggered and avoid being around them.
 Your body will let you know when you are in “flight or fight” mode and you should listen any signals your body is giving you. Doing this can help you respond to a trigger in a way that feelings controlled. Your body may give off danger signals like feelings of tension, holding your breath, shortness of breath, hot flashes, dizziness, and nausea. You may also feel physically ill and have racing thoughts, where you cannot concentrate or focus on one thing.If you notice any of these danger signals, you should take steps to soothe and calm yourself down. You may trying slowing down your breathing, where you breath in slowly through your nose to a count of four.
Place your hand on your stomach and a hand on your chest as you breath in. Then, hold your breath for a count of seven and exhale on the count of eight. Push out as much as you can. Inhale again and repeat the cycle until you feel relaxed and cam.
 You should come up with strategies to cope with your triggers, including self-care. Doing positive self-care can help you deal with flashbacks, memories, and moments of anxiety or depression. Try to do at least one or two self-care activities a day and set aside time in your day to do self-care.You should try to do physical self-care like eating healthy. You may also enjoy a few of your favorite indulgences, in moderation. You should also try to exercise several times a week so you feel healthy and energetic.
Make sure you get at least eight hours of sleep a night so you are well-rested and your body does not feel worn out or exhausted.
Try to avoid doing destructive things like self-harm, using alcohol or drugs, and having random sexual partners. Though these may feel good in the moment, they are not useful long term coping strategies and can actually worsen your feelings of trauma.
 As a survivor of sexual trauma, you may also have a negative relationship with your body. You may have a difficult time viewing your body as beautiful or useful. Reconnecting with your body can allow you to embrace your body and take control of it. Doing this can also be useful when you are triggered, as you can then have more control over how your body reacts to triggers.For example, you may do rhythmic movements like dancing, drumming, or marching. You may also do walking or running to help your body get used to the rhythmic movement of your arms and legs.
You may also try doing yoga, Tai Chi or Qigong. Doing relaxed, focused movements can help you feel in control and calm.
You may also try mindful meditation on your own or by taking a class. Doing meditation can help you embrace your present experiences and observe without judgement.
 Reclaiming your life after sexual trauma can take a lot of hard work and patience. Doing it alone can feel challenging and you should try to seek out support systems that can help you take control. You may call a sexual trauma support hotline and speak to a professional who act as a sympathetic listener. Having someone to talk to about your experience can help you regain control.You may also try joining a sexual trauma support group. You may get a referral for a support group through the support hotline. A support group can be a good way to connect with others who share your experience and feel you are in a safe space.
 Many sexual trauma survivors seek out professional help, such as a therapist or a counselor. Talking to a professional can help you work through your sexual trauma and learn coping mechanisms for your triggers.You may ask your primary care doctor for a referral to a therapist who specializes in sexual trauma survivors, or you may see if your school or work offers counseling services.
You may also be able to get a referral for a therapist through a support hotline or a support group.
 Though you may find it challenging to share your experience with those closest to you, doing this can make you feel less alone and isolated. You may decide to confide in a close friend or a family member that you feel will be sympathetic to what you are going through. Try to choose a friend or family member who will be understanding and open to your experience.You may decide to wait to confide in your friends or family until you speak to a therapist or counselor first. Working through your sexual trauma with a professional can then make you more comfortable with talking to those closest to you about your experience.

