 Flannel has an appropriate thickness and is easy to tie together securely. You will want strips about 3 times the length of your hair and 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide.Curling your hair with a flannel rag instead of heat is a great way to maintain the health of your hair and prevent damage to your long locks.
Cut as many strips as you would like to have as curlers in your hair. More curlers will make tighter curls, while using more hair in each curl will make the curls looser.
 Once you decide how many curls you would like to put in your hair, separate your hair into even sections to ensure the curls will match. Hold these sections in place with a hair clip., Styling lotion will give you a decent hold, without making your hair stiff. Rub some lotion between your palms, then pull it through your section of hair until it is slightly damp, but not wet., Place the flannel strip at the top of this section of hair, leaving about six inches of excess flannel at the top. Hold the top of the section of hair and the rag in one hand like the top of a ponytail with a rag running alongside it. Wrap the hair around the rag until you reach an inch and a half of hair left to twist.Be sure that you are wrapping the hair around the rag and not taking the rag around the hair. Wrapping the rag around the hair at this point will give you straight hair rather than curls.
To get more spiral to your curls, twist the section of hair in one direction as you wrap it around the rag.
Once you have completed wrapping the hair around the rag, you should not see the rag under the hair. The wraps of hair should be close enough that the rag is not visible between each wrap.
 Wrap the rag around the remaining end of this section of hair. Once you have reached the bottom of your hair, start working your way back up. Now you will be wrapping your rag around the coils of hair to hold them in place.Once you have wrapped the rag all the way back to the top, tie it securely in a knot with the 6 inches (15.2 cm) of flannel you left at the top when you began.
 Repeat this process with each section of hair, wrapping the hair around the rag, then the rag around the hair and tying it off. Keep your sections of hair as even as possible in order to have consistent curls., This could be the hardest part, but if you have grown your hair this long, you probably have the patience to wait it out. It is best to begin this entire process at least 24 hours before you want your style to be complete. At the very least, create your curls early in the evening, then sleep on them.


Wrapped hair takes a long time to dry. The more hair you used in each section, the longer it will take to dry.
If you need to speed up the drying time, you can sit under a bonnet hair dryer for an hour to finish off the process.
 Once your hair is dry, untie the flannel from the top section of your curl. Gently unwrap the rag from the outside of the curl. If the hair was wrapped perfectly around the rag, you should be able to pull the rag straight down and out of the center of the curl.If the rag does not pull easily out of the curl, gently unwrap the curl until you can pull the rag through.
 Once you remove your rags, you should have a head full of tight spiral curls. There are several ways you can separate and style them to get different looks.Brush your curls out with a bristle brush for a smooth, wavy, old-school Hollywood look.
Separate the spirals into multiple spirals using your fingers to twist each section into several different curls.
Flip your head upside-down and tussle it with your fingers for a messy-chic style.
 Choose a hairspray with natural ingredients and no harsh chemicals. Go for a light or medium-hold spray which allows some movement and bounce in your curls.