 You can do this by looking through people's bases who attacked you earlier on in your battle log, do the "Quick Match" method, or finding a player's base on the GRA map. The base should be at a level so that your commanded attacks (A10s, Hellfire Missiles and Orbital Strike) are able to destroy them.;
, Your strike force increases the damage and health of about 60% and this is very good for every base. Preferably activate it to your rangers, as they will burn defenses down more quickly and can speed up the process. Use the Strike Force before it runs out - you won't be able to use it on a tarmac for 1 hour after the first use of it is finished.
 Don't just dive into a base that looks like a walk in the park and hope for the best. Take the time to work out the areas of possible dangers and possible safety. Tap/Click on a defense or structure of the base, as this will give you information of it's health and level. If the base looks undefeatable, such as, your up-to-date Level 14 HQ base getting put up against a very strong Level 20 HQ base, then it is probably not worth losing some of your medals over. If the base looks easy enough to defeat and you may not lose a sufficient amount of troops, then feel free to turn it to rubble.
 Go in and destroy or weaken as many defenses as you can with the radius of the airstrike. Don't just use it to kill commandos at a rally flag, or oil derricks and supply stockpiles holding loads of loot. Use it carefully, especially for when it is more than capable of destroying something.
 You can use the Orbital Strike to take down what may not have got fully destroyed in the A10 airstrike and focus it on a rally flag of commandos that are at an inconvenient location.
 This has a smaller radius than the A10 and should only be used to destroy a single target rather than multiple. Also use it carefully and see if it can weaken or destroy other structures around it.
 When the base is destroyed at a level that you can attack it, leave behind enough command points that will get you enough for a Medpack. These are vital to prevent any sudden ambushes or damage to your troops as soon as they are deployed.
 A combination of rangers and Tomahawks are a good combination that is one of the best out there. Deploy your rangers first, and then deploy your Tomahawks at a safe distance so they are not ambushed, as Tomahawks are very weak.
 As you keep destroying the base, keep feeding command points to your troops as well as managing them carefully or saving up for another approach with an A10 or Hellfire or Orbital Strike.
 Use whatever command points you have to use on defenses or your troops to speed along the process. Be careful though, you will lose medals if you don't achieve any stars!

, Once you place a commanded attack or as soon as you deploy your troops, you have 3 minutes to destroy it completely. Don't be in any rush to get it done. Use the time wisely and the music to the attacking process can even keep you in time!

, If the base is giving away loot, the loot may be increased by 10% or 20% depending on how many stars you achieve. You will also receive medals depending on how much you were able to destroy. Rush back though to call back all your troops before the time of your strike force runs out on your tarmac!

