 If your child is afraid of the water, it’s especially important to find a class in which they can build a sense of trust with the teacher. Avoid intense or fast-paced lessons and look for an instructor who’s willing to work with your child at their own pace.Consider hiring a private swimming instructor to work with your child as they overcome their fear of the water.
 Take factors like class size and pool temperature into account. Large classes may not be a good fit for a child who already feels uncomfortable around the water. Similarly, if the pool is always cold, your child may feel even less inclined to climb in.Consider how your presence may affect your child. Is it reassuring for you to be where they can see you during their swim lesson? Or do they seem distracted by your presence? You may even ask your child, "Would you like me to stay for your swim lesson?"

, Usually, with time, as children start to become more familiar with the pool environment, there anxiety will lessen. While you wait for them to naturally get used to the water, you can try a few strategies to "trick" them into relaxing.


For kids who don't much like getting water on their face, you can try playing a game of pretend shampoo. First, pat water on your cheeks and laugh excitedly. Then, rub some in their hair and pretend to lather it. Tell them to copy you like a game.
If your child is fearful of deep water, you can reduce the stress involved by letting them wear a life jacket. You might even don one yourself so that they don't feel alone. Take baby steps, letting them spend some time in the deep end before returning to the shallow end to play. Spend more time in the deep as your child becomes more comfortable.Practice breathing with your child. Taking shallow breaths or holding their breath may increase anxiety. Take some deep breaths with your child to help them stay calm and relaxed.
 The more often your child spends time in the water, the less afraid they’ll feel. Take your child to open swim sessions and get into the pool with them. Have them practice the skills they’ve learned in their swimming lessons.