 A pedometer is a counter that keeps track of how many steps you've taken each day. You can usually fit it on your hip, and nowadays, you can get pedometers that no one can even see, so there's no excuse not to get one.


Shoot to take between 5,000 and 10,000 steps each day.That may seem like a lot, but it's less than you think. (5,000 steps are a little more than 2 miles (3.2 km).) Find excuses to walk places. Take the stairs instead of the elevator or escalator. Walk to the grocery store instead of driving. Getting to 10,000 steps takes a little practice, but once you get there, it's worth it.;
, Motivate your inner Rocky and bust up and down those stairs. If you feel your muscles burning, it is a sign that they are getting a good work out. Also, try using the stairs instead of the elevator in a building!

, Interval training is when you exercise really hard for a short amount of time, followed by longer periods of light intensity training. For example, if you're running around a track, you could jog for three laps and then go as fast as you can for the last lap. It'll kick your butt, but that's kinda the point. Right?


Interval training has been scientifically shown to burn more calories and improve aerobic capacity.Start by replacing a couple of your regular workouts with interval training, ramping up from there. You'll see results faster if you stick with it.
 Instead of jumping jacks alone, which can be a little boring and not feel very effective, try doing jumping jacks after you're totally tuckered out from another workout. After you've run a mile, swum 20 laps, or biked your heart through your chest, get up and do 20 jumping jacks at full intensity. It's a nice way to really put your workout regimen over the top, and you'll feel it in your thighs.
 This is a great exercise that you can do practically anywhere, without needing any special equipment. Lay on your back with your hands underneath your glutes, raise your feet into the air, and start kicking back and forth with short controlled movements. Remember to point your toes out and move one leg back as you move the other forward. For a more intense workout, leave your hands out to the side instead of underneath your glutes.


To target the thighs specifically, extend the legs wide and quickly pull them back together. This is similar to a jumping jack movement while lying on your back.
 This is DIY fun, and it can be a really effective way to work out because you're having so much fun. A dance class has the added benefit of working you for a set amount of time, not just until you don't feel like it anymore.
 You may not be much of a "sporty" person, but there are hundreds of sports to suit all different kinds of people. So you don't like basketball; engage in tennis. You don't like tennis; engage in soccer. Competition can break up the monotony of a workout and make it into something really fun.


It's also possible to burn more calories during an organized or intramural sport than it is working out alone. If you're playing soccer for an hour, you're likely to burn around 730 calories. If you're doing Hatha yoga by yourself for an hour, you're likely to burn only about 200 calories. That's a big difference.
 With a dumbbell in either hand, lunge forward with one leg while simultaneously lowering the opposite knee until it's about an inch above the ground. Step back and continue with the opposite leg.


Bodyweight exercises like lunges are ideal if you want to avoid bulking up but still want to build healthy and lean muscle.
 The myth that you can just lose weight in your thighs, or in another part of your body, is called "spot training."In other words, you have to lose weight from all over in order to lose weight in your thighs.

