 It's best if you know the person's first, middle, and last name. Knowing this information will make him or her easier to find. Because some combinations of first and last names are common, it's easier to narrow down if you have a middle name, too.


You can find a person's full name by looking through family documents if you have them. Try family bibles, baptismal records, or birth certificates. You can also try contacting the church if you know the person or family was connected to one church for a long time. Many churches keep baptismal records.;
, If you don't know the date of death, you can try searching the obituaries of local newspapers where the person lived. You can usually find some information on the person in the obituary, such as the date of birth, the date of death, and the names of the person's parents and descendants. You may luck out and find the location of the grave, as well.If you only have a name, you can try searching national archives of newspapers. Often times, your local library will have access to these databases.If you can't find this information, some websites will accept a date range for the death date.The date of birth is also helpful to keep on hand if you have it, as it can narrow down results.
 If you're having no luck finding the date of death, try looking at city directories and even phone books. If the person is listed one year, but not the next, you can narrow down the year of death., The place of death is often included in the obituary. If you know the city and state, you can also look up the county, which some websites request when you are trying to find information.If you can get a copy of the death certificate, the place of death will also be listed on it.Try asking family members. Family members are a good source for this information, as they usually know where a person was living when she died. If no one knows, ask for old Bibles, as in the past, families used to record births and deaths in Bibles, including the place of death.Old letters can also be a good source of information. Also, newspaper clippings are often saved by family members, including obituaries.
You can also try searching legal documents. For instance, probate records are often a good way to find out where a person died because many estates go into probate after death., If you're having trouble finding some of this information, the CDC lists the departments in each state that handle these kinds of records. You can request a copy of the death certificate from these departments, which will give you information such as the date of death and the cause of death. You will likely have to pay a fee for the copy of the death certificate.Depending on the state, you may need to prove you are a family member of the deceased because some states have closed vital records, which includes death certificates. For instance, Arizona, Oklahoma, and New Hampshire have closed vital records, though some exceptions are made for other types of applicants, such as genealogists and people from oil and gas and mineral companies. You will need to provide proof of your relationship to the deceased, using items such as court documents, marriage certificates, and birth certificates.Some states have open vital records, such as Maine, Vermont, and Massachusetts, though a few of these states limit the record the public can see, such as only providing the cause of death.
 This file is also known as the Death Index. You do have to pay to make inquiries through the National Technical Information Service. You can pay per inquiry, which as of 2015 is $10 an inquiry.This index will provide you with basic information about the person, such as the date death and place of death.
Some websites offer limited access to this information for free, such as Genealogy Bank. You will have to create a free account to access the information., If you have the Social Security number of the person, keep it on hand. While it is difficult to find the number if you don't have it, it can make searching easier if you do.