 Cyberbullying can be the most distressful of all. Bullies have access to their victims 24/7, and the victim can feel like he or she has no peace at all. It can happen to anyone, and can be either someone you know or an anonymous user. If you are suffering from hurtful texts or emails, unwanted images, someone purposefully excluding you online, or even someone logging in to your account and making harmful changes, this is all cyberbullying. It’s particularly difficult to deal with because it can be constant -- attacking you both at school and at home, and can even be someone you might not know.While cyberbullying is not usually illegal, misusing computers in this manner can be., This is what they want you to do. Take a deep breath, stay calm, and step away from your phone or computer. Think about what productive actions you’re going to take next. Talk to a trusted adult about helping you make your next move. , Make sure your settings on social media are set to not receive unwanted text and images. Any time you can make your internet presence smaller and more private, do it.Often the painful part of social media is hurtful comments or gossip being spread and seeing this information on others' feeds. You may want to delete your social media accounts for awhile if the bullying gets out of hard or if it starts to have emotionally damaging effects.
 Sometimes cyberbullying can take the form of getting into your accounts and wreaking havoc. Choose passwords that are random and include letters, numbers, and symbols. Change passwords often and do not share them., If the cyberbully is targeting you through texts and images to your phone, a new number will stop their efforts. Only give your new number to close family and friends and ask them not to pass it on., When you do receive unwanted texts, images, or comments, don’t read or look at them -- send them to someone you trust. They can then put together the documentation you need to present to school authorities or the police., Even if the person bullying you is not at your school, cyberbullying can have a profound and harmful impact on your life, and your teachers should be aware. If it is at your school, teachers and administrators can help you raise awareness of the issue. , Also report the bullying to the websites and phone companies through which you are receiving the threats. In this case, you might consider limiting your online presence. 