 You may want to stay close to home or plan a destination wedding. Consider the ease of transportation for your guests, the availability of hotels and the elements you can use to create a more magical winter atmosphere.;
, If you are having a small wedding near your home, you may be able to have the wedding near Christmas without many conflicts. A larger wedding may benefit from being scheduled around a long weekend, such as President's Day or Martin Luther King Day.
 Many wedding planners suggest that weddings around holidays and destination weddings should send out save the date announcements a year in advance. Ensure your announcement goes out to all your intended guests at least 6 months in advance.
 Dates near holidays or long weekends may need to be booked up to a year in advance, while other winter dates are usually easier to book because of decreased demand. Consider a hunting lodge, a ski chalet or a rustic estate with a snowy pastoral scene to highlight the season.
 Once again, you can play up the uniqueness of your chosen wedding date by including snowy scenes, holiday themes, snowflakes or cozy fireside tableaux. If you can't find any templates that cater to this season, ask a local print shop to design a custom invitation.
 Common winter wedding colors include snowy white, icy blue, crimson, jewel tones, forest green and chocolate brown. Consider choosing a light color and a bright color to play up the contrast and winter tones in your décor.
 Consider that you, your bridesmaids and your groomsmen will probably need to arrive at the venue in the cold or take a few pictures outside. If you want to have strapless dresses or thin satin, consider augmenting the wardrobe with cashmere or angora sweaters, muffs, cute ear warmers, fancy gloves, scarves, snow boots or other playful wardrobe choices.


Grooms can dress warmer in wool suits. Tweeds and tartans add some festivity to the wardrobe.
 Most locations make an outdoor wedding impossible in the winter; however, you can still create the look of winter wonderland by incorporating trees, pine cones, snowflakes, frosted glass, mittens and much more. If your date is around a holiday, choose a couple of your favorite decorations for a more festive atmosphere.
 You will need to ensure that your venue has a place to store dripping coats and boots for all your guests. Temperature control is important, because you want it to be cozy, but it can quickly become too warm with many people in 1 room.


Ask the venue about their temperature controls and ventilation. You should be able to adjust your heat a number of times during the reception.
 Winter is known for its firelight, so try to incorporate a fireplace, candles or a clear starry sky with twinkle lights. Soft lighting will add some ambiance.
 Flowers will be more expensive to bring to a cold locale. Use poinsettias, ivy, willow, thistle, leaves and branches to enhance the flowers you plan to use.
 Interview photographers to see how they can use the snow or fireplace to play up the romance of the day. If you want to be outside for a few photographs, you want someone who can shoot photos well and quickly.
 Many weddings feature a cocktail hour. Warm your guests up by having hot cider, hot chocolate, mulled wine, Irish coffee or hot toddies.


Another seasonal drink that is served cold is eggnog. Consider adding this to your bar if you are getting married during the Christmas season.
 Instead of serving salmon or chicken, you may want to do a roast, thick risotto, mashed potatoes, hearty greens and rich soups. For dessert, consider shortbread cookies, gingerbread, roasted chestnuts or fruit cake as a supplement to your wedding cake.
 Pack tea bags or hot cocoa mix in a knit satchel.

