 A written note shows her that you care enough to share your feelings with her. Make sure it is handwritten; don't type and print a note! Here are some starters:


"I've been thinking about you all day..."
"I wish I could be there with you, but this note will have to do..."
"I can't wait until I see you next..."
Place the note where it will have the most impact. Ideally, finding the note should be a surprise. For example, if you know she has to read certain pages of a book for school, place it between those pages. If you are sleeping together, write a note on the bathroom mirror with soap, or place a love note on her nightstand.
, Call or text her when she's getting ready to go to sleep. This is known as the "tuck in call," and it is a very powerful way to show her you care.


The tuck in call lets her know that she's on your mind.
You will be the last thing she thinks about before falling asleep.
It gives her someone to talk with about any of the problems she may have had that day, which will help her sleep better.



Chocolates range from the cheap to the quite expensive. You don't have to spend an arm and a leg, but avoid just giving her a bar from the candy aisle. Look for boutique chocolates and remember that a little goes a long way.
Imported candies are a fancy way to show that you care about her, and can be exciting to try. They're not terribly expensive either.
Bake her some cookies. This shows thoughtfulness as well as adeptness in the kitchen.
If she doesn't like sweets, surprise her with her favorite snack.
 This is one of the most traditional ways to show affection, and is very effective. They are bright and cheery, and the freshness is a vitalizing gift. Flowers can get expensive, however, so save them for truly special occasions.


Most supermarkets have bouquets available for less than $20.
If you know your girlfriend's favorite colors or flowers, talk to a florist and have them help you design a bouquet.
If you have access to wildflowers, pick and make her one yourself. Just be sure that you don't cut someone's private flowers.
If your girlfriend is having a bad day at the office, have some flowers delivered. This can be expensive, but it shows you care and she can show off to her coworkers.
A single flower can be just as good as a whole bouquet. It's the gesture of giving that is the most important.
 A surprise gift can spice up a normally dull day and really let her know that you're thinking of her. Some suggestions:


Love coupons. Give her a set of coupons that she can redeem to get you to do things for her. For example, romantic dinners, movie night, hugs and kisses on demand, etc.
An accessory. Clothes can be expensive, but a nice accessory can make a great gift and not break the bank. Look for hats, scarves, or handbags.
A bottle of wine and a pair of wineglasses.
 Catch her off guard and you'll make a much more lasting impact.


Sneak up on her while she's working and give her a quick kiss.
Give her an extra hug before she heads off to work or school.
Pull her in closer while walking together on a cold day.
Take her hand while walking out in public.

