 This is something that is often overlooked, simply because we go to and from the same places everyday. Try and pay closer attention to common places in your life, such as home, work, the grocery store, a local park, etc. So many interesting things happen around us - a bird flies into a door, a girl accidentally steps in dog feces, a woman two aisles over slips on water that wasn't properly wiped up, a guy parks his car halfway onto the grass at an odd angle - but we rarely take note of them. Spend more time thinking about and watching your local environment in order to find something that inspires you. Try out these fun ways to make your daily routine more engaging and inspiring:Walk around your house and try to find 5 to 10 items that you forgot about. Re-engage with them and remember the story of how they came to be in your possession.
Take a new route to work. If you normally drive or take public transit, try riding a bike or walking.
While on public transit don’t spend the entire time listening to music or reading the paper. Instead, try listening to the conversations of the people around you. These stories may help to promote new and creative thoughts.
 If you normally work from an office or studio try changing your work environment to help inspire you in a variety of ways. For example, work in a coffee shop or library to mix up the scenery. Alternatively, if you typically work inside, try relocating to an outdoor environment, like a park or garden. You may find inspiration from the scenery, scents, and sounds that surround you in an unfamiliar space., Walking through nature and observing animals, plants, stars, and clouds has often been a source of inspiration for many artists throughout history. Spend some time outdoors each day learning how plants and animals live. It is easy to find inspiration in the natural beauty of the world. You can also try travelling to different parts of the world to experience unique landscapes.If you are an artist bring your supplies with you out into nature and try and capture the landscape.
Similarly, if you are a writer bring a notebook and write down some of the feelings and words that come to mind while you are consumed by the natural world.
 Sometimes people have creative blocks because they are struggling to find new ideas. Let yourself relax and try and allow your mind to go blank. One way to do this is by taking regular breaks from your work. Go for a walk and let your mind wander. You are more likely to have an epiphany while you are away from your workspace and allowing yourself time to relax.