 There are some foods that may upset your stomach that seem perfectly harmless for other people. Pay attention to what your stomach is telling you after you eat, and if you don’t feel well, try omitting those foods that trigger you. Unless you see an allergist or have a specific list of foods to avoid from your physician, this is largely a trial-and-error effort and will take some time to figure out.
 Gas is a natural byproduct of any food that you don’t digest. Also, some foods naturally cause gas when they are being digested. In either case, limiting gas-causing foods may relax and calm your stomach.You might be lactose intolerant, which is much different than being allergic to milk. Lactose intolerance is pretty common and is the culprit behind many upset stomachs.
Some vegetables, such as cauliflower, onions, cucumbers, corn, and broccoli can cause a gassy stomach.
Other people find that starchy foods, like potatoes or pasta, upset their stomachs.
 Eating smaller portions is not only great for managing your weight, but is quite helpful in preventing stomach upset. It’s quite simple: the larger your portions, the more your stomach expands, the more it has to work to digest food, and the more gas you’ll produce from undigested foods. Eat smaller portions five or six times per day to help prevent an uncomfortable stomach., Your stomach makes up a significant portion of the core of your body, and is responsible for your abilities to sit upright and turn at the waist. Excess weight makes this more challenging for your abdominal muscle groups and can lead to stomach unrest. Also, most of your internal organs are housed in your core, and excess weight can cause your organs to get pushed or moved, causing stomach discomfort., Yoga has a host of benefits, including flexibility, increased blood flow, and a sense of emotional and cognitive calm. Additionally, yoga can help relax your stomach, whether it is upset from IBS or anxiety. Sign up for a local class or pick up an instructional DVD to begin your yoga journey., Your local pharmacy, grocery store, or big box store has a staggering amount of over-the-counter treatments for common, non-serious stomach discomforts. Whether your stomach is upset from constipation, or IBS, or reflux, you can find a treatment for your symptoms.Antacids, such as Pepcid or Tums, neutralize the acid in your stomach, helping soothe reflux symptoms and unrest.
If you haven’t had regular bowel movements, your stomach may be upset. Try a stool softener. On the other hand, if you have diarrhea, and you don’t want to let it run its course, try an anti-diarrhea medicine, such as Kaopectate or Immodium.

