 Concealer is a liquid or cream that blends with your skin to hide dark or red spots and under-eye circles. It is great for giving an even color to your skin.


Concealers come in either your natural skin color (a shade of brown or tan), or in colors such as yellow, green, and lavender. These colored concealers (also known as color correctors) are used to neutralize redness or acne spots in your skin.
Always use a concealer brush, which is a small, stiff, round-edged makeup brush, to apply concealer. Using your fingertips can expose your pores to more bacteria, worsening your acne or redness.
Don’t rub concealer in, but rather dab it on and blend the edges with your brush. You can also use a clean sponge to blend in your concealer.
Make sure your concealer isn’t too dark, as this will result in rusty orange colored spots on your face instead of sun or age spots. It is better to use a concealer that is too light rather than one that is too dark, as applying foundation over the top will help to darken the concealer. Be sure to sue a color corrector first and then apply concealer over that.
 Foundation is the makeup used to cover your whole face to even out your entire skin tone. Foundations come in many variations, including powders, liquids, creams, and aerosol sprays. Although any of these work, powders tend to be the longest lasting and will cover up any natural oils on your skin.


Always use a large foundation brush, sometimes called a kabuki brush, to apply your foundation. This is regardless of whether your foundation is a powder or liquid; the brush gives an even application and will help to blend the color. Using your fingers spreads bacteria that can make your skin worse, and will not give as even of an application. Using a beauty blender sponge also helps to ensure that your foundation is even.
Dab extra foundation over your spots of concealer to help set it. This can help to match the color and add extra coverage should you desire it.
Blend your foundation all the way to your neck in ensure complete coverage of your face.
 Now that you’ve evened the color of your skin tone, it will be left looking single-faceted and color. Add blush to your cheeks to supply your face with a natural looking hue.


Apply blush with a round brush starting at the apples of your cheeks moving upwards towards your temples at a 45 degree angle for a more modern blush look.
You can use either a powder or cream blush, but find one that matches your skin texture and needs the best.
Blushes are available in hues of pink, peach, and violet. For very fair skin, go with a pink shade. Medium and beige skin tones benefit from a peachy hue. For dark rich skin coloring, use a plum or violet blush.
 Use a bronzer in the hollows under your cheekbones and a highlighter above to mimic the natural shadows that occur with the light.


Sweep the bronzer on starting near your hairline towards your nose, avoiding a heavy application. Be sure to blend well.
Use a highlighter to add light to the parts of your face that are kissed by the sun. This is typically a light, slightly metallic cream or powder that can be applied with a brush or rolled on. Put the highlighter on your face under your eyebrows, at the corner of your inner eye, and in a “C” shape from the bottom of your cheekbones to the base of your forehead. You can also add some highlighter along the cupid’s bow on your upper lip and going down the bridge of your nose.
 Although setting your makeup is optional, setting powders can help your makeup to last longer and keep their natural and even coloring.