 To make sure you spend your special day doing all the fun stuff you like to do, make a list. Just once, forget about chores or obligations for the day. Write down all the activities that brighten your mood. You may even add some interesting activities you have wanted to try.


Plan your special day on a national holiday, on a weekend, or you can use a vacation day to spoil yourself.;
, If you typically have to rise early, treat yourself by having a lie-in. Set your alarm for a little later than usual. Don’t stress about it—it’s your day, remember? Once you wake, don’t feel rushed to take on the day. You can bring a book or magazine back to bed, cuddle with your partner or pet, or simply just enjoy the comfort of the sheets., Think about the yummy foods you have been craving. Choose one or two delicious meals to cook for yourself or order out. Only cook if you actually like cooking. Otherwise, that falls under the chore category, and you’re skipping those for the day.In addition to your basic breakfast, lunch, and dinner, choose tasty snacks or desserts that you like.
Try to keep it balanced. You’ll be low on energy and unable to enjoy your day, if you only eat fried or sugary processed foods.
 Take your list of activities and start moving down the list. You can do these activities on your own, or you can ask a buddy to join you. Keep in mind that others may try to influence your plans, so if you really want to spoil yourself, go solo. This day is supposed to be about you.


You might see a movie at a local theatre, go for a swim, feed the ducks at the pond, ride your bike, or binge-watch your favorite TV show.
 After a long, satisfying day doing all your favorite activities, you should probably turn in early. That way, you’ll wake energized and ready to take on your usual responsibilities. Plus, getting seven to nine hours of sleep will ensure that you have a positive mood.Close the drapes, dim the lights, and lower the temperature so that you can sleep more comfortably.

