 It will help if the fabric has a bit of stiffness to it. This sample started out as corduroy and some reclaimed denim from an old pair of jeans. If your leftover fabric isn't stiff enough or if you think it should be stiffer, iron it to some interfacing before you sew.
 A round object, such as a pot lid, bowl, or CD, will help. Here, the red corduroy will become the top of the puppet's head and the black denim will be the inside of the mouth.

Make these circles decently large, about 6 inches (15cm) in diameter. You can size the other piece to them, so don't worry about the exact diameter.
Sew a zig-zag stitch around the edges of the rounds if necessary to keep them from fraying.
, Sew only halfway around, leaving the other half open., Reliefs help keep the fabric along a curved seam from bunching and puckering when it's turned right side out., Make the length of this rectangle the same as the circumference of the circle, plus a little extra for seam allowance. Make it as long as you want the neck of the puppet, plus a bit for a lower hem and upper seam allowance.,, Then, fold over twice and hem the end that will be the bottom of the puppet., You'll have to think inside out a little.

Pin right sides together but wrong sides out.
Start at the back of the head, and place the seam from the tube so it will end up at the back of the head.




 Another view of the pinned puppet.

Pin all the way around. You should end up with the top of the tube pinned halfway around to the loose part of the back of the head (here, red corduroy) and the other half pinned to the loose part of the bottom of the mouth (here, black denim). It should look like the finished puppet, only inside out.
 Half of this seam will go into the head fabric; the other half will go into the mouth fabric. This is the last major seam for this puppet.

Remove the pins and turn the puppet right side out at this point, to make sure you're on the right track.
,,, You can glue or sew on eyes, hair, ears, a tongue, horns, or just about anything else. See the sock puppet article for lots of ideas. This puppet has yarn hair and a larger variation on these yarn eyeballs that started with short chunks of PVC pipe.