 Many new trumpet players confuse blowing harder with blowing air faster. Blowing harder puts more air into the instrument and creates a louder sound. Faster air produces higher notes. One way to tell the difference is to whistle. Changing from a lower note to a higher note when whistling, you adjust the shape of the inside of your mouth and position of the tongue to direct the air more quickly. Mimicking this mouth and tongue position while playing trumpet will allow you to hit higher notes.Another method of practicing to hit high notes is to make an “ee” sound and feel the shape and position of the tongue in the mouth. This is also a position that will allow you to reach higher notes.;
, In addition to controlling air in the mouth, you also need to learn how to control your airflow from the lungs. For this, you’ll use the diaphragm, a flat muscle below your lungs. When you inhale, the diaphragm contracts to make room for the lungs. When you exhale, the diaphragm expands pushing the air out. Learning to control the movement of your diaphragm will make controlling the amount and speed of airflow much easier.Practice inhaling and exhaling slowly. Count to ten as you breathe in and feel your lungs fully expand and the diaphragm contract. Then, exhale for the same amount of time, paying special attention to the tightening of the diaphragm.
Without worrying about the quality of sound, inhale slowly and play a long note as you exhale. Inhale again, and this time, change the speed and quantity of air flow and note how it changes the pitch or quality of sound., The final step in controlling airflow is to make sure you are supporting the air. Players who are not effectively supporting airflow will play notes that waver or have poor tonal quality. You can practice air support by holding a piece of paper in front of your face. Then, you will blow on the paper. With proper air support, the paper should move outward at a consistent angle. Without air support, the paper, like the trumpet’s tone, will waver.