 Strive to maintain a lightheartedness about what you're doing. If you can't stand the people you work with, then laugh about how reliably silly and petty people can be. Imagine that you're living in a sitcom. Turn monotonous tasks into games.Be playful and try to have fun.



Play pranks on your coworkers. Have fun, but make sure not to do anything that will get you fired! Unless, of course, you want to get fired.
Organize events with your coworkers. Invite them out for drinks after work, or plan a party in the office. Start a book club or a fantasy sports team.;
, Let go of your frustration by changing your perspective. View your job as a temporary situation, not something with which you'll be "stuck" for the rest of your life. Look at the big picture. Remember that change is the only constant in life. All things go, and so too will this job that you hate.Ask yourself whether you will still be working this job in a year. If so: why? Try to find a way out.
 Think about your friends, your family, and your community. Bring your attention to your hobbies and passions. Notice the beautiful place where you live, and be thankful that you are alive., One way to avoid getting lost in your frustration is to get so lost in the moment—the minute details of what you're doing, and how you feel when you're doing it—that you forget about all of those negative thoughts. Optimism asks you to look at the big picture, but living in the moment involves looking at the tiniest picture possible. See if there is a way for you to cope with this job by accepting your place in the present.Do not dwell on the past. Whenever negative past events pop into your mind, bring your attention back to the task at hand. Similarly, don't imagine about the future. Oftentimes we imagine future events that never happen, so we worry for nothing.
Living in the moment is not always easy to do. Meditation or mindfulness meditation can help.
 Perhaps you hate your job even more because you feel that you need it to survive. Don't be a slave to the job! Your livelihood is, of course, essential to keeping yourself afloat and maintaining your lifestyle – but living in fear is no way to live. Consider which you value more: freedom or stability. Happiness or safety?

, Prayer can help you get through the toughest of times. It can help to ease the mind of all tension, and it may lighten your heart. Change your attitude to, "Yes, there is going to be a happy ending." Keep an eye out for the wonderful opportunities that you encounter on the way!