 Sometimes making your room better looking can be as simple as getting rid of that old desk chair or those horrible curtains.;
, Figure out what furniture you like and what furniture you despise. Furniture is very expensive so only get rid of something if you can't stand living with it anymore.
 Paint makes a huge difference. Try three toning your room by painting two walls a lighter color, two walls a darker color, then leaving your ceiling white. Paint is not too pricey, even if you do get a good kind.
 Open the windows if you can and take some breaks every so often to clear your head. Painting can take up to two days sometimes, and really is a lot of work.
 Vacuum the whole room. Then really scrub at any stains with you choice of general purpose cleaner. Move your furniture back, and then finish up by vacuuming again. Make sure you get all of the cracks too.
 Why move it to the same place? Try mixing it up a little. If you don't like it you can always move it back.
 Get all the streaks of your mirrors and windows. Dust anything that needs dusting.
 You might go to Target, they have good deals, also, Goodwill and Salvation army have many cool things for a lot less money. Who knows you might find everything you need there.
 Make sure that along with the comforter you get some matching sheets (they will come with a pillowcase also), a bed skirt, some matching throw pillows, a matching throw blanket, and some matching pillow cases. When people first walk into a room one of the things they immediately notice is the bed. You want yours to be great looking! You don't have to limit yourself to just one collection either. If there's a throw pillow that goes with another set, but looks just as good with the one you picked out get it! Keep your bed made and stuffed animals off. Your pillows will look much nicer and more mature.
 Get a cheap plain curtain pole. Nobody will notice that. Then, get some nice long curtains that just reach your floor. Make sure the match with your other stuff.
 There you can find the trash cans, hampers, desk accessories, organizers ext. (There may be other places in the store with these items too, just ask an employee.) Pick out a set that goes well with your room.
,, There you can get some plants for your room. Plants really can liven up any room. They are always a great addition to any space! Just make sure you take care of them as directed. Also, if you want to you can get some pretty knobs for your furniture that you have.
, Organize everything and find places for all the stuff you bought. Don't leave it laying around.

