 This might not keep an alligator out, but it will slow them down and keep kids and pets in. If you live in an area that alligators commonly inhabit, especially if there’s a water source on your property, fencing is a great way to keep your home safe from alligators. Additionally, fences tend to deter other alligator food sources like deer and wild hogs that may live in the area, making your property much less appealing to alligators., If you share outdoor space with alligators, it’s important to keep track of where they are most often spotted. You can use a city or county map to mark places where you frequently see them, or ask your local Department of Natural Resources or Wildlife Department for information about the local areas where alligators are nesting or hunting.


You will mostly find alligators in fresh inland waters, but a small percentage can be found in salt water, too.
Alligators prefer murky water, water with growing vegetation, and marshy areas., If you have a neighborhood watch or homeowner’s association, contact whoever runs the organization to alert those who live in the area. If you spotted the alligator in a park, notify whatever community or governmental agency maintains the grounds. If you’re unsure who to contact, call the police or animal services department., If you can't resist swimming in local canals or ponds where alligators are frequently found, do not enter the water or be anywhere near it between dusk and dawn, and never swim in undesignated areas. Also, avoid swimming in obstructed water, dark or brackish water, or water with growing vegetation, as you are less likely to spot alligators in these areas. Additionally, it’s a good idea to swim in pairs, and have one person looking out for alligator activity at all times., If you see signs that say there are alligators in a certain lake, river, or pond be very careful when walking there. While most alligator filled lakes are fenced, not all of them are. Take special care to keep children and dogs at a very safe distance as they are the perfect meal-sized portion for a hungry alligator. Always stay at least ten feet from the water. Preferably, run only on designated paths. Never run at nighttime near bodies of water that may be inhabited by alligators.