 This will be the basic shape for Aang's head. The circle doesn’t have to be perfect. It’s just a guide.
 Notice that there is a bit of a point to the line near the bottom for the chin. It also bends a bit at the sides for the jaw.

, Bend the lines so that they contour to the shape. Draw a smaller horizontal line halfway between the bottom part of the circle and the bottom of the chin. These will be construction lines that will help you when learning how to draw Aang's facial features later on.
 As guides for Aang's eyes, draw two circles sitting on top of the horizontal construction line and on either side of the vertical construction line.
 The top part of these lines should be near the ends of the horizontal construction line, and they should be similar to the letter C.
 When learning how to draw Avatar Aang, the last airbender from this point on, press harder with your pencil in order to get darker lines and a more defined sketch.
 Inside each eye, draw a circle for this Avatar character's irises. Inside each iris, draw a smaller circle and shade it in for the pupils. Draw another small circle inside each iris on the sides to represent glare.
, Place it under the horizontal construction line and above the bottom part of the main circle. Two small curved lines make up the nostrils, and two different-sized lines make up the sides of this Avatar character's nose.
 The top of this Avatar character's mouth is a horizontal line, and the bottom part is a curved line. Draw Aang's teeth inside by adding two small lines on the sides inside the shape of the mouth. Draw a small line on the outside at the bottom for the lower lip of Avatar Aang, the last airbender.
 Darken the lines and make them wider at the top than the bottom. Draw a few curved lines within the shape to create the inner ear structure.
 Simply follow the path of the guides and darken the line all the way around.
 The point of the arrow is between his eyebrows on top of the vertical construction line. Then it moves up and creates a sort of V shape. After that it moves toward the back of Aang's head.
 The shape is similar to and oval but with a V-like line at the bottom for the collar's opening.
 Draw the sides of the collar using a couple of vertical lines and the bottom of the collar using a curved horizontal line.
 You now have a nice sketch of Aang from Avatar: The Last Airbender. You can stop at this quick drawing for a rough, sketchy look or go for a more finished look by continuing to the step below.
 For a more finished, inked look, carefully draw over the final sketch lines with a pen or marker. Wait for the ink to dry, and then get rid of every pencil mark with an eraser. You now have a finished inked drawing of Aang from Avatar: The Last Airbender! You can stop here or go to the final step to complete your Aang drawing.
 For a completely finished Aang drawing, you have to color it. You can use markers, color pencils or even crayons! Color the arrow on his head light blue. Aang's skin is peach, but if you don’t have peach, improvise and use yellow-orange or light brown. Experiment! His eyes are brown and his collar is yellow. That’s it! You have now learned how to draw Avatar Aang, the last Airbender.

