 It is important to decide when you should take a stand and when you should let something go. This can be difficult, but taking a moment to consider how important the issue is may help you to decide when to take a stand or not.


The idea here is to keep perspective. Since this is a co-worker and not a boss, agreeing with them doesn't necessarily mean that you actually have to follow their suggestions. Although it might seem overly passive, just saying "yes" and moving on with your life can diminish conflict between you and your colleague and diminish stress on your part.Remember that agreeing with the person doesn't give them power over you. In fact, it does the opposite, because it frees you from focusing on the person’s demands.
 Sometimes a perfectionist may hide their insecurities by using criticism.This can be upsetting, but it might help to remind yourself that this is a defense mechanism. The person may just be lashing out at you because he or she feels insecure about something.


By asking your colleague about how they would prefer something to be done, you can disarm those insecurities. Try signaling to them that you are a person who cares about their feelings.When they understand that you value their feelings, it makes them feel more secure, which makes them less likely to criticize you in the future.
For example, you might say something like, “It seems like you are upset about the outcome of this project. Do you want to talk about it?”

, If the issue is important to you, then you are right to stick to your guns. It is unlikely that your supervisors and co-workers are unaware of your colleague's perfectionist tendencies. If something is important to you and you disagree, you have a right to say so.


Disagreeing doesn't mean arguing. State your disagreement and move on.The disagreement doesn't have to define the relationship if you don't let it. Try saying something like, "I respect what you’re saying, I think we are just coming at it from different perspectives."
If they seem intent on having an argument with you, then walk away. It's unlikely your colleagues and supervisors are unaware of your co-worker's ways. Therefore, it's unlikely you will get blamed for not wanting to get drawn into an argument with them.
 This simplest way to avoid conflict is sometimes to avoid the person you conflict with. When you do have to work together, remind them that everybody has their own job, and that you have to do yours to the boss' satisfaction, and not theirs.


You can always disengage. If your odious co-worker is going on about an inconsequential detail, just remain noncommittal.
Start off with "ok," "I see," or the old standby, "huh."
Then make your escape--"I didn't know you felt that way. So interesting. One of these days, we're going to have to do lunch and you can tell me all about it. Gotta go."

