 Those who don’t have ADHD don’t really understand the challenges of those who do. One adult with ADHD described it as being “like trying to build a house of cards in a dust storm.” Give your boyfriend the chance to tell you what it feels like for him to have ADHD. When you understand how he feels, you will have a better chance of supporting him in a positive way. Others have described ADHD like this: “Like I need an ‘off’ button for my brain.”
“Imagine that you crawled on your knees your whole life, but everybody around you walked on two legs. You recognize that you are different, and you know you should be walking like everyone else, but you just can't keep your balance on two legs the way you can when you crawl.”
“It feels like there is always noise in my head--a constant buzzing that I can't make sense of.”
“Everyone thinks I do dumb things on purpose …. Sometimes I just feel stupid.”

, Your boyfriend is a special part of your life and deserves to be treated as that special person. His ADHD symptoms may be frustrating sometimes, but you shouldn’t define him or your relationship by those symptoms. As your boyfriend is increasingly able to manage his symptoms, his ADHD’s impact on both of you will ease up. Remember the things that attracted you to him in the first place.
 A crowded venue with music and many conversations happening simultaneously, a potpourri of aromas ranging from air fresheners, flowers, and food to perfumes and colognes, and perhaps a variety of lighting effects such as television screens or computer displays can be overwhelming to an individual with ADHD. One possible solution to handle situations like this is for you to act as an anchor during this type of event. Because you can read your boyfriend’s moods, you can recognize when he needs to step outside for a moment of relative quiet and re-grounding.
 Adults with ADHD generally benefit from psychotherapy.This treatment helps individuals accept who they are, while at the same time helps them seek improvements to their situation.


Cognitive behavioral therapy directly geared toward treating ADHD has been useful for many patients. This type of therapy addresses some of the core problems caused by ADHD, such as time management and organizational issues.