 Although the method is very similar to making a bracelet with a loom, making a bracelet without a loom requires less materials.10-20 rubber bands, in any color or colors you like.
Two fingers. These will act in place of a loom.
A plastic "S" or "C" shaped clip. You'll need this clip to close your finished bracelet.
 Crafts stores, such as Michael’s, larger department stores, like Target, and online merchants, including Amazon, sell both fishtail braid kits and individual fishtail making accessories.

If you don't have an "S" or "C" clip, you may be able to find a suitable substitute around your home, like a key ring or a plastic clasp.
 Make a neat pile of the color or colors you want to use for your bracelet. Having them ready for weaving will make the process go faster.
 With your palm facing your body, place one end of the band around your pointer finger. Twist the band into a figure eight, called by some an "infinity shape," and loop the other end of the band over your middle finger.
 Do not twist these bands into a figure eight. Slide them over your pointer and middle fingers, leaving at least a small space between each band.
 Grab the edge of the bottom figure eight band using your fingers or a pick tool if convenient. Loop the hook around the edge of the bottom band and pull it up and over your finger. Do this for both sides of your bottom band until it loops solely around the middle of your second and third bands.









If you like, at this point you might want to change the color of your next band, which will give your fishtail bracelet a rainbow effect.
 You may need to slide your second and third bands lower on your fingers to make room for your next band. Place the next band above the two bands without twisting it into a figure eight.
 Once you have the band in your grasp, pull it up and over your finger in the same way you did the first band you wove with your fingers. First pull one side off your finger and then the other.









The band should now be free of your fingers and looped around the middle of the bands still looped around your fingers.
 You’ll slowly see your fishtail bracelet take form. Keep going until you reach your desired length.









As you continue your pattern, you will see your fishtail bracelet grow out from between your two fingers.
You may need to push down or pull the fishtail to tighten the bands of your bracelet.
 Once you reach your desired length, slide the remaining bands on your fingers free. Your bracelet should have free loops to either side of the end that was connected to your fingers. This is where you will fasten your bracelet with a clip.
 You can use many different fasteners to connect the ends of your bracelet, but plastic "S" or "C" clips are ideal.









You might need to pull the bands of your bracelet tight to keep gaps from forming and to give your new fishtail bracelet a professionally made look.

