 Being aware of common symptoms will help you and your loved ones treat your condition and alleviate some of your difficulties. Some of the symptoms and conditions associated with psychotic depression are:Sleep disturbance.
Decreased appetite.
Suicidal ideation.
Agitation and anger.
Hallucination and/or delusions.
Irritability.
Deteriorating social and occupational life.;
, Medication is commonly necessary to treat a person with psychotic depression. A doctor may prescribe an antidepressant to treat symptoms generally associated with depression and an antipsychotic to treat the symptoms of psychosis.Antipsychotics may only be prescribed for a short time. Depression will likely be the main focus of treatment.Always comply with treatment guidelines and follow the directions of your psychiatrist, as well as your psychologist.
Make sure you do not stop taking your medication without consulting your doctor. Suddenly stopping medication may be dangerous and may result in relapse.
 Psychotic depression is one of few disorders that may be treated by ECT. The treatment involves passing electrical currents through the brain, triggering brief seizures that change brain chemistry.While current ECT practices are relatively safe, be sure to discuss possible side effects with your doctor.
 Talk therapies are often recommended in conjunction with medical treatments.Your doctor or therapist will be able to help you find the best treatment options for your needs.


Cognitive behavior therapy can help identify problematic thoughts and behaviors and replace them with functional ones.
Rational emotive behavior therapy can help identify the unnecessary demands from the self, the world and others, and contributes to change by challenge irrational ideas associated with depressive rumination.
 Regular routines will ensure treatment compliance and shift your focus to functional activities. Following regular routines can help you relieve depressive symptoms by adding structure to your days.Schedule your day, including grooming, eating and sleeping, in addition to typically scheduled items like work or appointments.
Include healthy activities, like exercise, and pleasurable activities, like hobbies.

