 Before you go to bed, spend time thinking about your crush. You can daydream about the kind of scenario you'd like to dream about, such as a romantic walk on the beach or a fun date with dinner and a movie. Just keep them firmly planted in you head, conjuring up the clearest mental picture you can imagine of them.This will help them be more present in your head and seem more realistic, which can influence the way they appear in your dream.;
, When you are getting ready for bed, say your crush's name out loud. Even make it into a statement, such as: "I will dream about ____." You can even be more specific, using phrases such as: "I want to dream about going on a date with ____." or "I will dream about walking on the beach with ____." The firmer you are with your intentions, the more likely you are to dream about your crush., Now that you've thought about them for a little while and laid out what you want to happen in the dream, you can solidify the entire routine by looking at a picture of your crush. This will give you an even more exact picture of them in your head as you fall asleep. It will also give you something to keep your mind focused on while you are falling asleep., With their picture fresh in your mind and dream intentions laid out, make sure you think about them while you are falling asleep. You want their face and their name to be the last thing you think about before you fall asleep. This concentrates them in your subconscious mind and will help encourage your dreaming mind to recall their face and the scenario you laid out before you fell asleep.


When you are first trying to control your dreams, you need to make sure that your crush is the main focus of your thoughts before bed. The daydreaming, the pictures, and the verbalized intentions lead up to your thoughts as you fall asleep. If you have already cleared your mind of any problems or issues you've dealt with throughout the day, then your mind will be more focused on your crush. This will fill your conscious and unconscious mind with him and help in your quest to dream of your crush., While the steps seem easy, the task of dream control isn't. You may not be able to get this right on the first or second try. It may take a while for you to be able to fully control what you dream about. Just keep following the steps before bed. It should eventually lead you to your ideal dream about your crush.If you see that you are having a hard time, try keeping a journal of the dreams you do have. By writing down what you are already dreaming, it may clear your subconscious mind of those dreams and help make room for the dream you are trying to have.