 Purge your house. Set aside a few days or a weekend to clean out and declutter your house. Identify items to throw away, donate and sell. Categorize the items you want to sell. Different categories of items do better on different sites.You can also go out and buy items for selling online at a mark-up.

Books, CD’s and DVD’s sell well on Amazon.
Collectibles, high-end clothing and small electronics sell well on eBay.
Craigslist is best for generic items such as tools or toys.
 Create accounts on Amazon, eBay and Craigslist. These platforms make it simple for sellers to set up accounts. You generally need to provide some personal information such as your name and address, and you may need to provide financial information for processing payments.Amazon sellers connect their checking accounts, and proceeds from sales are directly deposited into their checking accounts.
eBay will either send your payments directly to your checking account or will deposit them in your PayPal account.
 Each marketplace has guidelines that define what you can and cannot sell. State and federal laws also impact what items are prohibited. In general, you cannot sell alcohol, weapons, service contracts, animals or event tickets. Also, while not always prohibited, you may find restrictions on how you can sell items in some categories, such as art, gift cards and coupons.eBay, Craigslist and Amazon publish these guidelines on their websites., Look up completed sales or current listings of items similar to yours. Find the high- and low-end prices, and price your object around the median price level. If you want your item to sell quickly, price it at the low end. The condition of the item also affects the price. Items in poorer condition should be priced at the lower end. Also, consider how many listings there already are of items similar to yours. If many similar items will be competing with yours, you may have to set the price lower to get the sale., A lot is a collection of similar items that is sold in a group. For example, if you have a collection of books, magazines or similar pieces of jewelry, consider selling them all at once in a lot. You many not make as much money as you would have if you sold each item separately. However, the items will likely sell more quickly in a lot than they would individually., Including more details increases the likelihood of making a sale. Since the buyer can’t see the object in person before purchasing, give them as much information as possible so they feel like they know what they’re buying, If an item is used, be truthful and upfront about its condition.Proofread your description before publishing it.
Write a descriptive title that provides information about the product, such as size, color or design.
 Use several images that show the item from different angles. Remove all clutter from the background because it detract attention from the item you’re selling. Use natural lighting instead of a flash. Take close ups so people can see all the details of the item., Answer any questions buyers post as quickly as possible. Be professional and courteous. Positive communication builds your reputation with buyers and gets you return business. Also, package your product well and ship it out quickly. Allowing an item to become damaged or taking too long to ship can negatively affect your reputation among buyers. Wrap all items, especially fragile ones, in appropriate packaging. Commit to shipping items as soon as you receive payment.