 Many procrastinators delay working on things because they're afraid of failure -- e.g., thinking that if you never start that paper, at least you won't turn in a bad one.Often, this fear is related to your self-esteem. You may feel that if you turn in a less-than-perfect project, it will reflect badly on you and damage your self-worth.Try to reframe "failure" as "opportunity for growth." Even the most brilliant minds have made many mistakes. Error is part of life. However, when you make mistakes, you can learn from them. People who are able to see their mistakes as opportunities to learn and grow, rather than permanent failures, are less likely to procrastinate.Disentangle your self-worth from your grades. This one is really hard, but think of how you would speak to a friend who just got a poor grade on a project. Would you tell her she is worthless and should feel ashamed? Or would you reassure her that the grade doesn't reflect on her as a person? Try to show the same kindness to yourself., Perfectionism and procrastination are strongly linked.Many people mistakenly believe that perfectionism is beneficial, but real perfectionism can actually cause serious distress and self-worth issues.Try to hold yourself to reasonable standards, rather than overly idealistic or rigid ones.


Look for examples of "all-or-nothing thinking," a common cognitive distortion, or "thought trap," for perfectionists.For example, you might believe that you are a failure if you get anything less than an A on a paper. Instead, honor your effort -- remember, you can only control your own action, not its outcome. For example, you could tell yourself, "I did the best that I could on that paper, and I am proud of the hard work I put in."
Look for "should" statements, like "I should be able to do well in everything." These are usually signs of unreasonable standards. Try thinking about why you believe this, and try to replace "should" statements with realistic ones, such as "Nobody can be perfect in everything.", One thing many procrastinators have in common is low self-discipline.

Making yourself do unpleasant tasks is hard, but you can build your self-discipline in several ways.

Use "if-then" statements. This can help you recognize the consequences of your actions and set up plans ahead of time. Psychologists call this technique an "implementation intention."For example, you might say something like "If I am tempted to procrastinate on this project by playing video games, I will make myself work on the project for one hour first." Having this plan will help you exercise the willpower necessary to stay on track.
Flex your self-control muscles. Researchers suggest that the more often you practice self-control, the stronger your willpower muscles get.Get regular exercise, practice healthy eating habits, and try to develop a good sleep schedule. Not only will you feel healthier, these habits will carry over into your other aspects of life too.
 Procrastination can cause intense feelings of shame, guilt, or anxiety about your habits.These feelings can sap your energy because you end up wasting a lot of time feeling guilty over your procrastination that you could have used on the actual task. You might also end up feeling like starting later than you planned to is pointless, leading to further delay. If you notice that you have put something off, don't beat yourself up for it. Say something like, "I slipped up there, but it's not the end of the world. I can start that project right now." And then get to work!

