 You should also wash your hands after each stage.;
, This allows you to reach all parts of the wheels more easily. Also take off the center caps, wheel weights, valve stem covers, stickers, or anything else that might obstruct you when preparing and polishing your aluminum wheels.



Rinse thoroughly with water to be sure all the soap and grime is gone. If you don't get it all off, you could rub grime into the aluminum surface during subsequent step.
 Let the oven cleaner penetrate for approximately 20 minutes. If you have a clear coat, skip this step. The oven cleaner can damage the clear coat.


Scrub the wheels with a dish scrubber that can be used on Teflon.
Rinse the rims thoroughly with water. If necessary, you might need to clean the wheels again with the oven cleaner.
 Curb rash is a scrape on a wheel caused by rubbing against the curb during parking. Eliminate it by carefully filing with a flat file.
 and a 600 – 400 grit wet and dry paper, or a foam painter's pad. If there is any pitting in your wheels, you will need to us the abrasive pad to sand it smooth. If you use a grit lower than 180, you risk damaging the wheel. Test an inconspicuous spot first to make sure you can remove the pitting without leaving marks on the wheels.


If your wheels have a clear coat, do not use anything abrasive to clean them.
Start with a 600 grit paper and if you need something a little rougher to buff out deeper scratches, move up to the 400 grit, and so on. You must be very careful not to scratch or unbalance the wheel.
All your strokes with the paper should be even and in the same direction.
If you use the 400 grit paper, you'll need to follow it with the finer 600 grit to get out all the scratches.
, This will help restore the aluminum and remove oxidation. Wipe the wheels with a cloth.



Rub the polish into the rims. Use smooth strokes going in the same direction when shining aluminum wheels.
Use a toothbrush to polish hard-to-reach spots on your wheels. Place a soft cloth around the toothbrush so the bristles don't mar the finish.
Concentrate on polishing small areas of the wheel at one time before moving on. This gives the most uniform results without leaving portions of the rim looking cloudy.
, The more you rub, the shinier the wheels will become.
