 Fly fishing rods are as good as you pay for so it’s important to know how often you will be using your rod and what skill level you are at before purchasing a fly fishing rod. While high-performance rods can help you, it may be helpful to wait until your casting skills have improved in order to reap the full benefits of an expensive rod.
 Beginners can choose inexpensive rods made of graphite, fiberglass, or bamboo. Price will reflect better materials and high-performance rods are better suited for experienced fisherman or people who plan to fly fish often.High quality rods can make casting easier which is imperative when fly fishing.
Fly rods may come in 2, 3, or 4 pieces. Most beginners use a 2 piece while more seasoned fisherman use a 4 piece as it can be broken down and easily carried on airplanes.
 Cast the line to mimic the movement of live prey. The presentation of your lure will depend on the type of fish with the rod and line working seamlessly to create specific movements.Movements can range from mimicking insects to frogs.
 Use 6 - 8 foot fly rods for fishing in smaller streams with a lot of brush. Move up to 9 foot rods when fishing in big rivers. The longer the rod, the more control you have over your line., The larger the fly, the heavier it is and the heavier the line you will need in order to deliver it. A larger rod ensures a smooth cast with heavier lures.Beginners should use 1 - 8 weight for trout, 6-10 weight for bass, and 5 weight for panfish.
 Fly rods are designed to only cast a certain weight of line. For example, only use a 6-weight line with a 6-weight rod. Check the rod information that’s printed above the cork grip to choose the corresponding weighted line.Different manufacturers will place the weight information on different locations on the rod and may have unique codes. Make sure to consult the manufacturer if you cannot find the pertinent information.
 The bait you choose will depend on the location and type of fish. Find the closest fly shop to the location that you will be fishing at and ask the sales staff what they would recommend.

