 This may be easy to determine if a big deadline is looming or a big event is coming up. Put the bulk of your energy towards completing the vital task, before moving on to less important items.Work on your biggest project at the time of day when you have the most energy. For some, this may be first thing in the morning. Others are night owls. Find what works for you and don't waste that valuable energy.
 Don't feel guilt tripped  into doing something you don't want to do. Job expectations aside, you shouldn't feel like you always have to agree to doing things. While simple requests might not seem like a big deal, they can pile up, leaving you overwhelmed and struggling to accomplish your actual goals. Learn to say no, without feeling guilty.


Don't feel like you have to explain yourself or give an excuse. Simply say that you can't do it, because it doesn't work out for you.
 While multitasking sounds like a great way to manage time, it's actually difficult to successfully pull off. Stick to multitasking when it comes to thoughtless jobs (laundry, dishes, making meals, etc).Don't try to write a memo while reading an article and talking on the phone. In other words, allow your mind to focus on one task at a time, preferably at a time of day when you work the best.For example, don't wait to do your homework at 2 am, when you're normally sleeping. If you realize your best window of working time is from 4 to 5 in the afternoon, plan to do it then.
 Don't let meetings, appointments, or deadlines surprise you. If you're prepared and have planned them into your day, they'll be more beneficial than if you were unprepared.When planning for a specific event, try to estimate how long it should take. If you find yourself going over time, try to wrap up the event or ask for another appointment.
 You may find that you have too many goals or tasks to accomplish. Try delegating responsibilities to co-workers or your family. This will free up valuable time for you to work on other projects or give you extra free time.Getting help will also provide you with people that check in on you. This can help you stay focused on the work you're doing while they're accomplishing their assigned tasks. Thank them and tell them how much you were able to get done with their help., This is increasingly hard to do. If you find yourself having trouble completing tasks, try turning off your cell phone, signing out of all social media sites, turning off the television, and go someplace quiet. You'll find that being able to focus on one task may increase your efficiency.Clear a visual space for work. This may be your desk, your office, or a room in your house. Having a clutter-free space will keep you from being distracted.
 If you've accomplished several goals or become more focused on your tasks, give yourself a small reward. This could be something as simple as a small personal break in the day, time out with friends, or allowing yourself extra sleep in the morning.

