

Autumn is the time nature sows its seeds. An advantage to fall sowing is the chance for early bloom. However, early blooming also adds the risk of encountering a late spring freeze. Wait until after a killing frost to sow seeds in the fall so they will not sprout until spring.



 


You can plant wildflowers in summer if you live in a mild climate and there is sufficient rainfall. Otherwise, summer heat and lack of rain (if you live in drought-prone areas) will not allow the seeds to sprout.






Some horticulturists and gardeners consider spring the best time to sow wildflower seed. Wait until the possibility of frost is over before sowing the seeds. Sow your seeds as soon as you finish preparing the soil to give the wildflowers an advantage over weeds.





;
,

You can use any soil to plant wildflowers unless the soil is sterile. If grass and weeds are growing there now, wildflowers will also flourish.






Clear the ground as much as possible. Smother the other plants with wet newspaper, which can be plowed right into the soil. Dig out small areas by hand or use a rototiller for large areas. Till only deep enough to remove old roots. Deep tilling is not advised.






Grass and weeds will compete with wildflowers, yet you want more flowers than grass or weeds. You could leave a little grass in the area to add to the natural prairie or wild meadow look.



Most wildflowers are annuals. They bloom quickly and heavily, drop their seeds, and die when the weather either gets too cold or dry to live, based on your locale. Many are "self-sowing" and more plants will grow the next year because of the seeds that were dropped as the plants die. Poppies, cornflowers and cosmos are examples of wildflower annuals.
Perennials establish a root system and come back each year. Perennials can last decades and spread more each year. Many are slower to sprout and bloom than are annuals. Purple coneflowers, daisies and coreopsis are examples of perennial wildflowers.
Biennials will sprout one season but not bloom until the next year. They are then killed by frost but since they self-seed, more plants will sprout in the spring. Black-eyed Susans and sweet Williams are examples of biennials.
 Natural features such as boulders or a nearby woodland can enhance the look of your wildflower meadow or garden.
, Wildflowers grow naturally without much pampering. If you do fertilize, use one with low nitrogen.
,

Divide your seed in half.






Mix one half of the seed with about 10 parts of light sand or vermiculite to 1 part seed.






Choose a windless day to sow your wildflower seed. Otherwise, it could be difficult to control where your wildflower seeds settle.






Sow the seed over your prepared site. The light color of the sand or vermiculite will show you where the seed has fallen. Repeat the process with the second half filling in missed spots.






Press the seed into the soil by walking over it, placing an old piece of plywood down and jumping on it, or by using a lawn roller. The seed must be pressed into the soil so that it won't easily blow away. Do not cover your seed with more soil as that may prevent wildflower seed from easily sprouting.
 Wetting the seed also keeps it from blowing away. Wildflowers grow naturally without a lot of care, but you need to water them periodically when conditions are especially dry.
 Mowing removes dead flower heads and helps spread seed. See where plants have sprouted in the spring and fill in bare places with new seed.

