 If you need to see an asthma specialist you should ask your primary care physician for a referral. They should understand the severity of your condition, and thus what kind of doctor you need to see, and what doctors in your area are good at treating asthma.


If you live in an area that has few doctors, your primary care physician may suggest that you travel to see a doctor elsewhere that will be able to treat your condition. However, keep in mind that an internist is also qualified to treat asthma, and it might be easier to find an internist in your area than other types of specialists.Discuss the referral with your primary care physician to make sure that they understand any restrictions you have about traveling or location and what you want out of a specialist.
Getting a referral from your primary care physician may be especially important in terms of getting your treatment and visit covered by your insurance company. Many medical insurance companies require that patients go through their primary care physician first and get a referral for any specialized treatment., Do some research about a specialist you are considering getting treated by. Make sure that they have proper specialized training and experience with treating asthma. You want a specialist that is committed to treating your specific ailment.The easiest way to do research on a doctor is by doing a search for their name on the internet. In most cases, they will have a website that will list their qualifications and educational background. However, keep in mind that this information is self-reported. You can also call 1-866-ASK-ABMS to verify a physician’s Board Certification status. Or, you can check The Federation of State Medical Boards (FSMB), for additional history and other information such as disciplinary issues and practice locations.In some cases you will be able to find information about doctors on the websites of your local medical societies.
 When you go to your first appointment you should ask the doctor a variety of questions about your condition and their experience in treating that condition. When asking questions you can get specific answers, as well as a general sense of the doctor's personality and bedside manner.Some things to ask the specialist include questions about billing and insurance coverage, where they have hospital privileges, and if they have any experience with alternative therapies in addition to western medicine.
When meeting the doctor you can ask them any questions about their qualifications that you were unable to find on the internet, such as whether they are board certified in their specialty.
 If you go to a specialist and you do not see any improvement in your condition after treatment, let your doctor know. It is important to tell them what seems to be helping and what is not helping so that they can adjust your treatment as needed. Try to be patient since it may take a while to find what works best for you.


Work with your doctor by tracking your symptoms and reporting on any side effects or changes for the better or worse.

