 Having an idea of who you will be decorating for can help you decide what sots of themes and colors to use. For example, if you are decorating a classroom for young children, you may want to use larger, more colorful decorations. If you are decorating a classroom for older children (such as teenagers) you might want to tone down the pink and frills, and keep the decorations more subtle.;
, Some decorations work better in some places than others do. For example, you can get away with using larger, brighter decorations in a classroom, but you might want to use smaller, less distracting decorations for your desk or cubicle.


Make use of the bulletin board in classrooms. Use white or pink for the background, and red for the boarder. Decorate the board with the students' Valentine's day crafts.
If you are in a cubicle, pin a heart or cupid cut-out to the wall. You can also place a glass bowl with candy hearts on your desk.
If you work at a desk, try getting a Valentine's day themed figurine, such as a tinsel heart, and placing it on top of a lace doily. You can also place a jar filled with candy hearts on your desk.
Decorate the windows with garlands and paper cut-outs if you own a shop. These will bring the holiday into your shop without getting in your customers' way.
Go full out if you are decorating your home, but be mindful of people's private space. Consider decorating family areas, such as the kitchen, living room, and dining room.
 Valentine's Day decorations come in all shapes and sizes. Some look rustic, while others look fancy. Whatever theme you choose, keep it consistent. A rustic, burlap table runner won't look good under an elegant vase filled with a dozen red roses. Here are some common Valentine's Day themes to get you started:


Old-fashioned themes will be Victorian-inspired. They will often use gold, ivory, and other soft, faded colors. They will be detailed, with lots of lace.
Rustic themes are popular and make use of burlap, rope, and galvanized steal.
Traditional themes use a lot of red, white and pink. While hearts are the main focus, you can also expect a cupid here and there.
Sweet themes are true to their name, and use lots of pastels, candy hearts or heart-shaped chocolates in their design.
 These are the three most commonly used colors for Valentine's day, but this doesn't mean that you have to use them. There are other colors that, when used with a heart shape, can also work.


Use the candy conversation hearts as inspiration. They come in pink, pale yellow, light green, and pastel purple. These are great for kids.
Red and gold or red and black are romantic, and great for fancy dinners.
Pink and silver are more delicate, and great for anyone.

