 If you tend to be a homebody, it can be tempting to say "no" to social events. Nonetheless, if you're trying to make new friends, show up to events you're invited to. In addition, show up to more personal appointments, too. That is, if a friend invites you for coffee or to the movies, agree to go. In return, ask people you know to go have coffee with you.In addition, if coworkers reach out to you to start friendships, encourage the interaction.
 If you're going to make someone your best friend, you can't leave your friendship on superficial topics such as the weather. Try to make the relationship go deeper by encouraging more substantial conversation. Ask about her hopes and dreams. Talk about what keeps you up at night. Ask her what she worries about. Question her about what she likes and why she likes those things, such as her favorite movies, books, and quotes. Pushing the conversation further helps you get to know each other.You're asking the other person to be vulnerable, so you must learn to be vulnerable in turn. Try to share personal stuff about yourself, as well.
 Show your new friends you appreciate them with your body language. That is, smile when they enter the room. When they are talking, be sure to give them your full attention, even with your body. Don't be looking at your phone or fidgeting with something to the side. Giving nonverbal clues help to establish that you want to be a good friend.For instance, make sure your body is pointing towards the person, and try not to cross your arms, as that can signal you don't want to talk to the person.
 Of course, you want a friend who will lend you an ear when you need it. However, that also means you need to be willing to do the same. Pay attention to what your friend is saying, and try to listen between the words to find out if she's really trying to signal something more.For example, if your friend says, "I've been pursuing my own interests lately." when you ask her how her and her spouse are doing, that may signal she's having a little bit of trouble with her marriage and may want to talk about it.
 Friendships, like romantic relationships, don't happen overnight. They need time to grow and build. Be patient with your new friends, and let the deeper relationship grow over time.For example, at work you may start talking to someone more often. However, it may be several weeks before you go out and have dinner together, just because of the nature of work friendships. Many do not move beyond the office.
 To show that you care for your friend, you have to show up when you say you will. That doesn't just mean you show up for the good times. You need to be there for the bad times, too., It's really the little things that make up a friendship. As you grow closer to people, performing small gestures can mean a lot, such as bringing the person a cup of coffee, dropping a note in the mail, or even bringing the person a meal when she's feeling down., That is, consider going out of town together for a bit. Spending all day, every day together for a few days is sure to bring you closer together, especially if you're holed up in the same hotel room with each other. Plan a fun little getaway together., Not all friendships can turn into best friendships. In fact, most won't.Many people only have three to five very close relationships, so if you've got that number of friends or relationships, you're doing just fine.In fact, you may find that the more you get to know a person, the more you dislike him or her. Just because you work with someone or live near someone doesn't mean you need to be friends with that person.