 Exchange those potato chips to some carrots and low fat ranch or some fresh fruits. Ask your parents to make some healthier dishes, such as grilled or baked chicken rather than fried. Don't eat junk food,fast food,or sweets more than twice a week.;
, Yes, 5. But instead of large meals, make them small. You could do something like this: eat a small bowl of low-sugar cereal with fresh fruit and skim milk in it in the morning, eat some cheese and crackers and a piece of fresh fruit at your snack/break time at school, eat a whole wheat or multi-grain sandwich with a little mayo or honey mustard, turkey, spinach, a slice of cheese, and some chopped onions on it, and pair it with some carrot sticks at lunch, eat celery and peanut butter with apple slices when you get home from school, and get a very small portion of the dinner your parents prepare for you in the evening. Eating in small portions 5 times a day will make it easier for your system to break down your food, and eating this often will hold you over until your next meal.
 Studies show that food eaten between 8 p.m. and 4 a.m. are stored as fat. If you must eat,eat something small and healthy, like a few apple slices.
 A good rule is to drink half your body weight in ounces. So a 80 pound girl should drink about 40 oz of water. Keep in mind though, that if you're eating a healthy diet with fruit and vegetables, you'll need a few ounces less. Water flushes out toxins, hydrates you, and many other wonderful things. But, before gulping down 20 glasses a day, I urge you to realize that there is such a thing as water poisoning, and way too much water can be harmful to your body.
 It is so important to exercise. Get an hour of moderate exercise each day at least 5 times per week. Moderate exercise is dancing, swimming, jogging, etc. Resistance training is good too, but should not be done more than twice a week. There is such a thing as too much exercise, so limit your exercise to 2-3 hours per session.
 Preteen girls need 8 1/2 to 10 hours of good, sound sleep. So if you have to get up for school at 7, I would suggest going to bed at 9:30. If you take around an hour to actually fall asleep, it may be hard, but you should be in bed by 8:30. Some girls might need a little more. Also, if you can fit an a power nap, which lasts about 20 to 30 minutes, into your afternoon, by all means do so. It is beneficial to your health to get plenty of sleep. Remember that if you take a nap at 3:00 or later, it will be hard for your body to fall asleep once it's your bedtime. So make a limit, say, that you won't sleep in the daytime past 3:30 or something.
 Screen time is time you spend in front of any type of screen, may it be the TV, the computer, a video game, an iPod, a cell phone, or any other device with a screen. It would be wonderful if you could avoid the TV and the computer all of the school week, but if you can't, try to avoid it as much as possible.
 Take showers every day. Brush twice a day, floss once a day and use mouthwash at least once a week. Be sure to use deodorant.
 Your mental heath is important also, so don't worry over small things. Make friends and be nice to people. Develop a good image of yourself.

