 Your thumb presses lightly on the back of the fretboard while your four fingers are free to press down on the strings. Your wrist shouldn't be kinked too far forward or backwards -- the back of your hand will be almost parallel to the floor.









While you should adjust for comfort, remember to keep your wrist from angling away from the strings.
 Remember, the 5th string is the second from the top. Your middle finger presses the string into the back of the 2nd fret, holding it only as hard as you need for a clean sound. You can check by picking the string -- do you hear any buzzing, or is it a clean, pleasant tone?








, Simply hold down the 4th string just like you did before, keeping your middle finger on the string above it. These two frets are all you need to hold for your first chord. This chord, with the two fingers on the 2nd fret, is an E-minor chord.
 Check for dead or buzzy strings, which usually happen when you accidentally drape some of your finger over a string without fretting it. To avoid this, think about curling your fingers so that only your fingertips are pressing into the frets. Also, pull your elbow closer into your body -- it makes it easier to position your hand.









The closer you are to the back of the frets the better your notes will sound.
The fingers you're fretting with should only be touching the strings they are supposed to be touching.
 This second chord, a D2 chord, matches perfectly with your Em to write your first song. To play it, ignore the top two strings, the 6th and 5th strings. Place your index finger on the 2nd fret of the 3rd string. Then place your ring finger on the 3rd fret of the 2nd string. This is it -- simply strum the bottom four strings, the thinner ones.
 Learning chords is not easy at first, and changing chords can be the hardest thing newbies have to do. To make life easier, make sure you have each chord memorized and down pat -- you should be able to quickly form them as soon as your hand touches the guitar.









Simply form the chord, strum, remove your hand, and repeat. Remember, however, that playing a chord quickly is useless if it sound buzzy or muted -- focus first on quality over quickness.
Think about how a chord feels, not just how it looks. Can your fingers find the chord without your eyes?

