 Any size of paper will be fine but it can't be too small. You will need something hard underneath the paper so you can draw easily. You will also need a pencil, maybe a rubber and some colouring pencils if needed.
 It doesn't have to be exact. If you are really having troubles drawing it, you can trace it off your screen.
 Don't make the \ and / too slanted but not too vertical either. After that join the ends of the lines with a curve as shown in the picture. The curved line adds the 3D effect.
 It should look similar to the one in the picture.
 The lines should be parallel to each other and to the line you drew in step 3. Check out the picture below.
 This is to mark the center for the next step. Draw a horizontal line on the vertical one about as far from the lightbulb as is on the picture. This is a marking to help with the next step.
 These lines should not be straight, rather a little bit curved towards the outside.
, Draw them near the edge of the light bulb. The second line (the inner line) should be shorter than the outer one. You can also add some shadow effects. Shade the inside of the light bulb right next to the edge. The closer it is to to the outside, the darker you should shade it. Only shade a little part though, not the whole light bulb, and only on one side, either left or right.
 You do not need to draw this if you don't want to because the light bulb looks good enough without it. However, if you do want to just follow this step. Draw a line that is relatively straight, but halfway up it bends to the outside. Draw two of these bending in different directions.
 This zigzag should not have very sharp edges. You can also draw little loops instead of the wiggly/zigzag line.
 If you do have shadows you can try this step to see how it looks but it might look very weird. To colour in your light bulb you will need yellow/orange and silver/blue. When colouring in the edge of the bight bulb, press a bit harder so it is a little darker while the very inside of the light bulb should be very lightly coloured. The silver/blue colour is for the bottom part of the light bulb. Don't colour it in too dark so that you can't see the curved lines you drew in step 5.
 It's great!,