 If one plans on visiting Qatar strictly for business purpose; the most favorable time for visit would be between the months of October to June. Usually the officers from private and public sectors go for vacation during the time frame between July and September. However one should avoid going to Qatar for business trips during the fasting month of Ramadan as this is the time when the businessmen of Qatar give more priority to family and worship.;
, The people of Qatar normally observe two main religious festivals that differs every year as per the lunar calendar; Eid Al- Fitr and Eid Al-Adha. During this time the government ministries are closed for a much more duration of time as compared to the private companies. In the State of Qatar, Government working hours are from Sunday to Thursday with timings from 7am to 2pm. While Private sector working hours are from 8am to 12:30pm and 4pm to 7:30pm.
 In Qatar, it is the public sector which tenders maximum number of project opportunities. Public Sector Tenders are managed by the Central Tenders Committee (CTC) of the Ministry of Economy. The CTC applies normal tendering procedures and abides by proven performance practices. It recognizes the standards for rules that govern the bidding process. The technical bids which have been presented to the CTC are suggested to suitable government end-user for short-listing. Then the Central Tenders Committee (CTC) releases the commercial bids and advises the lowest priced competent bidder to the individual concerned who will then make decision for the final award. Besides the CTC, few other governmental bodies who have internal tender committees are Qatar Armed Forces, New Doha International Airport, Qatar Petroleum, Ministry of Interior and Public Works Authority.
 While conducting a business transaction in Qatar, it is necessary to be familiar with the Qatari culture & lifestyle. Arranging a business meeting is not a simple process as businessmen have a hectic traveling lifestyle. The country in spite of having solid financial resources, has a scarcity of skilled labor. In Qatar, while doing a business transaction it would be more sensible to have all spoken agreement to be fortified by a written contract. When it comes to modes of payment, the local establishments always give more preference for doing business through a Letter of Credit. Only when there is a deep level of bonding and plenty of trust that cash is used in advance.

