 This doesn't mean to lie about your age to join Facebook or YouTube, but try to find fun sites without any age requirements. Sites like Twitter don't require users to be 13 or older, but they don't allow under 13s to provide them with personal info (like full name or phone number) without parental consent. So be sure to ask your parents first!


For sites that require 13 and over, ask your parents for permission. If they feel that you're old enough to handle the site, then you'll be able to use it.;
, While Snapchat may be restricted for 13s and over, their version Snapkids (which is accessed by signing up with an under 13 DoB) allows you to take pictures and edit them.
 If you like video games, try playing games that aren't restrictive on age. This can include sports games like FIFA or Madden. If sports aren't your kind of game, try The Sims or Forza/Driveclub.
 Lying about your age could cause your account on sites to be taken down, become bullied or be exposed to adult nature. Even if your friends are signing up for restricted websites, don't give in to peer pressure.
 This is important, no matter your age but especially so while you're young.


Never arrange to meet up with someone you don't already know.
Be sure to identify scammers.
Get a good antivirus and try to identify a virus before you install it.
Never give your password or any personal info over the internet to someone you don't know no matter what.
 See what's popular. When people are teens they tend to care more about what they wear. While adapting fashion may make you feel more like a teen, don't feel forced to be sensitive about what clothing you wear.


If you are taller, this step should be easier for you, as you may be able to fit into teen size clothing or even adult sizes.
If you are smaller, don't worry. Try to adapt clothing in the kid's section to suit your style.
 Find one that's more directed at teens than kids if you can.This can include drawing, computers, musical instruments, sports etc. In your school, there may also be clubs for your hobby, making you more enthusiastic about the activities involved.
 Ask them for their numbers and ring them up.


If you haven't got your own phone, try landline or your parent's phones.
If you're parents don't let you do this, don't worry. Not all teens do this, and using phones can be a bad addiction anyway if used too much.
 Ask your friends if they want to hang out.


Always ask parents beforehand, and be home the time they tell you. Be sure to follow any rules they give you.
Be sure to learn road safety, especially in the dark.
Bring a phone with you. If you don't have one ask to use your parent's.
Be wary of stranger danger. Don't trust someone you don't know.
 Plenty of teenagers actually want to be kids, so don't be afraid to be like a kid!

