 The absolute first step to take after overeating is to forgive yourself and continue to be forgiving to yourself.Everyone slips up on occasion and either eats something really high calorie or overindulges and eats too much.


Remind yourself that you're only human. You'll make mistakes on occasion and that's perfectly OK. It's unrealistic to expect that you'll never make these types of mistakes.
Treat yourself like a friend. What would you say to a friend in your situation? Instead of engaging in harsh, negative self-talk, talk to yourself like you would talk to a friend.
On the same note, also be positive. It's not a good idea to say negative, mean or degrading things to yourself for making the mistake. This may make you feel worse and encourage you to continue to overeat.Instead of, "Well that was really dumb." Say something like, "Although I overate, I enjoyed all the food I had and am excited to get back on track with my next meal.";
, Another thing to avoid doing after overeating is being overly restrictive with yourself or setting up strict rules or guidelines.This can seriously backfire and set you up for another slip-up.


Skipping meals or eating overly small portions is too restrictive and not a healthy behavior to indulge in. It's counterproductive to your goal. If you skip or do not eat enough, you'll feel more hungry and more tempted to eat larger portions or junk food.Force yourself to get back onto a regular healthy eating track. Always eat breakfast, lunch and dinner and make sure portions are appropriate. For example, foregoing your typical spinach salad with grilled chicken and vegetables at lunch for a small yogurt is too restrictive.
 If you're feeling down about overeating at a big event, consider doing something positive for yourself to help get your spirits up.


If you're feeling angry, depressed, sad, guilty or embarrassed, try engaging in activities that can help relax you and make you feel happy. This will help encourage you to get back on track.
Try doing some sort of activity that's relaxing and enjoyable. Maybe take a hike with friends, go for a walk with your dog or go out dancing. You'll be getting in some physical activity while making yourself feel better.
Physical activity can help release endorphins in your system. Endorphins are a group of hormones in the brain that help us feel good. If you are in a foul mood, go for a walk, a run, a bike ride to feel better! It is a natural and safe anti-depressant, anti-anxiety fix.
You may also want to consider buying yourself new music for a workout playlist, a new workout shirt or outfit to get you motivated and excited to get back to physical activity.
In addition, maybe going to the grocery store and stocking up on fresh, nutritious foods can get you motivated to cook healthy meals at home.
 It's no surprise that talking to others can help you feel supported and encouraged after overeating at a big event. Talk to your support group to help you get back on track and recover.


Studies have shown that going through weight loss or trying to maintain a healthy weight is easier when you have a support group.Talk to your family, friends or coworkers about your slip-up and how you're planning to get yourself back on track.
You can also journal. Although this isn't "talking" per say, writing out your thoughts and feelings about your recent overeating episode may make you feel a bit better.
Seek out the help of a behavioral specialist or therapist if needed. If you find yourself having more difficulty getting back on track and recovering after a big event, consider getting more advice and guidance from a therapist.
At times depression and anxiety can present themselves in ongoing feelings of anger, loss of motivation, lack of enjoyment, or feelings of hopelessness.
 After overeating at a big event, it can be difficult to go back to eating your normal, typical-sized meals; however, this is one of the most crucial steps to recovering after overeating.


When you're measuring portion sizes of foods or of your total meal, this can help prevent another episode of overeating. Immediately getting back on track with portion sizes will give you a big step on your road to recovery.
Eating appropriate sized portions can help you maintain a healthy weight or lose weight (or get back on track with your weight loss). It's typical for main meals to be between 1 and 2 cups total.
Also measure each food group. Measure out: 3-4 oz of lean protein or about 1/2 cup of proteins like beans or dairy foods, 1/2 cup or 1 oz of grains, 1 cup of vegetables, 2 cups of leafy greens or 1/2 cup of fruit.Use a food scale, measuring cups or small plates and bowls to help you stick to your portion size.
 Cooking at home and limiting meals out is a great way to ensure you're getting a nutritious meal. Plus, it's easier to stick to appropriate portions as well.


Getting back to healthy eating after overindulging is important. Cook at home so you can control what goes into your meals and how much you serve yourself.
Always include lean protein in your meals. A 3-4 oz serving of foods like poultry, eggs, lean beef, seafood, legumes or low-fat dairy will help give you energy and keep you satisfied.Also heap on the fruits and vegetables. These naturally low calorie foods are high in fiber, water content and vitamins. They'll help bulk up your meals, keep you hydrated and satisfied.Make half of your meal fruit or vegetable.
If you're going to include a serving of grains, go for 1/2 cup or 1 oz of 100% whole grains. These are higher in fiber which also helps keep you satisfied., Drinking enough water is always important for maintaining adequate health; however, it's a great way to help you recover from a day of overeating as well.


Drinking enough water throughout the day after you've overeaten can help you feel more full and less hungry. It fills your stomach with zero calories and helps keep hunger at bay.Aim to drink at least 64 oz or eight glasses of water daily. You may even want to drink up to 13 glasses of water the day after overeating to help fill your stomach and prevent feeling hungry., Although getting on the scale might not be something you want to see, it's important to get back on track with keeping yourself accountable.


Getting on the scale the morning after an overeating session might be a little upsetting to you. There's a good chance your weight might be up slightly from overindulging in salty foods. Instead, get on two days after your big event.Getting on the scale will help you face the facts and get you into a good "head game" to getting yourself to recovery from your day of overeating.Continue to weigh yourself once a week to stay on top of your weight and stay accountable. Avoid weighing yourself daily, as weight fluctuates. Weighing yourself too often can be counterproductive.
 It's important to get adequate sleep every night or as often as possible. There are many connections between weight gain, obesity and sleep deficiencies.


Even if you overate at a big event today, try to go to bed earlier tonight so you get enough sleep.
Research shows that those people who do not get enough sleep each night are more likely to be overweight or obese.Aim for at least seven to nine hours of sleep each night.When you do not sleep enough you may feel hungrier throughout the day and have more difficulty saying "no" to junk foods.
 One good thing you can do after overeating at a big event (especially if you hosted the event) is to clean out your kitchen of all the leftovers.


If you are aiming to recover from overeating and there are tons of tempting leftovers sitting around, you may find it more difficult to get back on track. If the foods you want to avoid are there, it's easier to give into eating them.If you have a ton of leftovers or have other tempting foods at home, consider giving them away. Bring leftover sweets to your office, donate unopened goods to a food kitchen or toss away things that others may not want.
 Manage your hunger and blood sugar levels before a big event by having a small snack or beverage first. If you go into a meal or event too hungry, you might overeat and are more likely to go for the high calorie foods.Try drinking a large glass of water. An easy no-calorie trick to help you feel less hungry and even a touch satisfied is by drinking a large glass of water right before your meal.Have a cup of broth or low-calorie vegetable soup. Like water, these items can help you feel satisfied and less hungry before your event.
Have a snack two to three hours prior to your event. If you go too long between meals — more than five hours — you might feel too hungry. Plan a small snack like a piece of fruit, a hard boiled egg, 2 oz of nuts of a small yogurt. This can quell your appetite prior to your event., In addition to making changes to your diet, exercising has also been shown to help suppress appetite in the short term.Studies have shown that if you engage in moderate-intensity physical activity, that you can actually suppress your appetite and feel less hungry.Try going for a 30 minute walk or fit in a 20 minute workout at the gym before your big event. This might help decrease your overall appetite and help you manage how much you eat.
 Whenever you know you'll be going to a special event with food and there's a chance that you will overeat, go with an eating plan in mind.


If you have a plan of what you're going to eat, how much you're going to eat and how you're going regulate yourself you're more likely to stick with that instead of "figuring it out when you get there."
Stick with the smaller salad plate or appetizer plates instead of the larger dinner plates so you cannot put as much food on your plate. In addition, if you're going to a potluck, picnic or other "buffet style" event, plan to limit yourself to two trips with a small salad plate or appetizer plate.
Fill up on low calorie foods first. Have some salad, fresh fruit, raw vegetables or a broth-based soup first to help fill up your stomach for only a few calories.
Always have a non-alcoholic drink in hand. This keeps your hand and mouth busy and makes it more difficult to hold a plate in your hand. Sip on some water, sparkling water or unsweetened coffee or tea.
 When you're at a big event or special meal where there's a lot of food, sometimes the best thing you can do to prevent overeating is leaving the area.


If you're having trouble not thinking about going back for seconds or trying one more thing, leave the room with the food. Many times if it's out of sight, it's out of mind.If you're at a sit down dinner, refuse seconds or ask for your leftovers to be boxed up or taken away so they're not sitting right in front of you. You can even ask for a to-go box as soon as your meal arrives and put half of your food in the box.
If you're at a potluck or happy hour, try focusing on talking to friends and sit or stand far away from the food so you cannot physically reach it.

