 If you’re trying to cut your shower time, you can start before you even get in the water. If it takes a long time to get the warm water running, turn the water on a minute or so in advance.Instead of standing around and waiting for the shower to warm up, you can brush your teeth, plan your outfit, or do other things to pass the time so that your waiting time doesn’t feel like part of your shower.;
, A good way to ensure that you don’t waste time in your shower is to get organized. If you have a lot of products crowding your shower rack, pick out the toiletries that you use on a regular basis and place them an in easily accessible part of your shower., One thing that can motivate you to speed up your shower is to set up a post-shower reward. This can be effective tool because getting out of a warm shower is easier if there is something there to motivate you.Sometimes the dread of feeling the cold air can make you dilly dally in the shower. If your house is cold, make sure you have a warm clothes waiting for you when you get out.
You can also set up coffee to brew or hot chocolate to heat up while you are taking your shower as motivation to get out.
 A shower playlist is a great way to time your shower in a low-pressure and fun way. Put together a playlist that is five minutes long or a few seconds within 5 minutes. This playlist will help you pace your shower so you know roughly how much time you have left.Try to pick upbeat music as opposed to sad, slow songs. Listening to slow songs while showering can make you move in a slower pace while you shower.
 If you want to take timing your shower one step further, turn on a stopwatch or a cooking timer right as you start the shower and keep it in an easily accessible place next to the shower.You can also use a waterproof clock or wristwatch so that you can prop it up in the shower and keep your eye on it.
If you don’t have a waterproof clock, place it on the sink or somewhere that you can see it if you pull back the shower curtain. This way you can check on the time if you want to during the shower.

