 People often avoid talking about politics for a reason. It can be a hot-button issue that could end up offending someone. Think about where you are and the people you're with, before you start a political conversation. Don't assume that every place is safe and understanding of your views.Pay attention to why you feel the need to start a political conversation. Do you really want to engage in a thoughtful and open conversation? Or are you really just feeling the need to vent because of difficult things you read or saw on the news? After examining your motivations, you may decide that it's better to refrain from discussing politics.
Talking politics can lead to strong emotions. Recognize that having strong emotions in certain places like work, family gatherings, or public spaces could lead to confrontation rather than empathy.
Knowing when not to engage someone can be just as important as knowing how to engage someone.;
, While you may have cultivated a certain political viewpoint over the years through your family or friends, remember that your views aren't the same as everyone else's. Be mindful that there are people at work, at school, and in your community who may not want to hear your views.Avoid associating your social media platforms such as Twitter or Facebook with how everyone sees politics. This is often a tilted view of politics based on who you are friends with, who may lean more left or more right than the overall population.
Your close group of friends may make you feel safe and accepted when you express your views. Understand that this is because they are your close friends, not because people all think like them.
 You spend many hours of your day and life at work. This may lead you to start talking politics. Understand that just because you work with someone that doesn't mean they want to talk about politics or feel like it's a safe place to do so.Talking politics at work could be particularly tricky if you are trying to please everyone. For example, you may be left-leaning in your politics, and feel more than happy to talk about your political views with another left-leaning co-worker. But what if the topic of politics involves are larger group, like your right-leaning boss?
Don't lie about your views in one situation, and then staunchly support them in another.
At the same time, avoid the need to be fully open and candid in the workplace. Consider deflecting when you disagree, and simply say, "I can understand your views on that."

, If your agenda when talking politics at work, at home, or at school is to change someone's mind, think again. Trying to prove your point or dismiss someone's views is likely to cause people to pull away and not listen to you.Even if you seem to have all the right facts and information, your point will get lost if you start to make others feel uncomfortable or unsafe in expressing their views.
Instead of trying to get someone to understand, offer to understand their own views.

