 When planning a cat-friendly vacation, it's best to begin by thinking about what your ideal vacation entails. Do you want to go to the beach, the country, the mountains, or a big city? If you think about the general type of place you want to go, this can help you narrow down your search.


However, when choosing a cat friendly vacation destination, it's good to avoid getting too specific about your ideal location. The specific town or location you choose may not have the cat-friendly amenities that you need.
You should also think about the ideal climate for your cat. Decide whether your cat could cope with the type of place you are considering traveling to.;
, If you want to go somewhere very different from where you live, you will need to assess whether your cat can travel there easily. For example, if you live in a cold climate and you will need to travel hundreds of miles to get somewhere warm, then you need to assess whether your cat can comfortably travel that far for vacation.


Some cats are good travelers and some are not. If your cat is not a good traveler, you will either need to vacation somewhere close to your home or leave your cat at home during your vacation.
Above all, you should place your cat's comfort and happiness above all else. If you want your cat on vacation but you are afraid for it to travel, then err on the side of caution and leave it at home with a cat sitter., Once you pick a type of place you want to go and how far you can travel, you can begin searching for cat-friendly accommodations. There are websites designed to help pet lovers find vacation spots but you can also do a specific search on your own. Do a general online search for towns or locations that fit your vacation requirements and then do an additional online search for specific areas and the words "pet friendly" or "cat friendly."


For example, if you live in London and you want to go to a country town nearby, do a search for "countryside vacation near London" first. Then, once you have a list of countryside vacation spots near London, combine the names of specific towns with "pet friendly" or "cat friendly."
Remember, you don't just have to stay in hotels while on vacation. Search for vacation rental houses or apartments. Some of these are owned by families that bring their own pets to them, so they may be likely to allow other pets to stay.
 When taking a cat-friendly vacation, you need to remember to plan everything ahead of time so you know that your cat will be welcomed at every step. This means that you need to plan not just the hotel or house you will stay in, but also how you will get there with your cat. You need to make sure your cat can go on your flight, in your rental care, or on your mass-transit transportation methods.


It is important to let an airline know that you are planning on bringing a pet on board when you make your reservation. However, they usually state that they have the right to refuse your pet if there are too many pets on board.If you are planning on leaving your country on vacation, the airline you use may require proof your cat has been vaccinated for rabies before they let it on board. You will need to have documentation of this vaccination with you., When taking your cat on vacation you will need to bring the right supplies for its care. Basically, everything that your cat needs at home, it will need on vacation. Be sure to bring:


Travel carrier (with your name and number on it in case of emergency)
Small litter pan and litter
Food and water
Food and water containers
Your cat's bed
Your cat's toys
Treats
Medications
Current prescriptions and vaccination records

, Take your cat to a veterinarian before you go on vacation and make sure it is well enough to travel. Your veterinarian can check all of its vital signs and make sure that it is up to date on its vaccinations.If you are having any doubts about taking your cat on vacation, discuss the idea with your veterinarian. They know your cat and should have a good idea if the cat can withstand the stresses of travel.
 When taking your cat to a new place, you should know ahead of time where to take it in the case of an emergency. This should ideally be an animal hospital because it is likely that they are open 24 hours a day.


If you are going somewhere without an animal hospital, it's still important to have the name and number of a veterinarian in the area.
You may also want to bring a copy of your cat's medical records, so that if it has an emergency the veterinarian it is seen by won't have to wait for records to be sent., Before you take your cat on vacation, you should make sure that it can be identified if it gets lost. Put tags on the cat that include your name, phone number, and email address, if there is room.Even if your cat has a microchip, put a collar and tags on your cat. This information will allow anyone to contact you quickly if they find your cat.
 If you love your cat and you want to take it on vacation, try a short weekend trip to see how it does. Spending a few days away from home with your cat will help you to assess whether it will be a good traveling companion in the future or if it should stay home next time.


When planning a cat friendly vacation you should keep in mind that it is usually a better idea to drive with a cat than to fly. This is especially true of cats with flat faces, such as Persians, as they can have a hard time breathing in areas with oxygen deprivation., It is best to center your cat's needs when planning a trip, rather than assuming that your cat can just go along on a trip you will enjoy. For example, there are some tours or trips that are created explicitly for pet owners, such as cruises that have on-board kennels that take care of your pets.Cruises that allow cats will require that the cats stay in a kennel on board. These kennels are fully staffed and allow you to visit your pet when you like.
 If you take your cat on vacation with you, you should make sure its a trip that will include spending a lot of time with it. A nice getaway where you plan on staying indoors, reading, cooking meals, and watching movies would be perfect to bring a cat along for. A trip where you will go on daily adventures and not return to your accommodations all day is not ideal for bringing your cat.


If you are planning on staying at a vacation house and you want to spend time outside at the house, consider bringing a harness and leash for your cat, so that it can spend some time outdoors with you.
 You should make sure that your cat has deluxe accommodations while it is away from home, so that the trip is as relaxing as possible for it. In most cases, it's best to keep your cat in a hotel room or vacation rental while on vacation and make sure that the temperature is what your cat is used to. Keeping it in more rustic accommodations can be hard on the cat, especially if the weather is extreme in your vacation destination.


Provide the cat a bed, toys, a scratching surface, and ledges and views to enjoy, and space to roam. This will require that you pick your accommodations with your cat in mind.
Even if you cannot let your cat roam freely in your vacation accommodations, you need to give it more space than just its carrier on a daily basis. Consider putting the cat in a pet tent to give the cat some space, a full litter box, and access to food and water.