 This is standard printer paper, and measures 8.5x11 inches. The paper needs to be rectangular, not square-shaped or cut out.;
, When folding, the orientation of the paper should be vertical, and the crease should be along this middle, longer side. Make sure the corners of the paper match up.









Use your thumb or a flat-edged tool, like a butter knife or a wooden tongue depressor, to crease the paper. When making any kind of paper airplane, make sure your creases are sharp.Unfold the paper. Do not turn it over.
 The edges of the paper should be aligned as exact as possible to the middle crease. The two outer edges of the paper should touch each other at the crease line.









This should form triangular flaps on each side of the paper. The top should be in the shape of a point.
The bottom of edge of the flap should be a straight line.
 Take the top corner of the outside edge and fold it towards the middle. Just like in step 3, the edges should meet up along the vertical  crease in the middle.









The paper should look like a dart, with a much narrower triangular flap on each sides. Most of the paper now will be in the shape of a triangle, with a point at the top.
 When folding the paper in half, make the fold along the vertical crease. You are folding one side of the paper on top of the other, so it should match up exactly. Run your finger or a blunt-edged tool along the crease to make it sharp.
 Lay the paper so that the flat crease is oriented at the bottom. Fold the paper down from the top to make a wing, leaving a few inches at the bottom. Do the same thing for the other side, making sure to fold the second wing at the exact same place as the first. When finished, it should look like a dart plane.









To make a slightly more advanced version of this basic paper airplane, just add wing tips. On the back edge of one of the wings, make a small fold. The fold will be in the shape of a small triangle. Bend it upwards so you have a wing tip that points towards the sky. Repeat on the other wing, making sure the creases of the tips match.

