 There are many things people in your neighborhood would pay you to do. Think about things you are interested in, things you are good at, and what you can physically do. Some good business ideas are:


Taking care of lawns. You can mow them, rake leaves, clean up debris, and shovel snow. Charge different prices based on the size of the yard and the size of the job. Remember, always be fair and reasonable.Pet walking and pet sitting. Offer to walk dogs for your neighbors, or feed their cats or dogs when they go out of town. If you pet sit, you can charge by the day. Just make sure you like animals because pet sitting can get a little dirty.Dog washing. Wash dogs for your neighbors, and even brush them afterwards.
Washing cars. Wash the outsides of cars, and even clean the insides, too. If you get a few friends together, you can hold a community car wash.
Spray painting numbers on curbs. This could help emergency vehicles find homes if the numbers are not obvious on the house or mailbox. All you'd need is a couple of cans of spray paint and a number stencil.
 One popular way that young people make money is by babysitting. Approach families with young children and let them know you would be willing to babysit for them.Think of reasons why you are qualified for babysitting. Most parents will want to know that you are responsible and have worked with children before. If possible, put together references of people you have babysat for before, or family members who have watched you babysit younger cousins during family events.
Make sure you are prepared for babysitting. It is not an easy job, but a huge responsibility. You are responsible for the safety and well-being of the child while they are under your care. If you're not comfortable with that, find an alternate job.
 Instead of limiting yourself to one job, be willing to do lots of odd jobs for the community. Adults have all sorts of things to do that they don't want to do but haven't even considered paying someone else to do it for them. So you've got to suggest it to them. Window cleaning, garage cleaning, gardening, or cleaning gutters are only a few of the things you can offer. Ask around the community to see what the neighbors would be willing to pay you to do. Make sure people know you will do most odd jobs.
 Elderly people sometimes have jobs around their house they can't do, or errands that need running. Offer to help them around their house and yard. Run errands, like going to the store or post office, if they need it., A sign advertising your skills and experience can bring in business from community members. Many locations such as libraries, churches, and post offices provide space for these public notices. Check with your parents for suggestions on safe places to advertise your work and what type of contact information to provide.


You might want to use your computer to print up fliers or business cards to distribute around the community. On the flier or business card, describe who you are, what you are offering to do, and how to contact you.
Go door to door to introduce yourself. When you first start a business, you need to promote it. In addition to fliers, try going around to the houses in your neighborhood to introduce yourself. People might be more willing to hire you if they see your face and meet.Don't be discouraged if people say no.

