 Go to your iDroid and start Episode 21: The War Economy. Once your chopper drops you in the mission area’s landing zone, you will get a notification from Miller that someone has attacked your Mother Base. If you Check the mission list on your iDroid, you’ll now see Episode 22: Retake the Platform.
 You now have the option to go back to Mother Base or continue with Episode 21. If you take the former option, you’ll be transported back to one of the platforms at your Mother Base for the start of Episode 22.

It’s also possible to continue with Episode 21 and disregard Miller’s message to take back one of your Mother Base’s platforms for Episode 22. Like with other missions in the game, you can still proceed to Episode 22 after you’ve completed Episode 21.
Although you can opt to not take Episode 22, not having an FOB as a result of this decision will severely limit your acquisition of personnel. This also means you’ll have to spend more time managing your current personnel (dismissing lower-ranked soldiers) as opposed to progressing through the game.
The game gives you a lot of freedom in choosing and taking missions. As long as the missions are available on your iDroid’s mission list, you can take them in any order (as well as re-take them to get higher ratings). Other than to give you the ability to build FOBs, completing Mission/Episode 22 first before Episode 21 will not give you any additional GMP or resources.
 The main objective of this mission is to eliminate the invading enemy force’s commander. You can go into this mission with guns blazing, or you can also opt for the silent approach provided the main objective is met., After eliminating the commander, Miller will inform you about creating Forward Operating Bases. Go to your iDroid and look for the Base Facilities option under the Mother Base tab., Use the shoulder buttons on your controller (RB and LB for Xbox 360/Xbox One; R1 and L1 for PS3/PS4) to navigate from the Mother Base sub-tab to the FOB sub-tab. Now navigate to the Purchase option and then press on the X (PS3/PS4) or A (Xbox 360/Xbox One) button on your controller., The game initially gives you three locations to purchase territorial waters. Don’t get too caught up with their differences and just choose one that you’re most comfortable with. Once you’ve purchased the territorial water of your choice, Miller will then inform you of the creation of a Security Unit tasked with guarding it., Similar to Mother Base, you can have a maximum of 4 platforms per unit/team on an FOB to increase your personnel capacity. Adding another FOB though, is a different matter. You’ll need to buy or earn MB Points if you wish to purchase the additional territorial waters location needed to set up a second FOB., There are three side ops that will become available once you’ve set up the first platform for you FOB. Take on these missions to get the blueprints for the Anti-theft Device, UA Drone, and IR Sensor., Once you’re able to acquire the blueprints, open up your iDroid and start development on them immediately. You can find them in the Development option under the Mother Base tab. Similar to Venom Snake’s weapons and items, security devices and equipment have their own GMP and specific unit requirements., Always use your int-scope to determine a soldier’s rating (whether you’re on a side op, main mission, or just free roaming). Take down and Fulton extract soldiers with B or higher combat or R&D ratings so that you’d have people to assign to your Security Unit and to hasten development on the weapons, equipment, and security devices to be used on the FOB., Soldiers with high combat ratings will automatically get designated to the Combat Unit (after some time in the brig). Open up your iDroid and then check your Combat Unit personnel in Staff Management under the Mother Base tab.

The game will usually assign soldiers with low stats from other teams/units to your Security team. Dismiss soldiers with E ratings so as to improve your chances of defending your FOB platform during invasions.
 Use the Right Trigger or R2 on your controller to sort your personnel in the Combat Unit in descending order. Individually pick soldiers with C, B, and A combat ratings by pressing A or X on the controller and then transfer them to the Security Unit.

There is a drawback for adding high-level personnel (soldiers with A+ or higher ratings) to the Security Unit to patrol FOB platforms. Players who invade your platform can either kill them or use the Fulton Recovery System on them to steal them from you. Consequently, your Security Unit’s level will fall down as a result of either of these actions.
 Since other players can invade your FOB, you need to make sure to set the preparedness level on its platforms at maximum. To do this, open up the iDroid again and go to Security Settings under the Mother Base tab., You should now be in a page that shows your FOBs and the platforms under them. Choose one platform and go into its basic settings to set the preparedness level to high or highest. This ensures that the platform has the best soldiers and security equipment available all the time.

Take note that by setting the preparedness level to the highest setting, you will have to shell out more GMP.
 Have your security personnel use weapons that are best suited to the platform that they’re patrolling. Go to your platform’s Advanced Settings tab and make sure to set the security personnel’s weapons to either short-ranged (shotguns), medium-ranged (automatic rifles), or long-ranged (sniper rifles).

Short-ranged weapons are best for security placed in the Command platform due to it being more confined. On the other hand, medium-ranged and long-ranged weapons would serve personnel stationed on the Medical platforms better due to how spacious the areas can get.

