 To start an APA citation, begin with the author's first name and last name. Then, add a period. For example, say you're citing Mrs. Dalloway. You would begin your citation with, "Woolf, Virginia."

, In APA citations, the year of publication comes next. It should be in parentheses and the parentheses should be followed by a period. For example, "Woolf, Virginia. (1953)."

, From here, you'll add the name of the book. This should be in italics and followed by a period. For example, "Woolf, Virginia. (1953). Mrs. Dalloway.", Now, you'll need to add information regarding where the book was published. This can also be found on the first few "pages." It may also be listed in the general information on the site where you purchased or borrowed the book. You would add the city where it was published, followed by a comma. You would then add the abbreviation for the state of publication. Add a colon and list the publisher.For example, "Woolf, Virginia. (1953). Mrs. Dalloway. New York City, NY: Houghton Mifflin Hartcourt Publishing."

, How you cite an e-book depends on where you obtained the e-book in APA style. If you found the e-book on an online library or database, you would either list the Digital Object Identifier (DOI) or the URL for that database.You can find a book's DOI when checking the book out from a digital library. It's a long string of numbers broken up with dashes and periods listed with other details about the book, always labeled as the DOI. Add this number to the end of your citation. For example, "Woolf, Virginia. (1953). Mrs. Dalloway. New York City, NY: Houghton Mifflin Hartcourt Publishing. doi: 1234/5678/9101.1234"
Not all ebooks have a DOI number listed. If you cannot find the DOI number, simply write "Retrieved from" and add the URL of the online library where you obtained the source. For example, "Woolf, Virginia. (1953). Mrs. Dalloway. New York City, NY: Houghton Mifflin Hartcourt Publishing. Retrieved from www.onlinelibrary.org."

, You may have purchased your book online, or received it from a free database. In this case, you would write "Retrieved from" at the end your citation. Then, include the website where you purchased the book or where you downloaded it for free.For example, "Woolf, Virginia. (1953). Mrs. Dalloway. New York City, NY: Houghton Mifflin Hartcourt Publishing. Retrieved from www.amazon.com".

