 eduhosting.org has a large chart with over 200 different Linux packages and their development path/relationships to each other. Ideally, the package you choose (called a "distro" or unique flavor of Linux) can co-exist with your Windows system, so you don't lose your old data. CAREFUL: Some Linux Packages can wipe out your data or won't be able to read or access Windows documents and spreadsheets. There are several good ones described at the Occupy Wall Street web site that have the characteristics of this "topic"; secure browsing and USB Flash Drive "bootable", and large lists of reviews and video tutorials elsewhere on the net. This tutorial will use a well-developed package based on a reliable Linux system: Pocket Rocket Linux, which evolved from the Damn Small Linux and Tiny Core Linux packages - both well tested and around for a long time and all of these are based on what is known in Linux as "the fastest boot and run and reliable" packages; small is good.;
, You will be creating a BOOTABLE USB FLASH DRIVE - 1 gigabyte is ok, 2 - 4 is better and 8 gigabytes or more is great. These cost $5 - $20 - $40 depending on size and can contain all your documents so later if your hard drive crashes - no worries. Also, your USB Flash Drive can be moved to other PCs, so you always have "Your Office" where ever you go or rescue dead/crippled Windows PCs - a new business for you.
 Right Click on your Windows Desktop and click NEW to create a folder - i.e. USBBACK. Then right-click on the E:USB drive (or H: etc.), and select all the contents, click COPY and PASTE them to your Windows Desktop Folder USBBACK. Check your work by removing the USB Flash Drive and using Windows tools (i.e. word) to open documents in the Desktop\USBBACK folder. Find them ok?

, This erases everything, starts fresh and you want to ensure you never do this to your C: drive - your main Windows system. Also, some of the newer Windows use D:, so look for a good high drive letter and verify it is your USB Flash Drive before formatting, Find the drive, right-click-format-fat32-start/OK. A Progress Bar or Percentage Complete should show up. This can take a while.


The previous steps of preparing a USB Flash Drive can take 3 - 10 minutes, depending on size and your skills. The rest happens very fast: hang on tight. Make sure your anti-virus/spyware/install restrictions are all off and open FIREFOX (a secure browser) or another browser to http://pocketrocketlinux.com - click the phone, agree to the terms and download 100% open source (no malware that way) - PRLSTART.EXE, 100% Linux which is 100% free and can be shared (you can even sell it for a nominal charge), and 100% virus free (linux). SAVE THIS TO YOUR USB FLASH DRIVE - NOT YOUR C: DRIVE. If you save to some other location, you need to hunt it down and copy it to the USB Flash Drive.
 Right-click-properties-compatibility and check the box - RUN AS ADMINISTRATOR. Click ok and close these windows: you are ready to run the installer - on your USB Flash Drive. Find E:\prlstart.exe again and double click it.


The installer searches through your drives - Z: down to D: for \prlstart.exe, then if not found, stops and if found, begins downloading (using WGET) the key files and making folders. Depending on your download speed, this can take 90 seconds or 10 minutes. When finished a pop up will tell you to reboot.
 Normally pressing F2 while booting will open the BIOS settings, where you can ensure your USB REMOVABLE HARD DRIVE (or USBHDD) is in the top / first position.
 Depending on your download speed, this can take 10 minutes - 2 hours. There are a lot of applications to download. Note: if you are using a WEP KEY WIFI you might want to disable that until downloads are complete., Once PRL is working and able to get online, you have a complete virus-free, secure, encrypted, anonymous web browsing based on TOR and the Vidalia package - built in to Pocket Rocket Linux.

