 You need to be sure how formal the wedding will be before choosing the right color. Very formal events will always require a tuxedo, or at the least, a dark colored suit and tie. Outdoor or less formal weddings during warmer months are great events for light colored suits.Formal weddings require tuxedos or dark colored suits. An all-purpose grey, blue or black suit will suffice for most.
Outdoor weddings are great opportunities to wear a tan or light grey suit.
Winter weddings call for darker shades. Some brown suits may be appropriate; otherwise charcoal grey or navy blue are great choices.
 Job interviews require a level of formality that may not be present at many social occasions. The all-purpose suit colors are best for job interviews. These colors are considered “all-purpose” for a reason. Light colored suits are often considered too informal.Women are expected to wear skirts with a jacket for most job interviews.
Charcoal or even medium grey suits are appropriate for job interviews.
Navy blue suits are considered just as acceptable, but avoid brighter blues.
Black suits are usually considered appropriate, but might be considered too formal.
 Funerals are somber occasions, so it is expected that you wear dark colors. Black is the traditional choice for funerals, but dark greys or even dark shades of blue are also considered acceptable.


Black is the expected color to wear to funerals.
Suits in very dark shades of other colors are often considered acceptable.
 Appropriate attire for social events can vary widely depending on the environment and who is having it. Many social events do not require suits at all, so see if the invitation indicates a type of attire.Spring and summer events follow similar rules to outdoor weddings. Light colored suits and great for casual environments, especially in warmer months.
Winter and fall events are usually indoors, and while a light colored suit isn’t ruled out, it can be a great opportunity to use your brown or grey suits.
 The accessories you adorn your suit with can make it look like a completely different outfit. By matching different accessories to your suit you can get much more life out of the same color choice.Ties can be various colors, but cool colors are the most versatile when matching with jackets and shirts. Different tie colors and patterns in conjunction with shirts can make the same suit look like two different outfits.
Wearing different blouses under a jacket or replacing the jacket with a sweater can increase wearing options for women’s formal skirts.
Men’s belts are traditionally either black or brown, and their shoes should match. Women have many more options of belt and shoe colors, allowing for a greater deal of flexibility in ensemble choices.

