 Baking a treat for your new neighbors is a traditional gesture that many people may really appreciate. It’s important that you are considerate of possible allergies when doing so, however and don’t leave something you cook with your neighbor’s children in case there are ingredients in it that they shouldn’t eat.You may want to include a note with a list of the ingredients in what you make so your neighbors can avoid anything they may be allergic to.
Purchasing a baked good may not be as traditional, but is certainly still a nice gesture.
 Moving to a new neighborhood often includes finding local businesses to use for things like utilities, trash pickup, and emergency repairs. You can help your new neighbors settle in by providing them with fliers or a simple list of services offered in the area and who to contact to take advantage of them. Some services you may want to provide contact information for are:Local plumbers or electricians that can respond to emergency calls.
Local law enforcement and fire services.
Cable and satellite television providers.
Internet service providers.
Trash pickup or removal services.
 Many places have locally known specialties and treats that you can include in your welcome basket. Providing some samples of local specialties can help new neighbors learn about their new home in a delicious way.If your town is known for its dairy farms, you may want to include some locally made cheese, for instance.
Gift certificates are also a nice way to incorporate local specialties.
 Everybody doesn’t feel like cooking from time to time, especially when they haven’t been able to unpack their kitchen yet. New members of the community likely won’t know which restaurants are nearby and which ones can deliver to your neighborhood. Help them out by providing delivery and takeout menus from restaurants you use.You can offer a simple list of local delivery places instead of a collection of menus.
 A bottle of wine can be a nice gesture when welcoming new neighbors to the area. While not everyone enjoys wine, they may choose to simply set it aside to share with guests in the future. Wine is considered to be a traditional housewarming gift and can serve as a great accent to some of the food you may include in your welcome basket.


Choose a bottle of wine that you enjoy, as it can also serve as a way to get to know each other if they invite you to share it.
You may want to find a wine that pairs well with foods or snacks you have included in your welcome basket. You can find suggestions of what kinds of wine go well with certain snacks here: http://www.foodandwine.com/slideshows/15-rules-great-wine-and-food-pairings/3


