 You may accidentally harm your hedgehog if you react too strongly. This may cause you to drop or throw your hedgehog. This is easier said than done, but try and hold your composure.;
, This will not only harm your hedgehog, but also conditionally teach it to fear you.
 A verbal reaction like “Ow!” or “Oh!” (or maybe even a swear!) will verbally condition the hedgehog that it will get a response from you because of a bite. This may teach the hedgehog to bite you further to elicit a response.


Further, a loud verbal response might scare your hedgehog.
 This will not harm the hedgehog and will teach it that biting is not something it should be doing.


Try distracting your hedgehog if it is nipping you. This could be gently moving your hand or trying to gets its attention with a soft verbal cue. Remember, hedgehogs are curious so it may just be exploring and not biting!

, Do not immediately put the hedgehog back in its cage. This teaches the hedgehog that it can go back to its safe space after doing something mean.
 This is cruel to your hedgehog and may hurt his health. Always feed and water your hedgehog appropriately.


Your hedgehog should always have a supply of clean water.
You should be feeding your hedgehog a high protein, low grain diet., Your hedgehog may bite or nip at you if it is not feeling well.Learn to recognize hedgehog illnesses by watching for these symptoms:


Lethargy
Losing quills
Lumps on or under the skin
Wobbly walking
Loss of appetite
Green poop
Red and/or itchy skin
Tattered ears

, A hedgehog may bite because it is emotionally upset. There can be a number of stimuli that may startle your hedgehog into biting.


Loud or sudden noises
New or strong smells -- lotions, other animals, perfume, etc
Wrong time of day -- hedgehogs are mostly nocturnal. If you wake up your hedgehog in the middle of the day to handle it, it may bite
Fear -- it may be not fully tamed or not used to you
Sudden temperature change -- hedgehogs must be kept in a warm environment (75-80 degrees fahrenheit, or 23-26 degrees celsius), A hedgehog can ‘’learn’’ to bite if conditioned to do so. Be careful not to accidentally teach your hedgehog to bite!


If you respond verbally after your hedgehog bites you, it may learn that it can get a similar response if it continues to bite.
You feed it treats to train it, it might bite to get a treat. Be careful not to reward your hedgehog for unwanted behavior.
 Getting your hedgehog to be more comfortable with you can reduce the risk of being bitten.


When holding him, talk quietly and make slow movements.
Avoid fast, jerky movements that might startle him.
Give him treats if he is acting appropriately. Do not reward for bad behavior, but you can give a treat (like a mealworm) to get him to trust you.
 Hedgehogs are naturally curious creatures that use their strong sense of smell and taste to get to know their world. One way they do this is by nibbling and/or licking an unknown area. Knowing the difference between these two actions is critical in behavioral training.Nibbling is usually accompanied by not using pressure with teeth and licking the area.
Biting can be quick, sharp, and painful. It might be brought on by a stimulus.
 If your hedgehog is well fed and watered, it may be less likely to bite out of hunger or thirst.
 Keeping your hedgehog healthy will reduce stress on both you and the hedgehog. It will reduce the reason for bites.
 Always be gentle when holding your hedgehog. Do not squeeze or grip it tightly. Do not handle it high up in the air or that may give it a chance to fall and hurt itself.
 Hedgehogs have moods too! It may want to sleep, eat, or exercise. Be sure to not interrupt its daily routine just because you want to hold it. This may irritate it into biting.
 Hedgehogs have extremely strong senses of smell. You may want to avoid using harsh-smelling soaps, lotions, or body wash to make it easier for your hedgehog’s nose.
 Using the tips above, you should be able to learn what your hedgehog may do before it bites. Watch your hedgehog and learn its personal behavioral traits to know when it is the best time to handle it.


One tip is to watch its quills. When a hedgehog is in a relaxed pose, its quills will lie evenly against your hand and will not be sharp. If it is in a defense pose, its quills will stand on end and be sharp!