 Rather than repressing, ignoring, or masking your emotions, embrace them as a way to understand how you really feel. Our emotions help us to understand the challenges we're facing, and provide possible guides to what we need to change in our lives. Emotions can help you to figure out what is really bothering you.One way to embrace your emotions by learning to identify them, such as by picking up your own physical cues. When you have identified the emotion, process what you are feeling  and thinking, either by writing about it or discussing it with a trusted friend.
Know that there are no unhealthy emotions. Instead, it is what we do with those emotions and how we cope with them that matters
For example, let's say that you just became tearful after a really big fight with your friend. You may be worried about your friend, your friendship, or your future. While you may not want to be crying, your feelings of sadness can guide you to figure out what really matters.
 Remind yourself that you can overcome life's challenges. Look back at small successes to remind you of what you can do, rather than dwelling on the negative. Avoid letting your emotions get the best of you. Pay attention to how you're feeling rather than ignoring it, and focus on small steps to feeling better.Use words of self-affirmation. Believe that you can overcome anxiety, fear, and hurt. Say them to yourself. Consider saying things like, "I am confident about solving life's problems successfully." or "With every breath, I release the anxiety within me, and I become more and more calm."Remind yourself of your past successes rather than your past failures. Close your eyes and remember those moments of success amid adversity. Those feelings of triumph are that much sweeter.
If you are struggling to think of your successes or good qualities, call a close friend and ask them to help you. Say something like, "I'm feeling really down and struggling with valuing myself. Can you help remind me of some of my strengths?" This may help restore your confidence.
 If your emotions of fear, anxiety, anger, or sadness linger and last for days or weeks, you may have created an unhealthy emotional boundary. You may feel stuck in your emotions, and unable to take the next step of action. Avoid feeling out-of-control in your emotions by setting up boundaries such as:Having a multi-faceted life. For example, you're more than just an athlete, a parent, or a hard-working professional. This way your identity is more than just one thing.
Being okay with second (or third) best. You won't be heartbroken and angry every time that you don't get the top pick. Life isn't just a cutthroat competition.
Accepting that you can't force others to change. You may want to protect and support your friends, family, partners, or kids even when they make harmful decisions that impact themselves and others. Be willing to say no at times can be healthy.
Not taking on the emotions of others. While it may be hard to see your best friend in pain and crying, you do not have to take on her pain, too. You can be supportive and helpful while maintaining your emotional boundaries. Let others have thoughts and feelings independent of you.

