 Regular exercise that involves lots of movement, including jumping and running, will stimulate lymph flow. As your muscles move, they massage your lymphatic system and improve lymph flow.Walking, running, and playing sports that involve a lot of movement are all great activities for stimulating lymph flow. Try to complete 150 minutes total of moderate exercise a week in intervals of at least 30 minutes to one hour of exercise a day.
 This particular modality is only certified to physicians, nurses, PTs, OCT, Massage Therapist, Therapist assistants through continuing education. Lymph vessels are also found under your skin and these vessels support your blood circulation. When your lymph flow slows down, your skin may appear dull or slightly yellow, or worse, you may experience signs of autoimmune disease. Manual Lymphatic Drainage Massage is a gentle rhythmical technique that works to improve lymph flow throughout your body.Try to incorporate Dry Skin Brushing after a soak in a warm bath or while in a warm shower.If in the shower, take advantage of cool/ warm transitional hydrotherapy. When dry skin brushing, use a natural, bristle body brush, preferably with a long handle.Use long gentle strokes, but not too harm. This will stimulate your skin and remove dead skin.
Brush your entire body, in the same directional format as your MLD massage that was conducted by your MLD specialized health practitioner.
You can also incorporate salt into the massage by applying sea salt and a small amount of aromatherapy oil on the brush before you begin the massage. This will stimulate your skin and draw out toxins through your skin.
 Yoga practitioners believe yoga postures like “Twisting Chair” and “Seated Twist” can help to wringing out any toxins in your body.To do Utkatasana (Twisting Chair): Stand with your feet hip-width apart on a yoga mat.
Place your hands in prayer at the heart center, or middle of your chest. Inhale, then exhale and place your left elbow on the outside of your right thigh, just above your knee. You should be twisting to the right, with your prayer hands facing the right side of the room.
Check that your knees are in line with each other and your hips are square to the front of the room. Use your left elbow to press against the outside of your right thigh and help you twist further to the right with each inhale and exhale.
Hold this posture for 5-6 breaths and then return your prayer hands to the middle of your chest. Complete the same posture on your left side, with your right elbow sitting against the outside of your left thigh.
To do Marichyasana 3 (Seated Twist): Sit on a yoga mat with your legs extended straight in front of you, toes flexed towards you.
Bend your right knee and draw the foot to the inside of your left thigh. You can keep your right foot on the inside of your thigh or cross it to the outside of your left thigh for a deeper twist. You can also keep your left leg straight or bend it at the knee and draw your left foot back to the outside of your right hip.
Hug your right knee towards your chest with your left arm. Raise your right arm and rotate your body to the left. Place your right hand about a few inches behind you on your mat.
Continue to hug your right knee towards your chest as you twist to the left. To deepen the twist, press your left elbow to the outside of your right thigh. Inhale to lengthen your spine and exhale to rotate further to the left.
Hold this post for 5-6 breaths and then repeat it on the other side.
 Though there is no scientific evidence that deep breathing stimulates your lymphatic system, doing breathing exercises can help to improve overall health, including your lymphatic system. When you breath in, the pressure in your chest decreases and the pressure in your abdomen increases. This can pump lymphatic fluid upwards from your legs and suck lymph from your arms and head to drainage points behind your clavicles. Your clavicles are one way valves, so toxins cannot go in reverse and are essentially being cleaned out of your body. To practice deep breathing:Lay on a flat surface, like a bed or a yoga mat on the floor. Take a deep breath through your nose. As you inhale, tilt your head back and point your feet away from you. Hold the breath for a count of 5, taking in as much air as you can.
Exhale slowly through your nose, and at the same time point your feet towards your head. Tilt your head so your chin moves closer to your chest.
Repeat these deep inhales and exhales for 8-10 breaths, breathing through your nose only. If you get lightheaded, don’t be alarmed as this is a natural response to deep breathing.
Try to practice deep breathing at least once a day, for 8-10 breaths.
 A weekly soak in a sauna or steam bath can facilitate a healthy sweat, allowing you to sweat out toxins in your body. Natural health practitioners believe saunas and steam baths can also support your lymphatic function.After a long soak in a sauna or steam bath, be sure to drink lots of water to flush out toxins in your body and to allow your lymph system to do its job.
 Acupuncture is a health care system that originated in China. The general theory of acupuncture if based on patterns of energy flow (Qi) through your body that are essential for health. Disruptions of this flow are believed to be responsible for disease and illness.One of the major focuses of acupuncture is on de-clogging your lymphatic system. Before you undergo lymphatic system acupuncture, check that the acupuncturist is a trained and certified practitioner.Side effects of acupuncture can include infections from unsterilized needles and a partial collapse of your lung due to accidental puncture of your lung with a needle. If your acupuncturist has the correct training and hygiene standards, these side effects should be minimal.