 You'll want to make sure you have either three or four chairs or a table to create the base of the cubby house. You'll also need some blankets, bed sheets, pillows, and/or bean bags. Pegs or some heavy hangers are also good to have so you can secure your cubby., Anywhere will do, as long as you have enough room to build your cubby. A big, open space, like a living room or basement is a good choice.
 There are a couple of different ways to construct an indoor cubby house.


If using chairs: Put your chairs in a circle with their backs facing inwards. Now drape a couple of bed sheets or blankets over the chairs and secure with pegs or heavy items (like a large book or paperweight) so your cubby doesn’t collapse in the middle.
Alternatively, use a fitted shit and drape the fitted ends over the backs of the chairs. This creates a stable structure that won't collapse. Then, use the remaining sheets to drape over the roof to the ground. Make sure there’s a flap at the front for the entrance.If using a table: Put the table where you want the cubby house to be. Put as many blankets or sheets as you need to cover the whole table so you can't see inside.
 Place some blankets on the floor to make the space nice and warm. Bring in pillows, bean bags and any other items you think will make the cubby cozy and comfortable.You could also bring in a mattress and place that on the ground. However, it is recommended that if you decide to bring in a large piece of furniture into your cubby that you build the cubby AROUND the furniture. If you build the exterior first, there's a good chance that when you are bringing everything inside, the cubby will get knocked down., Supply your cubby house with snacks, games, reading material, and toys. You can also invite some cubby buddies to join you!You can also leave the cubby empty (except for maybe a friend!) and instead use your imagination to play. This is your private area so you can be free and creative.
 Enjoy your cozy fort. After you've had enough fun inside, dismantle the cubby house and put back all materials.
 You will need several boxes, scissors, and masking tape.


Try to find a very large cardboard box, one that is big enough to fit small children or seated adults. The best boxes are those that come with a new dishwasher, fridge, or washing machine. If you aren't in the market for a new appliance, you can try asking at a big-box store if they have any spare large boxes that they're looking to get rid of.If you can't get your hands on one large box, you can create a cardboard space big enough for a cubby house by cutting the ends of several large boxes and connecting them with strong tape.
 If you have one very large box, you don't need to do anything here - your base is already made.


If you have several boxes, break them up until they're flat. If you want a taller cubby house, attach two boxes of the same size. Tape them together along their long sides; in essence, you're taping one long side of a broken-up box onto another.
To make the base of the cubby house, tape the the short ends of the boxes together to create a big square.
 Cut a large slit down one side of the box to make a door, but make sure to not cut down the whole side or else the box will be too flimsy. To make windows, you can cut away the top half of one of sides, or cut out smaller window "panes" to create a fancier window.You can also cut a door that you have to step in and out of. This means that you cut out your door (whatever size you like) ABOVE the floor, leaving a foot or two of box between the door and the floor. This is the best way to keep the box sturdy.If you want to get really creative, cut out diamond, star, or heart-shaped windows.It's best to draw windows and doors on your cardboard box with pen or pencil before cutting. That way you know exactly where to cut.When cutting windows and doors, make sure to leave plenty of box still "in tact" so the box will still be stable., Using two sides of a box, place the crease where the two sides met - the L-shape - on top of the base structure. You will probably want to slide a small piece of cardboard beneath the point of the roof and the base to hold up the roof.
 This is where you can use anything you have lying around the house: paper, markers, paint, glitter, cut-outs, ribbons, etc.


Use decorative wrapping paper to cover the outside of the house.
You could also paint or use markers to color and beautify the cardboard.
Add other decorative touches, like trimming the windows, adding names or words, etc.
 Fill the cubby house with blankets, sheets, and pillows. Decorate the inside with your own pictures and drawings. Alternatively, feel free just to color on the walls!

, Bring in games, books, snacks, and friends. Enjoy what you've just created!

