 Body lice live in the seams of clothing and feed on human blood. They are larger than head lice and easy to spot on the body. They are commonly found in areas where people live in very close quarters or don't have access to bathing and washing facilities. Body lice are easy to get rid of once access to these facilities is gained.To treat body lice, do the following:


Throw out the infested clothing. Lice can live up to a month in clothes. Instead of trying to save them, throw them out. Wash new clothing with hot water, and dry at a high temperature.
Take regular showers or baths and use soap.
Regularly wash clothing, bedding, and other linens.
Pediculicides are usually not necessary to get rid of body lice.
 Pubic lice, also known as crabs, is most commonly spread through sexual contact. They spread very easily from person to person. Pubic lice can also live in areas of the body with coarse hair, like the eyebrows, ears and armpits. The lice and their nits are easily visible. There are a few ways you can get rid of public lice:


Get an over-the-counter lotion containing 1% permethrin (such as Nix) or a mousse containing pyrethrins and piperonyl butoxide (such as Rid or Pronto). These chemicals effectively kill the lice. Use according to the instructions on the package. Do not use them around your eyes, brows, or eyelashes.
Remove the lice with a nit comb.
Wash your clothes and underwear in very hot water.
Soak combs and other items in hot water for 5 minutes.
Shave the pubic region. Getting rid of the hair the lice cling to is effective, especially in combination with the chemical treatment.
Monitor the area for signs of new lice. It may be necessary to undergo a second treatment.
Inform any sexual partners from the previous month that they will need to be checked and treated.
Only use lindane shampoo as a last resort. It's effective but studies have shown it has a negative effect on the brain., Canine lice cannot be transmitted to humans (nor human lice to canines), but they can make your dog very uncomfortable. There are two types of canine lice: trichodectes canis, known as a chewing louse, and linognathus setosus, known as a sucking louse.Take your dog to the veterinarian. It's important to make sure that what your dog has is actually lice.
Use a powder, spray or other treatment at the advice of your veterinarian.
Wash the dog's bedding and everything he has touched in very hot water.
Soak grooming tools in very hot water for 5 minutes.

