 Reducing your reliance on a personal vehicle will not only save you a significant amount of money, it may also make your commute a bit easier. In fact, living in a big city often makes it possible to live without a vehicle entirely. Almost every major city has a reliable, inexpensive method of public transportation, whether this is a bus system, subway, or light rail system.The cost of owning and using a personal vehicle in a big city are higher than you might expect. For instance: parking, tolls, tickets, and gas are all important to think about.
 Not only will you be happier and healthier if you ride your bike everyday, it’s often the quickest way to travel, unless you need to go all the way to the other side of town. If you need to get a bike, look for a local bike co-op to start your search. They can point out the best places to get bikes locally, and otherwise get you back in the saddle.


Craigslist is also a great source for inexpensive, used bikes of all sorts.
Many big cities have weekly or monthly social rides. Sometimes these are incorporate themes and stops along the way

, Sure, framing it this way makes it sound like an assignment from business class. However you want to think of it, it’s important to plan according to your income, financial responsibilities, and the cost-of-living in your area.Start by compiling a list of your expenses. Be sure to include regular monthly expenses, as well as more frequent smaller purchases, for items like groceries or social activities. Carry a notepad around and record each purchase to help keep track of what you're spending.
Record your income closely too, especially if you don't have a regular income.
With this information in front of you, you'll be able to see areas where you can potentially reduce spending, or realize you need to earn more income.
 Getting by on a budget takes a good amount of discipline. Fortunately, if you’re able to control your spending - despite all the bright lights and convincing advertisements in a big city - you’ll also be able to reward yourself from time to time.For instance, tell yourself, “Alright, Johnny, go two weeks without ordering pizza and you can take yourself to that new bar specializing in hop-flavored hot dogs over in Echo Park.”

, Even with disciplined spending and careful budgeting, your income might not quite keep up. Fortunately, big cities offer plenty of part-time employment opportunities. Service industry jobs can be especially lucrative, and you can likely find a spot to work one or two nights a week to help pad your pockets with a bit of spending money.Other opportunities include walking dogs or driving for a ride-sharing or food-delivery company. Many of these operate exclusively through apps you can operate from your phone.

