 The key to enhancing your dog’s recall is to get them to form a strong association between the recall word and obeying the command. If you use multiple words, your dog will get confused and won’t form a strong association.Choose simple words like “come,” or “over here.”

, If the word you currently use to recall your dog doesn’t work, choose a different word. It’s much harder to retrain your dog to respond differently to a word than it is to teach them a new word.Be consistent in your use of the words. Make it your mantra that when you recall your dog you always use the same words.
Additionally, encourage your family members to use the same recall word you do.
 Say to your friends and family, “I am enhancing my dog’s recall. Would you like to help me?” Invite them to join you in a recall enhancement session. For instance, get a few friends or family members together and form a circle around your dog. Give each friend or family member a treat. Take turns asking your dog to come. When the dog goes to the right person, the person who commanded it to come can give it verbal praise and a treat.Remind your family and friends to use the same recall word you do.
Insist that any children in your household do not play chasing games with your dog. Dogs who develop a taste for evasion will be difficult to train for recall.
 If you get angry at your dog or attempt to punish it during training, it will immediately lose positive associations with the recall word. Do not get frustrated when your dog doesn’t respond the way you want it to. Instead, focus on rewarding compliance.If your dog is not responding to a recall command, change the wording. Once your dog has consistently not responded to a particular command, they will not be able to form a strong positive association with obeying that command.
If your dog fails to respond to a command for a long time, but finally comes, you should still reward your dog. Do not grab your dog by the collar or say “bad dog.” This will make the dog think that obeying your command will get them negative attention and they will learn to avoid you when you recall.

