 There are many factors that affect your quality of sleep. It is important to address your anxieties, but there are other ways that you can help yourself sleep, too. One way is to improve your sleeping area.Make sure your bedroom is at the right temperature. The ideal temperature for sleep is around 65°F (18.3°C).
Avoid exposure to light. Your room should be dark and there should not be any glow from electronics. This means turning off your phone and your tv. Wear a sleep mask if your room is not dark enough.
Limit the noise. Make sure your environment is quiet. If there is a lot of street noise, consider investing in a sound machine.
 One of the most effective ways of improving your sleep is to get into a routine. Try to go to bed at the same time each evening. You should also get up at the same time each day.Avoid sleeping in on weekends. Your body will get into a natural sleep rhythm if you stick to a consistent schedule.
Try not to nap. Although can afternoon nap can seem delightful at times, try to avoid it. Napping can cause you to lie awake at night, and might increase your worries.
Try to move around after dinner. Sometimes people eat a big meal and then doze on the couch. That can disrupt your sleep later. Instead, take a walk around the block.
 To ease your mind at night, try some focused mental exercises. Relaxation techniques promote restful sleep and can help you avoid your late night worries about fire or other disasters. There are many variations you can try.One method is to do a body scan. Lie in a comfortable position on your back. In turns, spend several seconds focusing on each area of your body.
For example, focus on your shoulders. Imagine any tension you feel going away.
As you focus on each body part, try to also be aware of your breath. Focus on breathing in and out evenly.
When you are focusing on other things (your body and breath) your brain will not have time to worry about fire.
You can also look for guided meditations. Consider downloading an app to your phone to help you learn focusing activities.
 Worries can keep you awake at night. Big worries, such as fires, and small worries, such as making a grocery list, are both related to sleepless nights. Try to find ways to relieve your stress before bed.Make a to-do list each evening. Writing down the next day's tasks can help clear your mind. You don't have to worry about forgetting something.
Take deep breaths. Cleansing breaths can help calm your mind. Breathe in deeply while counting to five, then exhale while counting to five.
Consider doing yoga before bed. Stretching and yoga postures can relax your mind and body, which can relieve stress and help you sleep.
 Routines can help calm your mind. Get in the habit of setting your mind at ease each night before bed. For example, you can walk around your house to make sure you have locked all of the doors.If you have a specific fear, such as fires, you can get in the habit of checking to make sure there are no candles burning or other obvious hazards.
Your routine doesn't have to take long. It can make you feel more at peace just to check your bedtime ritual off your to-do list.
Your ritual can also include other soothing tasks. Take a moment to spray a lavender linen spray on your sheets. The scent promotes restful sleep.

