 There are many different possibilities for changing, enhancing, and downplaying your own natural features and age. Purchase a good book that contain instructions on shading, highlighting, etc. techniques for reshaping your features and for covering up blemishes.;
, Quality clothing is an incredible supporter of your looks, no matter what your age. Don't let yourself down by wearing dowdy clothing when you could show off your looks to their best advantage in good clothes.
 If you are considering plastic surgery because you are feeling saggy or poorly toned, exercise might be the solution. There are so many possibilities that could work, including yoga, cycling, pilates, aerobics, swimming, etc. that it pays to do your research and to try a few out. Read about the benefits of each type of exercise to work out which areas of your body the exercise will target best.
 Posture is a very important part of keeping us looking youthful and helping us to stay flexible. If you don't know whether or not you have good posture, see a professional and get assessed. Pay attention to their advice on how to improve your posture. Once you practice these exercises, you might be amazed at the results in your overall appearance.
 Some aspects of your looks might be able to be improved with different nutrition. For example, you might be able to reduce puffiness, bloating, rashes, etc., by dietary changes. Seek professional help. Drink plenty of water as well; this can help keep your system clean and functioning properly, thereby removing impurities from your system.
 These indulgences age human beings very quickly and are definitely one thing that you can avoid.
 This cliché exists for a reason – adequate sleep rejuvenates. Don't sleep too little or too much; know the amount of sleep that works for you and keep this routine with great regularity.
 Think kind thoughts. How you feel on the inside is reflected on the outside and if you feel grumpy and irritable, you will get more frown lines, and a sallow demeanor than if you smile more and radiate cheerfulness. While this is not a given alternative to plastic surgery, feeling better inside and feeling better about yourself is one way to curb the desire to even seek plastic surgery in the first place.
 Sometimes a wish to get plastic surgery stems from not loving yourself as you are and from having low self-esteem. If this is the case, it is wiser to put your efforts into learning to love yourself than to undergoing the knife.

