 One way to be more relaxed is to, when possible, remove yourself from the situation. For example, if you are in a big fight with your partner, you could excuse yourself and say something like "This is really stressing me out and I just need a 30 minute break to help clear my head and calm down, then I will gladly continue the conversation." Keep in mind that it may not always be possible to disengage from your stressful situation, but try to look for little breaks where you can get them.;
, Use your favorite shampoo or bubble bath formula and let the bubbles fill the tub. Just sink in and close your eyes and do your best to get your mind off whatever has been stressing you out.


Try to keep in mind that, in the current moment, all that matters is you enjoying and relaxing in your bath. You can deal with your problems another time; what matters now is pure relaxation.
 Try to let your mind go free while thinking of the nature that you are in. If it is sunny out, soak up those rays. If it is raining, listen closely to the pounding of the raindrops on the things in your environment. If it is cold, watch your breath as you breathe slowly in and out. The key is to be present in the moment, with nature, so as to clear your mind from what you are stressed about.


Studies show that being in awe of nature can be good for your health; this can combat the negative health impacts of stress and help increase your well-being., Stress and negative feelings often go hand in hand; one way to be more relaxed and combat your stress is to try to make yourself feel happier with some tricks of the trade. There are a few different ways to feel more positive:


Try smiling. The facial feedback hypothesis suggests there is a bi-directional relationship between the facial muscles and emotions. While typically you feel happy and so smile, you can also smile to feel happy.To force yourself to smile, you can try holding a pencil between your teeth so that the eraser part is at the left side of your mouth and the writing part is at the right side of your mouth.
Spend money or some of your time on other people. Research shows that doing so can increase the happiness of the donor.Do some physical activity to get your endorphin levels up, which can make you feel happier., Generally, you can do one of two things when faced with stress: you can try to change the situation or your response to it.Sometimes, you may be powerless to change the source of your stress, but in these cases you can still choose how to respond to the stressors. Consider some questions when deciding your approach.


Can you avoid the stressor? This isn't always appropriate — if you are always fighting with your husband and choose to get up and leave the room instead of working out your issues, then avoidance is not a good tactic. But if your stressor is a coworker who has no influence over your work or isn't a part of your team, then it may be smart to avoid him in order to keep your own stress levels down. Another example of when avoidance is appropriate is if you are stressed out by traffic — avoid the congestion by taking the train or going to work earlier, thereby avoiding the weekday traffic jam.
Can you alter the stressor in some way? While some stressors can’t be avoided, in some cases you can still alter the stressor to some degree. For example, you and your romantic partner will have disagreements at some point; this is natural for all relationships, even the best of them. However, these arguments can be less stressful if you and your partner have made a plan or discussed how to deal with conflict. For example, you may agree to go to separate rooms to calm yourselves down during a heated argument; use "I" language do express your feelings; never blame or shame or use negative language ("You never...", "You always...", "It really sucks when..."); avoid yelling and name-calling; agree to disagree and/or compromise; and so on.
Can you adapt to the stressor? Sometimes you can change your behavior to reduce stress, even if you can’t change the situation. Again using the example of rush-hour traffic, if you frequently find yourself stressed by rush-hour traffic, you can’t change that: you have to get to work, and rush-hour traffic is a worldwide problem. However, you could alter your approach by taking the bus to work, changing your driving route, or leaving at a time outside the window of rush hour traffic.
Can you accept the stressor? Some stressors can't be changed or altered. For example, you largely can't change others' behavior or thoughts. Or, you can’t change that it rained on your wedding day. However, you can work to accept these as things beyond your control and let go of your need to control them. You can also view them as learning experiences from which you can grow.
You can combine these responses to resolve your stress. We often use many techniques at once throughout the day to cope with one problem or issue.

