 Take mental notes whenever your girlfriend mentions things that her mom might like or be interested in. Listen to her stories and the things that matter to her about her mom – these might be things that matter to her mom as well.Be prepared to ask questions of her life motivations, like what led her to a certain profession or what made her take the leap to move to a different city. Does she vacation somewhere for a solo travel journey every summer? Take mental notes of details your girlfriend reveals about that to delve more into those topics with questions later.Bringing subject matters up based on things you’ve heard your girlfriend say is a great indicator of your level of care and attention to detail in regards to the mother.;
, First impressions mean a lot to most people because you’ll never be able to make a second one, so the first one has to count. Even if keeping it casual in sweatpants or Jordan’s is your preference, wear something fancier when you meet her mom for the first time.When coming up with an outfit, think business casual. It’s a happy medium between too formal and too informal. If you’re a guy, wear jeans, a button up, a blazer, and some nice dress shoes. If you’re a girl, you can wear a nice jumpsuit or a dress – skip the jeans. And don’t forget to go heavy on ironing.
Make sure your grooming habits are on par with your styling. If you’re a guy, make an appointment to visit the barber, shave or trim your facial hair, spritz on some cologne. If you’re a girl, make an appointment with the salon, touch up your roots, get a trim, wear a nice fragrance, or wear some makeup if that’s your thing. Looking put together is another way to exude that you’re together in other areas of your life as well.
 It’s never wise to go to someone else’s home empty handed, and doubly so when first meeting the parent(s). Ask your girlfriend for gift ideas that she thinks her mother might like, or keep it classic by purchasing a bouquet of flowers. If you go that route, bring some flowers for your girlfriend as well, so she’s not empty-handed and knows you’re thinking of her too., Prepare to make a lot of eye contact, to smile sincerely and with warmth, and to address her mom as “Ms.” Or “Mrs.” If you aren’t accustomed to it, practice saying “yes ma’am” and “no ma’am” as signs of respect for her mother.If her household isn’t one that puts a heavy weight on formalities, adapt accordingly, but always begin with the formal. If her mom insists on you calling her by her first name, then you can scale back. You always want to err on the side of being too polite than not polite enough.
Practice having overall confidence in yourself to possess the demeanor that’s closest to the real you when you’re in her mother’s presence. When you’re sure of yourself, it gives others room to be sure about you too.

