 In Little Cup, you can only use first-stage Pokémon that can evolve, except for any Pokémon that are banned from the tier. All Pokémon must be level 5. For a full list of rules used for Little Cup, see this Smogon ruleset.
 You'll want a team that has both offensive Pokémon and defensive Pokémon, including one that's built to set up field hazards such as Stealth Rock and Spikes. Once you decide on your team, decide on their movesets, held items, natures, abilities, and EV spreads. While most Pokémon caught at level 5 would have weak attacks such as Scratch and Tackle, that's not what you want here. Treat your team like you would any other competitive team - give them egg moves, Move Tutor moves, and/or TM moves. For example, a good moveset for Charmander would be Fire Blast, Ancient Power, Dragon Pulse, and Hidden Power., Preferably, you'll want at least 5 IVs at the maximum possible value of 31; at least 2 of them being the main stats you'll use. You'll also want a nature that benefits the Pokémon. Using the Charmander example again, you would want the 2 perfect IV values to be in Special Attack and Speed, with a Modest (increases Special Attack and decreases Attack) or Timid (increases Speed and decreases Attack) nature. The best way to get a 5 IV Pokémon would be to breed it with a Ditto holding a Destiny Knot (guarantees that at least 5 of the combined IVs from the two Pokémon being bred will be passed down to the baby) that has 6 IVs, but if you don't have one, you can use the power items. The power items guarantee that the Pokémon holding it will pass the IV of the stat down to the baby. This requires "chain" breeding, which you can also use to get egg moves. For the Charmander example, you would want to pass down perfect IV values in Special Attack and Speed using the Power Lens (passes down Special Attack) and the Power Anklet (passes down Speed). To pass down natures, have the Pokémon with the nature you want hold an Everstone, which will pass the nature of the Pokémon holding it to the baby., In Pokémon X, Y, Omega Ruby, and Alpha Sapphire, you don't have to gain levels to give your Pokémon EVs. By using Super Training, you can give your Pokémon EVs using training bags and regimens. For the Charmander example, you'll want to use the training bags and regimens that give Special Attack and Speed EVs. The higher level the regimen you play, the more EVs a Pokémon will get. Completing regimens will get you training bags, which you can use to increase your Pokémon's EVs. Once you're done giving your Pokémon EVs, you can use Rare Candies or wild Pokémon that give low amounts of experience to level your Pokémon up to level 5. In the earlier games, EV training a Pokémon to level 5 is much harder - you have to separate the experience between your party in a battle enough so that the Pokémon you're training doesn't get too much experience, though the vitamin items make it easier (albeit being expensive)., Many popular items used in competitive play, such as the Life Orb, Focus Sash, and "Choice" items (locks a Pokémon into one move while increasing Attack, Special Attack, or Speed) can be bought at a battle facility using Battle Points (BP) that you get from winning battles there. There will also often be Move Tutors, which can teach Pokémon moves that they wouldn't normally be able to learn otherwise. Take advantage of these, along with egg moves and TMs and HMs, to build your perfect Little Cup team.