 This may sound easier said than done when you need to provide a fast answer on the spot. However, you can calm yourself by using relaxation techniques, such as:



Take deep breaths. You'll slow your heart rate and move more oxygen to your brain.
Repeat a positive and affirming message to yourself. This could be as simple as "I've got this." If you often face situations that require quick thinking, you might prepare in advance so a specific phrase comes to mind.

Tense your muscles for a few seconds and then release. The effort will help you concentrate. Choose muscles that cannot be seen such as biceps or thigh muscles -- you don't want to show stress to your questioner.;
, Ensure that you're properly interpreting what the questioner is asking by looking directly at him or her and paying close attention to the question. Remove all distractions, such as by putting away your cell phone, turning off the TV, and closing your laptop.


You can also study your questioner's body language. As the person asks the question, focus on his or her eyes, facial expressions, and body positions. For example, if the person is making eye contact, smiling, and facing towards you, then these are all good indications that he or she is interested in what you have to say. However, keep in mind that facial expressions can be misleading. People are good at masking how they feel with their facial expressions., If you do not understand the question, then politely ask the questioner to repeat the question. It is important to make sure you fully understand what the person is asking. This will give you a little more time to think as well.


Try saying something like, “Can you please repeat the question?”

, You can also repeat the question to yourself to make it easier to understand. Saying it out loud to yourself may help you to understand it better and it will also give you more time come up with an answer.


Don't be afraid to ask clarifying questions. If the question is unclear or uses unfamiliar jargon, a simple clarification could allow you to quickly and competently provide a response. Try saying something like, “Can you please explain what ___ means?” Or, “I don’t quite understand. Can you please rephrase the question?”

, Focusing on one point and one supporting piece of information will help target your initial response. Avoid getting hung up on extraneous detail. If your questioner wants to know more, he or she will ask a follow-up -- and meanwhile, you've demonstrated you can think fast and provide information quickly.For example, if your questioner asks, “How long have you worked in sales?” then your response should be brief. You might respond, “About eight years.” Don’t go into detail about all of the places you have worked in those eight years unless your questioner asks you to do so.

