 It's important to have a credit limit that will suit your needs but that does not allow you to build up so much debt that you would have a hard time paying it off. Are you applying for a credit card because you need to make a specific purchase? Are you just trying to build up your credit history? These two situations probably require different credit limits.


In some cases you will have little control over the credit limit you receive. Banks and credit card companies usually determine this by analyzing your credit history and financial situation. That said, if you want a higher credit limit than what is offered to you it doesn't hurt to ask for an increase.;
, Once you realize what kind of customer you are, you will be able to prioritize credit card features that will benefit you.


Do you often carry a credit card balance? If so, you'll want to focus on cards with low interest rates.Do you always pay your card balance off each month? Then choose credit cards with free rewards and no yearly fees.
 While it may not always feel like this, getting a credit card means that you are in business with the company issuing it. Remember that you are going to have to deal with them to pay your bills and if there are any problems, so choose a company that you consider reliable and trustworthy at the least.
 Keep in mind which features are most important for your needs, e.g., interest rate, rewards formula, etc, and be sure to read the fine print.


There are web pages and magazines that rate the best credit cards or otherwise compare their features. These may help you to know where to look for the best deal.
 It may be convenient and it may simplify your monthly bills to have your bank accounts and your credit card accounts at the same institution.
 There are many credit cards that specialize in a certain kind of customer and sometimes give that demographic a really good deal. For instance many unions, fraternal organizations, and employers have these kind of deals.


Are you a student? There are cards designed and targeted just for you.
Do you run a small business? You may want a card that makes it easy to separate business expenses from personal expenses. There are cards for this very situation.
Figure out if businesses you shop at frequently offer a credit card. It may benefit you to get a department store credit card if the rewards are great enough and you spend money there regularly anyway.
 Credit card companies make most of their money through charging interest on the balances you don't pay off. These interest rates can be huge and in turn can cost you a huge amount of money in the long run if you don't pay your balance every month. It is really important to try to get the lowest interest rate you possibly can if you know you will usually have a balance on your card.


Interest is usually calculated based on the average daily balance on your card.However, most cards have a grace period that allows you to avoid paying interest if you pay the balance in full within a certain period of time. Be sure to check that the cards you are interested in applying for have these grace periods.
Many cards offer a special introductory interest rate. Be sure to find out how long that will last and what the interest rate will be once the special ends.
Unfortunately, if you have a history of handling credit poorly, you may be forced to seek out higher interest rate cards that accept those with bad credit.
 Many cards, especially those that give you rewards, like miles towards free flights, will charge you a yearly fee to have the card. Decide if the cost is worth the benefit to you in the long run.
 What does the company charge for a late payment or if you go over your credit limit? While you hopefully will never have to pay these fines, it's important to know what you are getting yourself into, especially if you are prone to forgetting to pay your bills or miscalculating how much credit you have left.
 You can apply online, send in a "pre-approved" application you received in the mail, or you can visit your local bank or credit union to apply in person.


Review the fine print one more time before you apply for a credit card. Make sure that you know all of the stipulations that you are agreeing to.
Only apply for one credit card at a time. It can hurt your credit to apply for (and to have) too many credit cards.
You will usually receive your card in one to two weeks if you have been accepted.
In most cases, you will also receive notice if you have been rejected for the card. In that case, you will need to begin your search for a credit card again.

