 A CPAP machine is often the first treatment suggested for sleep apnea, though it is not a dental device. It provides a steady flow of air to you through a mask, helping to keep your airway clear and unobstructed. Unfortunately, many people find the mask uncomfortable to wear, and therefore, end up not using it.To adjust to wearing the mask, try putting it on for a little while each day, then adding air pressure once you're comfortable. Once you start wearing it to bed, make sure to use it every time you sleep to help you adjust easier.
 You may find you have difficulty adjusting to the forced air pressure. If that's the case, you may try a "ramp" feature, which increases the air pressure over time. In other words, you start with a lower pressure as you fall asleep, and it slowly moves up to a higher pressure. Other machines will adjust automatically to your different breathing patterns, making it easier to sleep., One step you can take to make your CPAP device more comfortable is to pick a different size mask. Masks come in all different sizes, and you may not be the same size across brands. In addition, most are adjustable to make them more comfortable.If you don't know how to adjust your mask, ask. Your doctor or a person at the place you bought the machine should be able to help.
 CPAP masks come in a wide variety of styles. One style may not suit you, but you may find another that does. Finding the right kind of mask for your particular needs can make the mask much more comfortable and usable.For instance, if you tend to knock your mask off, you may want one that has straps across both your cheeks and forehead, as that's more secure than other masks.
However, if a mask with secure straps makes you uncomfortable, you might try one with a nasal pillow instead, which only strap under your nose. You can also see over this type of mask better.
You may also need to choose a different mask or tubing if you end up with a runny nose after using the machine, which could indicate you are allergic to part of it.If you feel uncomfortable wearing a mask, ask about newer devices, such as the micro CPAP. These new styles eliminate the hoses and other accessories by only placing a small device into your nostrils.
 If you end up with a dry mouth after using your CPAP machine, you can try making the air more humid. Most machines have this capability already built in. Adding moisture to the air, particularly during cold, dry months, can help cut down on dry mouth.A dry, stuffy nose can also be caused by low humidity in the machine. You can also try a saline spray before bed to help with your nose.Follow your machine's instructions for using the humidifying chamber.
 Your mask should not be on so tightly that is irritating your skin or causing you discomfort. If it leaks or won't stay on your face, you may need to make adjustments. Change the length of the straps, and adjust the pads to try to get a better fit.You may also need to consider another style of mask, as other brands or styles may fit your face better.