 If you're hard on yourself all the time, you'll make life hard for yourself. You don't deserve all that constant negativity and while it is important to focus on what needs self-improving, this should not be at the expense of your self-confidence. Tell yourself you're a great person who can do anything you put your mind to. Every time a negative or critical thought pops into your head, dismiss it with a positive thought that says "Yes, but I am healthy/clever/capable, etc." instead. Repeat this exercise regularly for best effect.;
, However much of your life lies before you, be it 80 years or be it 10, you can make the most of the years ahead by giving yourself a direction. So, what do you want to do with your life?


Do you want a new career, a new business, a new hobby or a new volunteering role?
Do you want a new boyfriend/girlfriend? Do you want a new platonic friends?
Do you want to lose or gain weight?
Do you want to set out on an adventure of a lifetime?
Do you just want to be able to get your life in order?


Whatever the reason, firming it up exactly in your mind will help you begin to focus on it and work towards it.
 you will do it! Take a pen and a notebook, one that you can carry about with you. From now on, write down all your thoughts and plans and related tasks for the future. Write down the specifics of how you will set about doing the things that you are aiming for, including budget, travel, gear, etc.
 Start out slowly and work your way towards an achievable goal. When that's done, move onto another achievable goal. As you gain in confidence, start to tackle the harder goals that you have set yourself.


Each time you have achieved a task treat yourself with a small present.
 You need to take care of yourself and appreciate yourself. This isn't about being selfish; the more you have taken care of your confidence-building and sorted out your own issues, the freer you are to assist others to find the same pathway and to be generous with your time, knowledge and skills.
 Confidence grows when you give yourself the chance to do what you're good at and then build on that. It grows when you cease to put yourself down and start to recognize the good things about yourself. It can also grow when you let go of the expectations that you feel other people have of you.
 Sometimes you may feel that other people are standing in your way, causing you to feel "less" of a person or to put down your own endeavors. Criticism is commonplace from others but not all of it is constructive or from a place of true concern for your well-being. Learn to sort between the unhelpful barbs that seek to prevent you from reaching your full potential and the feedback that is actually aimed at helping you to grow in the right direction. It can take a little time to sort this out but it is worth it and you'll know in your gut what is sound advice and what is simply obstructive. Remember that many people are carrying their own confidence concerns and some of them are insecure enough to try to pass their worries on to you too.