 Moisture promotes the growth of bacteria, which are the root cause of most foot odor, so if you are prone to foot odor you should let your feet "air out" as often as possible.


Going barefoot whenever it is safe and appropriate to do so will help your feet remain dry.
Socks made from natural fibers like cotton or wool are more breathable than most synthetic materials. Wearing more breathable socks will help your feet remain dry, and free from odor.
Sprinkling a natural deodorizer like talcum powder or baking soda on your feet before putting your socks and shoes on will help them remain dry throughout the day.
 This will keep the growth of odor-causing bacteria on your feet in check by killing already present bacteria, and removing dirt and dead skin which can promote their growth. Pay special attention to the gaps between your toes, and be sure to thoroughly dry your feet after washing. , Fragrant essential oils, like tea tree and lavender oils, not only provide a pleasant scent to mask foot odor, they also contain natural disinfectants which can slow the growth of odor-causing bacteria., Dissolve half a cup of kosher salt in a liter (about 4 cups) of warm water in a basin or bucket large enough for you to comfortably rest both feet in, and allow your feet to soak in the solution for 15 minutes, then allow them to air dry. Salt is an effective disinfectant, and the salt which remains on your feet after they have air-dried will help keep your feet dry and free from bacteria.Epsom salt is a popular alternative to kosher salt, and can be prepared in the same way. Simply substitute 1/4 cup of epsom salt for the 1/2 cup of kosher salt.
You can soak your feet in this manner as often as you like, even daily. If the skin on your feet becomes irritated or over-dry, reduce the frequency of the salt soaks, or use a different kind of soak.
Other natural alternatives for soaking include lemon juice (use about half a lemon's worth per liter of water), white or apple cider vinegar (about 1/4 cup per liter) or baking soda (2 tablespoons per liter). Soaking your feet in black tea is another all-natural alternative to a salt bath. Add 5 bags of black tea to 4 cups of boiling water, and allow the tea to steep and cool to a comfortable temperature before using.
 This can help reduce the presence of odor-causing bacteria, which feed on dead skin. It is best to exfoliate after you wash or soak your feet, as moisture makes dead skin easier to remove.

