 Many schools have a club called the Gay-Straight Alliance. The goal of this organization is to bring respect to all people, regardless of their sexual orientation or gender identity. People who are LGBTQ and those who are straight can unite to support one another. People who are straight can learn to be allies to LGBTQ people and stand up for them when they feel threatened or bullied.If your school doesn’t have a Gay-Straight Alliance, you can start one! Contact the organization to learn more.
If you’re a teacher, offer to volunteer as a staff member.
 Even bullies can change their minds with some thoughtful conversation. However, don’t go right into talking about facts and statistics. Get a person to be more open-minded by having them share something about themselves. Bonding over a project, shared interest, or goal can help to bring people closer together. By reflecting on something that makes them feel good (like a success, positive feedback, or a great experience), people tend to be more open-minded to other perspectives and ideas.Then, talk about how bullying is hurtful, and that sexuality is none of their business.


If someone makes a homophobic joke or slur, be quick to shut it down. Even when meant to be funny, these comments can be hurtful.
If you’re a parent or teacher, correct any inappropriate comments and make sure kids know it’s not okay to joke about gender identity or sexuality in a negative way.
 If you know someone who gets bullied, ask them what you can do to help. They may want someone walking with them to classes or have someone to sit next to on the bus. Be available to people who are bullied and be an advocate for them. If you are being bullied, don’t be afraid to reach out to people for help.Let them know you’re willing to be there for them and stand up for them.
 Get involved in campaigns that encourage people to stand up to homophobic comments. Spread awareness of LGBTQ issues, mental health problems, and personal safety.


November 14-18 is Stand Up Awareness Week Against LGBTQ Bullying. See if you can get involved in your school or local LGBTQ safe space.
See if there are local organizations in your town that support LGBTQ rights and awareness and join in.

