 The closet to preppy you can ever get are the polos that they sell. If you must (or you'll die) wear a single thread I'd advise you to go for a Hollister polo during a sale and purchase it in a color no one has.;
, Head straight to Pink by Victoria's Secret and purchase jackets without the huge logo unless you bought it specially for exercise. Urban Outfitters,Marshall's are great stores but never Ross the stitching and fabric choice is gross.Make sure all the clothing you buy no matter how expensive has thick stitching and durable fabric. That is the key to looking rich. The "richer" clothing is on the higher quality meaning the durability and design.Not the tacky faux classy label tattooed on the chest of your shirt. Check for sales everyday and I'd advise you to sign up for email sale offers. Do not be afraid to use the "dreadful" coupons. Read teen vogue for inspiration. Fill your Closet with clothes you can afford not what your friend can.
 Lacoste, J-Crew sweaters, J.Jill, LL Bean, you can easily pair with skinny jeans and a purse and like you cared.
 Accessories: Of course, here comes the ultimate Tiffany's subject. Their cheapest products might be 200 dollars, which might make a nice present of some sort. But, take your preppy butt back to Claire's, because there, you could get any kind of accessories you want. But, you have to be careful, as they carry not only preppy stuff, but rocker styles, and over-all girly. Watch out Claire's is known to be full of Hannah Montana scarves and bracelets with Elmo so I'd go to Icing, Claire's older partner.Also at Icing's, they sell some cool glasses, so you could check them out. See also stores like, Aldo Accessories, Ardene, and Xcetera. Try them all on first, even if they are the most stylish things in the world, if you don't feel comfortable in them, don't buy them. Make sure you imagine wearing them daily first. Stock up on cool things, and move on to the next step.
 A not hot look is to get black eyeliner, and put it on the inside of you eye. Meaning not the eyeball, but the flat part next to your bottom eyelash line or you'll like like a stripper freshman who stole her mothers make up. Fresh faced looks are to layer Mascara , line your top eye with dark brown or black depending on your color add white or gold eyeshadow in the corner of your eyes and a fresh lip gloss ranging from light to dark, as it makes your eyes really pop out. If you can, invest in some cheap eyelash curlers that are $5.Just go out to Walmart for eyeliner, make sure it draws on smooth and doesn't skip or crumble.
 is a combination of stylish clothing some days and clean cut northeast Ivy League preppy other days.Fashion is for the insecure and style is forever.Meaning don't be a trend whore don't buy only peasant blouses because they are the "In" thing to do. Style is being able to work a pair of skinny jeans and a blazer like you stepped off a Ralph Lauren runway in 2020.

