 Although there is no cure for the flu, you can get vaccinated against the virus every year. This can strengthen your immunity against the condition during cold and flu season. Speak to your doctor about whether getting the flu vaccination is a good option for you.


You must get the flu vaccine every year. Your vaccine from the previous year does not carry over into the new flu season.
Anyone from the ages of six months to those over 65 years of age can receive a flu vaccine.(Over 65 can take Pneumococcal vaccine (Pneumovax) as well, which will vaccinate against Pneumonia.)
Be aware that some soreness is normal at the injection site.You may also be able to get the vaccine in the form of a nasal spray. Unlike the shot, this actually delivers a weakened version of the virus to your body, so you must have a strong and healthy immune system to use the nasal spray. If you are going through chemotherapy or are immunocompromised (from an organ transplant or a disease like HIV), you are ineligible for the spray.In addition, if you are regularly around someone who is immunocompromised, you should not use the spray.
Report any side effects such as fever, soreness or body aches to your doctor, especially if they are persistent.Obtain a copy of the Vaccine Information Statement. Anyone who gets a flu shot must receive a copy of this statement, which explains the type of vaccine you received as well as how it keeps you safe and eliminates flu epidemics., Unlike influenza, there is no vaccine for the common cold. The best way to prevent it is by adopting good hygiene habits and taking care of your overall health.Maintain a healthy diet, exercise regularly, wash your hands and so on.
 Try and avoid close and/ or prolonged contact with anyone you know has a cold or who exhibits signs of a cold. This may keep any bacteria or virus from invading your system and getting you sick.Try and kindly excuse yourself from situations with sick persons. For example, if a friend or colleague is speaking with you or wants to go out, simply say something like, “I’m so sorry, I need to excuse myself because I have a prior commitment.”
If the sick person lives with you, try and not share the same space as long as the person is sick.
 Make sure to not share items with anyone who is sick. This can minimize the risk of bacteria or virus invading your system.Consider using disposable utensils such as cups and forks while someone in your home is sick.
Label items to minimize the risk of contamination.
Wash any utensils about which you are unsure using hot water or, preferably, a dishwasher., Some people believe in the benefits of alternative medicine to prevent and relieve colds and the flu. Although there is no definitive scientific evidence that vitamin C, Echinacea, or zinc can prevent or relieve a cold or the flu, you may find these remedies work for you.


Despite popular myths to the contrary, there isn’t much evidence that taking Vitamin C can prevent a cold or nip one in the bud.Taking Echinacea at the first sign of a cold may decrease the severity and duration of your symptoms.Studies on Zinc have shown that it can reduce symptoms of a cold if taken within a day of symptoms starting.Avoid intranasal zinc, which may permanently damage your sense of smell.