 Most often, the sensation of ear pressure isn’t a blockage at all but a brief dysfunction of the Eustachian tube in your middle ear.You can force this tube open to equalize the pressure in your ear with various easy steps, including:Yawning
Chewing
Swallowing
Trying to exhale through your nose while pinching your nostrils closed
Common causes of Eustachian tube dysfunction include the common cold, flu, elevation changes, and exposure to air pollutants such as cigarette smoke.
 For sinus congestion that leads to ear pressure, you can also help reduce the pressure by simply staying hydrated. Fluids help to thin the mucus causing the pressure.Try to drink at least eight cups of water each day.
 By adding an additional pillow and keeping your head elevated, you make it easier for your sinuses to drain properly.This will help to reduce ear pressure., Try heating a towel and then placing the towel over your ear for several minutes. You can also place a cup over the portion of the towel covering your ear to help trap the heat., If the pressure is due to sinus congestion, you can also take a hot, steamy shower. This will help to thin and drain the mucus plugging your sinuses, which will help to relieve the pressure., A variety of different OTC products are available to help relieve ear pressure depending on the specific cause. Common options include:


Antihistamines - If your ear pressure is due to congestion from seasonal or environmental allergies, then you can take an antihistamine to help reduce symptoms.
Decongestants - If the pressure is from congestion due to a cold or the flu, then a cold and flu medicine with a decongestant will help to relieve the symptoms causing the pressure.
Cerumenolytics - These products essentially act the same way as olive oil to help soften the blockage if earwax is the cause of the pressure., If the pressure in your ear is causing pain and none of these options relieve the symptoms, then consider seeing your doctor. Your doctor will be able to diagnose the exact cause of the ear pressure and determine the appropriate treatment plan for your specific case.

