 If your fingernail has any nail polish on it, start by removing it. Use a cotton ball, pad or soft cloth, dampen it with nail polish remover (use acetone remover for dark colors and glitter polishes) and gently wipe over the surface of your nail. Make sure to rub in the direction of the break to prevent further tearing.;
, Use the finer-grit side of a regular emery board or the second-finest grit side of a 4-way buffer to gently even out and smooth the edges of your fingernail, again filing in the direction of the break. Because you will be applying a material, or a patch, to the surface of your nail bed that will be there for quite some time, you want to make sure it’s as smooth as possible. Therefore, use the coarser side of the emery board or the second-coarsest grit side of the buffer and run it along the entire surface of the nail to help buff away any ridges.Be careful to not apply too much pressure while you’re buffing, or you’ll damage your nail.
 The material you choose to use as the patch depends upon a variety of factors, such as what you have available, the strength or weakness of your nails and your activity level. You can use silk or fiberglass wraps, fabric or empty tea bags.Initially cut the material into a rectangle about the length and width of your fingernail. If you’re using a tea bag, cut off the top and empty it first. Now a) trim the width down just a bit so it won’t touch the skin on either side of your fingernail and b) trim the length so the material will cover half of your fingernail and extend from the tip of your fingernail about 1








Silk wraps, which you can buy online or at beauty supply stores, are thin, flexible, become practically invisible once you apply the sealant on top and are best for strong nails.
Fiberglass wraps, which you can also buy online and at beauty supply stores, are also very natural looking but are better for thin, weak nails.
Linen wraps, which include fabrics and tea bags, offer a lot of strength and typically last just as long as silk and fiberglass. They are thicker and more opaque, though, so they require more filing to blend and smooth into the nail., Using nail glue, put one drop on top of the break and one underneath the break. Never use super glue or any other glue that is not designed for use on human tissue. Use a toothpick or cuticle file to help spread it the length of the break. Hold it in place with either the toothpick or cuticle stick for 30-40 seconds, long enough for it to start setting but not so long that you’ll have trouble when you let go. Both will be fully dry in about 2 minutes.
 Apply a layer of clear base coat polish to your nail and immediately position the patch on it. Make sure about 1








Alternatively, you can use nail glue instead of a base coat., Take a pair of fingernail clippers or a pair of sewing or nail scissors and cut off the extra material at the tip of your fingernail. Next use the coarser-grit side of the emery board or the second-coarsest side of the buffer to gently even out a) the tip of your fingernail, b) the edges on the sides of your nail bed where the material meets the nail and c) the center ridge where the material is adhered to your nail bed. Then use the finer-grit side of the emery board or the second-finest grit side of the buffer and lightly smooth each area until you feel no bumps or ridges.








Do your best to buff in the direction of the break as much as you can.
 After you’re done filing and smoothing, wash your finger to get rid of any dust and stray bits of material. Dry it thoroughly with a clean cloth before applying another layer of base coat. Wait two minutes and then apply two layers of fingernail polish. You want to wait two minutes between each layer of polish, too. Finish it off with a clear top coat for extra strength.








Using a top coat will make your fingernail polish last longer, which is helpful in making the patch last longer. Using a lot of nail polish remover, whether it’s acetone or non-acetone, at one time or using it frequently will shift or remove the patch.
Nail glue, if that’s what you choose to use, will hold up better to non-acetone nail polish removers, even when used frequently. It won’t fare so well with an acetone remover, though you can minimize damage by using it sparingly.

