 As you accumulate sources, you'll probably find some written by your historical figure and others that were written about them. When evaluating someone’s own account of their life, think about how their words represent a particular ideology, politics, or the spirit of the historical era. Look for ways tone and descriptive choices represent your historical figure’s psychology.


For example, if you're researching Thomas Jefferson, pay attention to how his writings communicate which values he thought most important to establishing the United States. Pay attention to repeated words or phrases, and notice when he discusses people from his era and from farther back in the past. Take note of those people and ideas he discusses most favorably.
If you're evaluating something someone else wrote about your historical figure, ask what kind of argument the writer is trying to make. Are they celebrating the figure, is their tone negative, or is the account objective and balanced? Why did the author take the time to write the article or book you're reading?
Sometimes, what someone chooses not to include in a piece of writing is more revealing than what’s actually included. Familiarize yourself with your historical figure's timeline, and look for key events they didn't discuss in a memoir.
 As you begin to compile sources, organize them by topic and source category. One of your categories should be primary sources, which include documents written by your historical figure, government records, and published materials from the same time that your historical figure lived.Autobiographies and memoirs, which are what your historical person wrote about their own life, are important examples of primary sources.
You should absolutely read autobiographies and memoirs, but remember that they are first-person accounts. These can sometimes less reliable and less objective than biographies written by an outside observer or scholar about your historical figure.
 In addition to autobiographies and memoirs, primary sources include written observations, speeches, and other documents that offer a look into how your figure perceived their world. Look for diaries, journals, letters, articles, books, and similar sources. These will help you understand what the person you’re researching thought about other people, politics, economics, science, religion, and other ideologies and world events.Look to historical timelines in encyclopedias or textbooks to get an idea of important events that happened during your figure’s life or around the place where they lived.
 Finding secondary sources written by scholars who have studied the person you’re researching will help you put all the historical documents you tracked down into context. When looking for secondary sources, the word “authoritative” is a key search term. Look for the authoritative biography on your historical figure. Find the authoritative article or study on a particular historical event that involves the figure.If you've found a solid academic article about your historical figure, check its endnotes for a good, authoritative list of resources. Cross-checking to find which sources cite each other is an easy way to build up a list of books and articles that scholars find most valuable.
Remember to consider why the author has written the source. Find a key sentence, or thesis, that states what an article's argument is. Read and understand a book's introduction to see if the author has sketched their book's arguments.

