 It's important to drink water during a cold since it can liquefy sticky mucous in your airway, making it easier to expel and helping with decongestion. You should try to drink at least 8-10 glasses of water each day.


If drinking water bores you, you can add lemon to the water to make it more interesting. Not only does it improve the taste, but lemon contains lots of vitamin C which supports a stronger immune system.;
, Freshly made chicken soup is very effective in clearing your airways. It helps by sending steam to your lungs that can dissolve and liquefy secretions. Chicken soup is a delicious way of managing your cold., Rest is the most effective way to naturally recover from a cold, as the body’s ability to repair damaged cells and restore immunity is increased during sleep.


Rest is very important within the first 72 hours of illness. This is the crucial time frame within which your body needs rest to support faster recuperation.
It is recommended that you sleep for 8-10 hours per night when recovering from a cold.
 Sometimes, colds develop as a result of too much stress, which weakens the immune system. Therefore, it's a good idea to take a couple of days off work when you come down with a cold to rest and de-stress.


Once you're back at work, it is important to set aside at least one day a week where you rest and don't worry about work. This will give your body time to reset and get ready for the week ahead.
 If you are suffering from an itchy or sore throat, gargling with warm salt water can help you to feel better.


Salt attracts water, so as you gargle the saline solution it draws excess fluid from the inflamed tissue of the throat. Salt can also attract irritants and toxins and drains them from your throat.
Take ½ teaspoon of salt and dissolve it in an 8-ounce glass of warm water. Stir until the salt is completely dissolved. Gargle at least three times a day or as needed.
 If you are a smoker, it's a good idea to quit or at least take a break for a while. Not only does smoking cause a myriad of negative health effects, it can also prolong and aggravate your cold symptoms.


The smoke from cigarette contains at least 4000 toxins, which irritate the respiratory tract and cause breathing difficulties.
Quitting can be very difficult - it requires a strong sense of willpower and a good support network. For more information on how to quit smoking, see this article.
 As much as possible, blow your nose rather than sniffling mucus back into your airways. This will help to clear your head and allow you to feel less stuffed up.


However, it's important that you blow your nose properly. When done the wrong way, you can send some of the secretions and germs into your ear, potentially causing earaches or decreased hearings.
The best way to blow your nose is to press a finger over one nostril then blow gently until one nostril is clear. Do not force it or blow your nose too hard just to drain mucus out of your airway, as cause your nasal passages to become even more inflamed.
 There’s a reason they call it a “cold”. Your body is more effective in battling viral infections in a warm environment. This explains why you sometimes have fever when you are sick, as your body increases its temperature in order to kill pathogens.


You can stay warm by increasing the temperature of your room. You can also stay near a fireplace, put on an extra coat, and avoid getting wet.
Try having a steamy bath. The steam will moisturize your airway and liquefy mucus. It will also add warmth to your chest and back that can dissolve secretions in the lungs.
 Get a mentholated salve and apply it under your nose. This can open up your nasal passages and deliver instant relief from breathing difficulties due to phlegm and mucus.


Look for salve that has menthol, camphor, or eucalyptus as its main ingredient. The menthol effect of this salve will help you to relax and breathe easier.

