 What you consistently tell yourself has a significant impact on your attitude, especially regarding training. Tell yourself that you can achieve your goals, that you want to practice hard, and that you can always improve.Never say to yourself, “I’ll work on it tomorrow.” Putting off your training for another day when you feel like working is never a good habit to develop. Tell yourself, “Today is the day to strive toward my goals.”
Don’t say to yourself, “It’s too late to____,” filling in the blank with “improve,” “fix my bad habits,” or “achieve success.” It’s not too late if you get to work today.
Absolutely never say, “I can’t.” It takes away your willpower, and it is rarely true. What it really means is that you are saying you won’t. Instead, tell yourself, “This may be hard, but I can do it.”

, Excellent swimmers are in control of all aspects of their lives. You need to practice frequently, not just when you want to. You need to eat a planned diet, not whatever and whenever you want. You need to sleep and give your body time to rest and recover from working hard.Although some people go through their days on 3-4 hours of sleep each night, athletes should do their best to get the recommended 8 hours. Going to sleep and waking up at roughly the same times most nights is best for your body, as well.
Swimmers should eat every 3-4 hours. It is best to stay away from processed foods in favor of lean protein, fruits and vegetables, and whole grain breads, pastas, and cereals.
Plan a workout schedule for the whole week and make yourself stick to it. Your body can perform better on a consistent exercise plan.
 When you get to the point where you think you have done enough and you are ready to be done, make a habit of doing just a little more. Once you find your limit, your point of exhaustion, make yourself do one more perfect lap.


Improving means striving to do more than what you can already do. If your faster lap is 30 seconds, push to get down to 25 seconds. If your workout is usually 2 hours, choose a couple days to go an extra half hour.
The goals you have already set are a measure for pushing past your limit. If you have set reasonable goals, but ones that force you to improve, then you have a gauge of how hard you are pushing yourself.
Being good might not be that hard, but being excellent means going further. Anyone can stop once they run out of energy, but it takes real drive to go past that limit.
It is important to pay attention to what your body is telling you. If you are feeling consistently tired, or you notice pain in a certain spot that last multiple days, you may need to take some extra time to rest. You don’t want to overexert yourself.
 In competition, you swim alone, but the rest of the time you need people who are supporting you. Find a friend who can practice with you to keep you accountable. Find a coach or mentor who will push you to be the best you can be. The point is to find people to push you and keep you focused on your goals.


Family can be great support in athletics. Tell your parents, siblings, and grandparents about your passion for improving. Tell them your goals and get them to help you stay focused. Church leaders, heads of organizations, co-workers, and neighbors are also good people to get involved.
A good way to gather these people is to say, “I’m going to be focusing on my swimming a lot more and I would love to have your support. Can you check in with me sometimes to see if I am sticking to my training routines?”
Parents especially can help you eat the right foods and make sure you are getting enough sleep every night.

