 Nikki has brown hair with some honey highlights. If you are worried about highlighting you hair you can make it lighter by putting using a little bit of olive oil in it when you are in the sun. If you do want to add some highlights then get it done professionally; lightening your hair yourself can turn into a bad experience if you don't know what you're doing.;
, She keeps her hair fairly long, but you should feel comfortable with the hair length you have, because in the end your going to be the one living with it. Ask your hairstylist to cut layers, and shaping.
 You could do this by using a curling iron, braiding your hair when it's damp and leaving overnight, scrunching it, or putting you hair in mini buns overnight. Remember to use a good shampoo and conditioner. Try using a leave-in-conditioner and shine spray.
 Nikki has great skin. Remember to wash your face daily with a good facial cleanser. Find one for your skin type. Also, be sure to moisturise your face after cleansing.
 Remember not to apply too much since it will look terrible. Use only in the places you need it like around the nose and cheeks if your face is red or slightly pink. If you like you could use a concealer.
 If you want to look more tanned, use a bronzing powder. But don't apply too much as it will make you look orange. If you skin is pale, embrace it. No one says you have to look exactly like her.
 Pink lipsticks are nice, and are a great alternative to bright red lips than can sometimes look dated. You could apply a gloss after.
 Eyeliner to frame your eyes, are great. Just be careful you don't want the raccoon eye makeup. Mascara in black or brown shades. Nikki likes the smoky eye look. Try wetting the brush before you apply the powder.
 Jeans are a huge staple in her wardrobe. She likes to match them with vintage t-shirts and converse for causal. She usually caries a big bag.
 She wears bright colours often with belts and black shoes. She likes to match dresses with blazers sometimes.
 Obviously something that looks great on her might not look so good on you.
 Add personal touches to outfits that you think she would wear. You could even customize your own clothes to get the look you want.

