 A nice way to help people remember your wedding is by giving them favors that they can use or display. The favors could play on your themes, personalities, colors, or wedding location. Great examples of practical and budget-friendly favors include:Small bag of local honey or locally roasted coffee
Acrylic photo frames for photo booth pictures
Magnets or coasters with your engagement photo
Customized golf balls
Small plant
Jar or popcorn or candy with a ribbonMini champagne or wine bottles
Birdseed feeder;
, Baked goods and sweets are a very personal way to let guests remember your wedding. They also won’t break your budget because you can buy inexpensive ingredients in bulk. Use old family recipes or try something that reflects the backgrounds of you and your fiancé(e). Decorate your sweets with your initials or in your wedding colors for some extra flair. Some budget-friendly, easy sweets you can make for your guests include:Cookies
Pastries
Mini cakes or breadsCaramel applesChocolates

, Use your wedding location or where you and your fiancé(e) are from for inspiration. Give guests a small sample of regional foods or other local products. Ask if companies have or will make smaller or sample sizes of products to help you stay within your budget. Remember even something like a couple of hand-made local chocolates can have a big impact. Some other examples of budget-friendly local gifts you could give include:Spice mixes
Jams, jellies, or sauces
Locally brewed beer or coffee
Pottery
Small book of local recipes

, Gift your guests with a votive and candle combination. Select color combinations or designs that reflect your wedding themes, location, or personalities. Keep the candles as simple as possible to keep costs down. For example, if you are getting married near a body of water, a blue votive with a white candle and green ribbon may best reflect your wedding. It will also last for a long time.Personalize the candles with handwritten tags or ribbons. These are inexpensive ways to jazz up a candle even more.
 Put together a CD of your wedding or favorite songs. Have a company make the discs with a personalized message either on the disc itself or its cover.You may be able to get CDs for as little as $1 per piece.Make sure to list the songs in the message so your guests know what they’re enjoying., Inexpensive, personalized touches on your favors can go a long way, even on tightest budget. For example, a small tin of cookies with a personalized tag and bright ribbon will catch your guests’ eyes and help them remember you when they reuse it. Easy ways to inexpensively personalize the packaging of your favors include:Colorful boxes or cellophane wrapping
Ribbons
Hand-written tags

, Look at the budget for the total cost of your wedding. Set aside about 2-3% of this total for favors. Use a portion of any “just-in-case” fund if you need more favors or run into trouble.Budget for individual items if you are not purchasing pre-made favors. Remember that these costs can add up quickly. For example, for a jazzy jar of popcorn, you may need popcorn seeds, jars, lids, ribbon and tags for the special message.
Adjust your budget as needed. A formal wedding may require favors that are more elaborate and expensive.
 Look at your total numbers on your guest list. Separate the totals into local and out of town guests. Expect that about 85% of local guests will attend, while 55% of out-of-towners will come.Include guests’ plus-ones or children in your guest tally.
 Add a few extra favors in case some unexpected guests come. Other guests may love your favors so much that they take two. If you are giving favors that have breakable pieces, recognize that some of these may break in transport, too., Before you order or make your favors, review your RSVP list. This can help you figure out if you need to adjust your original calculations. Make sure to add a few extra “just-in-case” favors to your final total.Calculate 10 extra favors per 100 guests., Many couples have a special theme for their weddings such as rustic country, city glam, or beach. Consider your themes and personalities when deciding on your guests’ favors. Giving favors in your colors is another option if you don’t have a theme., Online retailers or wholesalers may have lower price points than stores you can visit. They may also have more of a selection. Talk to different distributors and/or review online prices for potential favors. Seeing the various prices can help you to narrow down what favors work best with your budget.Talk to a sales representative when comparing prices. Explain that you are buying a larger quantity of favors for your wedding. The vendor might be willing to work with you and offer special pricing. Consider local businesses, which may also give you special prices. Say that you’d like to keep your business local by purchasing favors from them instead of a larger retailer.
Buy items you know will always be in stock or you can get quickly. For example, small jars are something most stores sell, but it may be more difficult to order personalized magnets on time., Give yourself a week or two to decide on which favors you like best and fit within your budget. This can minimize the risk of a rash decision that you might regret by the time of your wedding. It can also help you from giving favors that aren’t budget-friendly.Remember that your favors should reflect you and your wedding., If you can’t decide on just one favor, consider giving several different types that reflect your wedding. This can ensure that every guest gets something they like.For example, you could offer three different types of candy in small jars. Let guests choose between a small jar of popcorn or a small succulent plant.
Keep your overall favor total in mind. Figure out how many options you would like to give and then divide this number by the total. This way, you don’t order too many favors and stay within your budget.
 Order one or two of the favors you plan to give before you buy them in bulk. This can ensure that your favors are exactly what you want and minimizes the risk of things such spelling mistakes. It also helps you determine how easily you can assemble favors. Trying out favors can also keep you on budget by identifying potential problem spots or extras you may need to order.Check the store’s policies to ensure that you can return damaged or otherwise problematic merchandise.
 After you’ve had a chance to figure out what budget-friendly favors will work best for your wedding, place your order. Do this at least four weeks ahead of your wedding. This gives you time to correct any issues or assemble the favors yourself.It can also minimize the stress or added cost of unavailable, undelivered, or unassembled wedding favors., If you choose to assemble your own favors, opt for a simple project. You can find ideas in wedding and craft magazines or at websites such as Pinterest or The Knot. Putting together a jar of granola or a ribbon around a potted plant will be much easier than hand-painting name tags. Choosing simple DIY favors can keep your budget in line and minimize your overall stress about the wedding.Some ideas for things you can make or assemble yourself include:


Spice blends in a small tin
S’mores or hot chocolate mix in a jar
Candy bar with different types of sweets
Potted plant with simple ribbon and hand-stamped tag
Jordan almonds wrapped in tulle with a pretty ribbonJar of local syrup, sauce, or oil with a personalized sticker of your names and wedding dateBalsam pine sachet

, One you’ve figured out what favor you would like to make, assemble one or two of your intended favors. This gives you an idea of how long it takes to assemble them and how easy it is. A test run can also help you figure out what changes you may need to make to your planned favor to keep it within your budget.Talk to your fiancé(e) about the favors to make sure you both like the assembled product.
 It can be time consuming and stressful to assemble favors. Turn it into a fun event by having an assembly party with your family or bridal party members. This can minimize your stress and help you save time before your big day. Make sure to offer your party guests food and beverages for helping you.Gather enough supplies so everyone can participate. These might include: scissors, hole punches, rulers, ribbons, and tags.
Set up an assembly line. Allow people to do tasks they are good at or enjoy, such as handwriting cards. Switch up the assembly line after a certain number of favors so every person gets to do each task.

