 This will show us the basic form of greeting and interaction. Then we'll go through each word to understand proper pronunciation.



Claus: Hej! "Hey!"

Emmy: Goddag! "Good day!"

Claus: Hvordan har du det? "How are you?"

Emmy: Fint, tak. Hvad med dig? "Fine, thanks. How about you?"

Claus: Det går godt! "It's going well!"

, This is the most common greeting among Danish speakers. Although considered informal, it is perfectly acceptable to use with your friends, those younger than you, as well as social superiors and elders.


"Hej" is pronounced like the English word high, with a rising intonation.
If you say "hej" twice in a row, this is actually the informal goodbye.
When answering the phone it is more common to say "hallo". This is pronounced hah-lo.
 "Goddag" is pronounced in two short syllables, with the second syllable stressed and rising. The first d is silent, and, although it might be confusing to English speakers, in Danish "dag" is actually pronounced similar to the word "day." Comparatively, English pronunciation sounds crisp, with consonants being clearly enunciated, whereas Danish seems to have a natural slur to it. Be sure to listen to the audio clip to understand how natural speakers sound.


Pronounce this as goo'dey


,"Once you can say hello, you'll probably want to follow up by asking people how they are doing. In Dutch the letters "hv" proceed question words like how and what. The h is silent, and when spoken, this word (despite its written length) appears to collapse into a sound more similar to "vin" or "win" to English speaker's ears. But be sure to listen closely to the slowed down example and it becomes clear that the d is in fact enunciated.


Pronounce this phrase as vor-dan-har-doo-dehThe "du" in this phrase refers to "you" in the informal. If you would like to show respect or are speaking to someone older or socially superior to you, use "De".
 Hvad med dig?"The "i" in "fint" is pronounced as the "ee" in "geese". However, the sound is short and not elongated. "Tak", meaning thank you, is pronounced as the word "tack" in English. Hvad med dig is pronounced phonetically similar to "ver muh die." The r in Danish, similar to German and French, is uvular and pronounced at the back of the throat. Note that "med" is a short syllable within this phrase and is less emphasized compared to the words "Hvad" and "dig."


Pronounce this as feent-tack, ver-muh-die.
 This is an informal way of saying "It's going well." Similar to in English, it is common to reply informally in this way, as opposed to referring directly to yourself, as in "I am well, thank you." Danish culture enjoys commonplace informality and humor; so speaking in this manner with an air of unpretentiousness is an easy way to fit in to the best of your abilities.


Pronounce this phrase as dee-gohwa-guht. The wa sound is faintly voiced; be sure to check the provided page of native speaking audio samples to get the hang of it.

