 Your diploma is a stepping stone to help you achieve something else, right? Do you want a better job, to set a good example for your kids, get into college, to maintain good cause for the welfare office? It doesn't matter what your motivation is-as long as it's something that you really want. Write your motivation inside the front cover of your notebook and keep it in mind.;
, This sounds obvious, but you'd be amazed at how often learners accept excuses from themselves. Don't let yourself off the hook. Show up, 10-15 minutes before class is scheduled to start, for every single class.
 Pens/pencils and paper are obvious, of course. Add a little personal pencil sharpener to your supplies. Take ibuprofen or Tylenol with you in case you get a headache, take your inhaler or Accucheck if you have one, and take any other medicines you might need. If you're female, carry a pad or tampon--every day, not just some days. Bring a water bottle.
 During this time, write down any questions you want to ask your instructor, so you don't forget them. If you're not sure what to do outside of class, ask your instructor for ideas.
 Plan how to support one another if one of you can't get a ride to class, etc.
 They will often be able to connect you with the right resources so that you can solve your problems and concentrate on academics.
 Ask questions. Make sure you understand each concept as it comes up.
 Turn off your cell phone before you come into the classroom. Don't read the newspaper or other material during class.
 If you haven't mastered the concept being discussed, focus on that concept right now, and don't get out other material. Your book will be there later, but your instructor won't.
 Plan on an absolute minimum of 60 days (2 months) for each year of school you missed or have forgotten. If you dropped out in 9th grade and haven't being studying on your own since then, you're not likely to pass your GED after a 2-week evening class. Expecting yourself to do so is just setting yourself up for failure. Set a realistic baby-step goal, and celebrate when you achieve it. (For example, "This week I'm going to master those distance-rate-time math questions.")

, GED classes can be stressful, but making sure that spend time on yourself can reduce stress and give you self confidence. Practice good dental hygiene, wear clean, ironed (if possible) clothes, and consider giving up any damaging habits like smoking or drinking before you start GED classes.
 It's okay not to talk to someone, but it's NOT okay to be rude to them or to talk about them.
 It's courteous and responsible, and will help you in many unexpected little ways.
 Steck-Vaughan and McGraw-Hill both have good practice tests online, which you can use for free. If you're not ready for the real GED-level material yet, ask your instructor to help you find good practice material at your level. Make a chart to show your improvement. Also, ask your instructor for feedback regularly.
 Don't fool yourself into thinking you're "one of those people who only needs 4-5 hours of sleep a night." Those people are sleep deprived. If you can't sleep longer than that, talk to a doctor.
 The easy way to eat right is to avoid all the processing you can in your foods. (For example, eating potatoes is good; eating potato chips is not. Bread that you can still see the seeds or seed bits in is better than bread made with flour bleached white.) Eat as many different kinds of plant foods as you can. Drink lots of water.
 It's okay to ask for permission to use an appropriate place in the building where you have class. You'll probably get permission, and will impress your instructor(s).

