 This is one of the hardest level in Candy Crush since you need to collect 297 candies, with all six colors, within 45 moves. Which means you have to get at least 7 candies per move.


This level may seem dull for other players because it is considered not too thrilling, with nothing on the board except candies.;
, There are no blockers on your board, so this gives you enormous moves opportunities. Use this to your advantage!


There are no tricks in this round, and no bombs will drop down or chocolates will appear randomly; it's just you and the open board filled with candies.
 Target the reds, yellows, and oranges. You should be able to make a filling move every time. Don't be afraid to make special candy combinations, for this boosts up your points.


You need also need 30,000 points in order to finish this game. Again, it's possible to make filling moves since there are no blockers or bombs.
 The strategy is to create special candies. Thanks to the lack of blockers, you will never find another board where it is as easy to form wrapped candies, striped candies, and color bombs. This is one of your biggest assets, so if you ever encounter a chance of creating special bombs, do so.


When you swap a color bomb with a candy, all of that color on the board will be detonated, and following an update, they give lots of points when used.
It's best to use color bombs on a specific color of candy, as it collects a bunch of them and may trigger cascades.
Focus on the reds, oranges, and yellows since these colors are included in the objectives.
 A combination gives a better effect, such as color bomb + striped candy. This turns every candy of that color into a striped candy in a horizontal-vertical pattern from the top left along the rows and then activates them all.


A color bomb + wrapped candy clears every candy of the wrapped candy’s color, then the most abundant color present on the board. In effect, this combination clears two colors and usually scores massive amount of points.
A color bomb + color bomb clears every candy on the board.
A color bomb + candy bomb has the same effect as using a color bomb with a normal candy, except it scores you much more points, and even more, depending how many bombs of the same color are on the board.
 Temptation to move anywhere on the board may be hard to resist since there are no blockers or bombs, but the best way to play this game is by keeping your moves lower on the board. This will bring down more candies and will help form candy combos by catalyst from rows dropping in.
 As you work on the lower part of the board, a lot of combos will become possible. Aim for large cascades while looking for a chance to create special candies. Both will give you more points, which makes the 30,000 goal within 45 moves attainable.

