 Invasive species – sometimes even toads – can wreak havoc upon an ecosystem. Native toads are especially vulnerable to attack or competition from nonnative amphibians.Help biologists who study amphibians by participating in a scientific monitoring program online.
Learn about the invasive species in your area and try to keep them out of your habitat, so the toads you know are safe.
Cane toads are a particularly dangerous invasive species, as they can kill larger predators – and even pets – that eat them.
 Finding and removing cane toad eggs is the easiest and most humane way to remove cane toads from where they shouldn’t be.Recognize cane toad spawn: long, jelly-like strands with black dots all along the strands.
Remove strings of eggs from the water and dispose of them in your compost, bury them in your garden, or leave them in the sun to dry out.
 It’s also preferable to catch tadpoles before they turn into toads, in part because it is more humane, but also because it is more effective.Place a dead cane toad inside a funnel trap and submerge the trap in a body of water where you’ve found evidence of cane toad presence.
The secretion from cane toads’ shoulders will attract cane toad tadpoles, helping you curb the species presence in waterways around your home by catching them before they take over completely.
Dispose of tadpoles by burying them in your compost or garden.
 Adult cane toads do have poison glands on the back of their heads – though they don’t release poison unless handled roughly. Still, protect yourself for safety.Wear gloves, rubber boots, and a sack to catch adult cane toads.
Collect cane toads at night using flashlights and other concentrated light sources, which will immobilize toads.
 Though unpleasant, invasive species must often be killed. Do so in a manner that causes no pain or stress to the toads.Put the toad(s) in a plastic container with airholes punched into it.
Place the container in the fridge for at least four hours. This will put the toad(s) into a coma-like state.
Place the container in the freezer for at least three days. This will kill the toads as humanly as possible.
Most communities that struggle with cane toad infestation will have a collection center that will kill and dispose of cane toads for you.
 Do not bash toads with anything or grab them and bash them against hard surfaces. Aside from being incredibly inhumane, bashing cane toads actually presents a risk to your safety; if their poison splatters into your eyes, it can temporarily blind you.A golf club is an immature and sadistic item to touch any animal with in any way.
Similarly, spraying toads with aggressive chemicals is a vile way to treat animals.
In particular, do not use bleach, hydrogen peroxide, or Dettol. While each of these have a reputation for killing toads, they may simply maim them, and cause immense pain to the animals.
Furthermore, avoid the use of chemicals to ensure that you are not adding anything that may harm other species to the environment.

