 Some days, it may not be possible but you should definitely not have more than 2300 mg a day.Table salt is 40% sodium, so this equates to about ½ tsp of salt.
Try to avoid foods with more than 200mg of sodium per serving
Generally, processed foods with long shelf lives have higher sodium contents than fresh or plant-based foods.
 If you get creative with the spices and flavourings you add into a dish, you can decrease your intake of condiments and salt that have high concentrations of sodium.Some examples of low sodium alternatives include:



Herbs: basil, bay leaf, cilantro, dill weed, parsley, sage, rosemary and thyme, tarragon, and marjoram.

Spices: cinnamon, cloves, curry powder, ginger, mace, and nutmeg.

Seasonings: chives, garlic, lemon, dried or chopped onions, and vinegar.
 However, not all "low sodium" labels mean there is no sodium or low levels of it. For example, a food labeled as “reduced sodium” is not necessarily low in sodium but just has less sodium than it used to have. Here is a list of common sodium claims and their meanings:Sodium-free or salt-free: each serving contains 5 mg of sodium at most.

Very-low sodium: each serving contains 6 to 35 mg sodium.

Low sodium: each serving contains 36 to 140 mg sodium.

Light or lite in sodium: each serving contains 50% of the regular version’s sodium quantity. Some of these products might still be high in sodium.

Reduced or less sodium: each serving contains 75% of the regular version’s sodium quantity. Some of these products might still be high in sodium.

Unsalted or no salt added: no salt has been added during the processing of a food that normally contains salt. Some of these products might still be high in sodium.
 You can often find lower-sodium options for certain foods that don't change the taste, texture, or the shelf life of a food. For example, canned and frozen peas can be used interchangeably in most recipes. Yet, canned peas have 3 times more sodium than frozen peas.


Generally, processed foods have more sodium than their fresh version.
Generally, foods with long shelf lives have more sodium than their shorter lived counterparts.
Restaurants rarely know exactly how much sodium or salt is in a dish. Research how to make the dish yourself, or look up the sodium content of the ingredients.
 Snacks are the enemies of most low-sodium diets, especially salty snacks. If you like snacking, try eating different flavours with less sodium or make your own, healthier versions of your favourite snack.


Incorporate fruits and vegetables as snacks. If you like to munch on crunchy snacks, try eating carrots. If you like sweet snacks, try apples or plums.
Try healthy snacks that are bursting with flavour. For example, frozen berries are great in the summer, especially in yogurt.
Try the non-salty version of a snack, or make it at home. For example, nuts are often available unsalted. While popcorn made from scratch without salt has a much lower sodium count than popcorn bought from a store.
 Change is slow to happen, slower to notice, and even slower to become your default lifestyle. The key is to create achievable, realistic expectations for yourself. Go at a pace that you are confident in.


Cut out foods one at a time. If your diet is high in salt and sodium, it might take a couple of weeks to transition into a diet lower in salt and sodium, and maybe months before you are happy and used to these changes.
Manage cravings. If you cut out too many foods too fast, or stop consuming a food your body is accustomed to, you will probably experience a craving for that food. Try to eat a healthier version of the food, but if needed, decide to eat a reasonably sized portion to satisfy your craving.

