 Would a wife who is happy to be a housewife suit you? Do you want a sweet and caring wife who is family oriented, or are you looking for a business women? Do you want a wife with similar interests to you or do you think opposites attract?;
,


The bio data should spark some ideas of what you can ask your possible life partner about. For example you can ask, "What do you like about your hobby?" Or, you can say, "Oh, you like cooking and traveling - so do I!".
Try searching for her on Facebook, or on Twitter. It will give you some details about her life and likes.
 This could depend on local traditions. For example, in Hindu families, it may be customary to touch the feet of her parents.
 Make the other person feel comfortable.
 Try asking her name and then asking what does her name mean.
 Many times a girl has family pressure to see a guy. Make her feel comfortable so that she can open up and tell the truth.
 A housewife, business women or she is willing to play a dual role.
,, What habits are a turn on and what are a turn off. Many girls say that smoking is a big turn off for them.
 Your immediate need may be a business women, 3 years from now the need will be for a caring mom and a caring daughter-in-law as your parents will be aging and 5 years from now the need will be of a housewife. See whether she is flexible.
 Be very honest and tell the truth. Reply with the truth about what is allowed at home, what is allowed at social functions and what will be allowed at outings.
 Reply if it is fixed salary or profit percentage. Explain if you are not salaried people. You could be profit oriented. A business family is driven for profits and if it makes losses then it will pledge all its assets to make sure that family name doesn't get spoiled and salary is paid to employees first.
 In life, girls have fallen for a guy and a lot of girls repent for their mistake so don't investigate the past details

, If you have grandparents who are old and parents had been operated twice for health issues and you wanted a housewife to take care of your parents do mention it. The same way how a girl take care of her parents and a mother take care of her child. Make such a thing clear.
 The meeting should be a conversation.
 Make sure that you have at least two or three good meetings before delivering the final decision.
,,