 You’ll need to remove any remaining trace of past finish before using a sealant. Use sandpaper before you apply any sealants. This removes finish products that may keep the sealant from absorbing. The sealant method is best for any previously finished wood, since oil-based stain may not sink into the wood.


Use a rougher sandpaper for any areas that need more attention. Then finish sanding the surface with a finer sandpaper to ensure an even surface., You can find these products at a home improvement stores. Water Seal and Stain Sealer are common names for wood sealants. You can also purchase a tinted sealant and sand the surface of the wood before you apply it.


Sealants are often labeled by the type of product to which they should be applied to. For example, you may find deck sealant, fence sealant, outdoor sealant, floor sealant or furniture sealant.
Buy a marine wood sealant if your wood needs to stand up to humidity, UV rays and water.
Check the product to get specific application rules and dry times. Some products can be used with a paint sprayer.
Purchase a paint sprayer or paint brushes for application., Prepare your paintbrush or sprayer and focus on creating an even coat of the surface. Make sure the temperature and humidity of the air is in the right range of the product, or the product can evaporate too quickly. Consider working in an area with a controlled humidity like a garage.


Make sure the wood’s surface is cleaned before applying the sealant.
 Consult the product’s package directions for proper drying times. The drying times will be much shorter than oil’s drying times. Many sealants take between 4-10 hours.
 Use sandpaper with fine-grit to improve adhesion of the second coat, but only if it is recommended by the product instructions. Do this once the product has completely finished drying.


You can also use “0000” (very fine) steel wool to clean off the sealant.
 Softwoods may need two to three coats, while some hardwoods will only need one. Softwoods are cheaper woods that haven’t been treated in the past. Popular softwoods are cedar, pine, redwood spruce, balsa, and yew. Hardwood is denser wood that is used for higher quality furniture and decks. Popular hardwood is beech, hickory, mahogany, maple, oak, and walnut., Let the wood cure for several days before using it or placing furniture over it. When water is applied to the wood's surface, it darkens the wood instead of beading up and flowing off the surface.


Apply the sealant every few years for healthy wood care.

