 The type of fabric the stain is on will determine the type of solvent needed to remove the stain. Tags on the article of clothing should usually indicate the type of fabric and the correct washing procedures, but otherwise just proceed based on the apparent fabric type.
 The best solvents for cotton are commercial detergents (i.e. Tide) and light acids (vinegar). Although bleach can safely be used on white cotton fabrics, it is very harsh and can damage the clothing., Wool can be soaked, but only when laid flat, as it is susceptible to stretching and deforming. Care must be taken to use only wool-safe detergents; any acids or bleach can ruin wool. As soon as possible, bring the wool garment to the dry cleaner for professional stain removal., Synthetics include clothing made from fibers such as acrylic, nylon, olefin, polyester, and others. To be safe, use standard laundry detergents with these fabrics, unless otherwise instructed by the label. Do not attempt home remedies, as these can dissolve and destroy the plastics used in these fabrics., Silk is a very tricky fabric to remove stains from, and must be treated with exceeding care. Soaking silk in cool water can be useful to prevent setting, but be sure to avoid spot cleaning silk. If individual water spots are left to try, these can cause permanent discoloration.
 Water is safe to use on basically every fabric, but is primarily useful just to prevent setting. It can reduce the effect of dye stains (hair dye, lipstick, etc.) a fair amount, but needs a long soaking time to have an effect on greases or oils. You will likely need to use a stronger cleaning remedy than water alone for most stain removal.
 Salt can be effective when placed on top of a stain, in order to draw the stain out. This can be effective on a variety of stains, including blood, red wine, and others., Hydrogen peroxide can be useful to reduce pigment stains, such as those from lipstick and grass. However, it does not work very well on grease., Chlorine bleach is only safe to use on white fabrics, and generally only on cotton.
 Detergent is very effective against most stains, especially on grease and oil stains, such as those from foods. Additionally, detergent is safe for use on most fabrics, but still make sure to double check the label of the stained clothing and the type of detergent you are using.
 Mild acids are great to remove glue and tape stickiness, as well as light stains from coffee, tea, and grass.
 Use glycerin on ink and dye stains. Glycerin draws stains out of fabrics, and is often in commercial "stain sticks".
 Mineral spirits are best for use on grease stains, such as those from tar, paint, asphalt, and machine grease. Mineral spirits should only be used on hardy fabrics.
 Enzyme cleaners are commonly found commercial cleaners, safe for use on inorganic fibers such as cotton. These cleaners are mostly used for the removal of organic stains like blood, sweat, egg yolk, urine, etc.