 This recipe makes use of store-bought pizza dough. However, feel free to use a homemade pizza crust, if you prefer. Using a store-bought crust, this pizza can be cooked and served in about 60 minutes. The yield is approximately 4 servings.


Scatter flour onto a flat work surface. Remove the dough from its packaging and leave it sitting out for about 20 to 30 minutes until it's room temperature. Roll the dough into a circle that is approximately ½ inch thick.
Grab and pinch one of the edges with both hands, letting the dough hang down. Slowly work your way around the circle, pinching, until the dough is the size you want.
Place the crust on a baking sheet that you've oiled or sprinkled with corn meal to prevent sticking., Rinse and slice all of your vegetables on the diagonal to be about ¼-inch (6.35 mm) thick. Slicing on a diagonal means to slice them thinly, at a slant and length-wise.Place the slices into a large strainer. Sprinkle salt all over them and allow them to sit like that for about 15 minutes. This will extract some of the natural water from the vegetables.


Rinse the salt off. Drain the veggies and use paper towels to blot them dry.
Extracting the water makes the vegetables roast better.
Vegetables with high water content will roast soggily. Extracting the water gives you a crisper result.
 Spread the vegetables out in one layer on a baking sheet. Drizzle olive oil over them and sprinkle the minced garlic. Reserve 2 tablespoons (30 milliliters) of the oil. Place the baking sheet in the oven and roast them for about 15 to 20 minutes.


When they are tender and darkened around the edges, they’re ready.
Once they’ve cooled, feel free to slice the vegetables slightly thinner, if you prefer smaller pieces for toppings.
 Arrange the roasted vegetables on top of the thin layer of ricotta. Sprinkle mozzarella cheese over the veggies. Lastly, drizzle the 2 tablespoons of olive oil you reserved over the pizza and top with the parsley.
 Place the baking sheet into your oven and allow the pizza to cook for about 15 minutes. You’ll know its read when the cheese has fully melted and the crust has become golden brown. Remove the pizza from the oven and slice it into wedges with a pizza cutter.


Serve immediately.
Serve with a tossed salad and a nice red wine (optional).

