 Knead it, bend it, and twist it to see if it will revive of its own accord. The heat and moisture from your hands may be enough to bring your clay back to life. Give it about 5 minutes of consistent movement and kneading to determine if this is the case.








In some instances, your clay will require more than your own natural oils and warmth. If this is the case, move on to the next step.
If working the clay with your hands is enough to give it new vigor, make sure you store it in a sealed, air-tight bag to prevent drying out again in the future.;
, Although most clay comes in large plastic bags, most of these bags do not have a means of sealing. Remove your clay from the bag it came in and place it in a large, sealable plastic bag.









If you do not have a bag large enough to fit all of your clay, cut your clay into manageable clumps and practice this method one small piece at a time.
 Using your hand or a spray bottle, apply a small amount of water to the clay. Don't add too much, or the clay will become sticky and unusable.








For easier clean-up, you can work with your clay in a sink or tub.
 Let the water and clay sit for a few minutes to absorb the moisture. Double check the seal to make sure it is air-tight and none of the moisture is able to leak out.









Keep it away from heat or direct sunlight during this process, as both can cause moisture to evaporate.
 After waiting 5-10 minutes, open the bag and remove the clay, checking the moisture content as you do so. Does it have more spring to it? Twist and knead your clay, checking for easy movement and manipulation.








If your clay has returned to a usable state, you are done!

, After returning your clay to a sealed bag, add a few more drops of water. Seal and set aside once more, leaving the water to seep into the clay for up to 30 minutes.









Once more, avoid heat and sunlight in this step. A bathroom is a great moist environment to allow your clay to sit in.
 If the clay has become malleable, success! Continue to store it in a sealed bag or container to prevent it from drying out in the future. If you cannot get to your clay regularly, consider storing it in a moist environment, such as the bathroom or kitchen, to keep moisture contained.









If the clay remains hard or difficult to work with, it may be past the point of saving, and will need to be replaced.

