 All Gmail accounts come with 15 GB of free Google Drive storage. You can upload video files of any size to Drive and then share them through Gmail. The recipient(s) will not need a Drive account to download the video file. Log into Drive with the same Google account you use for Gmail.You can use the Google Drive website on your computer (drive.google.com), or the Google Drive mobile app on your Android or iOS device.
You can attach video files up to 25 MB directly to a Gmail message using the Attachments button, but most videos are far larger than this. This is especially true of HD video. Using Drive allows you to send videos of any size.;
, Drive allows you to upload files of any size. The process for uploading files is pretty straightforward for both the desktop and mobile app versions:



Desktop - Drag the file you want to upload into the Drive window. The file will begin uploading. You can also click the "New" button, select "File upload", and then browse for the video file on your computer.

Mobile - Find the file on your device that you want to send to drive. Use a File Manager app to quickly browse through your stored files. Select the file and tap the "Share" button in the menu. Select "Google Drive" from the list of apps, and then tap "Save".
 The upload may take anywhere from a few minutes to several hours, depending on the size of the video file and the speed of your internet connection. You won't be able to attach the file until it has been completely uploaded.


If you're using a mobile device, you'll likely want to be connected to a wireless network to avoid eating up your mobile data.
 Once your video has been uploaded, you can attach it to any Gmail message. Compose your message as normal.
 You can attach the video file much like you would a regular attachment.



Desktop - Click the Drive icon at the bottom of the Compose window. This will open a new window showing your Drive files. Select the video file you want to add. You can also choose from videos that other Drive users have shared with you, or you can upload a video from your computer. Make sure "Drive link" is selected in the bottom-right corner.

Mobile - Tap the Attachments button at the top of the screen. Select "Insert from Drive". Find the video file that you want to share and then tap "Select".
 The message will send immediately, since the file is linked and not actually attached to the message.
 Your recipient will be able to access the video by clicking the link in your message. The video will open in a new tab, and they can either stream the video immediately without downloading it or click the Download button at the top of the page. If they are signed in to Drive, they can save it to their Drive account as well.

