 Here's an odd fact: "pencil lead" is made from graphite, not lead. This soft, black form of carbon has come a long way since the English used it to draw on sheep five hundred years ago.Because graphite sticks to regular grinding equipment, pencil manufacturers break it apart in rotating drums, or bash it together with jets of air.Colored pencils are made with wax, pigment, and clay instead, with no graphite involved., Mix china clay and water into the graphite, and you get a vat of grey sludge. This sounds simple, but it can take an entire week of mixing and drying to get the right consistency!China clay gets its name from the first people to use it for pottery. For centuries, only Chinese craftsmen knew which clay to use, and how to turn it into porcelain. It's a little less mysterious now that it's used to doodle on math homework.
 Machines now push the paste through a small metal tube. The long rod that comes out is cut into pencil-sized pieces. Finally, these enter a kiln heated to about 2,000ºF (1100ºC), to make them hard and smooth., Meanwhile, at a lumber mill, durable wood is cut into slats half the width of a pencil. In North America, pencil manufacturers usually use incense cedar wood from the west coast.If you see short or thin pencils for sale, the wood they came from probably had a defect. The mill cuts off the weak or damaged areas and tries to use the rest for these "weird" pencils or other purposes.
The wood may also be waxed and stained to make the color uniform, and to make the pencils easier to sharpen., The pencil lead and lumber finally get to meet. After carving grooves in the wooden slats, machines insert the graphite rods into each one. A second layer of wood clamps down over the graphite and gets glued on tightly., The factory now saws the wood apart into separate pencils. The final batch of machines trims these to uniform length, paints them, and stamps them with a company logo or other writing. If an eraser is attached, the factory crimps the end of the wood to get the metal band (ferrule) to stay in place.