 Edible animal cell models can be made easily with common, inexpensive ingredients at local supermarkets and grocery stores. You have some flexibility in the specific ingredients you use to represent cell components. However, in general what you require is a gelatin base that is light in color to represent cytoplasm, a plastic bag to represent a cell membrane, and various candies, fruits, and nuts to represent organelles and other cell components. In general, some good ingredients to purchase could include:A light-colored gelatin mix, such as a lemon-flavored jello. You can also purchase a clear or light-colored fruit juice (like lemonade or limeade) along with unflavored gelatin packets. This will eventually be your cytoplasm. It is important that you pick a light color so that the other cell components will stand out.
A large, pitted fruit to represent a nucleus (the fruit) and the nucleolus (the pit). Depending on how large your model is, you might use a plum, peach, apricot, or cherry.Small, round candies or fruits. These will represent your lysosomes. For example, M&Ms, Skittles, gumballs, or grapes might serve as effective lysosomes.Oval- or rod-shaped candies or fruits. These will represent your mitochondria. Raisins, craisins, Mike & Ike's, or dried apricots would all work, depending on the size of your model.Slightly larger, irregular candies or fruits. These will represent your vacuoles. Small banana slices, jaw breakers, or gummy rings are good options.Very small, grain-shaped candies. These will represent your ribosomes, so they must be considerably smaller than your other cell components. Some good possibilities could include: Tic-Tacs, Nerds, or extra-small jelly beans.A round, dense piece of candy. This will represent your centrosome. Gumdrops or Gushers could make an effective centrosome.Long, stringy pieces of candy. These will represent the endoplasmic reticulum. If you want to be very precise, you can buy one type that is coated in sugar (to represent the rough endoplasmic reticulum) and one type that is smooth (to represent the smooth endoplasmic reticulum). Some excellent options include gummy worms, sour worms, and various kinds of licorice rope.Long, flat candy or fruit roll-up. When you fold up a long, flat piece of candy or fruit snack, you will have an excellent representation of Golgi bodies. Try bubblegum tape, fruit roll-ups, or other kinds of fruit leather to create this organelle., In many projects, the clear plastic bag represents the cell membrane. It is important that it be clear so that your cell model is perfectly visible. Find a medium-size bowl or large cup--such as a vessel that can hold about a gallon of liquid--and line it with a clear plastic bag. This will serve as the mold for your gelatin as well as the outside of your cell model., Most jello and gelatin packets will have clear instructions on the best way to prepare your gelatin mold. It is a good idea to follow these instructions closely, with one exception: put in slightly less liquid than the recipe calls for. This will help your gelatin model remain tougher and more solid, which will help your cell model remain intact.In general, the instructions on how to prepare a gelatin include:


Dissolving gelatin in boiling water in a heat-proof bowl, stirring carefully.Adding cold water (the same amount as the boiling water).Cooling slightly.
Carefully pouring the mixture into the lined bowl you prepared.Sealing the bag and placing it in the refrigerator until it is not-quite-set (45 minutes to an hour).Removing from the refrigerator when the gelatin is stiff enough to suspend your cell components but soft enough to insert fruits and candies deep within the mold.
 Once your gelatin mold is slightly set, you can insert the fruits, nuts, and candies you chose for your cell components and organelles. The gelatin should be flexible enough that you can use a spoon, straw, or your fingers to push these components into their proper places within the gelatin cytoplasm.Always refer to your original diagram to make sure you are placing everything correctly.
 If you are bringing this model to school or a science fair, you will want to attach a key to your project to allow onlookers to differentiate between the different components of your cell. Be sure to tell them which candies represent which cell parts.If you have to transport the model for long distances, it is a good idea to use a cooler to make sure that your model doesn't melt in the heat.

