 Let them know they are loved. Spend time with them and ask about their feelings.When children know they are cared for, they will realize their lives and actions have value, strive to meet your expectations, and lead more disciplined lives.Ask your child to reflect on their recent successes or failures.
Encourage them in their interests and hobbies.
Express your belief that they can succeed if they try.
Show gratitude that they are in your life. Tell them directly that you love them.
 Extra-curricular activities teach valuable skills and life lessons. Sports, dance, gymnastics, karate, music lessons, hiking or mountaineering clubs – all can instill discipline through repetitive practice, following rules and patterns, and adhering to a schedule. A variety of hobbies will inculcate a strong sense of discipline in your child., Try to understand your child’s point of view.For instance, if they want to stay up late, admit that it would be fun to stay up later and watch another show, read another chapter, etc. Tell them that when you were a child, you wanted to stay up late at night as well. Draw comparisons to your life today, too. For instance, you might share that you often have responsibilities at work that keep you from doing fun things, but which are necessary so that you can provide for your family. When children feel their perspective is understood and they have been listened to, they will be more willing to comply.


Help your child see the consequences of doing what they want to do. If they express the desire to stay up later, remind them they have to wake up early tomorrow. Ask how they think they would feel if they didn’t get a good night’s sleep and they will (hopefully) realize you are looking out for their best interests.
 Reading can help kids learn lessons which they can apply to their own lives.After reading about a disciplined, responsible character, engage your child in a dialogue about the reactions, thoughts, and feelings they had when reading the book. This helps them identify with the character and understand the cause-and-effect process of logical consequences.


For instance, when reading ‘’The Ants and the Grasshopper’’, emphasize how the ants were industrious and ultimately rewarded with food for the winter, while the grasshopper was lazy and had fun, but ended up hungry.
 Instilling discipline should not come at the expense of nurturing your child’s sense of autonomy. As your child’s access to choices grows, so too will their ability to discipline themselves, resist temptations, and focus on their obligations.


Start with simple choices such as what book to read or what color socks to wear.
Only offer a choice when one really exists. Asking a child if they want to take a nap at naptime (and forcing them to do so) does not constitute an opportunity for the exercise of free will.

