 Some medications are notorious for decreasing your electrolytes, especially diuretics like hydrochlorothiazide or Furosemide.Speak with your doctor about your medications and whether you should work together to switch to a different medicine, especially if you’re very active and sweat a lot. Never stop taking your medication without your doctor’s approval. Other medications that may lower electrolyte levels include:


Some antibioticsLaxatives
SteroidsBicarbonate
Proton pump inhibitorsCyclosporine
Amphotericin B
AntacidsAcetazolamide
Foscarnet
Imatinib
Pentamidine
Sorafenib

, Your electrolytes can be low if you’re retaining water due to a medical condition. This can occur because of heart failure, kidney problems, or liver disease, and pregnancy. Medical conditions should be managed with medications under your doctor’s supervision to prevent lowering your electrolytes to dangerous levels. Your OB/GYN can help you regulate your fluid levels while you’re pregnant.


Other signs that your body is retaining too much water is swelling in your legs, or difficulty breathing when you’re lying down.You might also experience changes in heart rate or blood pressure, shortness of breath, or a wet cough with frothy spit up.The condition SIADH (syndrome of inappropriate anti-diuretic hormone) is less common, but can also lower electrolytes., Many medical conditions can directly or indirectly decrease your electrolytes. Work with your doctor to medically manage conditions to avoid having dangerously low electrolyte levels. Be aware that the following conditions can lower various electrolytes:


Celiac diseasePancreatitis
Parathyroid problems (your parathyroid working too much or too little)
Diabetes - you might feel thirsty all the time and therefore over-hydrate if you have uncontrolled diabetes

, You can usually manage your electrolyte levels at home with proper hydration and diet, but if your levels get too low it can cause dangerous physical problems. If this occurs, you will likely have symptoms ranging from weakness to heart palpitations. Get medical treatment at the hospital if you feel unwell, which will vary depending on the severity of your symptoms and how low your electrolyte levels are:


Oral medications like pills are available for low potassium, magnesium, and calcium.
IV medications are available at the hospital for dangerously low potassium,calcium,magnesium,and phosphate.