 It’s certainly not a bad thing to be overjoyed if your child scores a winning goal. However, win or lose, there are certain things you should always say before and after a game.Before any game, tell your child, “Have fun, play hard, and I love you.”
After any game, ask your child, “Did you have fun?” and say, “I’m proud of you and I love you.”
Remind them how excited you every time you get a chance just to see them in uniform or in a huddle.
Emphasize your child's effort, whether they won or lost. For example, you might say something like, "You did a great job of supporting your teammates out there today. I am really proud of how you played the game."
Try to help your child reframe the situation when they experience a loss. For example, you might say, "I know it's disappointing not to win, but your passing was awesome! You've worked so hard on it and I can really see your improvement."

, Even if your child works hard at something, they will face obstacles in any sport, whether they haven’t made the team or suffered a lopsided defeat. Prepare your child by reminding them that everyone has their time to shine, and it’s okay that today wasn’t their day.If your child is really interested in a sport but doesn’t make a team, try to keep them engaged. Continue to practice with them, look for an instructional or less competitive league, find a sports camp, and encourage them to try out next year.
Remind them to keep things in perspective, and that not making a team doesn’t define who they are or how proud you are of them just for trying.
 Being critical and breaking down where the game went wrong isn’t generally helpful. Instead, try focusing on what your child did correctly, what skills you noticed while they were on the field, and on highlighting any especially fun moments you noticed. Concentrating on positivity and fun aspects of the game will help motivate your child to give it their all again next time, regardless of whether they win or lose.Whether it’s an individual or team sport, your child has a coach. Let them give the tough talk and be critical.
Your child will need you to help them make the loss easier to handle. Kids often have trouble separating a negative event from their identity: they think the loss defines who they are.
Make sure they know how proud you are of them win or lose, and give them affection and attention. It’s best not to let your child be alone after losing, and try to talk to them or keep them talking. Being silent might indicate that you’re mad at them, and too much alone time might cause them to dwell.