 It's impossible to figure out what kind of guy is right for you until you take a step back and decide what's important to you.


Compile a list of the most important aspects of your life and personality. This list can include things like hobbies, people, goals and ideals.






Set future goals for yourself. If you want to be married in the next five years, it is important that the man you date is in the same place in his life.





;
, These can be emotional, professional and even physical desires, but be sure not to become obsessed with superficial appearances.


Think of personality virtues that are important to you. Some desirable traits might be kind, funny, energetic, outgoing or optimistic.






Consider occupational stability. Ask yourself what you'd like your future husband to be in his professional life - does he occupy a comfortable 9-to-5 desk job or is he a risk-taking entrepreneur that travels the world?






Identify the beliefs that you want to share with your partner. For example, it may be very important that you share the same religious or political views, and this can influence where you look for a potential partner.






Envision what you'd like your guy to look like, but be realistic. It's important to be physically attracted to your man, but don't get caught up in searching for perfection. It's easy to find physical faults in people when you're looking for them, so focus on his personality first.
 Think about the issues that arose in past relationships that might have caused the relationship to crumble and don't let history repeat itself.


Ask yourself what qualities your ex-boyfriends had that irritated you throughout the relationship or may have caused you to end it altogether. These can be simple behaviors or habits that had a negative effect on your relationship. Avoid dating guys with these negative personality traits.
Ask yourself what undesirable qualities you brought to the relationship. There will always be things we wish we had done differently in past relationships. Think about the negative ways you might have reacted to certain situations in the past and make a commitment to manage yourself gracefully and respectfully in your future relationship.

