 Place the baking mix, pork sausage, and cheddar cheese in a large mixing bowl. Use your hands to mix the ingredients until evenly combined.


Regular or mild pork sausage works well for these, but if desired, you could alter the flavor slightly by using hot sausage or Italian seasoned sausage.
If you don't want to mix the ingredients by hand, place them into the bowl of a stand mixer and combine them using the paddle attachment at low speed.
Note that the resulting dough will be crumbly, but it should hold together when pressed.;
, Use your hands to roll the dough into 1-inch or 1-1/2-inch (2.5-cm or 3.75-cm) balls. Place the balls 1-inch (2.5-cm) apart on a prepared baking sheet or plate.


As you grab the dough, squeeze the mixture in between your hands to help press and hold it together. Gently roll each portion in between the palms of your hands until it forms a ball.
Alternatively, use a melon-baller or small cookie scoop to portion and shape the dough quicker.
You can cook the sausage balls immediately using either the oven or stovetop. Note that you can also cover and store them in the refrigerator for 24 hours or the freezer for up to one month.
 Place the flour, baking powder, and salt in a large mixing bowl. Mix until evenly combined.
 Add the butter or shortening to the dry ingredients, then cut it into the ingredients until the mixture takes on the consistency of coarse crumbs.


Adding the butter in small chunks could make it easier to cut in. Use a fork or pastry blender to mash and slice the butter into the dry ingredients.
 Use your hands to mix the sausage into the other ingredients. Continue mixing until everything seems evenly distributed.


Nearly any type of ground sausage will work for this recipe. Use pork sausage for the most traditional flavor or turkey sausage for a healthier alternative. You can stick with mild sausage or use seasoned (hot or Italian) sausage.
Mixing the dough with your hands will be the quickest, most thorough method, but if you prefer to keep your hands clean, place the mixture in the bowl of a stand mixer and combine on low speed using the paddle attachment.
 Add the cream cheese and shredded cheddar cheese to the sausage mixture. Use your hands to thoroughly work both cheeses into the dough.


Note that the cream cheese must be softened before you add it to the mixture. Cold cream cheese will be harder to spread.
Consider working the cream cheese into the mixture before adding the shredded cheddar. You can add both at the same time, but doing so may make it slightly harder to evenly distribute the cream cheese.
 Use your hands to form the sausage into 1-inch (2.5-cm) balls. Place the balls onto a prepared baking sheet or plate.


The dough should hold together fairly well, but if it seems a little crumbly, squeeze each portion in between your palms to help press it together. Roll the dough into balls immediately after doing so.
For a faster, cleaner alternative, you can use a cookie scoop or melon-baller to form the balls instead of using your hands.
Cook the sausage balls immediately after forming them or cover and store them until later. When stored in airtight containers, the sausage balls should hold for 24 hours in the refrigerator or one month in the freezer. Note that both the oven and stovetop cooking methods can be used for this recipe.
 Before forming the sausage balls, cook the quinoa and allow it to cool down to room temperature.


You only need 1 cup (250 ml) of cooked quinoa for this recipe, so that means you'll need roughly 1/3 cup (85 ml) of dry quinoa and 2/3 cup (170 ml) water.
 Place the cooked quinoa, cornstarch, black pepper, cheddar cheese, and pork sausage into a large mixing bowl. Use your hands to mix the ingredients until evenly combined.


To keep this recipe relatively healthy, use reduced-fat cheddar cheese and reduced-fat ground sausage. The sausage can be made with either pork or turkey.
If you don't want to use your hands, you can mix the ingredients together in the bowl of a stand mixer. Use the paddle attachment and combine the dough on low speed.
 Roll portions of the dough in between the palms of your hands, forming 1-inch to 1-1/2-inch (2.5-cm to 3.75-cm) balls. Place the balls on a prepared baking sheet or large plate.


If the dough seems crumbly, gently press each portion in between your palms before rolling it into a ball. Doing so should help the ingredients hold together more effectively.
A cookie scoop or melon-baller could also be used to form the balls if you do not wish to form them by hand.
You can cook the sausage balls immediately or cook them later. Cover and store uncooked sausage balls in your refrigerator for up to 24 hours, or in your freezer for up to one month. When you're ready to cook them, both the oven and stovetop cooking methods will work.
 Prepare one or two baking sheets by lining them with nonstick aluminum foil.


If you don't have nonstick aluminum foil, you can coat the baking sheet with parchment paper, nonstick cooking spray, or a silicone baking mat.
When arranging the sausage balls on this prepared baking sheet, space them roughly 1 inch (2.5 cm) apart to prevent them from baking together.
 Place the sausage balls in the preheated oven and bake until the bottoms are lightly browned. This should take 20 to 30 minutes.


The baking mix and reduced-calorie sausage balls will usually take between 20 and 25 minutes, but the scratch sausage balls may take up to 30 minutes.
If you're using standard aluminum foil or ungreased parchment paper, use a spatula to turn the sausage balls halfway through the cooking time. Doing so may prevent them from sticking.
To cook frozen sausage balls, allow them to thaw in the refrigerator for 12 hours before baking or bake them for an additional 5 to 10 minutes.
 Remove the sausage balls from the oven and cool for approximately 5 minutes. Pierce each one with a toothpick and serve as appetizers or snacks.


If desired, sprinkle the sausage balls with chopped fresh parsley before serving.
You can enjoy the sausage balls plain or with your favorite dip. Consider serving them with grape jelly, a mustard-mayonnaise dip, or barbecue sauce.
 Spray a large skillet with nonstick cooking spray and set it on your stove over medium heat.


Allow the pan spray to warm up for roughly 30 seconds before continuing.
 Place half of the sausage balls in the warm skillet and cook for 15 to 17 minutes or until done.


Turn the sausage balls frequently using a heat-resistant spatula to prevent them from sticking.
Note that you'll need to cook the sausage balls in batches. If you crowd the skillet, the balls may stick together or may not cook evenly.
 Set aside the cooked sausage balls and cook the remaining half in the warm skillet for another 15 to 17 minutes, or until browned.


Before cooking the second half, transfer the first half to a shallow baking pan, arranging them in a single layer. Keep them warm while the remaining sausage balls finish cooking.
 Pierce the finished sausage balls with toothpicks and enjoy them as appetizers or snacks.


Sprinkle the finished sausage balls with chopped parsley before serving, if desired.
You can serve the sausage balls plain or enjoy them with a dip. Grape jelly, mustard, and barbecue sauce are popular options.

