 Bring up the holiday in advance to let your sister or sisters know it’s coming. National Sister’s Day is about mutual appreciation and love, so it’s best if all sisters know it’s coming and can plan for it. It would be terrible if you planned a whole day of fun only to find out that your sister has other plans for that day!


You can say something like, “Hey Franny, did you know National Sister’s Day is coming up this Sunday?“;
, Gift-giving isn’t a necessary part of National Sister’s Day, but it can be a nice gesture to give her something special. If there is something that you know your sister or sisters want, buy it in advance. If you would rather give her something homemade, make her a mix tape or bake her cookies.Sometimes even just giving her a card or writing her a note can be the most meaningful and touching gift.
 If you live with your sister, consider decorating your house or apartment to make the holiday extra special. Buy streamers, confetti, or whatever other decor you want. You can also put pictures of you and your sister along the walls to personalize the decorations.
 Whenever you first see your sister on the holiday, wish her happy National Sister’s Day. Give her a hug and tell her how much she means to you.


You can say something like, “Happy National Sister’s Day! I’m so glad to have you in my life!”
You can also make a post on social media of the both of you to celebrate the holiday., There’s no right time to give your sister her gift, but it might be good to give it to her in the beginning of the day.If you bought or made a gift, give her the gift and say something like, “I remember you said how much you wanted this”, or “This made me think of you.”
You could also just do something nice for her. Make her breakfast or do her chores to show how much you care.
 National Sister’s Day is a perfect time to be a little goofy with your sister. Wear matching outfits, or purchase silly hats for the both of you to wear when you go out in public. This is a great way to have a memorable Sister’s Day and to show off your unique relationship with your sister., If you and your sister have already decided on an activity, go out and enjoy yourself. If you haven’t decided on an activity, brainstorm ways you can make the day special. You do a wide range of activities including going out to eat, going to a movie, taking a hike together, planning a picnic or going to the beach.Think whether your sister has mentioned anything she’s interested in doing or seeing around your city, and come up with a plan based on these ideas.
Make sure that you are doing something that you will both enjoy, and remember to compromise if you can’t seem to agree on an activity.
 National Sister’s Day is a great time to remember the past that you’ve shared together. Talk about your favorite childhood memories with your sister or sisters. You can even whip out a photo album or old family videos for a fun and meaningful trip down memory lane.If you are celebrating National Sister’s Day with friends or sisters who are new to your life, talk about recent memories that you treasure.
 It can be hard sometimes for sisters to get along. You may feel like you’re always squabbling about one thing or another. On National Sister’s Day, try to leave your disagreements behind. Remember that this is a special day, and try to celebrate your sisterhood and your unique relationship without bringing up past arguments.