 In order to help your child with constipation issues, you need to increase the amount of fiber in her diet. This can be accomplished by giving her more fruit to eat. Try apples, raspberries, pears, blueberries, peaches, strawberries, prunes, blackberries, and figs, which are great for snacks and as parts of meals.


Keep the skins on the fruit. The skins contain a lot of fiber, which will help loosen her stools.;
, Vegetables are a great form of fiber for your child. They also are a great source of other key vitamins and nutrients. Leafy green vegetable are great sources of fiber, including mustard greens, spinach, collard greens, kale, turnip greens, Swiss chard, beet greens, broccoli, and Brussels sprouts.


Other vegetables high in fiber include all kinds of squash, cauliflower, carrots, cabbage, and peas., While grains have a lot of fiber, which is great to relieve constipation. The best grains are unprocessed whole grains, which contain bran, the main source of the fiber. Good whole grains include oat, wheat, corn, and rice bran. These can be found in breads, cereals, oatmeal, and whole grain pasta.


If you child won't eat traditional forms of whole grains, you can grind and sprinkle bran over cereals, applesauce, soups, or stews., Beans are a rich source of fiber to help your child relieve constipation. They are also a great source of vitamins and minerals as well, which make them very healthy for your child. You can add a few beans to any meal. Include them as a side dish or put them in soups.


Start off slowly because beans may cause gas, which can be uncomfortable., Nuts and seeds are a great source of fiber, but they can be a choking hazard. Instead, include them as ground nuts and seeds in his food. Try crushed almonds, walnuts, or peanuts for a snack or in other parts of his meal.

#*For example, try using ground flaxseeds, which is a great source of fiber and omega-3 fatty acids. Sprinkle it over cereal, applesauce, yogurt, and soup.Of course, avoid nuts if your child is or may be allergic.
 It is difficult to give children too much fiber, especially since they eat so little and may avoid fiber rich foods. According to the American Heart Association, children one to three years old need 19 grams of fiber a day. Children who are four to eight years old should get 25 grams of fiber a day.To help track how much food your child gets a day, check how much fiber is in each type of food you feed her. There are online nutrition search tools that give you lists foods that are high in fiber. Check them to see which option is the best for your child.
 There are certain foods that can cause constipation. If your child eats too many of them, it may be causing his constipation. These foods include:Processed foods, which have added sugars and lack fiber
Bananas, at least for a while, since they have a binding effect that can make constipation worse
Dairy products, such as milk, yogurt, cheese, and ice cream, which can cause binding

