 As with any recipe, the first thing you should do is to read the ingredient list and the instructions completely and carefully. By doing this, you will know which ingredients need to be cut in half precisely and which ingredients are less particular. You will also learn when each ingredient will be used and if any need to be divided further during the preparation.;
, Go through the list of ingredients and cut each required amount in half. Use half the number of whole ingredients, and for the rest of the ingredients, split the measurements in half.


For whole ingredients, simply split the amount of whole ingredients used in half. For instance, a recipe that originally calls for two apples should only use one when halved. A recipe that only calls for one apple originally should only use half an apple when halved.
If an ingredient is measured out in weight, cut the weight in half. For example, if the original recipe calls for 1 lb (450 g) of ground beef, only use 1/2 lb (225 g) of ground beef for the halved recipe.
When halving measurements, use the following guide:2 Tbsp (30 ml) instead of 1/4 cup (60 ml)
2 Tbsp and 2 tsp (40 ml) instead of 1/3 cup (80 ml)
1/4 cup (60 ml) instead of 1/2 cup (125 ml)
1/3 cup (80 ml) instead of 2/3 cup (160 ml)
6 Tbsp (90 ml) instead of 3/4 cup (185 ml)
1 and 1/2 tsp (7.5 ml) instead of 1 Tbsp (15 ml)
1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) instead of 1 tsp (5 ml)
1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) instead of 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml)
1/8 tsp (0.625 ml) instead of 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml)
1 dash instead of 1/8 tsp (0.625 ml)



, Scale down on the side of caution when halving the number of seasonings. Instead of using exactly half, you might want to consider using just shy of half the amount, especially if the seasonings are easier to adjust later on. It is typically better to need more seasoning than it is to have too much.
 If you do not have a specific ingredient on the list or do not want to use one for whatever reason, you will need to substitute that ingredient for something with similar properties. Determine how much of this other ingredient you would need to match the full amount of the original ingredient. Afterward, cut the full amount of the substitute in half.
 You will probably find it easier to write the recipe out, including both the ingredient list and the instructions. It will be easier to refer to a corrected version of the recipe as you make it rather than trying to remember which corrections you made while looking at the original version.


When rewriting the recipe, you need to pay special attention to any measurements mentioned within the instructions. For instance, an original recipe might require 2 tsp (10 ml) of salt, and half of that salt might need to be used at the beginning while the other half is used at the end. As such, one part of the instructions might read, “Use 1 tsp (5 ml) of salt,” and a later part might say, “Use the remaining salt.” When rewriting the first statement, make sure that you rewrite it to reflect half the original amount, or, “Use 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) of salt.”
Also make any necessary alterations to cooking time or pan size as you rewrite the recipe. See the section of this article called “Additional Considerations” for more information.
 Eggs are one of the most notoriously intimidating ingredients to divide in half for a recipe, but if you need to divide an odd number of eggs, you could do so without much problem. Crack the full amount into a measuring cup and beat it lightly, just until the yolk and white are combined. Then, measure out half to use for your recipe.When measuring out half an egg from the full amount, first measure the number of tablespoons (milliliters) the full whisked egg equals. After you do this, measure out half the original amount and add that to your recipe.
A typical large egg will equal about 3 Tbsp (45 ml) of whisked egg, so you can keep this in mind if you do not want to break more eggs than necessary and want to calculate an estimated amount ahead of time.
Alternatively, you can use an egg substitute or carton of "beaten" eggs instead of whole eggs. Follow the instructions on the carton to determine how much you would measure out for a full egg and how much to measure out for half an egg.
 If a recipe calls for a whole spice berry or other whole spice that is difficult to divide, you will need to grind up the full amount of spices using a mortar and pestle. After this is done, measure the full amount and cut that in half. Use the halved amount for your halved recipe.


If you know how much powdered spice equals a particular whole spice, you can just buy and use the powdered form from the start instead of crushing the whole spice by hand. You might need to research this information online or in a cook book, but a few common examples include:1 star anise equal 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) ground anise; use 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) for half
3 inches (7.6 cm) of cinnamon stick equal 1 tsp (5 ml) ground cinnamon; use 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) for half
3 whole cloves equal 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) of ground cloves; use 1/8 tsp (0.625 ml) for half
1 garlic clove equals 1/8 tsp (0.625 ml) ground garlic; use a dash for half
1 inch (2.5 cm) of vanilla bean equals 1 tsp (5 ml) of vanilla extract; use 1/2 tsp (2.5 ml) for half



, If you are asked to use a full packet of a certain ingredient in the original recipe, you will need to measure out how much is originally in one packet. Once you have this information, you can measure out half of the original amount and add it to your recipe.


Some packets will list the amount inside. If the packet does not, however, you should measure out the full amount yourself.
Do not try to gauge what “half” the packet is by eye, especially if you are working with sensitive ingredients, like yeast.
As an example, a standard 0.25-oz (7.5 g) package of active dry yeast contains 2 1/4 tsp (11.25 ml).If you need to use half a package, use 1.125 tsp or 1 tsp and a pinch (5.625 ml) of yeast.
 Essentially, any ingredient you run across that is difficult to cut in half as is must be reduced to a form that can be measured using measuring spoons, measuring cups, or scales. Measure that ingredient in full and cut the full measurement in half for your recipe.



As a general rule, you should reduce the pan size so that the ingredients measure out to the same depth called for in the original recipe. In other words, if you need to fill a large baking dish halfway deep with cake batter, choose a smaller baking dish that you can fill to the halfway point with your halved cake batter.
Note that this matters more if if you have a recipe that will fill up an entire dish. If you have a recipe that produces whole portions, you can use just about any size pan. For instance, if you are baking 12 cookies when the original recipe called for 24, you can still use the same size baking sheet. There will be extra room, but this extra room will not affect the way that the cookies bake.
 The cooking temperature almost always remains the same for a recipe, even if you halve it. In fact, you should treat the cooking temperature as a constant and use it as a way to monitor the progress of the dish as it cooks.


You also need to check the internal temperature of the food if the recipe lists that information. Like the cooking temperature, the internal temperature does not need to be halved and should remain the same for a halved recipe.
The only time you should consider raising the temperature is if you are cooking more than one dish in the oven at the same time. In this case, raise the temperature by 25 degrees Fahrenheit (14 degrees Celsius).
 If you are baking half a recipe in a dish that is half its original size, you might need to reduce the cooking time, as well. Note that this cooking time is not usually reduced exactly in half, though. You should start monitoring the food at the halfway point, but it may take longer to actually finish cooking.


For half a recipe of cake, bread, or pie, the cooking time will be between two-thirds and three-quarters of the original cooking time.
For half a recipe involving meat or vegetables, the cooking time will usually be about half. The exception, however, is if you use individual cuts of meat that measure the same size as the cuts called for in your original recipe. In other words, a 2 lb (900 g) roast will cook in half the time it takes a 4 lb (1800 g) roast to cook, but two 1/4 lb (115 g) hamburgers will cook in the same amount of time it takes for four 1/4 lb (115 g) hamburgers to cook through.
 While most recipes can be halved, there are a few that are more difficult than others. If a recipe might not take well to being halved, you should ask yourself if you want to risk it anyway or if it would be better to find a better recipe for a similar dish that yields fewer servings.


Delicate foods like soufflés and baked items with yeast tend to be difficult to halve since the food chemistry does not always produce the desired results. You can attempt to do so and may have some success, but you always face the risk that the recipe will not turn out exactly right.

