 This is the easy and will lay the foundation for the way others view your behavior. When a teacher, principal, or other school official is speaking, be sure to listen carefully or they may cross-question you. Listen even if they're not speaking to you directly (for instance, at an assembly). A teacher's day is spent struggling to win the attention of kids who would rather read books, not talk to friends (but instead listen to the topic), and ignore on their phones and such things during lessons. If you listen intently, she will notice you and begin to think of you as a good student.


Avoid asking your teacher to re-explain things they've just explained in great detail just for fun or to gain her attention or else you may frustrate or anger them. Instead, wait for a moment when you can approach your teacher one-on-one and say something like, "I'm sorry, I think I need a little more help understanding how to do this."
If you have any such condition that makes it hard for you to concentrate, remember to take resolve it when you wake up in the morning (such as take a medicine if you are not feeling well) so that you'll pay attention during the lectures and lessons.;
, Teachers like to see that their students are treating them with respect. If you intently follow all of their directions, they may even give you special freedoms or privileges under the assumption that you're trustworthy. In addition to following their verbal directions, read your teacher's syllabus carefully and follow any special instructions you find. Many students forget to study their syllabuses - get one step further than them by paying extra attention.


If, for instance, your teacher said not to enter the classroom before they arrive, but your classmates have gone in anyway, you should wait outside. If you're the only person to follow the rules exactly, you'll stand out in your teacher's mind as a good rule-follower.
Some teachers like to give vague, cagey advice to see who listens and who doesn't. If she/he says something mysterious like, "be sure to study this weekend," take note - she/he might be planning a pop quiz for Monday. You'll make an excellent impression if you are the only one prepared.
 Everyone's academic strengths and weaknesses are different - don't worry if you can't get perfect grades or marks . It's much more important to show your teacher that you're trying your level best. Ask intelligent and sensible questions during class. If there's something you're having an especially hard time understanding, meet your teacher after class.


Your willingness to seek help will show your teacher that you're taking their class seriously. A student who's clearly engaged in the material is more likely to be considered favorably when the teacher is assigning partial credit, tests, re-takes, etc.
If you're struggling hard to comprehend any subject , don't be afraid to ask your teacher for a tutor recommendation. Seeking help when you need it is a sign of maturity which most teachers will admire and prefer.
 Many classes are discussion-centered. The lecture in these classes takes the form of a dialog between the teacher and the students. Try to answer questions your teacher asks the class. Even if you don't answer correctly, you'll show your teacher that you're engaged in the material. If you don't participate, the teacher may think you aren't listening or don't care about the material.


Raise your hand when you have something to say in class. Never blurt out answers! Most teachers get irked when students answer without being called on.
 Don't talk to your friends or otherwise disrupt the class, especially if you're in your teacher's favouritism. Repeated disturbances can infuriate your teacher or even get you ejected from class. Respect your teacher. It should be fairly obvious when s/he wants you to be quiet. If you're not sure, err on the side of quietness or try waiting for another student to talk first, then judge your teacher's reaction.


If the teacher leaves the room, you might get away with talking a little. However, quiet down as soon as they return. Never talk if the teacher leaves during a test - other students might tell about you if you disturb them or try to cheat.
 Not every student who reads this guide will have a history of perfect conduct. If you've behaved poorly in the past, start improving your image immediately. Apologize to your teachers, students, or administrators you've disrespected. If you've been especially bad, bring your teacher a small, modest gift for an upcoming holiday. Devote more attention to your schoolwork. Pay more attention in class. Serve any outstanding detention time, then follow the above steps to keep out of trouble in the future.

