 Without saying a word, you can communicate your moods, just like a cat. Turn your back and walk out of the room if you’re bored or tired. Sit close to someone if you’re enjoying their company and close your eyes when you smile to show that you’re content and happy.


You don’t have a tail or ears like a cat, but you can still use your face to express your emotions to people without talking.
Or for example, you can pace back and forth when impatient for dinner to be ready or back away when you don’t want someone to try and touch or hug you.
 Talk in an upbeat tone when you’re happy and content and incorporate a growl into your voice when you’re mad. You don’t have to meow exactly like a cat, but you can copy their sounds. For example, cats chirp and mew at things they like so you could make high pitched, happy squeals when you see someone or something you love.To show displeasure, you can hiss like a cat does when it’s threatened or irritated.
If you want to be able to talk with cats, mimic their meows and sounds the best you can. Listen to how they talk and mimic them.
 Cats communicate with pheromones that humans aren’t sensitive to pick up to attract mates and warn other cats to stay away. Pick out a perfume or body spray that smells good so that others will want to be around you.In the chance that you want to repel someone, make a point to cook with garlic and onions or handle other foul smelling materials and don’t wash them off.
 Oftentimes people think cats are glaring at them when in reality, cats blink slowly to show that they like someone. Blink slowly and evenly to show affection. This is especially effective when you’re getting to know a new cat and want to communicate that you’re a friend.Some people may not recognize this behavior and it may look more like glaring.
Consider batting your eyes slowly instead to be less intimidating.
 If you ever need to fight, hold back from going all out and physically attacking someone. Instead, quickly bat someone on the arm to alert them of a coming altercation. Cats will swat at other cats, dogs, and humans at the start of a fight and sometimes it won’t need to escalate to a real fight.A warning swat doesn’t need to be hard, just swift and sharp enough to get someone’s attention.
If a real fight does break out, cats will bite and scratch their opponents. Just be cautious and consider the consequences of using these methods in a real fight with someone.

