 Look for a gentle body cleanser that's non-comedogenic. This means that the product won't clog your pores and cause acne like comedones, blackheads, whiteheads or pimples. You can use the same acne cleansers on your chest that are marketed for facial acne.


Look for a product that contains benzoyl peroxide, salicylic acid or alpha hydroxy acids. These ingredients can help control acne by chemically peeling away dead and dying skin cells.Benzoyl peroxide also reduces acne-causing bacteria on your skin.;
, Take a bath or a shower once a day using warm water. Hot water can strip your skin of moisture and cause irritation. Take a soft clean cloth and gently massage the cleanser onto your chest. Rinse the cleanser off and carefully towel dry your skin. Avoid scrubbing your skin since this can make acne worse.Take an extra shower if you've been sweating a lot. For example, take a shower after working out.
 Keeping your skin hydrated is an important step in preventing acne. Just splashing water on your chest is enough to keep the skin hydrated for a few hours. To keep your skin hydrated throughout the day, you need to apply a moisturizer. Gently rub a non-comedogenic moisturizer on your chest after washing.Keeping your skin hydrated by moisturizing has also been proven to reduce scarring., Exposure to sunlight and tanning beds will damage your skin over time which increases your risk for acne. Take steps to protect your skin by limiting your time in the sun, avoiding tanning beds, and covering up when you do go outside. You should also wear sunscreen that protects against UVA and UVB rays, even on cloudy days.Realize that some medications (including acne medications) can cause sensitivity to the sun and tanning beds. These medications include: antibiotics like ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim; antihistamines like diphenhydramine; cancer medications like 5-FU, vinblastine, dacarbazine; heart drugs like amiodorone, nifedipine, quinidine and ditiazem; Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like naproxen and the acne medications isotretinoin and acitretin., Cotton lets sweat evaporate more efficiently so it doesn't remain against your skin for an extended period of time, increasing your risk of acne. Try to wear cotton shirts and bras as much as possible. Studies have shown that the bacteria that grows on cotton clothing is different than the bacteria that grows on polyester clothing. The type of bacteria that grows on the cotton clothing is less likely to infect the skin and cause acne.You should also sleep on cotton sheets. This can greatly reduce your risk for body acne since your skin is coming into contact with the sheets for a long period of time every night. Make sure to wash your sheets and clothing regularly as well.
 Skincare products often contain alcohol since this can strip oil from the skin and make your skin feel tingly and clean. Unfortunately, alcohol in skincare products can dry out your skin and clog your pores. To protect your skin, choose alcohol-free products.You should also avoid touching your chest or picking, popping, or squeezing any pimples. This will prevent bacteria from transferring from your hands to your chest which can cause acne or flare-ups. Popping or picking at pimples can also lead to scarring.
 Several essential oils contain anti-microbial, antibacterial, and anti-inflammatory properties. These can treat bacteria that causes acne. Many are also soothing to the skin and can accelerate healing. Studies have shown that tea tree oil is as effective as benzoyl peroxide, but with fewer side effects for many people.Other essential oils with skin clearing properties include:Spearmint or peppermint
Thyme
Cinnamon
Rose
Lavender
Tea tree

, Carrier oils help your body absorb the essential oil and help dilute it. A carrier oil should be non-comedogenic oil so it doesn't clog your pores. The Journal of American Dermatology has given carrier oils a comedogenic rating so you know which oils are least likely to make your acne worse (rated 0) and which are more likely to clog your pores (rated 4 and 5). Find your favorite moisturizer with a rating from 0 to 2 from the list below:Rated 0 (will not clog pores): hemp, mineral, and safflower oils
Rated 1 (low likelihood of clogging pores): castor and calendula oils
Rated 2 (moderately-low likelihood of clogging pores): almond, apricot kernel, avocado, camphor, evening primrose, grapeseed, hazelnut, and peanut oils

, Take one ounce of carrier oil and mix in 10 drops of your essential oil. Diluting the essential oil helps your body absorb the oil and prevents skin irritation.You should never apply essential oil directly onto your skin. This can cause sensitization where your skin develops a severe or itchy rash.
 Always test any essential oil for sensitivity or allergy by adding a drop of your chosen essential oil to about 8 ounces of water. Take a cotton ball and soak it in the water. Squeeze out the excess water and apply the cotton ball to your skin. Wait for about an hour and check for any skin reaction. If you have no reaction, you can go ahead and use the oil.If you notice inflammation, rash, or swelling, do not use the oil and try a different essential oil once your skin has recovered.
 Spread the mixture onto any problem areas on your chest. This spot treatment can prevent a full-fledged acne breakout on your chest. Don't be afraid to put carrier oils on your skin. The oil can actually dissolve the sebum (oil) that clogs up the pores and is part of the cause of acne.


Consider applying the mixture to your skin once a day. Just be sure to wash your skin well at least twice a day as well.
 Track what foods you eat so you can determine if any of the foods you eat may be responsible for chest acne flare-ups. While a poor diet doesn't necessarily cause acne, some people are prone to inflammation caused by diet. This inflammation can increase your risk for acne. Some common foods that cause inflammation include:Dairy products
Fatty foods
Processed foods with sugars
Gluten products

, Try to cut back on foods with added sugars. Reducing your sugar intake by eating low-glycemic foods will make it harder for acne-causing bacteria to thrive. Low-glycemic foods can prevent acne by releasing sugars into your blood more slowly. Low-glycemic foods include:Bran cereals, muesli, rolled oats
Whole wheat, pumpernickel, whole grain breads, brown rice, barley
Most vegetables (except beets, pumpkin and parsnips)
Nuts
Most fruit (except watermelon and dates)
Legumes
Yogurt

, Vitamin D is known as the sunshine vitamin and studies have actually shown that a vitamin D deficiency can cause acne.Since it's difficult to absorb vitamin D through food, it's best to get 10 to 20 minutes of early morning sun (without wearing sunscreen). Or, you can take a supplement.


Always ask your doctor about taking a supplement. Choose a vitamin D3 supplement that contains at least 1000 IU., Many topical acne treatments contain synthetic forms of vitamin A (retinoids). To prevent chest acne, try eating more foods with vitamin A. Foods high in Vitamin A include:Sweet potatoes
Spinach
Carrots
Pumpkin
Broccoli
Red peppers
Summer squash
Cantaloupe
Mangoes
Apricots
Legumes
Meat and fish

, Most Western diets include more omega-6 fatty acids than omega-3s. An imbalance in these two types of fatty acids can cause skin irritation and acne. Consider eating foods high in omega-3s while cutting back on fatty, processed foods that contain omega-6s. Foods high in omega-3 fatty acids include:Seeds and nuts: flaxseeds and flaxseed oil, chia seeds, butternuts, walnuts
Fish and fish oils: salmon, sardines, mackerel, whitefish, shad
Herbs and spices: basil, oregano, cloves, marjoram
Vegetables: spinach, sprouted radish seeds, Chinese broccoli

