 Take advantage of the parties that college life is known for, and find the ones that are best suited to your social interests. If you enjoy large parties, try going to sororities, fraternities, or other large gatherings. Small parties, or a group of people gathering in a friend’s apartment, can also be fun.Always go with a friend or a group of friends to larger parties. It will be safer and more fun.
It’s a good idea to leave the party before it ends. Once people start to leave the party, most of the fun is finished.
Be mindful of the amount of alcohol you consume at a party, and be careful not to drink a drink you didn’t pour yourself.;
, Themes can be just about anything from 1980’s parties, Hippie parties (or “Hippie vs. Hipster”), Mardi Gras parties, “Luck O’the Irish” parties, etc. You can usually find the clothes you need in thrift stores.Avoid racially-charged or sensitive subjects when planning your theme party, or your outfit for a theme party. This can go very wrong, very quickly. Ask yourself whether you’re making fun of a particular cultural group, or if it might be misinterpreted in this way.Wear something versatile, so you’re not stuck in the theme all night if you decide to go elsewhere. For example, if you’re going to an 80’s dance party, think about wearing a brightly colored shirt, black tights, and Converse hightops, over a strappy black dress. That way, you can just take off the shirt and change shoes when you’re ready to move on.
 Get your friends to pool their resources, and rent a van or RV for a week-long road trip to your favorite destination. You might find yourself staying with friends, relatives, or camping out to save money.As a student, you’re eligible for discounts on some rentals, hotel rooms, and other destinations.
Take back roads whenever you can to really explore the landscape you’re traveling through.
Post pictures of your road trip on social media with your friends and family back home.
 Just being around so many other people your age is one of the best parts of college life. You’ll make friends in college that will last a lifetime. Just put yourself in situations where you’ll be most likely to meet other students who share your interests and values. If it’s hard for you to make friends, start by looking around at the other students in your classes.Remember that most people are shy sometimes, and that it’s not always easy to initiate a conversation with a new person.
If you live in a dorm or residence hall, try to get to know others on your floor. If there are mixers or social events to help with this, you should attend them.
It’s okay to start a conversation, no matter how random, with anyone who looks like another student. This is the norm for college social life, so take advantage of it!

