 Assuming that you have access to both parents' signatures, the first step will be to choose which parent's signature to forge. Studies have shown that there are detectable differences between male and female handwriting.Therefore, it may be easier to fake a signature of the parent who is the same gender as you, if applicable.;
, Once you've chosen which parent to copy, you'll need a sample of that parent's signature. You probably have many basic handwriting samples of that parent lying around the house, but you need an actual signature. Try looking for a personal check your parent has written for someone, or a receipt he or she has signed.


Observe your parent's letter stylings, proportions, and height ratios. These are the parts of a signature that are often neglected when someone forges another person's signature, and it makes it much easier to catch the forgery.Look for signs of your parent's pen starts and stops, as these can also be telling markers of an authentic vs. a forged signature., Keep your parent's authentic signature close at hand and practice replicating it on a blank, disposable sheet of scrap paper. Pay close attention to the form of each letter, whether the pen is ever lifted (and if so, where), and the overall hand movement suggested by the signature.Compare your practice signatures with the real thing. Keep practicing until you achieve a nearly identical replica.
As you practice your parent's signature, compare the size and length of the two signatures. Most people use the same amount of space to sign their name, no matter what document is being signed. If your replica signature is noticeably bigger or smaller than your parent's, it will be pretty easy to identify as a fake., Once you've adequately practiced your chosen parent's signature and can make a convincing replica, you're ready to move on to the actual signature. Before you put pen to paper, however, you should be aware of the ways in which even a studied signature could be identified as fake.


Hold the pen comfortably. A common trait among people forging a signature is to grip the pen with a tight fist out of nervousness and/or concentration. This produces a very rigid signature, which can easily be identified as a counterfeit.If you must look up to re-examine the actual signature at any point, do not hold the pen to the page. This produces a blot of ink that can be a very obvious sign of forgery.
Likewise, try to avoid breaking the signature (to re-examine the original) between letters or in mid-letter. A sudden change in the signature in which the pen was obviously lifted from the page is a tell-tale mark of a forged signature. Aim to replicate the entire first name in one smooth run, then the entire last name in one continuous signature.
 Once you've signed the document, hide it in a place that your parents will not see it. If you signed your father's name and he sees a document that he has never seen before with "his" signature on it, he will immediately know something is not right. You should also return your parent's original signature to the location where you found it. Lastly, be sure to destroy the practice pages you used to learn your parent's signature. Any sign of a sheet of paper with dozens of signatures on it will quickly tip off your parent that you've forged something in his/her name.