 Loving-kindness meditation is a form of meditation, often used on children, that has shown to be effective at combating depression. Try incorporating loving-kindness meditation into your daily routine.


The idea behind loving-kindness meditation is to sit down comfortably and imagine what you want in life. Find a comfortable place on the floor and begin a mantra. Say something like, "May I be happy, may I be strong and healthy, may I feel relaxed." Keep going, listing wishes for yourself.From there, list good wishes for those around you. Direct the same thoughts towards someone you're thankful for. For example, "May my mother be happy, may my mother be strong and healthy, may my mother feel relaxed..."Visualize someone you feel neutral about, that is someone you neither like nor dislike. Send those same thoughts their way. It can even be helpful to direct such thoughts to people you have active animosity towards. Sending love to those who make you miserable can actually be empowering.Last, direct your mantra out into the universe. End with something like, "May all living things everywhere be happy.", You can find guided meditation techniques online. You might also be able to order meditation routines as CD's or mp3 files. These routines can help you visualize calming scenes, focus on your body and breath, and keep you in the present moment. This might help with depression.
 If you want to try a particular types of meditation, such as Buddhist meditation, it might be a good idea to look into classes. See if there are meditation instructors or meditation classes in your area.In addition to helping with effective meditation, this is a great way to meet new people. Fostering healthy social relations can also help with depression.
 Studies about the efficacy of meditation to treat depression are ongoing, and it's important you do not rely solely on meditation to treat depression. Depression is a serious mental health issue and should not be taken lightly. You can find a therapist by asking your regular doctor for a referral. You can also find a list of therapists online through your insurance provider. If you are a college student, you may be entitled to free counseling through your university. Symptoms of depression include:Feelings of emptiness, hopelessness, despair, or sadness
Irritability or mood swings
Loss of interest in things you used to enjoy
Unusual sleep patterns (sleeping too much or too little)
Unusual appetite (wanting to eat less, wanting to eat more)
Changes in weight (weight loss or weight gain)
Fatigue, exhaustion, lack of energy
Agitation or anxiety
Slowed thinking or movement, feeling weighed down
Feelings of worthlessness or guilt
Difficulty concentrating, thinking, or making decisions
Unexplained physical ailments, likes aches or pains
Thoughts or attempts of suicide

