 The essential requirement is that only the face shows and so every single hair must be hidden. Many Muslim women have posted tutorials for hijab styles, but be aware that a basic characteristic of the hijab is that it does not draw attention, so it should never be treated as a fashion accessory. You'll learn what hijab types and products are available when you go looking, and learn what to do with hijabs that require tying, folding, wrapping or pinning.;
, Go to a store that sells Muslim clothing and look at their hijab selection. Some hijabs consist of a single piece of fabric that may be square, oblong, or triangular. These are often wrapped and pinned or tied to hold them in place. Others consist of tubes of fabric that slip over the head, and these come in one-piece and two-piece styles. The tube style is often easier for beginners, as they don't require pinning. Find a hijab that matches your outfit, or in a neutral color. Avoid wearing excessively bold colours and designs that stand out. Hijabs made of natural fibers like silk, or cotton are often more comfortable, as these fabrics "breathe."

, If you aren't quite ready to wear your hijab, you might confuse or offend other Muslims if you wear it inconsistently. So it is best if you begin wearing hijab when you feel ready for a commitment to wear it consistently, but above all wear it for the sake of Allah.
 Don't think that if you wear hijab, people will look down on you. Your friends will still be your friends. If anybody asks you on your decision on wearing a hijab, tell them that you want to become a good Muslim. They actually will start to respect you for what you have done. If they start to comment and criticize your decision to wear hijab, you may have to decide whether you think your relationship can tolerate the difference, or if you need to keep your distance to avoid further conflict. Moreover, you can become a good representative of all Muslims. Show that Muslims care for their image. Some Muslim women choose to take the additional step of covering their face as part of their hijab.
 Wear bold tunics, swirling skirts, wide-legged pants and structured long jackets. Many Muslim clothing companies offer beautiful long dresses for casual and formal wear, and chic suits for the office. Hijab isn't a uniform and there's no compulsion to be drab, but avoid being overly ostentatious too.
 Freedom rules! Show off your inner un-hijabi self. Just be absolutely certain that there are no men in the room; put a sign on the door if needed.
 If you play team sports, you may need to wear long shirts or pants underneath the team uniform. Get a hijab designed for athletic wear in a color that matches your uniform or a neutral color, as determined by your coach. If you aren't playing team sports, loose jogging pants, a long sleeved t-shirt, and a hijab designed for active wear should serve for most exercise. For swimming, full-coverage swimsuits are available at some Muslim clothing stores. If you follow the Sunnah of riding horses, try to wear a long coat that extends over your jodhpurs.
 This helps to keep your headscarf in place.
 Place it on your head.
,, This will tighten it as firmly as you like.
, This is used for coverage; pin in place as needed (optional).

