 Get into the driver’s seat of the vehicle and take a good look at your gauges. Most vehicles come equipped with a speedometer, fuel gauge, coolant temperature gauge and a tachometer. They may be arranged in a number of ways depending on the make and model of your vehicle.The tachometer usually shows single or double digit numbers that increase into a red band, which shows RPMs above the redline for the vehicle.
The redline is the highest number of RPMs your vehicle can manage safely.;
, With a good understanding of where to find each gauge, press the brake pedal with your right foot and turn the key in the ignition to start the vehicle. You’ll notice the tachometer climbs rapidly, before settling on the number of RPMs your vehicle idles at.Idling is when the engine is running without any fuel input from the driver.
 With the vehicle in park (or neutral with the parking brake engaged) press your foot on the gas pedal and observe the tachometer. As you increase the amount of gas going into the engine, the RPMs climb to match.Getting a sense of how quickly your engine revs will help make driving a standard vehicle easier.
If you were unsure which gauge was the tachometer, this will help you identify it.
 If driving a vehicle equipped with a standard transmission, it’s important that you maintain a sense of how many RPMs the engine is at in each gear you are in. Glance at the tachometer frequently, just as you check each of your mirrors.The tachometer will show you how many RPMs you are at in each gear, indicating when to switch to the next one.
You should be checking your speed periodically as well, so glancing at the tachometer should be an easy addition.
 The red line on the tachometer represents the highest number of revolutions the engine is capable of withstanding safely. While you should never approach the red line in normal driving, you may occasionally when accelerating quickly. Shift into the next gear before exceeding the red line on your tachometer.Spinning the engine at too many RPMs can cause serious internal damage.

