 One of the most effective ways you can actively concentrate on what you're doing is to write things down by hand. As opposed to typing, writing by hand forces you to actually engage with what you're learning in a more physical way, sticking in the mind more clearly and engaging with it in a more visceral way.


If you struggle to pay attention during meetings or during class, take notes more actively. Keep your pencil moving. Even if it's not something that will be super-helpful later, you'll keep yourself from wandering into other thoughts if you take notes.;
, Long-thought a sign that people weren't paying attention, it turns out that some of the most active thinkers are also active doodlers. If you draw, even just squiggly lines and nonsense while you're trying to pay attention, some studies show that it can help you engage your mind and stay focused, keeping boredom at bay and keeping your mind active and learning., Similar to doodling and note-taking, speaking out loud while you work or study might have your roommates thinking you've got a few screws loose, but it's also proven to actively help you to internalize what you read and the ideas that you're engaging with. Like writing, verbalizing forces you to give words to knowledge, creating a two-step process in the learning that makes it easier to recall and makes you more engaged.If you're embarrassed, try finding an isolated super-quiet place to study, or wait until your roommates are gone to get some alone time to try it out. Or just don't worry about what they think. Talk to yourself! We all do it.
 To escape a skid, professional drivers are trained to look not at the oncoming tree they'd like to avoid, but the space to which they want to go. Successful soccer players move to open space, successful guitar players find an empty space to play a perfect note, and successful learners fixate on the right course of action and the right way of doing.


It might sound so obvious that it's silly, but if you're reading a text and find your mind wandering into other thoughts, picture yourself doing it correctly. Tell yourself to actively read and pay attention. Change your mind and look toward the space where you're doing the right thing. Then do it.