 You'll need to make sure that the wire you choose is thin enough for your seed beads, which can come in different sizes. If you are interested in using a thicker gauge wire, you should be sure the beads you purchase fit the thicker wire.Size 15/0 seed beads (1.3 mm) should usually be able to fit on 16 gauge wire and thinner. Larger seed beads, like size 6/0 (3.3 mm), will accommodate thicker wire, in this case eight gauge and thinner.
Due to differences in the finishing process of seed beads used by bead producers, seed bead diameters are only an approximation, and may require thicker or thinner wire.;
, You should be sure that your work area is clear before you attempt to cut and shape the band of your ring.You might also consider putting your beads into containers. This will make the beads more accessible and decrease your chances of a spill.
 Take your ruler and measure out about five inches (13 cm) of wire. Then bend it slightly where you have measured to mark where you will cut. You may need your pliers to bend the wire, but once you do:


Use your wire snips to cut loose the wire you will be using as the band of your ring.
 This is the main bead that will form the top of your ring. Using a large bead for your centerpiece can give your ring a cool distinguishing feature, but if you prefer, a regular sized bead will work just as well. Simply thread your centerpiece bead onto the end of your wire.


If a bead centerpiece isn't your style, you might think about using a charm attached to a jump ring.
Be sure your jump ring is small enough that it is held in place by the beads you will be threading on your band., Take your needle nose pliers and grasp the wire where you have just threaded your bead. Hold the wire firmly with your pliers, and then bend it over the bead to create a small, squashed loop.This bend in the wire will prevent beads slipping off as you work.
 Then you'll be able to thread it all the way down your wire until it joins your centerpiece bead.Keep in mind that your first bead will form the top of your ring, and the beads following it will wrap around the band.


Alternating short patterns by using two or three beads of different color can create nifty designs in your ring.
Keep your patterns short; the band of your ring will likely not be long enough to work with longer patterns.
 Don't worry about using too many beads; you can always take some off.
 Coil your wire so that it loops in on itself, with the unbent end circling around to meet the other end. Hold the free end with your hand, and then tighten the loop around the finger of your free hand to see if your beads wrap the full way around to form a snug fitting band.


If the band of your ring is too tight, you should add a few more beads.
If the band is too loose, simply remove a few beads and then try it on your finger again.
 Thread the free end of your wire through the loop you made to hold your centerpiece in place. Then, wrap the excess wire two or three times around the band to secure it in place.Finish your beaded ring by using your wire snips to cut free any left over wire.Bend any sharp edges either inward toward a bead or outward and away from where your finger will go to prevent being poked by your snipped wire.

