 Many styles of beard create dramatic contrasts with clean, abrupt lines where the hair ends and the skin begins. Even if you don't aim to dazzle anyone, you still might want to clean your facial hair up every once in a while. This process can be as simple as removing unwanted neck hair from a standard beard or as painstaking as leveling off your sideburns so that they match perfectly! Whatever the case, have a plan of action beforehand - razors shave all the way down to the skin, so big mistakes can change your style completely.


There's no right way to shape a beard. However, the most common beard styles are maintained by shaving the neck below the chin and the upper part of the cheeks to prevent an "overgrown" look. Decide what's best for you.
 In the distant past, shaving required a well-maintained straight razor. Today, almost any supermarket will be stocked with plastic safety razors. What you use to maintain your clean lines is up to you - safety razors are cheap, easy, and convenient, but some prefer the elegance and precision of a classic straight razor. For more information, consult our comprehensive guide on How to Shave.
 Your goal is to get your beard (especially the areas around where you want your clean lines to be) warm and wet - it will be softer and easier to cut this way. This step allows for some variation. Here are some common methods:


Splash some hot water on your face. If you have a soft beard (or you're just brave), no other preparation is needed, though you might want to repeat as needed to keep your beard warm and wet.
Use hot water and lather. This is the most common method. Splash hot water on your face as above, then work shaving cream or oil into a lather on the spots you want to shave. If you have time, let it sit for a minute or two - your shave will be even more comfortable.
Use a hot towel. If you've got the time, this method can be very relaxing. Wrap a warm, wet towel around your head so that it covers your beard. Allow the wrap to sit until it is cool. Remove, apply lather, and shave.
Many like to shower before (or while) they shave because showering provides a constant source of warm water. If this sounds attractive to you, consider investing in a small shower mirror for a more precise shave.
 Be conservative - this way, you have some "wiggle room" if you make a stroke that's too big.


If you've used lather and you can't see where you're shaving, it's OK to wipe some off with your finger. Even a very thin layer of lather will work well.
 Use a variety of stroke directions as long as none are painful or go directly against the grain of your hair - strokes that are parallel to your beard line can be used for large, approximate cuts, while strokes that are perpendicular to your beard line can be used to precisely cut into the beard line for smaller adjustments.
 A mirror and a good light source are essentials - you need to be able to see all parts of your face clearly if you want a perfectly symmetrical shave.
 Cold water tightens the skin and will help to stop the bleeding from any small nicks or cuts. Our How to Shave Your Face guide contains further instructions on treating shaving cuts.


When your face has been rinsed, you'll be able to see any small imperfections or spots you missed. Usually, minor adjustments can be made without re-applying a lather.

