 Is it their hair? Their face? Their voice? Their god-like body? What ever it is, you're obviously not the only one that feels this way about them! Call or text a buddy who shares your feelings! You two could on for hours about how flawless Michael Clifford's (Five Seconds of Summer) voice was in the Green Day cover, American Idiot. Or how perfect Ariana Grande's makeup is! If you don't personally know anyone who feels the same way, there's always the internet! Look up the hashtag on Instagram, or a fanpage on Facebook and you'll find someone to cry about it with. Whatever or whomever your obsession is, someone out there feels the same way.;
, It sounds so cliché, but crying always helps! Cry and whine to your self about the fact that you wish you could just touch Justin Bieber's hair, rest your head on Austin Carlisle's chest, or smell Selena Gomez's perfume. One thing you NEVER should do, is share your feelings with someone who doesn't care, or will be negative about it. Surround yourself with positivity about your situation!

, There are fanfictions websites like Wattpad, or most celebrities have a forum page just for that purpose! Never hold your inner fangirl/fanboy in, because that just won't work! Embrace it and do something about it. Write a story about a boy/girl (don't lie, we all know you're going to pretend it's you.) who is living your dream with your obsession.
 Start an Instagram, Facebook, or Tumblr account and connect with other fans just like you! It's all free, and it certainly helps when you can post what ever you desire and speak freely about celebrities! Your opinion is shared with people all over the world, and this is also a great way to make friends you have things in common with! (But let's not go tell our parents that a girl on the internet told you to talk to strangers!)

, With all the social media and ways to get a hold of people, it's not impossible to get a retweet or Instagram like from the lead singer of your favorite band! Find ways to get tickets to a concert of your favorite singers, or tickets to a meet and greet with your favorite actor! There's always way to handle these fangirl/fanboy attacks, and you better believe it, you are not the only one!

