 If you can, always have a shopping buddy. This person can be a friend, family member, or significant other. When you try on different pairs of shorts, ask him or her if you look good in them.


It's important to get someone else's perspective when shopping, since too often people are their own worst critics. Especially if your self-confidence is low, you will see "flaws" that nobody else would notice.
Make sure your buddy is someone you can trust to be honest. If a pair of shorts is legitimately unflattering, you want your shopping buddy to be honest and tell you. Many people are afraid of offending people and won't give good advice in these situations.
On the other hand, don't go shopping with someone who is hypercritical. If your buddy never has a good word to say, you may feel too self-conscious to buy shorts at all.;
, This may seem like a given, but it's the most important part of finding shorts that make you look good. Don't worry so much about fashion trends or looking perfect. Dress how you want to dress.


If you have issues with clothing texture, be sure to look for shorts made of materials you find comfortable.
You might find the chicest, most flattering pair of shorts, but if you think they're ugly and uncomfortable it will be difficult to look confident. Self-confidence is essential for looking your best., Shorts are generally for beating the heat, but different types of shorts are best worn in the appropriate situation. Think about what you want to do in your shorts and how you want to look while doing it. Questions you should ask while shopping are:


Do you want to look sexy, casual, or both? There are some shorts that can work as part of a dinner outfit, and there are shorts that are better suited to wear around the house. There are different lengths of shorts from sexy ones meant to show off your butt to modest shorts that reach past your knees.
Are you looking for athletic shorts? If so, for which activities? The best shorts for playing basketball aren't the same as shorts designed for running., Just like other types of clothing, different styles of shorts can exaggerate or draw attention away from certain body features.


To accentuate curves, wear shorts that are longer and/or have an A-line silhouette..
To make your legs look longer or to look taller, wear shorter shortsand/or ones with higher waists.Low-to-midrise cuts will make your torso look longer and your legs shorter.Wear "skinny" or fitted-cut shorts if you have thin legs that you would like to look fuller.
Likewise, if you legs are on the thick side, wider cuts will flatter them more., This step is extra important if you didn't bring a shopping buddy. Like all types of clothing, you look best in clothes that fit your body right. A perfect fit is one that doesn't feel restrictive while also not being too baggy. Some fitting issues you should watch out for with shorts include:



Muffin tops. When you wear shorts that have waistband that's too small, your tummy will bulge out in a way that many people find unappealing. Anyone, even thin people, can get a muffin top when wearing too-small shorts.

Sliding off. This is caused by a too-wide waistband. Your shorts should only hang low if that's your style.

Riding up. For a lot of people, especially women, even the best-fitting pair of shorts may ride up over time. However, if you find a pair riding up right after you've put them on, just think how uncomfortable they'll get later in the day. If this happens, look for a looser style with a wider leg., The first garment you'll need to pick out is the most appropriate underwear. In general, you probably want to keep your underwear from showing. Check to see that it's not peeking through by trying on both the underwear and the shorts in front of a mirror.


Which styles and cuts work well will depend on the type of shorts you're wearing.
Of course, if you want to show off your underwear, then go ahead. In that case, make sure your underwear looks just as nice as the rest of your outfit. Most people aren't into tighty whities that are stained and full of holes., To look good in shorts, you'll want your outfit to be a cohesive whole rather than a random collection of items.


Limit the number of patterns in one outfit. If your shorts are made of a patterned fabric, you'll look best if the rest of your clothing and accessories are solid colors.
Use dashes of complementary colors. Complementary colors are pairs that are opposite each other on the color wheel: red and green; yellow and purple; and blue and orange. For example, blue shorts can look great when paired with an orange belt and shoes.
If your shorts are one of the "neutrals" in fashion (browns, grays, black, and navy blue), don't mix another neutral into your outfit. For example, if your shorts are black, pick a black jacket to go with them rather than a navy blue one.Try to make sure your shorts just look right with an outfit. Collared shirts generally look out of place when paired with shorts., Avoid t-shirts that are longer than your shorts. If your shorts aren't visible under your shirt, you're likely to look like you're not wearing bottoms at all. Even if both go down to your knees, you may get some stares if you go out in public.
 In addition to matching the color of your shoes to your entire outfit, you'll also need to take the style of your shorts into account.


Sneakers or a flat pair of tennis shoes will work with casual and athletic shorts.
Don't wear dress shoes with athletic shorts.
If you choose to pair sneakers or tennis shoes with a nicer pair of shorts, make sure those shoes are clean and in perfect condition.
For more feminine styles, high heels and/or thigh-high boots will make nicer shorts even sexier., Most styles of shorts will show off your legs to the world. Make sure you feel confident about the way they look.


People of all shapes and sizes can look good in shorts. What's important is that you like how your legs look.
If you want your legs to look more muscular, be sure to do leg exercises regularly throughout the year.
If you want your legs to look thinner, try losing weight through diet and exercises that don't bulk up the legs. You can burn calories with light aerobics or strength training your upper body.
Remember that your genetics plays a major role in how your legs look. It's possible that no amount of diet and exercise will make your legs look like your ideal. If that's the case, learn to love your body., Many men and women choose to shave their legs when wearing shorts. Shaving will make your legs look more well-defined.


Depending on your body hair pattern and the type of shorts you're planning to wear, it may also be a good idea to shave your inner thighs.
Other methods of hair removal like waxing will also make your legs shorts-ready.
Don't be pressured into shaving if you don't want to.
 Visibly dry skin can detract from your legs' looks. Keep them shiny and toned with some moisturizing body lotion of your choice.


Avoid causes of dry skin like harsh soaps, heat, and low humidity.
Always wear sunscreen on your legs when wearing shorts during the day.
Staying well-moisturized can actually make your legs look longer.