 When it comes down to it, work-life balance is really the skill of effective time-management. You will find that you have more time for the most important things when you use your time more wisely. To do this, you first need to figure out your top priorities. Make a list.Write down those aspects of your life that are most important to you. These may include work, family life, non-work social connections, spirituality, and physical health. Rank these items on a scale of one to ten based on their significance.
Now, try to estimate how much time you are dedicating to them. If family life is ranked No. 1 but only gets about 25 percent of your time, you will have to cut down on less important obligations to make more time for it.
 There are an abundance of resources available to help you regain balance in your life. More than likely, you’re not using them because you enjoy being a superhero. Recognize that in order for you to focus on what’s more important you will need to delegate some tasks.This may mean asking a team member to lead the morning meetings so you can make breakfast and drop your children off at school. Or, it may mean outsourcing your laundry or cleaning chores in order to have more time for family or work.
Think hard, too. Search for the reasons why you push yourself. Deep down do you enjoy feeling like a hero or a martyr? Are you trying to compensate for low self-esteem? Or, do you have unrealistic expectations due to the way you were raised?

, Develop a routine that allots time for you. Things like hobbies, interests and self-care often slip through the cracks when work becomes demanding. Create a routine that incorporates these activities into your day so you never have to sacrifice them.

For example, you might schedule 30 minutes each morning for reading your scripture, meditating, or writing. You might carve out time each evening to pampering yourself with a relaxing bath and a scented candle. Plus, having a more consistent schedule will improve your sleep.Consider researching how to recalibrate your time for more relaxation. Find out more about time management techniques, better organization, effective delegation of tasks, and other ways to be more efficient – and save time.
 Being tuned in 24/7 can easily drive you insane. Carve out some time to be tech-free. Reflect on which areas of life need your attention, and use your unplugged time for these. For instance, you might establish a strict no technology after 8pm each evening. You can use that time to meet up with friends face-to-face, catch up with your partner, or engage in creative pursuits.Get outdoors, too! Overworking usually means that you are spending most of your day inside, which can lead to things like vitamin D deficiency or upset your circadian rhythms.

