 Usually, the class is determined by the monetary value of projects contractors will undertake. For example, Class C contractors might be limited to working on projects of $10,000 or less, Class B contractors on projects up to $200,000, and Class A contractors may be able to work on projects of any value.


Fees and insurance requirements may vary by contracting class.
Working on projects outside of the limits of a contracting class is a violation of regulations. Disciplinary or legal action can result.
Seek the contracting class that suits the types of project you want to do, as well as your company's financial and physical abilities.;
,"General contractors, as the name implies, oversee many aspects of a project, while specialty contractors focus on a specific area. Common specialties include:Appliances
Awnings, coverings, and screens
Boiler, steam, and process piping
Cabinetry and finish carpentry
Closets
Concrete
Demolition
Drywall
Electrical
Excavation
Fire protection
Flooring
Glass and glazing
Heating, ventilation, air conditioning and refrigeration (HVAC/R)
Landscaping
Masonry
Plumbing
Roofing

, Your contractor’s license will then certify that this company can operate. You must first determine that your intended company name is not already taken.Many states will have a name availability form you can fill out, or an online database you can check to see if a company name is not yet taken.You also need to decide on your contracting business’ structure (sole proprietorship, limited liability corporation, etc.).If you plan on hiring employees other than yourself, you should also request an Employer Identification Number (EIN) from the IRS.Make sure to pay any fees that are required to register your business and/or its name.In some states, you must also designate people to serve as your contracting business’ management and qualified individuals (those with the appropriate training/experience in the contracting field).These may or may not be the same people, depending on how your business is structured.
 These exams might be composed of multiple topics, some dealing with business aspects and others with technical and trade practices.Contact the International Code Council (ICC) for information about contracting examinations that are applicable in your area., Since contracting work is often dangerous and involves large amounts of money, this insurance protects you against liabilities and covers any losses. In addition to or instead of insurance, you may be required to purchase a surety bond. This is essentially protection against loss in case you are unable to finish a project or complete it satisfactorily.


The amount of insurance or bond that you must purchase will vary depending on your location and the type of projects you will do. However, expect it to be substantial.
You will need to show proof that you have purchased the insurance or bond in order to receive your contractor’s license.
 In many states, you must pass a criminal background check before you can receive your contractor’s license.Complete the background check according to the instructions provided by your state. Make sure to keep a copy of the certificate showing you have passed the background check—you will need this later when submitting your license application.
 The exact application form and instructions will vary depending on your location. Contact your local planning and development board, registrar of contractors, or other relevant agency about where to find the application form and instructions. Common information and documents included with contracting license applications include:Your company’s name, EIN, and address
Your contracting class and specialty, if applicable
Copies of your company’s incorporation papers
A summary of your education, training, and experience
Proof of your insurance and/or bond
Certification from the ICC or other approved agency that you have passed any required contracting examinations
Copies of personal identification
A statement of citizenship
Information about any prior contracting licenses you have had (including in another state)
Proof that you have passed a background check

, Deliver the application (by mail, online, in person, by fax, etc.) according to the instructions provided on the application form or by the relevant agency.


Make sure to include any required fees with your application.
Make sure to get your application notarized, if required, before submitting it., Ask the relevant agency if there is a confirmation number or letter you should expect to receive once you submit your application, and how you will receive notice that your application has been approved or rejected., Each state has its own regulations for contracting. You must be approved for each state you want to work in, even if you already have a contracting license that is valid in another state. In some cases, you may be able to get a special temporary license (which may have a lower fee or streamlined application process) if you do already have a license that is valid in another state.Note that contractors must follow any local or municipal contracting regulations in addition to ones enforced by the state.

