 A doobie wrap – or simply doobie – is a Dominican technique for wrapping and pinning hair to straighten it. Start with your hair wet. Part it in the middle and begin on one side by combing 1-3” sections of hair straight. Pull and smooth each section with the comb around your head. Secure it with a long bobby pin at the crown of your head, the nape of your neck and the end point. Move to the other half of your hair and do the same, combing it on top of the hair that’s already pinned.


Wrap a silk scarf around your hair if you’re going to sleep.Otherwise, let it air dry, or use a bonnet dryer or a hooded dryer., Start by applying a setting lotion to your hair. This will help straighten it and make the straightening last longer. Use a wide-toothed comb to part your hair into sections, and roll 2-4” sections of hair onto 2-4” metal or mesh rollers. Pull tight at the scalp because this is the area that’s most resistant to straightening. Secure each roller at the scalp with a large clip. Make sure you roll backward, away from the face.


Allow your hair to dry naturally, or use a bonnet dryer or hooded dryer on a low heat before switching to cool to set your curls.
You can also combine air-drying with either dryer by letting your hair air dry for awhile before using one of the dryers. Or you can dry it partially with one of the dryers and then let it air dry the rest of the way.
Test to see if it’s dry by unrolling one roller at the back of your head after about 45 minutes, longer if your hair is very thick or coarse. , First, don’t turn on the vent before you shower. After you’ve washed and conditioned your hair, stay in the shower or the bathroom and let your hair soak in the steam. This will help enhance your curls. Then apply a curling or anti-frizz serum, lotion, cream, oil, etc. to your hair while it’s still quite wet.
 There are a number on the market, so reading reviews online is a good place to start if you don’t already use one. You don’t want to use too much of any product because it will weigh down hair, and your curls won’t last as long. Using a moisturizing conditioner and not rinsing it out enhances and holds curls unless your hair is fine or wavy. Applying mousse and then scrunching works very well for hair that is less curly. It can also help shape and define curls as well.Use roughly a nickel- to a quarter-sized amount of anti-frizz serums, creams and oils. If you go overboard, sprinkle some baby powder or dry shampoo on your hair and use your blow dryer to blast the area with cool air.
If you use mousse or foam, spray out a cloud the size of a golf ball. Pat your hands together and finger comb it through your hair, starting at your roots., This can be quite damaging to your hair, so use a thermal heat protectant and the lowest heat setting on your blow dryer. You also want to use a blow dryer with a concentrator attachment that will direct the heat so your hair isn’t flying about, creating frizz. Work in 2-3” sections, using a large, round boar bristle or nylon brush. Firmly roll under your hair as you pass over it with the blow dryer.


Make sure the blow dryer is pointed in a downward direction to smooth hair cuticles.
Always start at your roots and move to the ends., The goal when trying to make wavy hair hold its wave or to make it curlier is to avoid anything that will pull on the waves. Blow drying with a diffuser is one way. Flip your head over and to the sides to scrunch whether air-drying or using a blow dryer.


Use lower heat and speed settings when using a blow dryer for a more gentle dry that won’t stretch or blow out curls.