 Corkboard is the traditional material for bulletin boards, but can get pretty expensive. Bristol board, foam board, or sound dampening board are all cheaper alternatives. You can even use thick cardboard, as long as it's sturdy enough not to tear.


Test it before you start building. Pin a few sheets of paper onto the board and see how well it holds.;
, The frame will not be visible after this project is done. However, a frame makes it easier to attach the batting and fabric we'll be adding. It also provides a little protection, which may be worth it if children will use the board.
 Thin batting (padding) adds a softer touch and allows for three-dimensional designs. Attach as follows:Lay the board face down over the batting. Cut a rectangle of batting about 2–3 inches (5–7.5cm) larger than the board.
Pull one corner over the back of the board. Attach with a hot glue gun, fabric glue, or (if a frame is present) a staple gun.
Repeat with batting around the whole board, pulling taut before attaching. Trim off excess batting.
 Select a decorative fabric larger than the bulletin board. Cut out a piece about 4–6 inches (10–15cm) larger on each side than your board. Iron this until it is completely flat.You could use an old piece of clothing or a plastic tablecloth instead.Wrapping paper is another cheap option, but tends to tear pretty quickly.
 Lay the board face-down on the backside of the fabric. Pull the fabric around and attach to the back of the board, just as you did with the batting. Pull taut as you go and check the front frequently to avoid wrinkles.
 A criss-cross ribbon design is a popular look, especially over batting. Wrap ribbons in rows at a 45º angle to the board, gluing or stapling to the back. Repeat with ribbons slanted the opposite direction to make a diamond pattern. Pin the ribbons in place at every point where two ribbons cross.Sewing buttons over each intersection makes an extra cute look.Of course, you can arrange the ribbons however you like. For instance, vertical ribbons could divide the bulletin board into areas used for different purposes.
 If you attached batting to your bulletin board, you can mimic a soft, tufted comforter. Here's how:Nail a piece of plywood to the back of the board. (See Tips for alternatives.)

Nail small, short nails through the fabric and onto the plywood. Place them in a diamond pattern. Make sure they don't penetrate the plywood.
Cover the nails with upholstery tacks, or glue decorative beads over them.
 Laminate a piece of fabric or construction paper. Cut out letters or shapes and pin them along the top of the board.
 Add index cards or blank paper for writing notes. For aesthetic variety, cut the paper into circles or use paper in several colors.
 If you own the house or have permission from the owners, screw in the board for a secure fit. Fit each screw through a washer before screwing it in, to prevent it crushing the soft board., If you don't want to damage the wall, stick on a wall mounting square, or several if your board is large. Wait for the adhesive to cure, for however long the label suggests. Stick on the board and press firmly.


Bulletin boards are usually too heavy to hang from adhesive putty.
 You can purchase strong adhesive hooks if you don't want to puncture the wall. Punch two holes in the bulletin board and thread strong wire, twine, or ribbon through both. Double knot on either side and hang over the hook or nail.

