 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the fries when they’re ready, set the temperature to 400 degrees Fahrenheit (200 degrees Celsius) and allow it to heat fully. Next, use a piece of parchment paper to line a large baking sheet for the fries.You can substitute foil for the parchment paper if you prefer.
It’s important not to place the rutabaga fries directly on the baking sheet, though, because the edges will burn more quickly.;
, For the fries, you’ll need a large rutabaga. Use a vegetable peeler to take off the skin, and then use a sharp knife to cut the rutabaga into strips that are approximately ½-inch (13-mm) thick.The exterior of some rutabagas are coated with wax to lock in the moisture. If yours has a waxy film, it may be easier to use a knife to peel it.
 After you’ve cut the rutabaga into slices, place the fries in a large bowl. Add 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of olive oil, and mix well so all of the fries are coated.If 1 tablespoon isn’t enough to coat all of the fries, drizzle in a little more until they’re all covered.
 When the fries are coated with the olive oil, add ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of pepper, ¼ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of salt, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of lemon juice to the bowl. Toss all of the ingredients so the rutabaga fries are evenly seasoned.You can add whatever whatever seasonings that you like to the fries. Garlic powder, crushed red pepper, and dried oregano are tasty options.
 Once the rutabaga fries are seasoned, use tongs or a clean hand to place them on the lined baking sheet. Make sure that they are in a single layer so they’ll cook evenly., Place the baking sheet with the fries in the preheated oven. Allow them to cook for approximately 30 minutes, or until the fries are a light brown color.To ensure that the rutabaga fries cook evenly, turn them over every 10 minutes.
 When the rutabaga fries are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Allow the fries to cool for 3 to 5 minutes, and then transfer them to a platter or dish. Serve them while they are still warm.You can pair the rutabaga fries with your favorite dipping sauce, such as ketchup, garlic aioli, or ranch dressing.

