 You can use acne medications to get rid of acne. Be sure to wash your face every night and day {Once in morning and once before bed} with a gentle cleanser. Use concealer in your color if you have any pimples you would like to hide.


If you have heavy breakouts, go to a dermatologist immediately.
 Take good care of it because not only is it hygienic, but it improves your appearance.



Wash your hair every other day but don't wash it everyday. Some people with naturally dry or oily hair might want to wash it more or less. Use a quality shampoo and a good conditioner. Make sure you wash your hair very well so it is clean and smells nice.
Blow dry your hair.



Before you apply makeup, wash your face an pull your hair back in a pony-tail.
Foundation. Apply a foundation that matches your skin color. Be sure to blend the foundation in very well. Avoid using cheap foundation. Try to invest in makeup sponges or a foundation brush.
Concealer. Put a little concealer that matches your skin color on your finger, and dab it on a flaw that your face has. (Pimples, Scars, Etc.) Your aiming for a perfect, flawless, pretty face. Do this until your face is flawless. Look at yourself in the mirror. Is the makeup you put on so far A-list material?
Eyes. Start by finding an eyeshadow that compliments your eyes. Apply it very carefully to your eyelids. Blend well. If it looks bad, take it off and start over. Next, Curl your lashes. Then, Apply mascara. You need a mascara that has high quality, cheap mascaras will not pull it off. Make sure there are no clumps or smears. When you are done, apply eye liner.
Lips. Use Chap-stick frequently to make sure you never have chapped lips. Then, apply a lipstick that goes well with your face. Do not apply to much. Then, apply lip gloss.
Eyebrows. Get your eyebrows waxed or plucked if they already aren't. Use an eyebrow pencil to get fuller eyebrows.
Perfume. Squirt your favorite perfume on to one of your wrist, then rub your two wrist together, now quickly spray a little perfume on the back of your neck. Also dab a tiny squirt behind your ears just below your earlobe

, Cute tops, Skirts, skinny jeans, vans, cute wedges, big sunglasses and bags are things that make the look of any celebrity. If you have big feet never wear the skinny jean/converse combo. An A-list girl must have a celebrity style. Wear at least a few things of these things listed here.
 Look in fashion magazines or teen magazines such Teen Vogue, Nylon, or Seventeen for inspiration and fashion tips. They always have articles about fashion and you can always get good ideas for a new trendy look. If you can't afford to buy these magazines check if your local library has them, and don't worry everybody has to go to the library once in a while. It doesn't make you a nerd!

, See what people are wearing in the streets. What the most stylish girls are all wearing now? But never copy them or you'll look poser. If you think something is cute, then it's great for you to try out. Look at them for inspiration.
 Never overdo putting on too much jewelry, wear at maximum two kinds of jewelry at same time, like earrings and a cute bracelet, or only a necklace and bracelet. Never wear all the pieces at same time. In jewelry, less is more.
 Head high, good posture. Believe you've got it all to be an A-list girl and really act like it. but never flaunt it. Never look down on people !;
, An A-list girl is always outgoing. Never be afraid to be seen or to just act yourself in front of total strangers or to say something really dumb to people. An A-list girl is never afraid of looking a fool, because even if she does, she does it with class.
 You may act and look A-list and all, but to keep on top, you have to get people to talk about you every once in a while. You would want people to talk but you still have to keep a good reputation. just do something out of the ordinary. Well, whatever it is, as long as it draws positive attention to you. Remember, not every publicity is good publicity. Try to go for positive publicity, if you do things that may get you bad attention, people will hate you. But try to be not to be liked by everybody. An it girl always has it enemies/ frenemies.

