 Although more scientific studies are needed, onion juice may promote hair growth in patients who suffer from alopecia areata. According to a small study of 23 participants, applying crude onion juice to the scalp twice a day promoted hair regrowth within six weeks in 20 participants.Although this study was done in patient with alopecia areata, you may want to give it a try if you suffer from androgenic alopecia.
Extract onion juice by grating an onion and then straining the juice.
Apply onion juice to your scalp twice a day for 30 min, then wash off. Try this for at least six weeks to see if this natural method will help your hair loss.
 Massaging your scalp will increase blood flow to the hair follicles, which can promote scalp health and strengthen your hair’s roots. However, this method has not been scientifically proven to reduce or prevent hair loss and you should try it with that in mind.


Use coconut or almond hair oil, or other oils such as olive, castor, or amla (Indian gooseberry) oil. Optionally, you can add a few drops of rosemary oil or lavender oil to make a mixture.
Apply the oil by lightly massaging it into your hair and scalp. If you are using coconut oil, do not try to melt the oil using a microwave, use your hands instead. Coconut oil does not need much heat to melt. Repeat at least twice a week for a minimum of two months to see some results.
 Fenugreek (also called methi) seeds contain ingredients that may stimulate hair growth and enhance rebuilding of hair follicles.


Mix one cup of fenugreek seeds and water. Let it soak overnight.
Grind the mixture and make a paste that you then can apply to your hair.
Cover with a plastic bag or shower cap and let it sit for about 40 minutes. Rinse your hair and repeat every morning for a month.
As with the other natural therapies for hair loss, this method has not been scientifically proven to reduce or prevent hair loss and it might not work for you.
 There are numerous other home or natural remedies you can try. However, keep in mind that these are not scientifically proven methods and might not work. Always consult your doctor if you have doubts about a home remedy.


Try aloe vera gel, which may help optimize your scalps pH and promote healthy hair growth. Massage aloe vera gel to the scalp and leave it on for an hour. Wash off and repeat three to four times a week.
Try licorice root paste, which has properties that may help soothe the scalp and help reduce irritation. Mix ground licorice root (1 tablespoon), saffron (quarter teaspoon) and a cup of milk. Apply the mixture on bald areas, cover and leave it on overnight. Rinse off in the morning and repeat once or twice a week.
Try Chinese hibiscus flower that may help promote hair growth, cure dandruff, and thicken hair. Mix flowers with coconut oil, heat until charred and strain to collect the oil. Apply to the scalp at bedtime and leave it on for overnight. In the morning, wash your hair and repeat a few times a week.
Other remedies you can also try include beetroot, flaxseeds or coconut milk.

