 It is cruel to keep a dog tied up outside or in an outdoor kennel. Dogs kept outside all of the time are subject to extreme temperatures, rain, and predators. Blind dogs will be even more vulnerable to attacks by predators, such as other dogs or coyotes. Keeping dogs outside also reduces their opportunities to interact with people, which can lead to aggression and other behavioral problems.If you are unable to provide an inside home for your dog, then you need to make other arrangements, such as finding a new home for your dog.
 It is possible for a blind dog to trip on stairs even if he is used to them. Try blocking your dog’s access to these potential hazards with baby gates.If you need to bring your dog up or down stairs, then help him by holding his collar and talking to him as he goes down the stairs.
 To help your blind dog navigate his surroundings, keep the furniture in its place.Blind dogs will memorize their environments from the layout of furniture, to doors, walls, steps, and appliances. Moving the furniture will confuse your dog and make it harder for him to navigate the house.
 Leaving clutter laying around will confuse your dog and it may also cause him to trip and even injure himself. Keep the ground clear of clutter such as baskets of laundry, toys, sports equipment, and garbage., Other animals in your household may respond to your dog’s condition in different ways. Some animals may take advantage of your dog or pick on him, while others may be more protective of your blind dog and try to help him. Sometimes other household dogs will even act as guides for a blind dog., If you live in a two story house, then keeping food and water dishes on each floor is a good idea. It is also a good idea to keep food and water dishes in the same spots. Do not move them around or your dog may not be able to find them and may not drink enough water to stay hydrated.


Make sure that you show your dog where his bowls are after you first place them and check them now and then to make sure that he is eating and drinking.
When teaching the blind dog where his food dish is located, try adding a bit of canned food to some dry food to attract your dog to his food bowl.
 If you have a fenced in back yard, then your dog will learn the layout much like your house. You can make this easier for him by removing any potential obstacles, such as toys, branches, and lawn furniture. If you do not have a fenced in yard, keep your dog on a leash to make sure he does not wander into any danger.


To help your dog find the door when he is done, try hanging a wind chime near the door.