 The word "Apanasana" means "wind-relieving" in Sanskrit, so this may become your go-to pose to debloat using yoga, particularly if you're feeling gassy. You may want to make sure you have some privacy before you attempt this pose.Lie on your back with your legs extended. Slowly draw your knees up and into your chest. You can hold your knees with your hands and rock from side to side to give your lower back and spine a good massage.
Lower and extend your left leg, keeping your right knee against your chest. Flex through your left foot, pressing the top of your left thigh towards the ground. Breathe deeply for 10 to 15 breath cycles, then switch legs.
You also can hold this pose with both knees against your chest at the same time.
 Twists increase circulation to your abdomen, stimulating digestion and encouraging the release of gas to ease bloating. This twist can be done directly from Apanasana, or you can create a flow between the two poses.On your back with your right knee against your chest as in Apanasana, roll your hips to twist your right knee to the left. You can put your left hand on top of your right knee to deepen the stretch, but don't force it.
Extend your right arm out to your side from your shoulder and hold the twist for 10 breath cycles. Slowly return to center and repeat on the other side.
You also can do this twist while seated, by crossing one leg over the other and twisting your torso in the other direction., The eagle twist can increase the side-to-side flexibility in your spine, as well as loosening up your stomach and other abdominal organs to ease cramps as well as bloating.Start by lying on your back with your knees up, feet flat on the floor. Cross your left leg over your right, wrapping your left toes around the back of your right ankle to twist your legs together.
Your arms should be extended out to the sides from your shoulder, with your palms facing up and your elbows at 90-degree angles, so your hands are on either side of your head.
On an exhale, lower both knees to the left slowly. Try to rest them on the floor, but take care to keep your shoulders pressed to the floor. Turn your head to the right.
Hold the twist for at least 10 breath cycles. With every exhale, try to deepen the twist a little more. Feel the stretch in your spine.
When you're ready, engage your core to lift your knees back to center, then repeat in the opposite direction.
 While this clearly isn't a Sanskrit word or traditional yoga pose, the burrito pose is a gentle, calming pose that can help ease gas, cramps, and bloating. It also gives you a chance to relax your whole body.Roll a blanket or towel into a burrito shape and place it on the floor. Lay down over the roll, with the blanket under your navel. Make sure the roll isn't so thick that it presses into your ribs or your hip bones.
Lower yourself flat on the floor, placing a block or pillow under your head for support if necessary. Breathe deeply for 10 to 15 breath cycles or even longer, releasing all tension and feeling your body sink into the floor.

