 Your auto insurance is a group of policies that protect you and other drivers from damages caused on the road. It can also pay to replace or repair cars damaged in an accident, depending on who is at fault for the accident. Finally, your auto insurance can cover any legal action taken against you in the event you hurt someone else on the road.


Auto insurance is regulated by state governments. Be sure to check with your state first to determine minimum coverages for each type of policy., Liability insurance covers damage to passengers and vehicles when you are at fault for an accident. The two types here are Bodily Injury Liability (BIL) policies and Property Damage Liability (PDL) policies. The first covers injury of other drivers and passengers and the second covers damage to their vehicles.BIL and PDL policies are often specified as sets of numbers, like 20/50/10. This means that this package of both types of policy will cover $20,000 in medical expenses per person affected (excluding you), up to $50,000 for the group, and $10,000 in damage to vehicles involved (excluding yours).
How much protection you need here depends first on your state required minimums and then on your assets. You should have at least as much coverage as you do assets (your possessions like your money, house, and cars)., This policy pays for your medical bills in case you are involved in an accident. It may also cover wages lost due to missed work. Like for other policies, many states have a required minimum. Be sure to buy at least the minimum.


In many cases though, you will not need any more than the minimum, as your health insurance and disability insurance through work should cover most of these costs., This policy covers you in the event that you are struck by a motorist with inadequate or nonexistent insurance. It will cover both your vehicle damage and your personal harm, even where your health insurance will not cover you. Luckily, this protection is usually inexpensive. A policy like this will likely be about $40 per year for $100,000 in coverage., Finally, these policies cover repairs to your car after an accident and repairs to your car from events not involving an accident, respectively. These will usually be calculated for you, based on the current market value of your car. It's up to you whether or not you want your car covered. For very cheap cars, it may not be worth it.