 Acute mechanical back pain is pain that has been present for less than four to six weeks and is caused by an issue in the spinal joints, discs, vertebrae, or soft tissues. The bad news is that the source of acute back pain is only diagnosable about 20% of the time. The good news? It usually resolves itself fast and with little treatment.Figure out how long you have had the pain. When did it start? Can you remember the exact moment when it began?
Acute back pain often stems from strenuous activity or an injury. Can you link the pain to an event, like a game of football, shoveling snow, or picking up heavy boxes?
Where is the pain? Most acute mechanical back pain is in the lower-back or lumbar region, but it may spread into your buttocks and thighs. It may also worsen if you bend over and it can be accompanied by spasms.;
, Chronic back pain is persistent and lasts longer than acute back pain – more than several weeks. Diagnosis for chronic pain may be harder and require a trip to the doctor, who can assess your medical history and order follow-up tests. First, though, ask yourself the same questions as before.How long have you had the back pain? If it’s more than three to five weeks, chances are that the pain is chronic rather than acute.
Can you relate the pain to an injury or event, or did it set in gradually? Often, chronic back pain is the result of age-related changes in the spine.
Chronic back pain can come in many forms. It might be a dull ache, sharp pain, tingling or burning sensation, or even feelings of weakness. The pain may also be mild or so intense that it is hard to move.
 Back pain can range from a dull ache to sudden, shooting pains. The pain might also be centered in your lower back, your upper back, or elsewhere. Take note of where the pain is and how it feels, both of which can help you and your doctor locate the source of the problem.Where does the pain originate? The lower back is often where we develop stress injuries from lifting, for example.
Is your pain localized in a muscle? Is is accompanied by swelling, muscle spasms, or limited movement of the muscle? You might have a strain. Muscle strains account for 85% of all back injuries in the United States.
Are you experiencing shooting pains, on the other hand? This sort of pain might be associated with a damaged or slipped disk or sciatica. Be aware of any tingling feeling, too. Tingling can indicate nerve compression, as in radiculopathy.

