 If you want attentive feedback, the best person to give it is someone you know, preferably a friend or a colleague. When emailing someone you know for feedback, make sure you email them how you usually would. If you'd usually call them, then you should probably do that instead. Don't send the manuscript in the first email, unless you know they are likely to say yes (someone for whom you've read a manuscript, or someone who's offered to read yours).You can include a brief description or an abstract, depending on whether the person you're emailing is a friend or a colleague.
 If you really do need expert advice, send an email to an expert you know of and explain your project and why you need feedback. Don't be pushy, but rather kindly thank them for their consideration, and say, "I understand if you don't have time to give me feedback." You may even want to ask if they know anyone with the time and expertise who can help you if they can't., This will likely go unanswered, unless you specifically tell them you will pay for their help. If they are a famous author, they are unlikely to respond to such an email as they receive a ton of such emails.Instead, ask your friends, colleagues, professors, etc., first. They are more likely to be able to help you, and more likely to want to help you., If you only want positive feedback, tell them so. Tell them whether you detailed feedback, local or global feedback, and whether you want aesthetic, grammatical, or structural feedback. This can go a long way in helping your reader know what you want from them.Positive feedback need not be un-constructive. If they explain why they like what they like, you can learn a lot about your manuscript.If you get negative feedback, give yourself time to respond. If they are your friend, they likely only want to help. If they are a professor, no matter how angry or upset you feel, you should not respond in that manner. Instead, thank them for their help, and move on. After some time you may find that the feedback was helpful, even if the manner in which it was delivered was not., If you have asked for detailed feedback on a novel manuscript, don’t expect feedback within a day or even a week. It takes time to edit a manuscript of that length. If you have a deadline you’re working toward, let your reader know this. You can also simply ask them if they can have the edits done by a certain date. Remember they have their own life and obligations., If it is a friend, you might want to buy them a gift like a box of chocolates, or simply return the favor in time. If it is a professor, you may want to write a thank you email to let them know you appreciate their work and time. Forgetting to thank your reader can leave them feeling used and/or unappreciated, and may make them less likely to help you in the future.