 This requires practice.

Put your hand on your stomach and breathe out, feeling your abdominal muscles contract. When you breathe in, they should expand. It should feel like sipping through a straw.
Imagine drawing air from the bottom of your lungs, not the top. Do this a few times until it feels comfortable and you can do it without pressing a hand to your stomach. A practice scream should feel like something (namely your stomach muscles) is pushing it out of you by contracting around your lungs. It should not hurt.;
, Higher notes are generally more audible. They cause longer soundwaves, which hit people's ears that much harder. Even if you're male, let loose like a little girl. (Don't try to hard, mind you. Forcing your voice into a high note that is incongruous with your usual tone or higher than natural for your voice can cause minor injury.) Also, screaming higher and, if it so happens, shrilly, usually indicates fear more than a macho war cry. You're trying to say "Help me!" not "I'm bad news!", You may assume that a higher note means "I should hold my chin higher", but tilting your head backward can actually put excess strain on your vocal chords and make it harder to produce sound. So don't do it.

Optimum volume is achieved when you hit the perfect note, frequency, and force of exhalation. This is the level at which glass shatters and dogs howl. If you can't get this amplitude, don't sweat it. Usually only professionals can. If you get anywhere close, count it as a success. In the best case scenario, you'll be loud enough to temporarily deafen your assailant. Don't count on it.
 You should try to stay as far away from your attacker as possible, but if you're forced anywhere close to him or her, put your mouth as close to their ear as you can to scream. It's generally painful on their end of things., Even if your throat rips, don't stop that scream. Saving your neck is more important than sparing your windpipe. If you have to stop because you're hit or run out of air, drag in another breath and scream again., Even if it seems to waste time, taking a deep breath only takes about a second, two if you really draw in, and a longer, louder scream is more effective than one that is short-lived and oxygen-deprived., This cannot be emphasized enough. No matter what does or does not happen, is or is not inflicted upon you, keep screaming until help arrives. Even if you manage to incapacitate your attacker, keep screaming.







Of course, if and when help arrives, preferably law enforcement, you can stop the pipework and breathe. If you continue to scream, mostly likely they will assume hysteria has set in or at the very least become irritated.






If you are able to escape, run away screaming while calling your country's emergency number (like 911) on your phone. Scream into that. Police will respond even if it's wordless. If you don't have a phone, yell loudly at passerby to call the police, the person behind you is an assailant, and that it's real, not a joke.
 Your nose IS the most direct passage to the lungs, but don't let that fool you. Breath in through your mouth, as you let more air in that way. When time matters, you want to get the most air in in the shortest time.