 Curling irons come in a variety of sizes, and the best size for you will depend on the type of beach waves you’re after, as well as the texture and length of your hair.


A large barreled iron, such as 1.5 inch, works well for long hair.This size is a good choice for loose curls that you wear the same day as curling; these curls may also last well into the next day, depending on how well your hair holds curl.Using a small curling iron, like one with a half-inch barrel, is a good tactic for straight, fine hair.You can also buy a specialty three-barrel curling iron, which will give you beach waves with virtually no effort.Expect that your curls will loosen. Use an iron that provides tighter curls than you hope to end up with.;
, Make sure your hair is free of tangles. These curls work well on unwashed hair, so don't worry about washing your hair. If you do wash your hair, make sure to let it air dry completely before starting.
 To add texture to your curls, spray the sea salt spray to the mid lengths and ends of your hair. Don't spray on the roots.Do not drench the hair; add enough for a good coating.


After you've applied the spray, scrunch your hair. Use your hands to scrunch chunks of your hair up toward your roots, like you’re making messy curls.
Allow the sea salt spray to air dry. Never use a curling iron on wet hair because it will burn your hair., Divide your hair into manageable sections, pinning the majority out of the way so that you can work with a few sections at a time.Sections of hair that are 1 to 2 inches are probably the best.


The amount of hair you have, as well as the size of the curling iron you use, will determine how many sections you need. The smaller the iron, the greater the number of sections needed.
 Working with one section at a time, hold the curling iron vertical and wrap your hair around the curling iron. Make sure the curling iron is pointed downward. Start by wrapping the beginning of the strand nearest your roots around the topmost part of the curling iron twice. Then, continue wrapping the hair down the curling iron shaft, leaving a little bit of space between each wrap.Open the curling iron and pull the iron upwards, letting the curl fall easily from around the shaft.


Hold the curling iron around the hair for at least 10 seconds. The longer you let the hair stay around the curling iron, the tighter the curl will be.If you are going for the messy look, don’t use the curling iron on the last inch or two of your hair., As you finish one section of hair, move on to another section. If your hair is extremely thick, you should curl it in layers. Start with the layers underneath first. Clip your hair on top of your head while you curl the lower sections. Each time you finish a layer, let down another layer and curl that layer until you have curled all of your hair., Flip your head over and shake out the curls. Finger-comb the curls and apply more sea salt spray for texture. Make sure to add hairspray to help the curls hold their shape.Try sleeping on your curls. If you’ve used a very small curling iron (e.g., a half inch barrel), you will want to sleep on the curls so that they have time to loosen up.In the morning, they will have lost some of their intensity and look more like natural, beachy waves. This will also give you a messier look.

