 Remind yourself that you can make good choices without regretting your decisions. Tell yourself that you have faith in your ability to make decisions and to live with the consequences of your decisions.Look in the mirror and say to yourself, “I can make choices without regret. I trust myself to make decisions.”
Write, “I believe in myself and my decision-making” on a sticky note and place it in your wallet or somewhere else you can see it often and easily.
 Taking note and giving yourself a little pat on the back when you make the right choice is okay. Keeping a list can also help you see that you have recovered from not so great decisions, as well. Looking over the list can help you have confidence in yourself and make choices without regret.


Write it down in your journal whenever you make a major decision.
Write about how you made your choice and what factors influenced your decision.
Later, go back and write about whether the decision was a good one or not.
Write about how you felt about the decision and how you handled the consequences.
 Spending time with people you respect and who care about you can boost your self-esteem. They can remind you of all the things that you have done right and will do right in the future.


Spend time with family and friends that support you and encourage you. You can just hang out or do something like a take a walk or catch a movie.
Talk to them about what helps them make choices without regret. For example, you could ask, “How do you make decisions without regret?”
Ask them what characteristics you have that can help you make good decisions. You might say, “What do you see in me that can help me make good choices?”

, You will be able to make choices without regret much easier if your mind isn’t tired and confused because of lack of sleep or nutrition.Make sure you are taking care of yourself so that you when you make decisions you will know that you made them with a sound mind.



Get enough sleep. Try to go to bed at the same time each night and give yourself enough time to rest. Do something to relax before you get ready for bed.
Eat meals that are nutritious and snacks that energize you. For example, you might have proteins, like grilled chicken, and fresh fruits and vegetables. Avoid junk food and overly-processed foods that lack nutrients.
Try to get regular physical activity. This will help energize your body and focus your brain — which will help you make decisions you can trust.

