 To spot a fake autograph, you’ll need to be thoroughly familiar with the individual’s real signature. The best way to become familiar with their signature is to examine many authentic examples of their signature firsthand. This will allow you to identify the actual size and style of the signature they typically produced.If you don’t have any examples of an individual’s signature available for direct inspection, check online for authentic examples. For instance, look at autographs of the individual in question that are sold in major auction houses or by collectibles dealers.
Analyzing a large number of authentic signatures will also enable you to identify how variable someone’s autograph might be.
Try to find something unique about the autograph of the person you’re interested in. For instance, Barack Obama always makes the leading letters of his first and last name (“B” and “O”) very large relative to the sizes of the other letters.;
, Look closely at your autograph and several authentic examples of the same individual’s autograph. Look for discrepancies between the two. If the signature appears unnaturally shaky, this could be a sign of a fake. Other telltale signs of fakery could include:the width and length of individual letters
the space between letters
the position of dots in lowercase “J” and “I”
the general style of the handwriting (does it use cursive, print, or some combination?)
a dot in the middle of an individual character (this indicates the person stopped, then started the signature)

, If you’re trying to spot a fake autograph, doing so is easier when it is included along with a handwritten letter or an inscription. Looking at a larger sample of text allows you to evaluate other handwriting elements. This additional writing sample can help you confirm the autograph’s authenticity., In most cases, it’s reasonable to assume that in authentic autographs, the individual in question knew how to spell their own name. If the autograph you’re evaluating contains misspellings, it is likely a fake., If you’re evaluating a baseball signed by the whole team or a production photo signed by the whole cast of a film, the individual signatures should all look a bit different. For instance, the pen or marker strokes should be of varying thicknesses. Some lines will be thick, while others will be thin. Some signatures will probably overlap.Items that have multiple autographs, all of which are of a uniform thickness, are probably fake.

