 For example, wear pink, white, green, blue, and purple, and have them in either bright colors or pastels. Avoid black at all costs, only wear it with shoes or with a business suit, and even then, navy blue is best. Wear clothes that look neat and crisp and wear well coordinated outfits, for example blouses, vests, denim, shorts, cardigans, polo shirts, well ironed T shirts, and anything that looks neat and wear lots of of pink. Have one pink thing with every outfit.;
, Try wearing colors like brown, light blue and dark green but avoid black, it gives you a seemingly goth appearance. Try to wear colors like red, blue, green, brown and white.
 There is nothing wrong with enjoying fashion or buying clothing you find attractive, but it is important to stay in control. You can get a few trends, for example, one trendy outfit, or wear clothes that have been trendy for years now, like preppy clothes, skinny jeans, ballet flats, polo shirts, topsiders, or any other trends that have lasted.
 The clothing you wear should enhance your personality, not create or alter it. This advice can be applied to many aspects of life in which you may feel pressured to "fit in." You may try to fit in, but don't go to the extremes. Preppy is the best style, as it is clean-cut, neat, an easily adaptable personality, and always in style.
 Remember to always be clean: run a comb through your hair, keep your nails dirt-free and neat, brush your teeth, floss, and bathe or shower. When spraying perfume, be sure to use just enough, but not too much. Excessive use of perfume isn't attractive and does not improve your hygiene, despite popular belief. Being clean is important; being grubby isn't classy and isn't pleasing. Never have greasy hair. It is gross and very trashy. Wear deodorant, perfume, lotion, and shampoo and conditioner. Make sure you never smell no matter what and you are always as clean as can be.
 clear coat on your fingernails; color or french pedicure on your toes. Don't let the skin around them get dry to the point that they crack, and stop biting your nails. If you polish them, go for a natural French manicure, clear polish, or even neutral, solid-colored polish (not bold, like red or blue or black). Don't let the polish chip off, and don't let your nails get too long. Nails should be in neutral colors and medium short in length on girls and trimmed short on boys. You can give your fingernails a French manicure and your toenails a pretty pale pink color. Always have your nails painted. Only occasionally paint your fingernails, and when you do, paint the pale pink, nude, or bubblegum pink. Give yourself a manicure and pedicure every week.
 A good goal to set for yourself is to try to get mostly A's in everything you do at school including homework. That means on every assignment. Never get a B on a test, or anything below 95. Take notes, study for that test, focus, but most of all come to school ready to learn and try not to worry about the social scene too much, after all, that's not what school is for. try to join extra curricular activities but only if you know it will not bring your grades down. Join no more than 2 sports and 2 clubs, and do sports whose seasons will not coincide, for example a fall sport and a spring sport. Make sure you have plenty of time to study and get Straight A's.
 Remember; your a perfectionist not a pushover. Come up with a few comebacks like, "At least I won't have to work at McDonalds", or "Karma will bite you in the butt", or anything that will get them to silence and think about it. Most bullies don't expect a smart and witty comeback.
 i.e. Go to bed on time, offer to wash the dishes, bring in the groceries, teach your little brother how to tie his shoes, etc. No matter how tempting it is, if you know there's something you should be doing (no matter how badly you don't want to do it), do it! Try to go to bed earlier than your parents say to, for example if your parents want you to go to bed at 9:30, go to bed at 9:15. They will love your effort, and you will get in trouble less.
 Unless what there saying is completely and totally unreasonable,ex: they make you move out when your twelve. But seriously, it's not worth the grounding.
 Don't spend all of your time with your friends. A good rule is that if you spend the time between breakfast and lunch with friends, spend the time between lunch and dinner with family and vice verse. The times after dinner and before breakfast should be spent with family. And if you have a boyfriend/girlfriend you should cut the afternoon in half.
 Tattoos and Body Piercings- Appearances convey a strong message to others; you can be judged by an individual or right before an event that will play a prominent role in your future (e.g. a prospective employer, acquiring a higher position in a reputable company, etc.). Therefore, take careful consideration when deciding if it is a good ideal for you to get visible tattoos or body piercings. Even though a person’s outward appearance does not automatically show his or her true inner qualities, appearances can reflect how a person is willing to be perceived by the world. Also keep in mind that although tattoos and piercings are individual expressions, they can be permanent or difficult (even costly) to remove if you change your mind in the future. If you are in doubt about how tattoos and piercings may impact you in the future, forget about getting them and find other ways to show self expression, such as creating works of art, poetry, hobbies, etc.
 When necessary, voice your opinions appropriately and constructively. This encourages your audience to listen carefully when you speak.
 Only desperate times call for desperate measures. Take a deep breath, be strong, and move through the situation with elegance and grace. You will be the victor for it, no matter the outcome. If things get out of hand and you feel completely overwhelmed, ask for help from a close friend or family member.

