 You can use just about any type of cookie dough recipe for this method, but the kind that works the best is the roll-out-and-cut kind. Avoid using the type of dough where you have to roll onto balls and plop onto a baking sheet; they will spread too much and make a mess.Crunchy, shaped sugar cookie recipes will work especially well for this. Some chocolate chip cookie recipes may also work.
Not all store-bought cookie dough will work for this. Read the baking instructions on the package to ensure that it's the roll-out kind.
 Flip two standard sized muffin tins upside down. Cut some aluminum foil into 12 5-inch (12.7-centimeter) squares. Cover every other cup on each tin with a foil square, making sure that the shiny side is facing up. Spray the foil squares with nonstick cooking spray when you are done. Each muffin tin should have six foil-covered wells.Staggering the cups like this will prevent the cups from fusing together.
Make sure that you are molding the foil squares over the back of each cup, not the inside.
 Do not preheat the oven yet. Most kinds of roll-out cookie dough recipes have a chill period. If yours doesn't, consider wrapping it in plastic wrap and refrigerating it for at least 2 hours. This will make the cookie dough easier to work with.Preheat your oven once the dough finishes chilling. For most recipes, this will be around to 350°F (177°C).
 Spread out a sheet of wax paper on your counter. Lightly coat it with flour, then place the dough on top. Dust a second sheet of wax paper with more flour, then place it on top. Roll the dough out until it is ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) thick.Keep the other half of the dough covered with plastic wrap in the fridge.
 Use a 3½ or 4-inch (8.89 or 10.16-centimeter) cookie cutter for this. You can also use a glass, jar, or small bowl with the same diameter instead., Only drape the dough over the wells that are covered with aluminum foil. Gently press the dough against the sides of each well. It won't reach the bottom of the tray, which is fine; the dough will spread during baking.Again, you are draping the dough over the back of the tin, not the inside.
Keep the cookie cups staggered. You don't want them touching. This will prevent fusing.
 Once you have finished draping the size cookie dough circles over the back of your muffin tin, put the entire tin into the freezer. Leave it there for 10 minutes while you repeat the process on the other muffin tin., If you have not already, preheat your oven to the temperature specified in the recipe. Bake the cookie cups for about 12 to 15 minutes, or until the edges turn golden-brown. Resist the urge to remove the cookies from the tin after baking.

Let the second muffin tin chill in the freezer while the first one bakes.
 This will take 10 to 15 minutes. They must be completely cool before you remove them. If you take them off while they are still warm, they will break. Peel the aluminum foil away from the cookies once you remove them from the tin.If the cookie cups fused together during baking, cut them apart while they are still warm., Take them off of the muffin tin first, then peel off the aluminum foil. Fill them with your favorite dessert filling. Great options include:Custard or pudding
Ice cream
Fruits and cream
Mousse
No-bake cheesecake

