 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) can help you manage stress by helping you replace negative thoughts with healthier ones. It can help you think more positively about your ulcerative colitis and your symptoms. When using CBT, you address the feelings that are making you feel stressed and change those stressful thoughts into more positive ones.


For example, you may tell yourself, “I cannot control my boss, but I can control my reaction and the work I do” or "I do not need to be anxious about going to the party. My ulcerative colitis will not control my life."
You may tell yourself, “These stressful thoughts are unhealthy. I do not need this tension. I will let go of this stress and push it from my mind” or "I will not allow this stress to cause my ulcerative colitis to flare up."
CBT may be difficult to do on your own. You may need to see a therapist to help you learn how to use CBT to manage your stress.
 Support groups can be helpful for you when you have ulcerative colitis. Connecting with others in support groups can help you learn ways to cope or listen to the way others have approached the condition. People in support groups can also provide understanding and support when you need it.You may find comfort in the fact that you are not alone. There are others who know what you are going through and who deal with what you do.
To find a support group in your area talk to your doctor. They may be able to refer you to one in your area. You may also contact the hospital or search online.
 Ulcerative colitis can cause physical and emotional stress. You may find comfort in having a trusted group of people who you can rely on if you need them or who you can talk to if things get too much for you. These people should be friends or family members you feel comfortable enough with to share potentially embarrassing details with.These people may lessen your stress because you don’t have to worry about explaining to them what’s going on if you have a flare up or have to run to the bathroom while you are together.
Choose these people carefully. Make sure you are comfortable sharing the details of your condition with these people, and make sure these people will be understanding of your condition.

