 Check if your address is handwritten or poorly typed and if it contains any misspellings of common words, such as your street name or your city. You should also note if your name is misspelled or not specified on the package, as this may indicate the sender may be suspicious.You should also note if there is no return address on the package or a strange return address that you do not recognize. A suspicious package may also be marked with certain restrictions like “Personal”, “Confidential” or “Do not x-ray”. You should also note if there is any threatening language on the package, such as “Beware of contents”.;
, Examine the outside of the package for any powdery substances on the envelope or wrapping. Lightly hold the package and feel through the wrapping or the envelope for any powdery substances. You may also notice oily stains or discoloration on the outside of the package.Note if the package has a strange or strong odor, as this may indicate there is a suspicious substance in the package. Try to smell the package quickly and only once, as you do not want to inhale or come in contact with any substances in the package.
 Hold the package in your hands and check if it is very heavy or has excessive weight to it. You should also check for any ticking noises or sounds coming from the package and any protruding wires or aluminum foil coming out of the package.Be cautious if the package has excessive packaging material like layers of masking tape, string, and/or glue, as this may indicate the sender did not want to make it easy for you to determine what is in the package.
 If you believe the package may be suspicious, it is important that you do not shake, open, or empty the contents of the package. You should also avoid carrying the package or showing it to others to examine.If you determine it is suspicious, do not sniff, touch, taste, or look at any of the contents.
 Let anyone else known in the residence, home, or area, that you believe you have received a suspicious package. Place the package on a stable surface and leave the area. Make sure anyone else in the area also evacuates and do not allow anyone to enter the area with the suspicious package.If you have a ventilation system, like an air conditioner system or a heating system, turn it off so the contents of the package cannot circulate in the area.
 Give your hands a good wash with soap and water to prevent spreading any potentially dangerous substances to your face or skin. Once law enforcement officials arrive, they will be able to give you additional instructions on dealing with exposure to potentially dangerous substances., If you are at work, contact your supervisor or a security officer. Let them know you believe you have received a suspicious package and that they need to call local law enforcement.If you are at home, use your cellphone or a neighbor’s phone to call your local law enforcement and report the suspicious package.
Try to make a list of the people who were in the room or area where the suspicious package was recognized and anyone who many have handled the suspicious package. You should provide this list to local law enforcement when they arrive on the scene.

