 If you’re hosting a party with alcoholic beverages, drinking games are a great way to break the silence and get people to interact with other guests. There are many kinds of games to choose from, or you can make up your own! Either way they are sure to break the ice and bring on the laughs.


If no one at the party knows a game off hand, create your own by turning on a movie or TV show and taking a sip whenever the main character says a particular word. Or, designate a certain word or phrase commonly used to be off limits. Anyone who says the word or phrase has to take a sip.
If you have a deck of cards the possibilities are endless. Try piling the cards face down in the middle of your guests to draw from. Have your guests help create a rule for each card. For instance, drawing a King means that person gets to decide how many sips the guest to their left has to take, drawing a 2 means the person who drew the card has take two sips, etc. Get creative with the rules and have fun!

, Games in general bring life to any dying party, you don’t have to have alcohol for a good game to shake things up! Go for unconventional methods of playing conventional games. Or simply buy a fun game from the store, there are many affordable party games to choose from such as Pictionary, or Cards Against Humanity. Of course you can always have fun creating your own game together!, Music sets the mood for everything! Finding the right kind of music can act as a shot of adrenaline for any flat-lining party. Pay attention to your guests, change up your playlist until they start to react. Some of your guests might even start to dance or sing along to a certain song or artist, that’s how you’ll know you’ve hit the right tunes to turn things around!


If you've been playing your favorite country songs, try switching to pop or contemporary. If you're hosting an older crowd, rock or hits from the 80's might be a hit.
 Once you know you’ve got the right music for your party, encourage your guests to get up and dance, this will help guests at a stuffy party loosen and really let their hair down. The easiest way to accomplish this is to be the first one on the dance floor!

, Many people enjoy looking their best for any social gathering, chances are you've got some fashionistas in attendance. Try to spice up a drab party by having your guests put on a silly fashion show and strut their stuff down a makeshift runway, then vote for the best model. This will keep both participants and nonparticipants well entertained and makes for a great photo opportunity to look back on!

, An impressive party is one that has a memorable conclusion. A warm goodbye and invitation to future events makes your guests feel welcome and sends them home feeling they had a great time, even if things needed some reviving along the way.


A memorable farewell can be as simple as a toast to the end of the party, a warm hug goodbye, or sending everyone off with a small parting gift (a bottle of wine or a small bag of candy.)

