 Brush your teeth twice a day, and (if you can be bothered) use mouthwash afterwards. Shower after school or dinner or whenever you want to. Wash your hair whenever you feel it needs a wash. If you can't tell, ask your mother to let you know, and if you can't do that for whatever reason, wash it every three days. Before you get dressed, put on deodorant.


Use pimple cream if needed. The best time for this is usually right after you have a shower or brush your teeth––put the gear on the bench next to the faucet in the bathroom.;
, Some girly-girls will get up crazy early to style their hair, but let's be real. The more time spent in bed the better, right? So apart from washing your hair every three days, what else do you have to do? Pick a signature style. Two easy favorites are messy plaits/braids or a high ponytail. These are really simple and take about five minutes to do.
 Again, who has time for this? If you want to wear it, you could wear foundation, lip gloss and mascara. For school, maybe a little mascara but definitely don't wear anything else. If you're a true tomboy, you won't really feel the need for eyeliner and blush and eyeshadow, because it really takes away from the casual look.
  You don't want to wear anything skin tight or hard to move around in. Comfort always comes first but be sure to look cute. Jeans, oversized sweaters and tees, Uggs, Converse, flowing shorts, form-fitting blouses, and crop tops are nice.


Do not go out and buy all the latest trends, or read *shudders* fashion magazines.
Try tracksuit pants, ripped jeans, leggings and shorts for pants, and t-shirts, tank tops or crop-tops for shirts.
For shoes, three pairs is enough––Ugg boots, high tops and Converses. Literally wear whatever is comfortable.
Don't wear shorts in the middle of winter!

, Maybe wear one bracelet with your thing on it, such as a yin and yang symbol on it. You may wish to wear something on your head, whether it be a cap, a bow or a headband. Accessorizing is something to have fun with. Don't fuss though, there is no need to be into jewellery at all.


Yes, it is okay to wear beanies throughout the entire year.
 A few starter pack traits for popular tomboy are to be: Funny, sporty and friendly. Have a smile pretty much glued to your face. When people are around you, say hi, and think of something to do instead of just standing there. You could even start dancing the YMCA dance completely randomly. We dare you!

, As an ice cube. It's really important to keep your cool, and above all, never see yourself as popular. If people know you know you're popular and can see a lack of humility, they won't want you to be popular anymore. Don't take advantage of it!


If insulted, walk away or make a witty comeback. Yes, 'witty'. Deal with it. Don't stand there and take it, just shrug and walk away, or tell them to 'chill'.
  A big part in being a tomboy and popular is maintaining somewhat boyish hobbies. Sports are a big deal.  Play as many as you can, and don't be afraid to get down and dirty while playing them.  Run around, laugh, don't be afraid of getting hurt, and just have fun while playing! Track, soccer, swimming, basketball, and dodgeball are great.
  If you want to be popular you have to open yourself up to new people.  Talk to everyone, and get to know everyone.  It doesn't matter who they are, it doesn't matter what their personality is, as long as their a worthy friend, then make friends with them!  Just say hi.  Also be sure to talk to a lot of boys and hang with them too.
  Boys are known to be more daring and strong than girls, so don't be afraid to take risks!  Your favourite quote should be YOLO (you only live once).  It's true, and it never hurts to try, and you might fail or get hurt, but it's worth it! Enjoy your time here.
  Okay, school is very important, as it can affect your future a lot. Always do your homework before having fun, pay attention in class, take notes, ask the teacher about things you don't understand, and participate. Just put the studies first and then do whatever you want after. Tomboys don't fail school, they enjoy it especially when it comes to sporty things.
 Let all your emotions out, and don't be afraid to get rough!  Life is too short to live with worries, so smile everyday!  You will fail multiple times, but keep on pushing through! You may not be awesome today, but you can be awesome tomorrow so don't let it ruin your day. Keep that mindset forever.  Just be yourself, confident, and rule!

, It can be helpful to carry with you a small black backpack. In it, carry:


Mints and gum
Chips
Deodorant (and sometimes perfume)
A book
Your laptop (and chargers).
Phone, wallet, keys. Simple, but effective. Make sure to have on hand your wallet, phone and earphones, and keys to your house. This is pretty much the essentials.
 If you're cheap, don't have time to stop at Starbucks, or live in a place where there is no Starbucks, buy coffee cups from the supermarket and make yourself a hot chocolate. Then rock up to drama in the morning with your messy hair (on point obviously), tracksuit pants and Ugg boots and an absolutely chill coffee cup. This works almost every time.
 Everybody is friends with 'the kid with food'. Even if you don't want to share your food, know that the easiest way to become popular is to bring a bag of chips, or a pack of gum and be like, "Hey want some?" Come on guys, who says no to free gum?

