 Most of the princesses have very pale skin with the exception of Jasmine, Pocahontas, Tiana, and Moana. If you have the option, remain as pale as possible! This means you should wear a strong sunscreen, avoid tanning sprays, and try not to stay out in the sun for too long. If you're naturally pale or you have darker skin, that's fine too.;
, The length doesn't matter so much, since some princesses have long and some have short hair, but make sure that you take care of it. Enhancing your color is okay, as many of the princesses, such as Ariel, have eye-popping color that is very hard to have naturally. You can have it in any length or style you like, as the princesses all have different hair.
 Pick one or two features you love and play them up with some light makeup if you wish. Don't wear a ton of makeup: just enough to show off your best features. This means that if you have long eyelashes, wear a little mascara to make them darker, or if you really like the way your lips look, wear a little lipstick to draw people's attention to them.
 Everyone has natural beauty, but you can do things to make yours even better. Take care of yourself. Make sure to get enough sleep and keep up good hygiene for a natural glow.
 All of the princesses are slender and proportioned. However, since they are cartoon characters, don't feel like it is necessary to starve yourself to meet impossible images. In fact, the body shapes of the Disney princesses are often impossible to have in real life. So, instead of trying to imitate their unhealthy body shapes, just try to be the healthiest version of your unique body shape. This will make you feel and therefore look confident! If you're looking for a new type of exercise, try something graceful like dance, as grace is a crucial part of embodying the Disney Princess look.
 As for your clothing, don't feel the need to change much from what you already have. After all, Cinderella was able to transform an old dress into something new, and Ariel was able to make a dress out of an old sail. Feel free to be crafty and creative with your clothing style. Also, try to add color to your outfits! Each princess has their own "color" that they wear that looks simply magnificent on them. For Cinderella, it's light blue; for Belle, it's bright yellow; for Tiana, it's light green, etc. Find your color- one that complements your hair color, skin-tone, and/or eyes- and incorporate it into your wardrobe any way possible. Your color should be cheery, pretty and bright. Wearing the color you chose should make you feel perky.
 When choosing accessories, think cute and feminine. Rhinestones, pearls, and lace add a nice touch. Add accessories to your hair often, such as a flower or a pretty hair ribbon.
 Have a dress for fancy occasions that you put on and feel like a million bucks. But, that doesn't mean the dress has to cost a million bucks! The price of the dress doesn't matter: what does matter is how much you like it. Every Disney Princess has that dress that catches the eye of her prince and everyone else in the room. However, this dress must be classy. It should preferably be longer and cover up all areas that should be covered. There are several different styles, so find the one that flatters you and makes you feel wonderful.

