


Green pricing is a service offered by some electricity companies that allows people to use clean energy for an additional fee or premium.
Because every electricity company is different, fees and premiums added to your bill will vary. Some companies may charge per unit of renewable capacity, while other companies may charge fixed monthly fees.;
,


The competitive, or green electricity market gives people the option to switch from their local electricity provider to a company of their choice that offers renewable, clean energy.
The electricity market offers a wide variety of different services and packages to choose from and is very similar to the process people experience when choosing a cell phone provider.



Renewable, or green energy certificates represent the environmental benefits that people receive when the more conventional energy elements are displaced; such as oil, gas, and coal.
When you buy renewable energy certificates, you are paying for the benefit of adding clean energy to your region and making an environmentally sound contribution.
Buying renewable energy certificates is an ideal option for people who do not have the option to use clean energy in their area, but want to see the development of additional clean energy projects.



Since burning coal causes acid rain, buying clean energy will reduce the usage of coal and will help slow global warming.
Because nuclear power is another large source of conventional electricity, buying clean energy will help prevent the generation of radioactive waste, which stores for several thousand years.



Conventional electricity generates sulfur dioxide, which not only contributes to acid rain but also produces tiny soot particles, which ultimately play a role in causing death by air pollution.
Conventional electricity causes emissions of carbon dioxide, which contributes to global warming by causing more droughts and floods, disease, and severe weather in certain regions of the world.
Conventional electricity also causes emissions of nitrogen oxide which eventually combine with organic compounds in sunlight to make smog, which leads to numerous health problems that include heart failure and difficulty breathing.

