 Sometimes a software glitch can cause your iPhone to mute itself, but a hard restart can fix this problem. To restart your phone, hold down the Power button on top of your phone's casing and then swipe the slide to power off switch at the top of the screen right. After a minute, press and hold the Power button again until the white apple icon appears on your iPhone's screen.

If you're using an iPhone 5 or older, the Power button is on top of the phone.;
, Having Bluetooth on while not connected to a device (e.g., a car's stereo or headphones) can mute your iPhone's audio. To disable Bluetooth, swipe up from the bottom of the screen and tap the blue Bluetooth circle to the right of the Wi-Fi icon.

If swiping up opens the music control tab, swipe right to view the Bluetooth icon.
If the Bluetooth icon is grey rather than blue, your iPhone's Bluetooth is already disabled.
 The problem might actually be with your iPhone's music volume and not your headphone jack. To change playback volume, swipe up from the bottom of the screen to open the Control Center, swipe left to access the music section, and drag the slider at the bottom of the page right to increase the volume.

Your Control Center may open to the music section.
 Third-party headphones (e.g., any plug-in headphones that didn't come from Apple) can cause the iPhone's headphone jack to jam and get stuck in headphones mode. This problem is fixable either by using Apple headphones or by avoiding plug-in headphones entirely., Bending your plugged-in headphones increases the chances that the headphone plug will break off inside of the headphone jack.

For example, if you're listening to music with your iPhone in your pocket, place your iPhone so that the headphone jack is facing up.
 To avoid moisture or grit build-up in your iPhone, don't leave it in places where dust, dirt, or moisture may accumulate (e.g., the console of your car or inside your desk drawer).

To remove grit or moisture, you can use a can of compressed air or a hair dryer on low respectively.
Often times, iPhones stuck in headphone mode are simply suffering from a dirty headphone jack.
 Not only will having a case on your iPhone protect it from impact damage, it will also increase the space between the iPhone's bottom and the surface on which it rests. This will decrease the chances of lint and dirt ending up inside of your iPhone., To do so, hold down the Power button on the side of your phone's casing and then swipe the slide to power off switch at the top of the screen right.

If you're using an iPhone 5 or older, the Power button is on top of the phone.
 Once dust or grit builds up in your headphone jack, it can cause a whole host of problems such as getting your iPhone's audio stuck on headphones mode or making your headphones malfunction; you can use a Q-tip to remove the aforementioned build-up.If you're using an iPhone 7, you'll need to cut the top three quarters or so off of the Q-tip so that it can fit into the lightning port at the bottom of your phone.
 Do so gently, without forcing the Q-tip., Doing so should remove some of the dust or dirt from your headphone jack.

You may have to repeat this process several times before your iPhone's headphone jack is clean.
 To do so, hold down the Power button on the side of your phone's casing and then swipe the slide to power off switch at the top of the screen right.

If you're using an iPhone 5 or older, the Power button is on top of the phone.
 Some examples include the following:

A paperclip
A needle
A tartar scraper
A toothpick

, Do so at as much of an angle as possible, rather than jamming your tool straight up into the jack--otherwise, you run the risk of damaging the jack further., If a piece of paper, some lint, or an otherwise soft object is lodged in your headphone jack, you can coax it out by repeating this gesture until it eases out of the jack.

Be careful not to apply a lot of force to the sides of your iPhone's headphone jack.
You can also try wrapping a piece of double-sided tape around your object to better capture the object.
 If your headphone plug broke off inside of the iPhone, you can insert a straw around it and gently pry the plug out. Doing so is much less likely to harm your iPhone's headphone jack than using needle nose pliers or tweezers., If you aren't able to remove the lodged object without causing damage to your iPhone, taking it into a Best Buy tech department or an Apple store will likely prove cheaper than replacing the now-broken headphone jack entirely.