 The oil needs to reach a temperature of about 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius).


Use a candy thermometer to check the temperature of the oil. These thermometers can withstand high temperatures, and you can usually clip them to the side of a pan in order to continually keep an eye on the temperature as you cook.
 Beat the egg and milk together in a shallow bowl with a wide mouth until thoroughly blended.


When thoroughly combined, the entire mixture should be a pale yellow. There should be no streaks of white or dark yellow running through the mixture, but some clear patches may still exist.
 Place the flour, garlic powder, salt, and pepper in a large resealable plastic bag. Zip the bag closed and shake well to combine the ingredients.


Alternatively, you could add the three ingredients to a shallow mixing bowl and combine them with a mixing spoon or whisk until evenly distributed.
 Dunk each chicken liver in the egg mixture, making sure that all sides are coated.


Hold the chicken livers over the egg mixture for a few moments to let the excess egg drip off.
 Add coated chicken livers to the bag of seasoned flour. Zip closed again and shake well to thoroughly coat all sides of each chicken liver with the flour mixture.


Add the liver a few pieces at a time to avoid overcrowding the bag. If you overcrowd the bag, you will have a harder time coating all sides of all pieces.
If you have the flour mixture inside a shallow dish instead of a bag, you will need to toss the liver in the dish of flour and turn with your fingers, a fork, or tongs.
No matter what method you use, you should gently shake the liver over the bag or dish to remove any excess flour.
 Carefully place a few chicken livers at a time in your hot oil. Cook each chicken liver until they become crisp and golden brown.To protect yourself from popping, splattering oil, try using a frying screen to cover the dish as the chicken livers cook. Do not use a lid, however, since the space inside the pan can become too hot and the cooking time can become unbalanced.
 Remove the fried chicken livers from the oil using a slotted spoon. Drain them on paper towels or brown paper bags for a couple of minutes before transferring to individual serving dishes and enjoying.

