 Having different size breasts while nursing can happen often, since one breast may produce more milk than the other. If this is happening to you, you’ll want to figure out why before you try to implement different nursing techniques. You’ll want to make sure it’s not something your doctor or your baby’s pediatrician needs to address.One of the reasons could be biological. Your body might have more working milk ducts and alveoli. Your milk ducts are made up of alveoli, which is where your breast make milk.More working ducts and alveoli mean more milk and a bigger breast. The shape of your nipples may be different, causing your baby to prefer one breast over the other.
If you can tell your baby prefers one side over the other, make sure it isn’t because of an illness or injury in either you or your baby. Your baby might have an ear infection or some other illness. If your baby just had a vaccine immunization, he or she may avoid nursing on one side to avoid causing pain to the injection site. Also, if you have a breast infection, the taste of your milk could change causing your baby to refuse that milk.
Maybe you prefer nursing your baby on one breast over the other, and are consciously or unconsciously offering your baby the larger breast more than the smaller breast.
If you’ve had surgery on, or injured your breast, the supply and flow of your milk may be limited, resulting in that breast appearing smaller.
 Since babies tend to nurse more strongly on the first breast during a nursing session, have them nurse on the smaller breast first. This will encourage the smaller breast to produce more milk.
 Make a conscious effort to offer the smaller breast to your nursing baby more often the larger breast. The more suction a breast experiences, the more milk it will produce. Within 3 to 5 days you should notice the smaller breast is larger and about equal in size to the other. Once the breast appears equal in size, you can then offer each breast equally.
 If your baby is having trouble nursing from the smaller breast, or still prefers to nurse from the larger breast, try using a breast pump to help your breast produce more milk. Use the pump for 5 to 10 minutes after your baby finishes nursing on the smaller breast to encourage more milk production.


There are many different types of breast pumps available to use, and not all provide the same quality. Refer to a lactation specialist or your midwife or medical provider for suggestions on a good pump.
 There are several techniques you can use to get your baby to nurse on the smaller breast, specifically if he or she seems disinterested in it.


You can try different nursing positions.
Nurse where there’s little distraction, like a dark and quiet room.
Try to manually compress your breast to help increase your milk flow out of the slow-flowing breast. While your baby is nursing press, put your hands around your breast and squeeze. Watch your baby’s sucking motions and try to match the length and rhythm of each squeeze with your baby’s sucking. You can also press your fingers against the top of your breast, right below your collar bone, and then slide your hand down towards your nipple. This will also help to express more milk.
Try nursing your baby on the less preferred breast when he or she is still half asleep and less alert.

