 Find out what will be required of your design. How high is the drop? Must it survive repeated drops? Must it be waterproof? Will it be judged on how well it hits a target? Is there a weight or size limit? Are certain designs or materials not permitted? Does it need to made from things that are edible? Should it have a theme? Design to these requirements.;
, What do you think will help to protect an egg? What is happening when a falling egg breaks, and how can you prevent this? If it helps, draw pictures of your ideas as you go, or write down descriptions. Here are some suggestions to get you started, but try to think of ideas of your own, too.


A hard shell. This might be a coffee can, a milk carton, or a shoe box. Think in terms of things you can easily obtain.
Padding. Cotton balls, tissue, bubble wrap, marshmallows, foam, fabric, and popcorn are all possibilities.
A way to restrain the egg. It does no good if the egg keeps moving and breaks against the side of the container. Use the padding itself, or try tape, rubber bands, a sling made from old pantyhose, or your own idea.
A way to slow the falling egg. Some contests allow parachutes and similar mechanisms. Others do not. Remember that a parachute might decrease the accuracy with which your egg enclosure will hit a target, so read the rules before you choose a parachute design.
Containment. Tape, string, glue, a buckle. Do you need to be able to open and close the container? You don't want your egg falling out.
 Which one do you think will do the best job? Choose the idea or combination you think will work best.
 Will it work according to your plans? You can change your idea if building it turns out to be too difficult.
 Don't wait until the contest to try out your design. You could learn a lot by breaking an egg or two in advance of the contest.
, Try a high window, the bleachers at your school, or ask your parents to drop it from a ladder. If you know how high the drop will be in the contest, try to drop yours from a similar height.


If you can't get high up enough, get as high up as you can and throw the egg assembly in the air.
 If the egg did not break, congratulate yourself! Test a few times, just to be sure. If the egg broke, improve your design and test it again.

