 You'll need two Ikea Expedit bookshelves (the 2x4 square size), several feet of velcro, a saw, decking screws, 24 basic L brackets with mounting screws, and lumber in the following cuts:


Four 38" pieces of 2x10
Six 28" pieces of 2x10
Four 16 & 3/4" pieces of 1x10

, You'll be using the lumber to build two end shelves which share the weight of the bed with the Expedit shelves. The boxes are created by Connecting two 38" sections of 2x10 lumber to two 28" sections of 2x10 lumber into a 38"x31" box. Secure the pieces together using decking screws, 3 for each connection. Secure each corner with an L bracket at the center.
 Another piece of 28" 2x10 is then centered and attached in the same way to create two sections in each box. Secure the center brace with an L bracket on each side at both the top and bottom.
 If you want to have shelves, you can add these in easily with some 1x10 lumber cut to 16 & 3/4". Adjust the shelf to the desired height and then secure the bottom with L brackets, two to a side.
 Trace the shelves onto plywood and cut out the backing with a jigsaw. Nail it into place by hand or using a pneumatic nail gun.
 You will probably want to add felt feet to the bottom of these shelves to keep them from scratching floors or moving around. These are easily bought from many different types of stores.
 With the shelves done, you will want to paint them and the Expedit shelves to be the same color. Use spray paint which is graded to go on laminate.
 Cut a piece of plywood to be 38"x75". With both shelves facing outward and the Expedit shelves dry fit between them, nail the plywood into place by driving two nails through the plywood and into the top of the sides of the end shelves.


You can glue on a non-slip mat, like the ones which go under carpets, if you want to.
 Adjust the Expedit shelves so that they are flush with the sides of the end shelves.
 Ikea makes several useful inserts for Expedit shelves. You can add baskets, pull out drawers, or just basic doors, and all come in a variety of colors. Enjoy your new bed!


This bed should be used by a child only, as it cannot support extreme weights.

