 Much of the power of hypnosis rests in the fact that you have convinced yourself that you have a way to take control of your urges. If you don’t believe that hypnosis will help you change your feelings, it will probably have little effect., Go to a place where you are not likely to be disturbed. This can be anywhere that is quiet like your bed, a sofa, or a comfortable armchair. Make sure that your head and neck are supported.Wear lose clothes and establish that the temperature is set at a comfortable level.You may find it easier to relax if you play some gentle music while you self-hypnotize, particularly something instrumental., Find something in the room to look at and focus on, preferably something slightly above you. Use your focus on this object to clear your head of all thoughts. Make this object the only thing you are conscious of., Tell yourself that your eyelids are becoming heavy and allow them to fall gently. As your eyes close, breathe deeply with a regular rhythm. Focus on your breathing, allowing it to occupy the entirety of your mind, much as the object you had been looking at did before. Feel yourself becoming more relaxed with each additional breath.Imagine that all of the tension and stress are dissipating from your muscles. Allow this feeling to move down your body from your face, to your chest, your arms, and finally your legs.
Once you are completely relaxed your mind should be clear and you will be part way to self-hypnosis.
 The motion of a pendulum moving back and forth has traditionally been used in hypnosis to encourage focus. In your mind, visualize this pendulum moving back and forth. Focus on it as you relax to help clear your mind., Begin counting down in your head from 10 to 1. As you count down tell yourself that you are getting progressively deeper into hypnosis. Say, “10, I am relaxing. 9, I am getting more relaxed. 8, I can feel the relaxation spreading down my body. 7, I can feel nothing but the relaxation…. 1, I am in a deep sleep.” Remember throughout that when you reach 1 you will be in a state of hypnosis.
 Once you have accomplished what you want during hypnosis, you should wake yourself. Count back up from 1 to 10. In your head, say: “1, I am waking up. 2, when I count down I will feel like I woke from a deep sleep. 3, I am feeling more awake…. 10, I am awake and refreshed.”, It takes consistent repetition to reprogram your brain with hypnosis. You should aim to spend about twenty minutes a day in a state of hypnosis. While under, alternate between some of the strategies listed below. Try a bit of everything to attack your bad eating habits from every angle available., One of the first things you should try to do while under hypnosis is to convince yourself that you aren’t interested in the nasty snack foods that you’re having trouble kicking. Pick something like ice cream that you tend to overindulge in. Tell yourself “Ice cream tastes bad and make me feel sick.” Repeat for twenty minutes, until you are ready to awake from hypnosisRemember, a good diet doesn't mean that you need to stop eating, just eat fewer bad foods. Don't try to talk yourself out of eating, just convince yourself to eat less food that you know is unhealthy., You should also use self-hypnosis to reinforce your desire to eat better. Write a mantra that to repeat while in a state of hypnosis. Examples include: “Over eating hurts me and my body. I should eat healthy to make myself a better me.” , To increase your desire to live better visualize what you would be like healthy. Take a picture of yourself from when you were thinner or do your best to imagine what you would look like after losing weight. Under hypnosis focus on this image. Imagine the confidence that you would feel if you were healthier. This will make you want to realize that thinner you when you awake., Protein is especially good at filling you up and, because it supports muscle growth, can actually improve your metabolism. Good sources of protein include seafood, lean meat, eggs, yogurt, nuts, and beans. A steak every meal might be counterproductive, but snacking on nuts when you're hungry could go a long way toward helping you reach your goals., When you don't eat for an extended period of time, your metabolism goes down and you stop burning fat. If you eat something small once every three or four hours, your metabolism will go up and you will be less hungry when you sit down for a meal., Fruits and vegetables will fill you up and supply you with nutrients without putting any pounds on. Snack on bananas instead of cookies to start losing weight., Unsaturated fats, like those in olive oil, can be good for you. You should, however, try to limit your consumption of saturated fats and trans fats. Both of these are major contributing factors in heart disease.


Trans fats are common in processed foods, particularly baked goods, frosting, and margarine.
Saturated fats are not as bad as trans fats, but can be unhealthy. Major sources of saturated fat, include butter, cheese, lard, red meat, and milk.