 For example, if you play folk, blues, jazz, or singer-songwriter music, you will want an acoustic guitar. If you play hard rock or metal, you will need an electric guitar.;
, Narrow down your search to the group of guitars suitable for the genre or genres of music you play.


Electric guitars can either have a hollow or solid body.

Hollow body guitars are used in most genres, but they are primarily used in blues and jazz. They have pickups (which is the difference between a hollow body and acoustic guitar) but also a good low-gain sound (although not at a level of high distortion). They are also known as semi-acoustic guitars.


There are many different variations of solid body guitars. For example, the Stratocaster, designed by Leo Fender, which first appeared in 1954, is the favored guitar of such legends as Jimi Hendrix, Ronnie Woods, and Eric Clapton, just to name a few.
Fender-style guitars (like Stratocaster and Telecaster) have their necks bolted into the body, while Gibson-type guitars (like Les Paul or SG) have glued necks. Stratocasters are made out of ash or alder and use single-coil pickups. See the Tips section for the difference between ash and alder wood.

Stratocaster is popular because it was the first guitar to include a whammy bar (tremolo bridge), which is very lightweight and therefore easier to maneuver.
The Telecaster is the oldest solid body guitar made by Fender. There are many similarities with the Stratocasters, such as the wood it is made of and the construction of the neck. But this guitar has two single-coil pickups, which gives it a very clean sound. It is an excellent instrument for country and rock music. The Who favored this guitar.
The Gibson Les Paul is probably the best solid body guitar. Because it is made out of mahogany, it is usually heavier. But it is also a very versatile guitar and comes in many different models. The Gibson Les Paul has two Humbucker pickups and is made of mahogany. Artists such as Zakk Wylde, Slash, and Jimmy Page use the Gibson guitar.
You might also want to consider the Flying V and Explorer models, which are suitable for rock and metal music.
 For example, there are two different kinds of bridges: tremolo and non-tremolo. There are also different kinds of frets such as a jumbo or extra jumbo fret. Once you have this knowledge, you will be able to make a better decision.
 The sound depends mostly on the guitar’s pickup.


Notice the placement and magnetic power of the pickup. Then again, if you buy a high-quality guitar, you can assume that the pickup will be of high quality, too.
The single-coil pickups on a Fender guitar sound good and are very powerful, but the sound produces more noise, as compared to Humbucker pickups, which can be found on different Gibson models.
 The kind of wood a guitar is made of has a major effect on the tone and consistency of the sound. Guitars are typically made out of one of five different types of wood:


Mahogany is heavy but provides a warm sound with more sustainability and density; it is great for rhythm guitar parts and solos such as Slash’s. These guitars, however, are heavy and hard to continue playing during a long gig.
Basswood is one of the best kinds of wood for guitars. It is much lighter than mahogany and its sound carries more treble. It is cleaner and “creamy.” Basswood guitars are very good for progressive and instrumental. It is often used for solos. Joe Satriani, Steve Vai, and John Petrucci of Dream Theater play basswood guitars.
Alder wood is a little bit heavier than basswood. Alder wood guitars have more sound sustainability. It is appropriate for thrash and other forms of heavy metal music. Alexi Laiho of Children of Bodom and Metallica’s Kirk Hammett use guitars made of alder wood.
Maple is not a very popular wood for the body of a guitar, but is mostly used for the guitar’s neck. Very few musicians play guitars with a maple body.
Ash is also a wood used infrequently. It is mostly used for Stratocasters. Ash wood guitars emit a sound that is something between the warmth of mahogany guitars and the clean sound of a basswood or alder wood guitar.
 You don’t need an expensive guitar, especially if you are just beginning to play.


You can purchase a guitar for $300-500. Keep in mind, however, that cheaper guitars may have their quirks.
 It is important to have firsthand experience with the look, sound, and feel of a guitar before purchasing one. The best way to do this is to go to your local music store, since it will have the most variety. You can also try out a friend’s guitar. Or if you are buying a used guitar from a private seller, find a way to get your hands on that guitar before purchasing it.

