 Start sleeping in the nude. It’s not as unusual as it may sound—many people prefer feeling unrestrained when they go to bed at night. If you share a room with someone else, be considerate before you simply bare it all. You may have to have a talk with your roommate about your preferred sleeping arrangement to find out if they would have an issue with you being naked in the same room.Sleeping naked can keep you cooler and make you more relaxed as you’re drifting off to sleep.;
, Take advantage of an empty house by shedding your clothes when you’re the only one home. You can prance around in the buff all you want without having to worry about offending anyone. Just make sure you know when everyone is expected back to prevent any awkward surprises.You could also wait until everyone else is asleep to get loose of your garments.
Avoid open windows while you’re naked at home. There’s a big difference between going natural and giving the neighbors a show.
 If you have your own room, make it known that you prefer to go naked when you’re alone. You might put up a sign announcing that if you’re in your room with the door closed, you’re probably not wearing any clothes. You could also simply inform your family members about your choice to go nude and request that they knock before barging in.Depending on your family’s own privacy rules, you could always just lock the door when you need to let your body breathe.
Have some clothes nearby that are easy to slip in and out of in case you need to go back and forth from your room frequently.
 Assuming you’re not the shy type and don’t mind your loved ones seeing you at your most vulnerable, take small steps toward gaining your family's permission to go without clothes. Ask the people you live with how they would feel about casual nudity before trying it out to avoid creating an awkward environment. If they’re agreeable to the idea, you can appear naked more often, little by little, until it just becomes a fact of your household.Breach the topic by asking an earnest question like "would it bother you if I wore fewer clothes around the house?" By being straightforward, your family will understand that you're showing consideration for their feelings.
If someone around you seems put off or makes a critical comment about your nudity, it may be best to go clothed around them from then on.
 Make your family aware of your nudist tendencies by warning them when there’s a chance they might see more of you than expected. If someone knocks on your door or tries to come in to talk to you, for example, tell them flat out that you’re not wearing clothes, and that they should enter at their own risk. Choosing to come in anyway shows that they don’t mind, and even if they do, you’ll still get to enjoy being naked privately.


After a while of going naked in your own private space, it will start to seem less unusual to your family.
Try not to catch your loved ones off guard. It could be traumatizing for some to see a parent, child or sibling naked.
 The best way to prepare your family for seeing you naked after getting permission is to work your way up to it. Try lounging around in your underwear or a more revealing outfit than you normally wear. When you get out of the shower, tie a towel around your body and linger for a minute in the kitchen or living room where you’ll be seen. Once they get over their initial squeamishness, it won’t be a big deal for them to accept that you prefer to be naked at home.


Don’t go from wearing clothes to walking around naked overnight. Begin wearing less and less over time so that the transition isn’t so jarring.
 Once everyone has come to terms with your new behavior, it may be okay to reveal yourself briefly out in the open. Stroll by the family room with no fear, or creep down the hall to the bathroom in the middle of the night while you’re not wearing any clothes. This may come as a surprise the first few times if your loved ones aren’t used to it yet, but as long as you've made sure they're okay with your actions, they'll start to get used to it.Never blatantly parade your nudity in front of your family, or do it just to be seen.
 Bring up the fact that you’ve been going naked regularly as a source of humor. It will help alleviate the awkwardness and tension that a relative might be feeling if they’re persuaded to view it as something quirky or funny. Most topics lose their taboo aura when you can laugh at them.Treating your nudity as a joking matter can give you a chance to bring up the subject in a way that doesn’t feel weird.
 Talk to your family directly about why you feel more comfortable when you’re naked. Make it known that you don’t take issue with the ways that they choose to unwind, and that they should at least be considerate of yours. They may not understand at first, but you can help put them at ease with your decision by being direct.Explain that being naked is a healthy way of expressing appreciation for your body.
Be ready for your family members to disagree with your philosophy. Not everyone feels the same way about being naked around others.
 Pacify whatever protests may arise by sharing your belief that going nude is freeing. There’s nothing inherently dirty or immoral about being naked. And, since you’re family, you should already be used to seeing one another at your least presentable. Getting used to various levels of nudity around your family members might even make you feel closer.If you don’t treat nudity as an ugly, profane thing, there won’t be any reason to feel shame when you or a loved one isn’t wearing clothes.
 Your family might be accepting of your habit, but there may be certain times when they feel it’s inappropriate. Compromise by coming up with a set of conditions about when, where and around whom it’s acceptable to be naked. It might be okay if it’s just you at home, or if you keep it confined to your bedroom and bathroom. However, you should plan on putting something on when the grandparents come to visit or your parents are hosting a dinner party.


You should always make sure there are boundaries in place, even when it’s just your family around. Remember, you’re not the only person living in the house.
 Despite your insistence, your family simply might not like the idea of you walking around naked. Be conscientious and respect their wishes. You can still go naked when you’re alone, but you shouldn’t force anyone else to witness it. There’s a time and place for everything—it just may not be under a shared roof.The people around you have just as much of a right not to have to see you naked as you do to actually be that way.

