 The drums are the most important part of your beat and form the structure to the entire song. Especially in hip-hop, where singers need a steady rhythm to rap over, you need to create a solid foundation for melody, vocals, and orchestration.


Start with the classic trio of drum beats -- kick drum, snare, and hi-hat. Play with these three drums to produce the bouncy, up-tempo feel of classic rap and hip-hop songs. Ex. DJ Premier's famous beats on the album Step in the Arena. Download free drum packs online to find unique percussion and sounds the incorporate into your songs.
Experiment with other sounds for percussion. Producers such as J Dilla (Ex. "Waves") became famous for using voices, sirens, pops, and other noises in place of drums. (Ex. 50 Cent's "Heat" uses gun noises for percussion)

, Hip-hop has it's roots in jazz, funk, and soul, and just like the genres that spawned it, all hip-hop tracks require two basic instruments: drums and bass. A bass line gives your song a basic template for the melody


Bass lines can be a simple, like Nas' "Memory Lane (Sittin' in the Park)," or complex, like Common's "Be (Intro)."
Practice meshing the bass line with your kick drum, as they both emit low frequency notes. Layer them so you can hear both, like in the songs above. , Once you've established the "groove" of the song with bass and drums, it's time to make it really shine. This is where you get to design the feel of a song. If you want an RnB inspired song, for example, you'll want piano, some horns, and maybe some jazzy guitar (Ex. Blues Scholars "The Ave"). If you want an epic, cinematic song you'll be adding strings, tubas, gongs, etc (Ex. Big Boi's "General Patton").


Play around with sounds constantly-- the only way to find out what sounds best is to try out as many different orchestrations as possible. , Looping is when you take several bars of music and repeat throughout a song so it sounds like someone is playing the part the entire time. It allows you to create a consistent beat for the MC to rap over and keeps you from tediously writing out the same part over and over again.


The best loops are seamless. That is, it is impossible to tell that the part was essentially copy and pasted together.
 Sampling is when you splice bit of other songs into your song, using the old part to create something entirely new. Sampling is one of the building blocks of hip-hop producing, but you should always do it with caution -- sampling without permission can be illegal.


Use sample sparingly, finding 2-3 notes that you like and distorting them, repeating them, or chopping them up into something new. , Whether you do them yourself or have someone else rapping, record the vocals to your song and tinker with the length, chorus placement, and any intros or outros you want.
 Use your producing skills to mesh the lyrics with the beat. For example, at a moment when the lyrics reference the police, it is common to put a siren sound in the song. When you hear particularly powerful lines or rhythms, considering muting the beat so that listeners can hear the rapper clearly, then jumping back in as a surprise.


Build up the beat-- start the song with just drums and bass, and add an instrument each verse, then break it down in the outro (Ex. Outkast's "Slump")
Add subtle accents -- even noises that are hard to hear can give the song depth. , Read your software manual and learn about EQ, effects and quantization, and use them where necessary.



EQ: Also known as equalization, this is where you adjust the volume, frequency, and sounds of the entire song so that all the parts fit smoothly together.

Effects: There are endless effects, all of which adjust or alter the sound of an instrument to make it fit the mood of the song. They can create echos, change tones, subtly adjust notes, and much more. They are never permanent, so test them out on every instrument.

Quantization: The art of taking hand-made notes or beats and electronically lining them up with the beat. Quantization is crucial to make a song sound clean and professional, but overdoing it may make a song seem robotic and bland. , The best hip-hop producers forged their own path, learning from the masters while trying things no one else has. Make a song without drums, sample from a polka tune, or use a live band to make your tracks. Follow your creative instincts and keep your ears open to stand out as a producer. 