 Sending a wire transfer through a cash office is different than a bank-to-bank transfer. No bank accounts are required to send or receive funds through a cash office. Instead of posting funds to a bank account, the receiver uses their personal identification and a confirmation number to access the funds.Go to the office, call, or visit their website. Most retail wire-transfer companies offer services online and over the phone. Fees may vary depending on which way you contact the company.
Check your funds. Once you confirm the fee you will pay, add the fee to your transfer amount. That total represents the amount you’ll need to provide to the cash office.
Provide the information. You will need to give your address, the recipient’s name, and the payment destination. The company will give you a code that you will give to the recipient.
The recipient presents the code when receiving the money, along with photo ID.
 Banks and cash offices are two popular ways to transfer money electronically, but there are many others. It is important to explore your options to find the solution that works for you. You can consider money transfers or an online funds transfer service like PayPal.Look at an email money transfer. Some financial institutions, particularly large Canadian banks, offer email money transfers via a service known as Interact e-transfer. With Interact e-transfer, money is not actually transferred via email, but rather the recipient receives an email with a secret question.
By confirming the email, the funds are send to the recipient's bank account, and the email acts essentially as an e-check.
This is a highly convenient solution, since the sender simply needs the recipient's email address to initiate the transaction. In addition, there is no fee to the receiver, and the sender typically pays only between $1 and $4 dollars.
 PayPal is a dominant and widely used method to transfer money electronically. With PayPal, the recipient is required to have a PayPal account. You can send funds through PayPal using a debit or credit card.The receiver’s account is typically linked to a bank account. Once the funds post to the receiver’s PayPal account, the receiver can move the funds to a bank account.
It normally takes several business days to move available PayPal funds to a bank account. While PayPal is convenient, it may take longer to move funds than a wire transfer.
There are fees deducted from the funds you receive through PayPal. For smaller transfers the charge is 2.9% of the amount sent, plus $0.30 per transaction. Fees are typically higher for international transfers, and receivers should be mindful that an exchange rate would be charged on funds being transferred internationally. As the total dollars you send increase, the percentage fee on amounts sent will decline.

