 Especially if you want to start exercising again after a recent injury or other health issue, you need to get approval from your doctor before you start any new exercise regimen.Even if you're starting small with a basic activity such as walking, your doctor may want to give you some limitations or restrictions.
Your doctor also may have some advice for you on what types of exercise would most benefit you or how you can get started.;
, How you start exercising again will depend on how physically fit you currently are and how long it's been since you exercised regularly. If you've been out of the habit of exercising for awhile, your strength and flexibility may have deteriorated.You also need to take into account any recent injuries or health problems you've had, as these may require more substantial rehabilitation before you get into exercising on your own.
You may want to go to a local gym or fitness center and talk to a trainer there about doing a fitness assessment. They can help you design a program that will work best for you.
 Particularly if you haven't worked out in awhile, you don't want to overdo it when you're trying to get back in the habit of exercising on a regular basis. If all you can reasonably commit to at the start is five minutes a day, do that.Even the smallest period of time exercising is better than nothing, and will help you get back in the habit and mindset of exercising on a regular basis.
If you start at five minutes, increase that time to 10 minutes after a week or two, then 15 minutes a week or two after that. Gradually increase your workout time until you can workout for 30 minutes to an hour three to five days a week.
 Particularly if you haven't worked out in awhile, going for a walk can be a good way to start exercising again. The benefit of walking is that it's free, doesn't require any special equipment, and can be done anywhere.At the start, look for a place to walk that's relatively flat. Dress comfortably and drink lots of water to stay hydrated.
Keep your walks short in the beginning, gradually increasing the distance or time that you're walking. Walking with a friend can make it more fun.
Don't overdo it. At most, you should be walking at a moderate intensity – meaning you have the ability to carry on a conversation with someone. If you're gasping for breath or have any physical pain, stop walking and consult your health care provider.
 A diary helps you track your progress and manage your routine so you can build up the duration of your workouts over time. It also gives you the opportunity to reflect on how you felt during and after each exercise session.If you know you're required to make a diary entry, it adds an extra layer of commitment to the exercise process. It can provide some negative reinforcement on days you feel like skipping exercise.
Reading back over a diary every few weeks can give you a fresh perspective on your exercise as well as help you see patterns or issues you wouldn't have noticed otherwise.
 Most gyms and fitness centers offer 30-day challenges, which can be a great way to jumpstart your renewed exercise program. These challenges are particularly good if you're still relatively fit and didn't take a long break from exercise.If you took a break from exercise because of a physical injury or health issue, a 30-day challenge may be too intense for you. Get information about the program you want to do and present it to your health care provider first.
Be honest with the trainer running the challenge about how long it's been since you've exercised and what your concerns are in starting exercise again. They can tell you if their program is right for you.
 Especially if you're starting exercise again after a longer period of inactivity, establishing a regular schedule will help the activity become habitual. Find a time of day when you have the time to work out and make it a part of your routine.Often the easiest time to get a workout in is right after you wake up in the morning. If you don't leave much time between waking up and heading out to work or school, try to wake up a half hour or hour earlier. Do that for a few days to get used to it before you add your exercise into the mix.
Whatever time of day you choose, make sure you're able to work out at that time every day of the week. If your schedule varies, this might be difficult for you, but it's easier to establish a routine if you always work out at the same time of day.
 If you get everything you need for your exercise session ready the night before and set it out, it can serve as a trigger for you to get going. When everything's ready to go, you've eliminated at least one excuse to skip a workout for the day.Even if your exercise simply consists of going for a morning walk, lay out your clothes the night before and set your walking shoes by the front door.
You can also set an alarm or reminder on your phone. Type in a motivational phrase or quote to inspire you to get moving.
 Especially if you're coming off a period of inactivity, a good warm up is crucial to prevent pain and injury. Before every workout, spend five to ten minutes moving to get the blood pumping to your muscles.Dynamic stretches such as arm swings or walking lunges are a good warm up, especially if you've decided to start walking or some other light cardio such as cycling.
You also can do a slower, lighter version of whatever exercise you plan to do. For example, if you're jogging you might warm up by walking for 10 minutes. Or if you're doing strength training, start out with a few bodyweight exercises.
 If you've been inactive for awhile, your muscles and joints are probably tight and stiff. Doing an activity such as yoga can loosen up your muscles and joints so other exercise is more beneficial.If you've never practiced yoga before, you will definitely want to start with a beginner's class at a yoga studio so you can make sure you're doing the poses correctly. Bad form can lead to injury.
There are plenty of yoga videos available online for free. If you're a more experienced practitioner, find a variety of routines that you can do in the comfort of your own home. However, if you are a beginner, then you should start by going to a class to ensure that you are doing the exercises properly and so that the instructor can help you with your form.
 A brisk walk or 20 minutes on a treadmill or stationary bike will boost your cardiovascular strength and increase your overall fitness. When you're just starting to exercise again, you may have to build up to this time.Ultimately you want to get in at least 20 minutes of cardio exercise two to three days a week, and work up to 150 minutes of moderate cardio or 75 minutes of vigorous cardio every week.
If you stopped exercising because of an injury or other health issue, you may want to find a relatively low-impact cardio exercise, such as cycling. You also might consider doing water aerobics.
 Your exercise regimen needs three elements: flexibility, cardio, and strength training. However, if you're just starting to exercise again after a period of inactivity, build your flexibility and cardio before you bring strength training into the mix.Typically you'll want to maintain your flexibility and cardio routine for at least a couple of weeks before you start doing any strength training.
Take a rest day after your strength training sessions to allow your body to fully recover.
 After a period of inactivity, allow your body to adjust to the new demands you're putting on it. Especially if you were previously very active, it can be all too easy to overdo it when you start exercising again after some time off.Be careful not to put too many demands on your body. While it's normal to be sore after a good workout, you shouldn't be so sore that you're unable to move the next day.
If you feel any pain during your workout, stop what you're doing and reassess or modify your workout to be more accommodating.
 Especially if you were very active before, it can be easy to get frustrated when you start exercising again and can't do the same things you could before. If you beat yourself up about your current fitness level or past mistakes, it can demotivate you.You also need to lose the "no pain, no gain" mentality. Being compassionate and gentle will keep exercise enjoyable so it's something you want to do, rather than feeling like punishment.
If you have a problem with negative self-talk, find a few encouraging or inspirational phrases and post them in key spots where you'll see them regularly. For example, you might tape a sign that says "you are attractive" to the bathroom mirror.
 Having a workout buddy means you have someone holding you accountable who is relying on you to show up for your workouts. Additionally, working out with a friend can fire up friendly competition.Working out with a friend also gives you the opportunity to socialize, since you should still be able to carry on a conversation if you're exercising at moderate intensity.
Particularly if you stopped exercising because of an injury or health problem, working out with a friend also has a safety element, since you have someone there to help you if your injury flares up or you have other difficulties.
 If you try to start exercising again and the activities you're doing are boring, you'll have little motivation to get out there and do them. Finding an activity that you genuinely enjoy will make regular exercise less of a chore.Don't forget to change it up on a regular basis. Variety will keep you interested and give you something new to look forward to.
Look into taking a class occasionally at a gym or fitness center near you to expose yourself to something new and introduce a little change into your routine.
 A realistic understanding of what to expect from exercise can be difficult, especially if you previously were at a high level of fitness. Keep in mind that you won't be back to your old self again overnight.Instead of setting a large goal, such as "lose 50 pounds," set several smaller goals that you can attain in a month or two if you maintain your exercise regimen.
Meeting those goals will encourage you to keep with your exercise program. Unrealistic goals or goals that you can't attain in a short period, on the other hand, will have a demotivating effect.
 Positive reinforcement can help keep you motivated and on course with your new exercise program. Keep track of the days you complete your regimen and give yourself something small for each week you stay on track.Food typically isn't the best reward, especially if your goal is to lose weight. Instead, think of activities or experiences that make you happy. For example, you might take yourself to a movie or a concert.

