 Every account for Realm of the Mad God starts with the wizard class. Use this class to find decent items from killing simple enemies. Tier 7-8 staves, tier 8-9 robes, tier 3-5 spells (space-use item) and tier 2-4 health or defense rings are the most efficient ways to start.;
, When you reach level 20 with these items, you should immediately teleport to the Godlands, (usually in the center of the map). Continue to kill the gods within the area of the Godlands. Remember, killing each one only wields a 1/100 (1%) chance of obtaining stat potions, so stay committed and stockpile any of your stat potions in your vault.
 As soon you have stored a significant amount of potions, use them all at once on your wizard. After the first few stats are maxed, you can move on to maxing other stats, buying better gear with the potions, or buying other potions that the gods of the Godlands do not drop.
 There are multiple dungeons that a person can complete consecutively to gain profits, whether it be stat potions or high-tier gear. The most popular of these dungeons include Sprite World, Abyss of Demons, and Candyland Hunting Grounds.
 The Sprite World is regarded as the easiest to find, and to complete, dungeon. Each Sprite World has hundreds of small rapid-firing elemental enemies that can prove deadly to low defense classes. These enemies shoot 4/5 projectiles at a time that do about 16-18 HP, hundreds of these damaging projectiles can and will take a toll on your HP bar, and in seconds your character can die. In order to farm these dungeons, also commonly know as rushing, you should at least have a total of 20 defense points.
 Although the Abyss of Demons is easily found, it is one of the hardest and most unpredictable dungeons. This dungeon is a lot like a maze, with many dead ends and (gonna think of a word here). The rooms of this dungeon are filled with lava, and 4-5 assorted red demons that deal about 60-100 HP damage. When approached, they group up and chase you at a high speed. These enemies have been known to kill any character in less than a second if a player's mind detaches from the game. To help complete the Abyss of Demons faster, you should have at least over 40 defense. Melee classes are highly recommended for their high defense and high close-range damage. Some classes, such as wizard, can also farm this dungeon if they have the ability to kill the enemies quickly to prevent "running away from the enemies" which often results in death.
 Often referred to as just "Candyland" or "Cland". This is by far, the most difficult dungeon to find. The entrance only drops after you kill a Candy Gnome, one of those rarest enemies in RotMG. The chance of this dungeon dropping is not guaranteed, it is expected to be about 50%. The Candyland Hunting Grounds is a very unique dungeon, it is the only dungeon in the game that can be farmed after being completed. In order to spawn bosses you need to kill mini-bosses that spawn in various rooms of the dungeon. Although the Candyland can be farmed until infinity, the bosses usually do not drop anything of value, so a lot of time is required to get a full inventory.
 By far, the safest way to obtain good items is to become a merchant. Becoming merchant in this game means that you buy and sell items in order to profit. There are hundreds of items in the economy, each with its own set price.