 As best you can, estimate the amount of money you will need. Most businesses don’t ask for enough. At the same time, you don’t want to ask for too much.If you are buying equipment or having a renovation done, ask for estimates.;
, You should create a profit and loss statement, balance sheet, and a cash flow statement, which lenders will want to see.If you need help, consult with an accountant.


Every owner who owns at least 20% of the business should also create a personal financial statement.
 You’ll need to submit a lot of paperwork when you apply for a loan, so gather it ahead of time. Get the following:An updated resume

Personal tax returns for the past three years
Business tax returns for the past three years
Recent personal and business bank statements
Articles of Incorporation or Organization
Business leases
Franchise agreement, if applicable

, Lenders don’t give loans without asking detailed questions. For example, they want to know what you will spend the money on. Consider why you need the loan:You want to expand your business. Typically, you will get a term loan, which is a lump sum that you pay back in installments.
You want to relocate your business. You’ll probably get a term loan.
You want to buy equipment. You will get an equipment loan.
You need money for day-to-day expenses, such as payroll or rent. You will probably get a line of credit or accounts receivable financing.
 A lender must thoroughly understand your business, so you should write a business plan if you don’t already have one. You can stop into a Small Business Development Center if you need help. Find your nearest office at https://www.sba.gov/tools/local-assistance/sbdc.


Your business plan should be quite detailed. Look at sample business plans online. Generally, they include sections on your financial needs, target market, marketing plan, financial projections, management, and operations.
Some lenders want to see specific information. You can stop into a bank ahead of time to ask., Three agencies gather business credit information: Dun & Bradstreet, Experian, and Equifax. You will have to buy your business credit scores from each of these three agencies.Update any missing or erroneous information from your business credit report., Lenders will analyze your personal credit score when deciding whether to lend to your business. Obtain a copy of your score so you see where you stand. You’ll need a score above 650, with a score over 700 preferable., Your credit score might be too low to qualify for a business loan. If you need to, commit to improving your credit history before you approach lenders.There might be errors in your credit report. For example, an account might wrongly be listed as in default, or the wrong balance amount might have been reported. You should dispute any errors on your credit report.
The easiest way to increase your score is to pay down high-interest debt, such as credit card debt.
 Many lenders will want you to pledge assets as a security for the loan. This means that if you default on the loan, the lender can seize the assets. Vehicles, inventory, heavy equipment, and accounts receivable are common forms of collateral.Draft a list of potential collateral and note its location as well as its current value.Don’t be surprised if lenders require that you put your house up as collateral. It’s probably your largest asset.
 In the U.S., the Small Business Administration (SBA) guarantees business loans. You still get the loan from a bank, but the SBA will step in and pay back some of the loan if you default. Because of this guarantee, SBA-backed loans have favorable interest rates.Ask about the following loans:


General Small Business Loans: 7(a). This is the most popular SBA loan program, and loans can be used for almost any purpose. For example, you can use the loan to buy a business or expand an existing one. However, you can’t use a 7(a) loan to refinance existing debt or reimburse an owner for expenses.Microloans. You can get up to $50,000 at an interest rate of 8-13%. You can use microloans for a variety of purposes, such as to buy machinery or equipment, or to purchase inventory and supplies.
Real Estate and Equipment Loans. You can use these loans to buy machinery or equipment, or to buy land. You can also use these loans to renovate your facilities.
 Banks might be willing to lend, even if you don’t qualify for an SBA-backed loan. Stop into nearby banks and discuss your options. Many lenders will expect that your loan be secured, so take your list of possible collateral with you.If you’re looking for a small business loan, then a credit union might be a better choice. They specialize in smaller business loans.
 Lending options have increased recently, and you no longer need to rely solely on brick-and-mortar lenders. There are many online lenders today. However, they might be less willing to lend to start-up companies.


Popular online lenders include Street Shares, Kabbage, and Fundbox. Each has different lending standards, interest rates, and repayment periods.You should shop around to find competitive offers.
Look out for scams. Avoid paying huge up-front processing fees or borrowing from any lender who claims not to care about your credit score. Check with the Better Business Bureau to see if any complaints have been lodged against the company., People who know you might be willing to lend your business money, especially if you aren’t asking for a lot of money. Approach them as you would a bank. Give them a copy of your business plan and explain what you hope to use the money for.If someone agrees to make the loan, then put the terms in writing by drafting a promissory note.
You can also offer to pay interest, which shows you are serious about making your business successful.
 Apply to one lender at a time since every lender will pull your credit report. Each pull dings your credit, so there’s no reason to have more credit pulls than necessary. Each lender’s application might be slightly different, but you typically must provide the following:Your reasons for applying for the loan.
How you will use the loan.
The identify of any suppliers you will be buying assets from.
How much other business debt you have, and the identity of your creditors.
The members of your management team.
Information about your personal background.
 The lender should make a decision within two to four weeks. You can call once a week to check for an update. If the lender needs additional documentation, provide it in a timely manner.Don’t be surprised if the bank turns you down. About 80% of applications for small business loans are rejected.If you’re rejected, ask the lender why. For example, you might need to rewrite your business plan or save more money., If your first lender turns you down, move on to a different bank or credit union and start the application process over. You can also consider other forms of financing, such as using a business credit card or tapping your retirement savings.

