 Take a fine-tooth comb and brush your hair until it is smooth and tangle-free. For side bangs, you will need to create a side part. Part your hair to the side it naturally falls on.
 Taking the tip of a comb, draw a part an inch or two behind your hairline, perpendicular to your side part. (In other words, from side-to-side, rather than front-to-back.) If you are looking for thicker bangs, you can draw a part farther back. This will help separate your bangs from the rest of your hair.
 This is generally towards the center of your eyebrow, or the highlight of the brow, and it will help you gauge the width of your bangs. If you are starting off with bangs from scratch, measure a line upwards from the highest tip of your eyebrow to your hairline. Make a part where that line ends. Move the hair on one side of the part towards the middle of your forehead and pin the hair on the side of your head back to keep it out of the way.


After you have done this step, you should now have a section of hair in the front center of your face that is separated from the rest of your hair.
If you already have bangs, you should have a width already determined, so take your preexisting longer bangs and part them towards the middle, also separating them from the hair line.
 They should be about one to two inches thick. If you want thicker bangs, pull more hair forward from the horizontal part behind your hairline, and if you want thinner bangs, do the opposite by pulling less hair forward from your hairline part.
 Pull back the rest of your hair with a clip or bobby pins to separate it from your bangs. This will make it easier to cut your bangs without worrying about cutting the rest of your hair.
 This may require you to dampen your hair with a spray bottle if your hair is naturally curly and your bangs have some bounce. Lightly mist your hair with a spray bottle and comb through so that your bangs are flat. If your hair is naturally wavy or straight, cutting bangs in dry hair is best so that you won't cut them too short.Never soak your bangs or make them completely wet. Your hair is longer when it is wet, so anytime you cut wet hair, when it dries it will be shorter. To avoid cutting bangs that are too short, try to cut your bangs with slightly wet or dry hair.
If your hair is very wet before you cut your bangs, blow dry them until they are 80% dry. When blow drying, make sure you are brushing bangs straight down, or in the opposite direction of your part. Don't blow dry bangs downward in the direction they normally would lie. This will create a "rainbow effect" in which your bangs have a high arch to them. It's difficult to cut bangs when they are like this, so it's better to create some volume in the opposite direction.
 Before you cut your bangs you'll want to decide how long you want your bangs. You may want bangs that cover your eye, or you might want bangs that start above your eyebrow. If you're not sure, you can always start with longer bangs and cut them shorter.
 Section your hair along a diagonal line and pull it perpendicular to that line. In other words, you hair should be pulled out to the side of your head at a 45 degree angle. Then, bring any other hair you will be cutting out to this angle before cutting. Hold your bangs between your pointer and middle finger and cut the hair below your fingers.








If you aren't sure how long you want your bangs, start by cutting at the tip of your nose and ending in a diagonal at the bottom of your ear. This will create long, side swept bangs.
Make sure you are using scissors specifically designed for hair, as this will give you the best cut.
If you want shorter bangs, start near the top of the nose, in line with the eye, and cut at a downward diagonal towards the middle of your ear.
Always cut bangs longer when you start off -- you can always cut them shorter as you go, but you don't want your first cut to be too short, because there's no way to rewind from there. You can try cutting in 1/2 inch increments to make sure you don't cut too much of your bang off.
 After you have cut your bangs you may notice that there is a very straight line in your bangs. This tends to look awkward and unnatural, so you may want to give your bangs a little definition. Lift the hair back up to a 45 degree angle and cut parallel to the strands of hair in your bangs, making small snips at the tips of your bangs.









If your hair is really thick or you want your bangs to have an even more natural look, you can use a razor made for hair or a hair thinning tool to thin out the ends of your bangs.
 Use a blow dryer and a round brush, brushing your bangs up from the roots towards the ceiling or towards the back of your head. You never want to blow dry your bangs by brushing them straight down as this will leave your bangs with little volume. You can also run a flat iron through your bangs by pulling the flat iron upwards at your roots to create volume.


You can also blow dry your bangs in the opposite direction of where they naturally fall to make them lay flat and give them a bit of curl at the bottom. As they are close to being dry, flip them back over and blow dry as usual.

