 Make sure it has pockets for storing smaller items in and at least one larger compartment for bigger essential items. Ensure that the bag you have picked is comfortable to carry and can fit everything in perfectly well.;
, Inside pack: deodorant, body spray, perfume, toothbrush/paste, makeup, pads/tampons, shampoo, shower gel (if you are planning on having a shower at the friends' house). hair ties, bobby pins, face wash and anything else you wish to bring (put all leakable items in zip-lock bags or plastic baggies to prevent leakages).
 If your PJ's/sleepwear have short sleeves, bring along another jumper in which you are happy to sleep in (you never know how cold the room may be!). Another choice would be to pack an onesie!

, You can't forget snacks and junk food on a sleepover - popular choices include chocolate, sweets, biscuits (Oreos work best), crisps (salt and vinegar are more gentle on the stomach late at night so are a recommended choice) and you can't forget drinks - perhaps some Lucozade, lemonade, Sprite or Fanta?

, Although your friend's parents are virtually guaranteed to have medical supplies in their house, you can of course bring your own! Include: plasters, painkillers (paracetamol preferably), extra pads/tampons, insect bite medicine, an inhaler (if needed), antiseptic wipes, sudocrem, spot/acne cream and any other desired supplies.
 You never know if you will wake up during the night and want to read for a little bit.
 This is a must! What if you need to go to the bathroom during the night and it is dark?!

, It's only polite to wear them in the morning when you are going down to breakfast or eating dinner the night before.
 Your favourite teddy may want to have a day (and/or) a night out so why not bring him/her along? They'd love it!!

, Bring a small purse containing the following: nail varnish, nail gems, face masks and anything else you wish to take.
, Enjoy yourself, watch scary movies and get SOME sleep (but there are no rules to a girly sleepover).

