 While the Shakespearean sonnet always has the exact same rhyme scheme, the Petrarchan sonnet does not have a single pattern. Though the first eight lines (the octave) always follow a rhyme scheme of ABBAABBA, the closing six lines (the sestet) have some variation. There are five patterns, though, that are most common in the tradition of the Petrarchan sonnet:


CDCDCD
CDDCDC
CDECDE
CDECED
CDCEDC

, All lines should follow the “ta-TUM ta-TUM ta-TUM ta-TUM ta-TUM” pattern, but remember to insert metrical variation from time to time to enliven the rhythm and draw attention to key phrases.
 Whereas the Shakespearean sonnet has a top-heavy structure of 3 quatrains and a couplet, the Petrarchan sonnet is a little more balanced, using an eight-line octave and a six-line sestet to develop the poem’s subject. As such, it’s well-suited to complex issues that require a lot of room to resolve, rather than the easy, witty resolution of a Shakespearean sonnet’s closing couplet. The octave introduces and presents a problem. The turn, or volta, occurs at the beginning of the sestet (Line 9); the sestet offers new insight into the dilemma presented in the octave. Consider William Wordsworth’s “Nuns Fret Not at Their Convent’s Narrow Room” as an example for analysis:


The octave progresses through a series of examples of creatures and people who are not bothered by restricted spaces.
The progression moves from the most revered element of society to the lowliest: from nuns, to hermits, to scholars, to manual laborers, to insects.
The turn in this sonnet actually occurs a line early, at the end of the octave. Although this is not purely traditional, poets throughout history have experimented with the form and manipulated it to their needs. You should feel free to do the same.
In Line 8, “In truth” marks the volta or turn; now, Wordsworth will give more insight into the idea of being comfortable in restrained spaces.
The sestet suggests that the formal restrictions of the sonnet — with its rhyme scheme, iambic pentameter restriction, and strict octave-sestet structure — is not a prison, but a way for the poet to free himself and “find solace.” He hopes that the reader, too, shares this feeling.
The sestet provides insight that allows us to consider all the people and things in the octave with a deeper understanding.
 Just as you did with the Shakesperean sonnet, keep in mind the Petrarchan rhyme scheme and stanza structure, and remember to write in iambic pentameter with occasional metrical variation. Note that, just as Wordsworth did in "Nuns Fret Not at Their Convent's Narrow Cell" by moving the volta up from the traditional ninth line to the eighth, you can manipulate the form to meet the needs of the poem you're trying to write. The sonnet has changed in many ways throughout history, so make it work for you.


An example of a Petrarchan sonnet that beautifully manipulates the form to make a point is Edna St. Vincent Millay's "I Will Put Chaos into Fourteen Lines," which is a sonnet about writing a sonnet.Millay employees the Petrarchan rhyme scheme and meter, but interrupts her lines with enjambments (splitting the line in the middle of a sentence or clause) and occasional disruptions of the meter to emphasize her struggle with the sonnet form itself.

