 Ask if they know anything about the technique of "twist-cutting", which is great for curly hair. Ask your friends, strangers, someone whose hair you admire, etc. It's best to get recommendations from people who have the same hair type as yours.When you visit the salon also ask for a more experienced person, it may cost a little more but it is worth it.;
, Choose a shampoo and conditioner that leaves your hair feeling good to you. You don't want hair that was washed and still feels like you have product left or leaves it feeling dry even if it isn't.
 Cold water helps making hair shinier, locks in moisture,and reduces frizz.
 Unless you're blow drying your hair straight, use your fingers to comb your dry hair.
 With a styling milk, gel or mousse, put some into your palm and rub your palms together. The product will warm up as you rub and distribute better by not making a blob on one spot. You want to evenly distribute the product through your hair, so you will need to use more if you have longer hair.
 This will 'trap' the moisture and get you thick, moisture-rich curls. When your hair dries, if you look like you have smothered your hair with gel and don't care for that look, take your towel and sort of scrunch your dry hair. This will take the 'wet rat' look out of your hair and leave it 'natural looking' (cotton t-shirts work well; they absorb the moisture, but don't leave frizzy hair; paper towels can also be used).
 Try them both out. Blow drying completely dry can cause frizzies, but a diffuser attachment can prevent this. You may also find that if you stop before it's completely dry that will also tame the frizzies. Try to air dry on the weekends or at night.
 Your hair is one of the most absorbent and dirtiest parts of your body. Think of the smog, pollution, germs from sneezes and coughs, smoke, etc. that you encounter every day. All of this can get trapped in your hair. If you smoke or someone around you does, your hair will trap and smell like smoke. So even if you choose to live with the frizz and not use anything in your hair, please use a detoxifier once in a while. It will help your hair.
 This is one of the worst things you can do. Put down the straightening creams, flat irons, and blow dryers. Embrace your spirals!

