 In 1969, Swiss psychiatrist Elisabeth Kübler-Ross published a book called "Death and Dying" about her work with terminally ill patients. She developed a model for what she called the five stages of grief: denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance. Everyone grieves differently, and these stages do not necessarily unfold in a set order—but the model may give you perspective on your own process., The first reaction to learning of the death of a loved one is to deny the reality of the situation. It is a normal reaction to rationalize overwhelming emotions; indeed, denial is a defense mechanism that dulls the immediate shock. This carries you through the first wave of pain and bewilderment.
 As the masking effects of denial begin to wear down, you may be flooded by the painful reality of the situation. If you aren't ready for this pain, you may subconsciously deflect it toward others: friends, family, strangers, or inanimate objects. Try to maintain perspective and recognize this deflection. You can't help what you feel, but you choose whether or not to let these feelings control you., Many people react to feelings of helplessness and vulnerability by attempting to regain control. In terminal patients, this often takes the form of desperate measures to cling to life. In mourning, this often manifests as rumination: If only I had been there for her... If only we had gotten to the hospital sooner... If only, if only, if only.
 When the desperate bargaining subsides, you may be unable to avoid the reality of the situation. You may worry about the cost of the burial or feel an acute sense of regret. You may feel empty, sad, alone; you may despair at ever moving on with your life. This is part of the healing process. Take your time.
 The final stage of grief unfolds as you begin to move on. This stage is characterized by withdrawal and calm. Accept that your loved one has moved on, and acknowledge that you, too, must move on. Embrace the present as the new reality, and come to terms with the permanence of what has happened.Acceptance does not happen overnight. It does not necessarily mean that you are happy—only that you have moved beyond the denial, the anger, the bargaining, and the depression. Just like a forest that has burned slowly heals, sprouts, and blooms again, your life will bloom again with new hope. Give it time.

