 At least once a day, sit down in a quiet place and try to clear your mind of everything. This may take a while - especially when you are stressed - but it gets easier with practice, like most things.

Do not wake up earlier than normal to meditate, because this may make you more stressed than if you didn't meditate at all.
Try to focus on something constant (like your breath or a low hum).
It is recommended to meditate for at least ten minutes daily.;
, Statistics say that you should get eight hours of sleep, but statistics also say that the average person gets about seven hours of sleep a night. So don't be worried if you don't get enough sleep. Don't think about how you aren't getting enough sleep, because that will make you more stressed and you won't be able to fall asleep.

Eat your dinner at the same time every day. Make sure you eat it before eight o'clock for guaranteed health and happiness.
When you are eating your dinner, make sure it is regularly enough that you don't have to snack afterward because eating before going to bed makes it harder to fall asleep.
Get more than one hour of exercise everyday, before you eat dinner. 30 minutes of exercise daily is deemed to be enough by many, but you should do as much as makes you happy and healthy.
Try your best not to look at any electronics for an hour before you go to bed (electronics make the stimuli in your eyes tell your eyes to keep open to see something)

, If you think for any reason that this decision will hurt you or somebody else, you should reconsider. Be sure you are calm and in the right state of mind before making decisions, especially big ones.

For in the moment decisions that aren't extremely important like what you are going to have for lunch, this does not apply.
If it is a big decision that you have to make right then, think about if it does more good or bad to you and others.
 Again, if the decision is something as small as what you are going to have for lunch, this does not apply.

If you have time to call somebody about an important decision, call them.
Make sure that the person you are calling is somebody you know you can trust to tell you the right answer even if they may be jealous. Be sure to consider jealousy when you are asking for advice.

