 Your regular physician is a good first step if you suspect you have mild depression.


Some illnesses, especially those related to the thyroid or other parts of the body’s hormone system, cause depressive symptoms. Other medical conditions, especially terminal or chronic conditions, may carry also a risk for depressive symptoms. In these cases, your doctor can help you understand the source of your symptoms and how to alleviate them., Engaging in psychotherapy, or “talk therapy,” can be very beneficial for treating mild depression. Depending on your specific needs, you might try to find a certain type of mental health professional, including counseling psychologists (counselors), clinical psychologists or psychiatrists. If you have mild depression, it’s likely you’d visit with a counselor first.



Counseling psychologists: Counseling psychologists focus on helping skills and helping people overcome difficult times in their lives. This type of therapy can be short- or long-term and is often problem-specific and goal-directed.Counselors ask questions and listen to what you have to say. The counselor will be an objective observer helping you to identify significant ideas and to discuss them in greater detail. This will help you work out emotional and environmental issues that may contribute to your depression.

Clinical psychologists: These psychologists are trained to administer tests to confirm a diagnosis and, therefore, tend to focus more psychopathology.Clinical psychologists are also trained to use a wide range of therapeutic techniques.

Psychiatrists: Psychiatrists may use psychotherapy and scales or tests in their practice. They are typically seen when medication is an option the patient wants to explore. In most states, only psychiatrists can prescribe medication.
You may see more than one kind of therapist, depending on your needs.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy, interpersonal therapy and behavioral psychotherapies consistently show benefits to patients.Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT): The goal of CBT is to challenge and change beliefs, attitudes and preconceptions thought to underlie depressive symptoms and effect change to maladaptive behaviors.

Interpersonal therapy (IPT): IPT focuses on life changes, social isolation, deficits in social skills and other interpersonal issues that may contribute to depressive symptoms. IPT may be particularly effective if a specific event, such as a death, triggered a recent depressive episode.

Behavioral therapies: These types of therapies aim to schedule enjoyable activities while minimizing unpleasant experiences through techniques such as activity scheduling, self-control therapy, social skills training and problem solving.
 Consider recommendations from friends or family, leaders in your religious community, community mental health center, your Employee Assistance Program (if your employer offers one), or contact your doctor for help finding a counselor.The Association of State and Provincial Psychology Boards provides basic information about how to choose a therapist, your state's licensure requirements and how to check whether someone is licensed. Other professional associations, such as the American Psychological Association, may provide search functions for locating practitioners in your area.
 Your visits with a counselor should be covered by your health insurance. Although mental illnesses are legally required to be covered to the same extent as physical illnesses, the type of insurance you have can still affect the type and amount of therapy you receive. Be sure to check with your insurance company so that you get any referrals needed before starting treatment and that you see someone who will accept your insurance and will be paid by your insurance company., Anti-depressants affect the neurotransmitter system of the brain to try to counteract problems in how neurotransmitters are made and/or used by the brain.Some professionals feel that anti-depressants are over-prescribed and are not very effective for treating mild depression. Some studies show that anti-depressants are most effective for severe or chronic depression.Medication can be a good method to improve your mood and help you benefit more fully from psychotherapy.
For many people, short-term treatment with anti-depressants can help treat mild depression.

