 Otherwise, people will definitely notice your efforts to please the boy, and you'll appear desperate. Starting off casual and friendly is the best way to go because it'll be more comfortable for both you and him. Greeting him every day when you pass him by in the hallways is a good idea, whether you're saying, "Hey" or "Hi." Think about what his friends - female or male - would say to him and try to greet him in a similar fashion. This will make him feel as if you're his friend.;
, However, beware of trying too hard, and he'll definitely notice your desperate attempts. However, attempt to reach to outer stretches of your nature. This is not telling you to change your personality, but just go with the flow and you'll get used to it in no time! Find out what he likes and dislikes. Also, it'd be best to discover what type of girl turns him on.
 Then, he'll start to go for you. However, don't take it too fast. Otherwise, he'll decline your invitation to go out with him - not because he doesn't think you're pretty, but because he doesn't know you well enough! Become a daily part of his life, and he'll start to feel comfortable with you as he gets to know you better.
 However, this technique will take at least a month so be patient. Remember not to take anything too fast or he'll get scared and everything you've worked hard for will possibly come crashing down.
 Decide on what's comfortable and best for the both of you, not just what one person wants.
 If you cry, scream, and shout at him, you're only going to blow away the chances of him finding that he has feelings for you in the future. Also, you'll be pushing him farther away from you and that is never good. He'll also think of you as immature, and he'll believe even more that you aren't the right girl for him. Tell him that you respect his decision not to go out with you, but also ask if you two can still be friends.


If he agrees, continue being his friend as if nothing happened and strive to be the greatest friend ever. Things might feel a little awkward for a few days or so, but if you be casual about it, it'll make it more comfortable for both him and you.
If he doesn't want to be your friend at all, let him go. He obviously is not the right person for you, nor is he nice. If you keep chasing him, who knows where you'll end up in the future? It's best to completely let him go and not to cling onto him because you're only hurting yourself even more.

