 Bitcoin can generally be purchased three ways: in-person, at a store (ATM), or via an online exchange website. It's important to note that payment in cash (or sometimes debit) is usually required, and few Bitcoin providers accept credit card payment.


In Person: LocalBitcoins is a resource to find people in your area to trade bitcoins with. Trust and security can be a concern, which is why LocalBitcoins recommends you transact in a public place, and not necessarily with large amounts of cash.
Bitcoin ATM: There are about 400 Bitcoin ATMs worldwide, as of 2016. Online search will help you locate one in your area, although they are usually confined to dense urban areas because of machine cost. An alternative is to locate a store selling Bitcoin via a "virtual" Bitcoin ATM, which simply runs on a tablet or at the cashier's checkout.
Online Exchange: You can fund an online trading account (generally via wire transfers or a third party banking service), which can also enable you to buy Bitcoin. This method generally requires additional identity verification in order to transact on the website.
 A number of businesses and services now accept bitcoins as payment. If you do any online services, you can also accept bitcoins as payment. Accepting payment in bitcoins can be beneficial if you're a small business or independent professional (like a dentist), because it does not cost money to accept bitcoins as payment.You can also avoid chargebacks, or consumer disputes with their credit card issuer that lose you money, because bitcoin transactions are irreversible.You can process payments yourself manually, but this may be difficult to do if you're not tech savvy. You can use a variety of merchant services to help with your bitcoin transactions if you're selling online using bitcoins. The bitcoin website can help you locate merchants willing to work with you based on your location, trade, and bank.You want to make sure people with bitcoin accounts can find you and spend their bitcoins on your site. You can apply to a variety of online directories designed for bitcoin users. Simply follow the application instructions on the directory websites. You can also download and display the bitcoin logo on your website to signal to users that you accept bitcoins as payment., Once you've obtained bitcoins, you can spend them online at retailers that accept bitcoins as payment. Paying with bitcoins is a fairly easy process and in some ways easier than entering credit card information.


Sites like Reddit, WordPress, and Mega often accept bitcoins as a form of payment.However, these companies usually accept bitcoins through a "middleman" such as BitPay or Coinbase, which converts bitcoins into another currency.Bitcoins are often accepted for transactions from other countries as it's easier than figuring out the exchange rate.
Make sure you only do business with people or businesses you trust, however, as bitcoins are frequently stolen during online transactions.

