 Decide if these sound like things you are willing to do on a daily basis.


Works hands-on with machines and use them on patients
Train medical professionals in using equipment
Use tools and computer applications to repair medical equipment
Click to find out more.;
, BMT education requires a strong foundation in those fields.


Minimum one year biology, chemistry, and physics. Advanced sciences preferred.
Geometry, trigonometry, advanced algebra, and pre-calculus.
Computer programming course

, A lot of the BMT programs you will apply to for college require higher math and science GPAs so make sure to do your best in high school courses to give yourself more options when applying for college.
 Check the market for job growth and estimated salaries and if jobs are available in a location you would like to be in .


The minimum requirement to be a BMT is obtaining a 2 year Associate degree in biomedical equipment technology or other related fields such as electronics or different fields of engineering. A Bachelor's or a Master's degree in biomedical engineering or related fields also qualify. Although work experience is generally more appealing to an employer than further education, many companies are starting to require at least a Bachelor's degree for its employees.
One year of training is offered while in the military.
When you decide on a school (college or university) that fits your needs best, check if it is accredited by the American Board of Engineering and Technology or check here . These schools are held to a standard of excellence academically and ensure to students achieve their full potential.
 Go on the school's site and locate the application that, depending on the school, can either be filled out online or has to be printed and mailed in.


Some schools require secondary applications into the major, even after admission into the school. Find information about your specific program or major on the school's website and fill out and submit any additional documents required.
 BMT, being a highly competitive filed, requires understanding of complex mechanics of various medical equipment and therefore the fundamentals of core math and science should be covered. Click on link to find a detailed list of recommended courses.
 Ask professors if they are conducting any research and show your interest in their work. Get involved in collegiate communities related to your field, they will help you build connections and find job opportunities. There are also special BMT training programs such as Fluke Biomedical . Employers highly value experience in the field over the title of your degree or the school you earned your degree from.
 Register for these exams in the time you need to take them. You have to retake the exam after the term is over. Go to www.eta-i.org for a complete list. Important ones are listed below:


Biomedical Electronics Technicians Exam (BMD) - $75, 4 year term
Biomedical Imaging Equipment Technician Exam (BIET) - $75, 4 year term

, Certification is optional, but strongly recommended and what employers prioritize. To earn certificates, a candidate must meet education and work experience requirements and pass a computer-based exam. Certification needs to be renewed on after the term is over by continuing education. Go to the Association for the Advancement of Medical Instrumentation for a list of certifications, fees, and exam schedules and to apply for the exams. The application fee for any exam is $100. Important certifications offered are:


Certified Biomedical Technician (CBET) - $220 (members); $275 (non-members)
Certified Laboratory Equipment Specialist (CLES) - $220 (members); $275 (non-members)
Certified Radiology Equipment Specialist (CRES) - $220 (members); $275 (non-members)

,


Attend conferences and job fairs that will allow you to have direct contact with potential employers.
Create a Linkedin account and update your resume. Have a professional online presence that will allow common connections and employers to find you.
Become a member of the professional organizations like the Medical Equipment and Technology Association or the Association for Advancement of Medical Instrumentation . It also helps BMTs connect with other professionals.
 The final step is to acquire a job within the field.


Pinpoint a company you would like to work for and explore their Careers page. Companies list job descriptions and locations they are hiring for. Look into different companies and find one that meets your needs and qualifications. Other helpful websites to look at are monster.com, and indeed.com.

