 Eating rice with a set of chopsticks is easiest if you're using your chopsticks the way they were intended to be used. Luckily, this is easy to learn! Start by lining up your two chopsticks and holding them in your dominant hand. Slide them into the "crook" between your thumb and the side of your hand. The "squishy" part at the base of your thumb should pin them in place.You'll want the two chopsticks to be lined up on top of each other, not side-to-side.
 With the two chopsticks resting in the crook of your thumb, slide the top one up so that you're holding it with your thumb, index, and middle fingers. The pad of your thumb should hold the stick from the side. Your index finger should bend around it and rest on top. Your middle finger should support the stick from the other side. This may sound complicated, but it should be fairly similar to how you'd hold a pen or pencil!


If you're having trouble, set the other chopstick down so you can concentrate on this one. It's easy to slide back in later.
 One of the most important things to remember when eating with chopsticks is that the bottom chopstick doesn't move. Keep holding it in place with the fleshy part at the base of your thumb. Light pressure should be find. You don't need to keep a death grip on it. Bend your ring finger so that it supports the bottom of the stick with the side of your last knuckle., Maintaining the rest of your form, practice bending and extending your middle and index fingers. When you extend them, the top chopstick should point up. When you bend them, it should point down and eventually touch the other one.Practice this up-and-down motion until you're comfortable with it.









Try to keep your thumb straight as you do this. If you bend it to move the top chopstick down, it's easier for your form to collapse and for you to lose control of the sticks.
Remember, the bottom chopstick doesn't move. Keep it wedged in place and supported by your ring finger.
 Make a plate of food for practice purposes. If you'd rather not, you can also crumple up a few pieces of notebook paper and set them on a plate. Use a pinching motion of the chopsticks to pick up the food or paper balls between the ends of the sticks and bring them up to your mouth. It can take a little practice to get used to the feeling of holding food by squeezing it between two sticks, but it should quickly become less awkward.









If you're using food and this is your first time, you may want to lay down a towel to protect against spills.

