 Experience as a player or staff member in the NFL may give you an advantage to getting a job as a coach.While some coaches transition from college football to the NFL, it's not required. Excelling in an assistant coach or scouting position may give you the connections you need to land the job.


If you can't get a job in the NFL, try submitting an application to become an intern, then network with paid staff once you are accepted.Coach prospects tend to be offensive or defensive coordinators on NFL teams., To get noticed by owners in the NFL, you need to show a past track record of success. This could entail being a competent coordinator on a current team, or taking a college football team to the championship. The best NFL coaches are the ones that are the most dedicated.


Be prepared to wake up early and work late. This may put a strain on social relationships., Being able to review and evaluate past wins and losses will allow you to make adjustments to your team. In addition to watching your own team’s games, make sure to review upcoming opponent's prior games thoroughly to get a better idea of their tendencies, strategies, strengths, and weaknesses.Take notes while you review film so that you can refer to them later.
You can also review coaches film from major NFL games to get a better idea of what professional teams are doing.“All 22” is a type of camera location that allows you to see all 22 players on the field, thus giving you a better vantage point for plays and strategy.
 Speaking with other coaches about your difficulties may help make you a better coach. They can also tell you about potential coach openings on different teams. Talk to coaches that win, so that you can extrapolate useful information from their victories and implement it in your strategy.


Speaking with the other coaches on your coaching staff may also help you get a better perspective of what areas need to improve on the team.Your coaching staff should be more reliable in understanding individual player’s strengths and weaknesses than someone who does not work with them.

