 Dry dog food provides an energy-dense meal and offers the required levels of protein, fat, and other nutrients to help fuel your border collie. Dry food is typically budget-friendly and is easier to store and serve, but it is more likely to have added grains than other dog food options.Talk to your veterinarian to see if dry dog food is the best option for your border collie.
 Canned food often contains more protein and more moisture than dry dog food, which can help ensure that your dog is well-hydrated.However, canned food often has higher levels of salt and sugar and can contribute to weight gain.Talk to your veterinarian before giving your border collie canned dog food, particularly if it has a weight problem or diabetes.
 When choosing a dog food, read through the list of ingredients printed on the label. Search for real, familiar, wholesome ingredients to ensure that your border collie is receiving a high-quality, optimal diet with minimal fillers and preservatives. By law, the ingredients are listed by weight, and an animal protein should be the first ingredient listed on the label.


Be mindful that some budget brands may meet the nutritional requirements, but these are met by using low-quality ingredients that are not easily digestible or beneficial.
If an ingredient listed on the label are not familiar to you, it is most likely a filler or a preservative. Fillers will move through your dog’s digestive system quickly and will not provide adequate nutrients or energy.
 Protein helps fuel the body and helps a dog maintain its muscle mass, which is what is needed for an active border collie. Animal proteins contain most of the vitamins and minerals a dog needs to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Animal proteins such as chicken, lamb, beef, fish, organ meat, and eggs provide the necessary amino acids that are vital for optimal health.When searching for a commercial dog food, be sure that the first ingredient is a meat protein to help fuel your energetic Border Collie.


Most dog food companies add plant proteins to dog food, including corn, wheat, and soy. These are difficult for a dog to digest., Fats play an important role in your dog’s diet. They provide your dog with energy and soluble nutrients. Fats also make food more appetizing and support a healthy coat.Most fats found in commercial dog foods include lard, tallow, poultry fat, and hydrogenated vegetable oils. Opt for the brand that provides animal fats rather than vegetable oils.


A border collie’s coat should be shiny and soft. If your dog’s coat is dull and dry, it may not be receiving enough fat. Talk to your veterinarian about supplementing your dog’s diet.