 Confidence is one of the most attractive qualities a person can possess. You don't have to be super sexy or built like Chris Hemsworth, either. All confidence requires is a firm belief in your own self-worth. If you believe it, that girl you like? She's going to believe it, too.It takes time and a little effort to build your confidence, especially if you're starting from a low point. Even if you don't believe in yourself, pretend like you do. Faking confidence actually tricks your brain into believing that you are confident!Stand up straight when you're walking, like you matter. Take up space like crossing your ankle across your knee when you're sitting. Leaning nonchalantly against a nearby surface. Avoid crossing your arms across your chest, or not making eye contact when you talk to people. Both of these are defensive gestures.;
, Part of being confident is being yourself and being okay with who that is. Trying to change yourself to be someone else isn't going to work with her. She's going to see that you're not comfortable with yourself and that you're lying about who you are and she won't be pleased.


Show what makes you unique and why you're interesting. You don't have to walk around wearing a pocket protector (do people do that anymore?), but you don't have to hide that you're interested in computers. She will accept you and if she doesn't.. she's probably not worth your time!
Don't try to be someone else, especially if you're trying to be the person you think she wants. If she isn't interested in the person you are, she's not the girl for you.
 It's hard to attract the girl that you like when you overwhelm her with your smell and your greasy hair. Try to shower at least a couple times a week and use soap. Wear clothes that have been recently laundered. Reusing jeans and trousers is fine, as long as they aren't super dirty, but change your shirt each day.


Be careful about using aftershave or cologne. A little goes a long way! You don't want to approach the girl you like in a cloud of cologne. Keep it down to a little spritz if you have to do wear it.
Make sure to smell the deodorants before you buy them so you know how strong they smell and what they smell like. Again, you don't want to overwhelm her with smell, but a little deodorant (especially if you've just played a game like soccer or basketball) will make you seem much more put together.
 Another incredibly important thing to remember is that you need to have your own life. Don't only focus on this one girl and try to be around her 24/7. It won't win you any prizes with her. In fact, you'll come across as needy and pathetic and she'll be far less likely to be interested in you.


Pursue your own interests. If you're into soccer, join a team and play games. You could even (if you're feeling brave) invite her to come watch a game or to kick around a soccer ball with you.
This will mean you have your own friends to hang out with, even if your groups overlap. Do things with your buddies rather than doing things only when you know that she'll be there, or doing things only with her.
This doesn't mean that you ignore her completely. Of course not. When you see her around (either at school, or at mutual events), ask her what she's been up to and mention some of the things you've been doing (like teaching yourself a language, going rock climbing, kicking butt on Call of Duty).

