 The AAR can resolve complaints for violations by a realtor of the official NAR Code of Ethics. You can access the Code at https://www.aaronline.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/01/2016-NAR-Code-of-Ethics_25Nov2015.pdf. The Code of Ethics sets out the ethical duties and expectations for all realtors to follow in representing either buyers or sellers in any transaction. You should review this to determine the basis for your complaint against your agent. The Code consists of approximately 100 “Standards of Practice” that guide the real estate profession. Some examples of these are such requirements as:”Realtors, in attempting to secure a listing, shall not deliberately mislead the owner as to market value.” (Standard 1-3)
”Realtors shall submit offers and counter-offers objectively and as quickly as possible.” (Standard 1-6)
”Realtors shall not recommend or suggest to a client or a customer the use of services of another organization or business entity in which they have a direct interest without disclosing such interest at the time of the recommendation or suggestion.” (Standard 6-1)

, A formal Professional Standards Ethics Complaint Form is available at https://www.aaronline.com/wp-content/uploads/2016/04/E1-EthicsComplaint-2016-0418-Fillable.pdf. This is a much longer and more involved complaint form than either the ombudsman request form or the mediation request form. You should review it thoroughly before completing it, and then fill it out completely. You will need to provide the following information:Your name and contact information.
Name and contact information for any co-complainant (your spouse or partner, for example).
Name and contact information for the respondent (the realtor, generally).
Your attorney’s name and contact information, if you have one.
Date of the incident relating to the complaint.
Dates of any other related complaints you may have previously filed.
Allegations of your complaint.
Statement of ethics code violations. You need to make particular reference to one or more violations from the Code of Ethics.
Narrative statement of the incident. You should provide a statement in your own words, explaining what happened. This statement should be typed and attached to the complaint form.
Supporting documents or other evidence. If you have photocopies, contracts, advertisements, or any other documents that you believe support your claim, you should attach them.
Your signature. If you have a co-complainant, that person should sign also.
 Print the completed form, along with copies of your narrative statement and any additional documentary evidence that you wish to submit. You should assemble one original package and five copies. Send them all to Attn: Ethics Arizona Association of Realtors, 255 East Osborn Road, Suite 200 Phoenix, AZ 85012.Save one copy for your own records.
 When the AAR receives your complaint, someone will first review it to make sure that you have raised a complaint that falls within their jurisdiction that they can rule on. If not, they will dismiss it and refer you instead to an appropriate state licensing board. If they decide to accept your complaint, you will likely be notified of a hearing date., At a hearing before the AAR ethics committee, you will have the opportunity to present your case. While this is a somewhat formal process, it is not a trial and formal rules of evidence do not apply. You will be invited to explain your complaint, to introduce any documents or other evidence, and to have any witnesses testify. The other party does have the opportunity, as in a trial, to raise questions or cross-examine your witnesses. At the end of the hearing, the ethics committee will most likely take the matter under advisement and issue a written response later., After the hearing, you will receive a formal response from the committee  or hearing officer. This response may be a citation or other sanction against the real estate agent. It may be a dismissal of your complaint, which would mean that the agent did nothing improper. Or it could be something in the middle of those two extremes.If you are unhappy with the outcome, you have the opportunity to file an appeal. The notice from the hearing officer will advise you of the process for filing an appeal.
You may also take additional action by filing a complaint with the Arizona Department of Real Estate.

