 You can walk and talk like a player, but if you don't have the right mindset, the ladies will be turned off. Before you become a true player, you have to work to have true self-confidence. Here's how to do it:


Ease your anxieties. Think about anything you may be worried about--your future, your family, or your career--and try to minimize your anxieties about all aspects of your life. A healthy amount of stress is normal, but if you're obsessing too much about what can go wrong, you won't be able to think in the moment, and the ladies will know you have too much on your mind.
Address your flaws. Be aware of your shortcomings, and work to improve them. Are you a bad listener, disorganized, or too easily distracted? Make a plan to work on improving these characteristics little by little. Nobody's perfect, but everyone can improve.
Think positive. When you walk into a room, think of the three things you like most about yourself instead of the three things you want to work on. If you think positive about yourself, the ladies will follow.;
, A true player should value quantity over quality, so if you're committed to this lifestyle, you need to enjoy the company of as many women as possible, and not get hung up on one girl. If you're worrying about when what a certain girl thinks of you, or when she'll call, then you're approaching girlfriend territory with her, and you should put your guard up. Here's how to keep things open:


If you feel that a girl is getting too close to you, pull away. If a girl is initiating deep conversations about your personal lives, wanting to move in with you, or plan a romantic vacation, then she definitely wants to be your girlfriend, and you should move on.
Keep things light. Enjoy a woman's company, but don't let her make you feel all warm and fuzzy inside. Focus on having a good time both out in the world and in the bedroom, and change the topic when things get too deep.
Don't think mushy thoughts. When you see a potential conquest, you should be thinking about how much fun you'll having dancing, making out, or hooking up--not what your grandkids would look like. Think cool, and the rest will follow.
If you've really found the right girl, it may be time to rethink your lifestyle. Even a true player can fall a victim to love, and if you've found a girl who makes you feel like she really is the only girl in the world and the person you want to spend all of your time with, then don't give her up. This is rare in the life of the true player, but if you really can't control how you feel, it may be worth it to tell the other ladies you're off the market.
 Like a true chess champ, you should always be at least one step--or many--ahead of the game. If you only focus on the present, you won't have a revolving door of women in your life. Here's how to do it:


Have a game plan for your night. If you're out at a club, think of your next location. Will you be taking the lady to more intimate bar, to your crib, or to a friend's fancy after party? Before you pick the girl, plan your moves for the night, so you don't waste your time figuring out what to do.
Have a plan for your weekends. You may have just finished saying goodbye to your latest girl, but what are you doing the next night? Unless you want to spend it sitting alone in your basement and checking your phone, you should already have a lady lined up.

