 If you want to sound like Christina Aguilera, you should make sure you know her voice well. You will more naturally take to singing like her if you are very familiarized with her style. Spend some time listening to a wide variety of her music and records.Websites like YouTube and Spotify should be able to provide you with a variety of Aguilera's songs and records.
Listen to Aguilera in your free time as you're trying to develop your voice. Play her records in the background while you do things like chores. Listen to her at the gym or while you're driving somewhere in your car.;
, Aguilera's style is inspired by blues and R&B. A lot of her riffs and runs are based off classic singers in these genres. In addition to listening to Aguilera, check out artists that have inspired her style.Listen to older blues songs such as Aretha Franklin, Mavis Staples, and other classic blues singers.
Janis Joplin is also a good artist to check out if you're trying to emulate Aguilera's style.
 Part of Christina Aguilera's style is a strong emotional connection with the lyrics. This often helps her emphasize and embellish the right parts of the songs. If you want to emulate Aguilera, form an emotional connection with songs you choose to sing.Listen to songs very carefully, paying attention to each word. Ask yourself what kind of emotions the singer is conveying. Is this a happy song? A sad song?
Think about the underlying message. What is the song's story? Is about lost love, for example, or loss and grief?
It can help to read the lyrics as poetry. Look up the lyrics online and read them without a musical accompaniment. This can help you form a stronger connection with the meaning of the words.
 Record yourself singing and play it back. Then, listen to some of Aguilera's songs. Try to figure out which songs match your natural styles and talents. When emulating another singer, it's always easiest to choose from songs that will come more naturally to you. Select a few songs by Aguilera that can showcase your existing strengths as a singer., Due to her blues and R&B influence, Aguilera is famous for singing riffs, runs, and embellishments. These are notes added by the singer to a song, meant to emphasize certain emotions and lyrics. Usually, they are short patterns of two or three notes that you make using vowel sounds such as "AA" and "EE."To start learning riffs, runs, and embellishments, pay attention to where Aguilera adds them in her songs. Listen to the kinds of rhythms and sounds she makes when embellishing.
As you sing, occasionally drift from the song's regular melody to sing a few notes. You should not overdo it. Stick to two three extra notes or embellishments here and there.
Do not embellish without thought. As you sing, pay close attention to your words. Only embellish when you feel a strong, emotional connection to the lyrics you're singing.
 Embellishments are a great way to make yourself sound like Christina, as they're key to the blues genre in general. However, when not embellishing, it's okay to keep things simple. Many blues songs, the types of that inspired Christina, remain relatively simple without riffs, runs, and embellishments. Wait until such additions feel natural. When they do not feel important, simply follow the original notes and words.The more you sing, the more comfortable you will feel embellishing. You will soon be able to sense when an extra note or a word like "baby" will fall into the song naturally.
Embellish when you're so caught up with the song you feel the need to do so. Embellishing for its own sake will not sound natural.
 Many of Christina Aguilera's songs, as they're blues inspired, have the same words or phrases repeated again and again. It's okay to simply follow the repetitions. As long as you're singing well, people will enjoy hearing your voice and not feel bored by you repeating yourself. In "I Am Beautiful," for example, a lot is repeated. Do not be afraid to repeat the words in these songs.Listen to how Aguilera handles repetition. She may change the tone or style of her voice slightly each time. This is something you could try after getting a feel for the basics.
 Christina Aguilera is known for singing with emotion. If you want to sing like her, work on feeling the emotions of the song. Some songs will be specifically relatable to you while others will be a situation you do not understand. In the latter's case, try to imagine you're going through what the singer is going through. Print out the lyrics of the song in question and really force yourself to get inside the singer's head. Try to really understand what the narrator of a song is singing before attempting to sing it yourself.When you're actually singing, try to avoid consciously thinking about the experiences and feelings in a song. This will distract you from singing. Instead, focus ion how the emotions feel. Do you feel happy, sad, scared? What physical sensations accompany these feelings?
Focusing on the raw feelings underlying a song can help you really connect with the song and give an emotional performance.
 As you work your way through learning Aguilera's songs, take it one day at a time. If you try to learn a whole song in a day, you will get frustrated. Set up a schedule for yourself and seek to master only a few bars of each song per day. Be patient and give it time. Eventually, you will be singing Aguilera's songs without struggle., You do not want to simply imitate Christina Aguilera. While you can be inspired and borrow from her style, with time you want to develop your own voice. Learn to make the songs your own and highlight your own talents.When you sing, see what people respond to best. Maybe you hit high notes particularly well, or can trigger an emotional response when singing sad songs.
Identify and develop these strengths. As you master imitating Aguilera's style, slowly drift from her influence. Add your own twist to the songs, changing the tempo, tone, or rhythm to suit your own unique talents.
 It is often difficult to gauge things like tone and pitch on your own. A professional vocal coach can help you develop your voice so you can really hit the notes correctly. If you're really dedicated to improving your singing, seek out professional voice lessons.You can look for a singer in your area online or in the local newspaper. Keep your eyes peeled for posters advertising singing lessons around town.
If you are a student, see if your school offers any courses in singing.
 You may not be able to find a singer in your area. See if you can find courses online. Some online courses are guided courses including videos that you can watch on your own time. Other courses may let you Skype in with a teacher on occasion., There are many phone apps you can download to help with your singing. They will gauge things like pitch, tempo, and tone to help you develop your voice.Look for harmonizing apps, such as Sing Harmony, which will help you learn to harmonize.
Apps such as Mode Quiz, Ear Training, and Better Ears can help you learn to better judge your own tone and pitch.

