 You can begin the conversation on weight loss during your final pre-natal appointments if you feel the need, but it is best to begin discussing weight loss after the baby has arrived.


Follow post-partum instructions. These are valuable and will help your body recover. Recovering is the first step in achieving your pre-pregnancy body.
Discuss weight loss at first post-partum appointment. This is usually 4 to 6 weeks after birth. You can decide if weight loss is something you can do on your own or if you would like the help of nutritionists or trainers. The doctor will help guide you to the healthiest ways to lose weight for your situation.;
, Trying to lose all the weight in 6 weeks is not a healthy attainable goal. You may weigh more than you did pre-pregnancy due to enlarged breasts, especially if breast-feeding, and enlarged uterus. It takes time for the uterus to return to normal size and breast-feeding requires extra fat stores.


Do not live by the scale. Using a scale is a good way to track overall progress, but can mislead women when it comes to losing pregnancy weight. A better method to measure progress at first is to measure waist size with a tailors tape.






If you notice your waist size is slowly decreasing, then you are more than likely losing extra adipose (fat) tissue in one of the most vital areas, your torso. Also, you can track how you feel. For instance, as you lose weight you may have more energy and become less fatigued. These are signs you are becoming healthier and you should continue what you have been doing.
 After you have discussed weight loss with the doctor it may help to log your goals and timelines. Checking progress once a week or every other week can be helpful in staying motivated. You will want to avoid obsessing though.


Remember, checking progress everyday can be misleading because bodies fluctuate daily in terms of water weight. It is the long-term progress that will help you understand if you are losing the extra baby weight.
 Being a new mom brings many new responsibilities. You will need to work weight loss into this new schedule. It is best to move at a pace you feel comfortable with rather than forcing it.

If your goals seem too aggressive based on your new schedule then you should scale back or increase the amount of time you are giving yourself.
 Trying to squeeze into old pants to soon may make you feel worse about your weight and would not be comfortable. Also, do not overcompensate by wearing clothing that is too large because this may make you appear larger than you are and also may not be comfortable. Clothes that fit will flatter your body the best and be the most comfortable.
 Pregnancy causes many changes in a woman’s body. The increase in hip size may be permanent. Also, breast size may change over the long run. If you are concerned, talk with your doctor and they will be able to let you know what may not change.
 Many women will share what they went through. By connecting with other moms you will not feel so isolated. Many new moms are going through the same struggles as you. Often, new moms may want to work together to get the weight off. The buddy system is a great way to motivate because you now have accountability to more than yourself.
 It is very important after you give birth to eat a healthy diet with enough calories.

Many diets do not allow for enough calories or limit certain food groups. This can result in mal-nutrition and increased healing time after child birth.
USDA’s Myplate is a good place to look if you are unsure what a well-balanced healthy diet should consist of.

