 Before washing your hoodie, determine if a wash is needed. It’s recommended that you wash hoodies after about six or seven wears because as outerwear they don’t dirty as quickly. Washing less frequently prevents added wear and tear.As long as your hoodie doesn’t smell, it’s okay to go a bit between washes.


If you exercise in your hoodie, then you will likely need to wash it more.
If you’re questioning whether or not it’s dirty, it’s better to go ahead and wash it. You don’t want worries about a dirty hoodie overshadowing your day.
Consider what you’re wearing under your hoodie. The more layers you wear, the less sweat your hoodie encounters.;
, Closing the zipper will protect the teeth so that your zipper continues to open and close easily. It will also protect your fabric, which can snag on an open zipper., Use a safety pin to keep the zipper from sliding back down during the wash.Take the metal pull of the zipper and fold it up toward the collar of the hoodie.
Loop the open side of the safety pin through the hole in the metal pull.
Push the pin through the fabric.
Close the safety pin.
 If you want your hoodie to stay soft and vibrant, you need to turn it inside out before washing so the color and texture of the fabric are protected during the wash., Spread out your hoodie and place it in the tub of the washing machine, careful not to ball it up.
 Prevent extra wear on your hoodie and its zipper by using the delicate cycle., Make sure that you set the washer to “cold” before turning it on to help preserve the color and any graphics that are on the hoodie., As the water flows into the washer, add your soap. Choose a soap that is gentle on clothing, avoiding products that contain bleach., Both liquid fabric softeners and dryer sheets can harm your hoodie. Some fabrics, such as those that are water-resistant, can be damaged by fabric softeners. Keep it simple when washing your zipper hoodie., Because hoodies are thick, they may hold onto detergent. To be sure that your hoodie is free of detergent, rinse it twice., High heat dryers can ruin your zipper, so keep it to a low heat tumble dry if you can’t wait for it to line dry.