 Start by having a meeting with the members of your household. Arrange a time where you can all sit down and discuss the dog walking schedule as a group. You may direct the meeting so it runs smoothly and everyone participates in the discussion around the schedule. This way, everyone pays attention and agrees to the schedule.


For example, you may open the meeting by saying, “We are here to discuss the dog walking schedule. Having a schedule will ensure the dog gets enough exercise every day and everyone participates in taking care of the dog.”;
, Ask each household member to bring a copy of their daily schedule. They may present a physical copy or look at their weekly schedule on their cellphone. Make sure they have a copy of their schedule by week, with any important dates or events noted by date. They should also note any regular commitments or events in their calendar so it is clear they will not be available during that time and that day.


Spread the schedules out so you can compare them, noting which times are blocked off for each member of the household.
For example, you may have one household member who always has soccer practice on Mondays and Wednesday nights from 4-6 pm. Or you may have one household member who has a morning meeting every day for one week in March.
 Once you have compared the schedules of everyone in the household, you can start to figure out which walking times will work for each member of the household. Try to make the walking times equal among everyone in the household, if possible. The adults in the household may take more walking times if they have a less busy schedule than the kids in the household.For example, one household member may agree to take the early morning walking times as they tend to be busy in the evenings. Another household member may opt for taking the mid-afternoon walking times because they will be home and available at this time.
 Get a calendar that runs several months ahead so you can block out time on each day of the week for dog walking. You can also create your own calendar using computer software like Microsoft Word or Excel. Or you may write out a schedule on a large whiteboard that you can then erase and adjust as needed.For example, you may start the day with a 7 am walk time. An early morning walk is important for dogs, as they often need to go to the bathroom early in the morning.
The next walk may then be at 8 am, after the dog has eaten. This will ensure the dog has time to go to the bathroom and gets a little exercise before you go to work or school.
The next walk may be at 12 pm or 1 pm. This is a good time for the dog to have a longer walk and some playtime.
The next walk may then be between 5 and 7 pm. You may plan the evening walk for after your dinner time and your dog’s dinner time. This walk should be the longest walk your dog gets, where they have enough play time and exercise to burn off any excess energy.
The final walk of the day may be before your bedtime, between 10 and 12 pm. This may be a short walk to wear out your dog before bed and give them time to go the bathroom one last time.
 Once you have written out the specific walk times on the schedule, you should note how long each walk will be. This will help household members get a sense of the time commitment required for each walk. This will also ensure your dog gets enough exercise throughout the day.


Consider how much exercise your dog needs and make sure it is covered in the schedule. For example, you may have a Border Collie who needs at least two hours of physical activity a day. You may then make sure there is two hours of walking and playtime in the dog’s schedule.
For example, for the 7 am walk, you may write down, “10-15 minutes.” For the 8 am walk, write down “10-15 minutes.” For the 1 pm walk, you may write down, “30 minutes.” For the 5-7 pm walk, you may write down, “1 hour,” noting that this will be the longest walk time of the day.
 Once you have the walking times scheduled out, assign each time to a member of the household. Try to keep the times equal among members so one person does not get stuck with more walking time than others. You will also need to consider each household member’s schedule to ensure they have the time to walk to dog when needed.For example, you may write down next to the 7 am and 8 am walk times: “Mom.” You may then write down “Dad” next to the 1 pm walk time and “Mark and Sara” next to the 5-7 pm walk time. Then, you may write down “Dad” next to the 10 pm walk time.
 Once you have decided on the schedule, make sure it is posted somewhere central in your home. You may put it up in the kitchen or the living room where everyone in the household has access to it. Or you may post it by the front door so everyone can glance at it when they come and go.


Let everyone in the household know where the schedule is located so they have access to it at all times. This way, they cannot miss a scheduled walk time because they cannot find the schedule.
 To make sure you do not miss a walk time, or others do not miss their assigned time, set an alarm or a reminder on your phone. Set an alarm for early in the morning so you do not miss the 7 am walk on the dog walking schedule. Put a reminder in your phone for the after dinner walk so your dog gets some exercise after they eat.You should also encourage the other members of your household to set alarms and reminders so they do not miss their assigned walk times.
 Though you may have a solid schedule in place, you should also be flexible and adjust the schedule as needed. Everyone’s schedule may not stay the same after a few months so you may need to all revisit the dog walking schedule and adjust it to reflect these changes. You may hold another household meeting so you can discuss changes to the schedule and all agree to abide by the new schedule.You should also discuss if any existing walk times are too difficult for members of the household. You may need to reassign certain walk times so everyone can fulfill their commitments and help to ensure the dog gets enough exercise every day.

