 If you need to move the computer so that you can better access the inside, make sure that all of the cables on the back have been detached.


This method only works for desktop computers. Laptop users will need to use one of the following methods, since you cannot easily access the motherboard on a laptop.;
, Rest it on the side so that all of the connectors on the back are closest to the table. These connectors are attached to the motherboard, and will help you determine if your case is laid on the correct side.
 Most cases these days have thumbscrews securing the panel, though older cases may require the use of a Phillips-head screwdriver. You can also use a screwdriver on the thumbscrews if they are too tight. These screws are typically located running along the edge of the back side of the tower.


After removing the two or three screws holding the panel in place, you slide it off or open it like a door, depending on the case.
 This is printed on the motherboard, but can be located in several possible locations. It may be printed near the RAM slots, near the CPU socket, or between the PCI slots. It may only be a model number without a manufacturer listed, but many modern motherboards will list both manufacturer and model.


There will be a lot of writing on the motherboard, but the model number is usually written in the largest text.
The model number may be obscured by installed components. Carefully unplug anything that's in the way, and ensure that you reconnect it after you are finished. If the computer hasn't been cleaned for awhile, dust may be obscuring the model number, which will need to be cleaned.
Motherboard model numbers are typically a collection of numbers and letters, usually between 5-7 digits long.
 If you couldn't find a manufacturer printed on the motherboard, you can usually quickly find it by entering your motherboard's model number into a search engine. Include the word "motherboard" in your search to cut down on results that aren't computer related.

