 If you wear makeup, you should remove it before you go to bed. Some cleansers claim to remove makeup for you, but these may not get rid of all makeup. You may want to have an extra makeup remover on hand. Use it before you cleanse your face.Makeup wipes or removers are easy and convenient. Simply wipe off the makeup with a soaked pad until it is gone.
Since eye and lip makeup can be harder to remove, you may want to use a special makeup remover designed for these parts.;
, You should wash your face twice a day, once in the morning before you put on makeup, and once at night before you go to bed. You should also cleanse after sweating heavily.Wet your skin with warm water but not hot water. Warm water helps remove dirt, but hot water will dry out your skin.
Apply the cleanser and massage it into your skin in upwards, circular motions. Remove completely, either by using a sponge or by splashing with warm water. Dab your face dry with a clean towel.
 Toner should be applied once you have dried your face after cleansing. Pump a small amount of toner onto a cotton pad, and simply wipe over your face. Avoid the eye area. Let the toner dry on your skin. You do not need to rinse off.
 Your moisturizer goes on after your toner absorbs. You can massage your moisturizer into your skin using upward circular motions to your face and neck. Alternatively, you can apply it to your clean palms and gently pat it in.If you have dark or puffy eyes or if you are concerned about wrinkles around your eyes, you can use a separate eye cream. Gently pat the cream around your eye with your ring finger.
 You should only exfoliate once or twice a week, or else you may cause damage to your skin. Be gentle as you exfoliate. Soft movements are all that are needed. Vigorously rubbing or scrubbing can be harmful.There are many different types of exfoliation. You can use a wash-off scrub, a special mitt or sponge, or even a chemical exfoliant such as AHA or BHA.
You may want to avoid exfoliating if you have active acne breakouts or hyperpigmentation., Daily sun exposure can cause premature aging, hyperpigmentation, and other problems. Even if you don’t plan on going outside for long, put on sunscreen before you leave home. Apply it fifteen minutes before going outside. Sunscreen should be applied as the last step of your routine after you have put on moisturizer but before you have put on any makeup.

