 You can eat meat as long as it’s cooked so that it’s tender. Try baking, broiling, roasting, stewing, or creaming your meat. Lean roasted pork is acceptable, too. Try fish and other seafood – you can have it fresh, canned, or frozen.Do not eat fried or pickled meat. Avoid fatty, fibrous meats that have lots of gristle.Choose tofu as an appropriate alternative to meat; soy tempeh, however, is not approved on this diet.If you have dentures, substitute ground meat for whole meat.;
, Stay away from bread or crackers that contain seeds, nuts, raisins, or spices. When choosing cereal, pick “refined” cooked and prepared cereals over whole grain options.Do not opt for bran cereals, however, which can increase bowel activity.Avoid barley and lentils.Don't put jam or marmalade on your bread; jelly is okay if it doesn’t contain seeds.
White rice, pasta, noodles, and potatoes without skin are all okay to eat on the low residue diet. You can also enjoy waffles, French toast, and pancakes!When dining out, express your diet needs to your server. Be sure to inquire whether the dish contains nuts or seeds.
 Vegetable juice and raw lettuce are okay to eat on the low residue diet. However, cook other vegetables until they’re soft. You can also purchase canned vegetables. Your veggies should be tender and soft before you eat them.Some great options include cooked spinach, beets, green beans, carrots, peeled eggplant, mushrooms, green and red peppers (not spicy ones), and peeled squash and zucchini.Stay away from pickles, sauerkraut, and other fermented foods.Particularly avoid peas, winter squash, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, onions, cabbage, cauliflower, and baked beans. Stay away from lima beans and corn, even from cans.
 Stay away from fried foods. This includes the obvious like fried chicken, cheese, and vegetables, as well as items that are lightly fried in oil, like fried eggs. Eat your eggs baked, poached, scrambled, or boiled instead., Exclude fried food, high-fat gravy, and spicy salad dressing from your diet. On the other hand, it’s okay to have small amounts of other fats. You can eat up to 5 servings a day of butter or margarine, mayonnaise, salad dressing, vegetable shortening, cooking oil, and cream.A serving sizes count as:


1 teaspoon margarine, or 2 teaspoons diet margarine
1 teaspoon vegetable oil or olive oil
1 teaspoon mayonnaise or 2 teaspoons light mayonnaise
1 tablespoon salad dressing

, Season your meals mildly, and avoid eating spicy or highly spiced foods. Salt and pepper are okay, but horseradish, raw garlic, and relish should be avoided.Don’t eat spicy peppers or hot sauces., Only some fruits are part of a low residue diet. Choose fruits from the list below, and try to avoid other fruits – especially berries. Some fruits not listed may be okay if you cook them until they’re soft or buy them canned, as long as they don’t have skin or seeds. When eating oranges, grapefruits, and other citrus fruits, remove as much of the lighter-colored membrane on the inside as possible. Approved fruits include:


Citrus
Bananas (ripe)
Ripe peaches or pears (peeled)
Cooked or canned cherries, peaches, pears, and applesauce
Plums and apricots
Melons
Baked apples
Fruit cocktail

, Avoid fruits that have tough skins or seeds, and be sure to get all the seeds out. Peel fruit with skins such as peaches, pears, or plums.Citrus fruits like oranges and grapefruits are good options because you peel the skin and the seeds are large enough to see and remove.
 You can have dairy on the low residue diet but in moderation. However, if dairy usually gives you gas, bloating, or diarrhea, avoid it. Choose lactose-free options, instead.A serving of milk is 1 cup. A serving of pudding, custard, or ice cream is ½ cup.
Cottage cheese, cream cheese, and soft mild cheeses are okay to eat. Avoid strongly flavored, aged cheeses.
 Avoid snacks that are hard or crunchy - don’t eat popcorn, nuts, or olives. Choose smooth peanut butter rather than crunchy peanut butter. Snacks should also be mild. Vinegar, mustard, ketchup, and mild flavorings are okay, but don’t eat any spicy snacks.Check the ingredients list before eating anything that you don’t make yourself. Ice cream, yogurt, pastries, bread, sauces, and many other food items contain seeds or nuts. Avoid these.
 Fruit juice is a great beverage for this diet - you can get nutrients from fruit without worrying about seeds or skins. All fruit juice is allowed except for prune juice.Buy juice without pulp.
 Caffeine can irritate your stomach and intestines in large amounts. Keep your caffeine intake to 1 cup (8 ounces) per day.That includes coffee, caffeinated tea, and caffeinated sodas like Coke, Pepsi, Mountain Dew, and some Root Beers.


Check the labels on soda and teas to make sure they are decaffeinated.
 Alcohol is not allowed on the low residue diet. Stop drinking alcohol altogether while dieting. If you need help to stop drinking, talk to your doctor.