 If you have a sleep disorder such as sleep deprivation, you may experience certain symptoms. If you experience any of these signs for three or more nights per week, you should talk with your doctor:You have trouble falling asleep at night (it may take you 30 minutes or more).
You wake up during the night frequently and can’t get back to sleep.
You wake up too early in the morning.
You don’t feel well rested in the morning, no matter how much sleep you get.
You feel sleepy during the day.
You fall asleep unexpectedly during the day.
You snore or snort in your sleep, your breathing stops for short periods of time, or your body jerks when you’re sleeping.
You have tingly or creeping feelings in your legs in the evenings before bed that go away if you massage them.
Your muscles feel suddenly weak when you are angry, fearful or laughing.
You feel like you can’t move when you wake up.
You always need caffeine to wake up and to stay awake during the day.
 Write down when you go to sleep and when you get up. Make note in the morning if you were awake during the night. Keep track for at a couple of weeks so that you can see your sleep patterns.Also track how you feel in the morning when you wake up (Do you feel rested? Sleepy? Groggy?). Track how you feel throughout the day.
 Take note of other things that happen in your sleep, such as snoring, snorting, gasping, or making involuntary movements. If you don’t have a sleep partner, you might consider videotaping yourself sleep for a couple of nights so that you can see if there is anything else going on., You can also go to a sleep lab, which will monitor your sleep cycle overnight. You will have electrodes or other monitors attached to your scalp, face, chest, limbs and fingers. Your breathing, oxygen levels and heart rate will be tracked during the sleep test., Many cases of sleep deprivation are caused by certain issues. These can include aging, pregnancy, menopause, psychiatric disorders (for example, schizophrenia and depression), or chronic illnesses (for example, Parkinson’s, Alzheimer’s, multiple sclerosis).


Talk with your doctor if you are concerned about these conditions.
 Your sleep can be interrupted because of various external factors that may be difficult to control. These might be: having a newborn infant, stress, drinking caffeine late in the day, exercising in the evening,and so on.

