 Seizures can be triggered by missing medication, lack of sleep, bright lights, fever, hormonal changes and hormonal cycles, stress, alcohol and drug abuse, low blood sugar, caffeine, and some medications.In addition, some anti-epileptic medications can change hormone levels. If your seizures are triggered by your cycle, they may be what are called catamenial epilepsy and may reflect decreased fertility during that month. Talk to your neurologist to determine the best approach to this form of epilepsy.Some people have very specific and unique triggers. You can keep a seizure diary and try to determine what, if any, triggers are critical for you. Record all your seizures, noting the time of day and any situation surrounding the seizure. Also record any sensations (tastes, odors, sights, pain, pressure) that you experienced around the seizure. This can help you and your neurologist narrow down possible triggers.;
, Lack of sleep or disrupted sleep can increase the frequency of seizures.Teenagers are particularly at risk. Practice good sleep hygiene by following these tips from the National Sleep Foundation (NSF):Avoid taking naps. Naps can disturb normal sleep patterns.
Avoid stimulants. This includes caffeine, nicotine, and alcohol too near bedtime.
Get enough exercise.
Avoid large meals near bedtime and eat dinner two hours or longer before sleeping.
Get out into the sun. Sunlight helps maintain the cycle of melatonin, the sleep hormone.
Establish a regular routine or ritual. Set out your pajamas, wash or bathe, read (not in bed), meditate or pray—whatever you prefer to set the routine.
Try to leave your problems at the bedroom door
Associate your bed with sleep. Don’t watch TV, listen to the radio, bring a laptop, or read.
 Try to drink eight glasses of water a day. Sodium and potassium—the electrolytes—help to carry electrical signals to cells. An imbalance of these electrolytes may lead to seizures.Therefore, it is essential to keep your body hydrated.
 Stress affects not just your sleep, but it can also increase your frequency of seizures.The American Psychological Association (APA) and American Heart Association (AHA) recommend the following steps to help reduce stress:Taking a break from the stressor—even twenty minutes can make a big difference.
Exercising. That twenty-minute break is a great time to go for a walk or run, and it can make a difference in stress levels that lasts for hours.
Getting social support. Call, text, or email a friend. Take a few minutes to smile and laugh.
Meditating. Meditation, yoga, and prayer have shown similar results as exercise in studies as a way to reduce stress for hours.
 Exercise such as walking, swimming, jogging, and cycling have been shown to reduce the number of seizures experienced.Simply increasing your physical activity can also reduce the frequency of your seizures.


You can practice simple things like parking your car further away from the store or walking your dog two to three times a day.
You can get a yoga, tai chi, or other fitness video and work at your own speed and time. Any increase in activity will be of benefit, and the more you are active, the better.
Studies have shown that exercise can also improve the psychological status of those with epilepsy.There have traditionally been recommendations to avoid some sports, so talk to your physician about which activities beyond those described are right for you.
 A relatively new approach using psycho-behavioral therapy is becoming more recognized as a form of therapy for epilepsy. One of the approaches in this therapy includes cognitive–behavioral therapy (CBT) techniques.The CBT approaches include techniques such as:


Conditioning, which is a learning process where specific behaviors are increased or decreased with positive and negative reinforcement.Aura interruption, which can be useful in reducing the frequency of seizures in those who experience visual, auditory, or odor-based auras.EEG biofeedback, which is a training method where the person with epilepsy is trained to monitor and respond to their own realtime EEGs.Systematic desensitization, which is where a person is exposed to progressively greater triggering stimuli and taught how to relax through it., Mind-body approaches are often used in conjunction with CBT techniques and have shown positive effects on enhancing mood and well-being.Yoga, deep breathing, and meditation can be effective mind-body approaches to epilepsy.