
Install the diode laser at the 0 centimeter (0.0 in) mark facing towards the right. This should require little effort.
Mount the multi-slit apparatus to its appropriate mount. This may require some force and will make a clicking sound when properly installed. Assembly should prove to be rather simple.
Install the newly assembled multi-slit apparatus on the optics bench between the 5 and 10 cm mark. Adjustment will be made later in the experiment to both position and slit settings.;
,


Remove one of the screws from the linear translator that secures the grooved bar and pull it out away from frame of the linear translator.
Install the rotary motion sensor onto the grooved bar. This can be achieved by sliding the grooved bar into the square hole in the center of the rotary motion sensor. One important note is that the set of mounted pulleys on the rotary motion sensor should be facing upwards when installed properly.
Replace the grooved bar to its original position and reinsert the screw.
You should notice that one end of the connecting rod is slightly smaller in diameter and is threaded. In one hand hold the connecting rod with the threaded end up. Place the aperture mount on the rod followed by the light sensor making sure that the aperture of the light sensor is firmly against the rotating disk consisting of varying sized apertures.
Simply screw in the connecting rod (Hand tighten only).
Mount this newly created piece by placing the connecting rod into the last remaining hole of the rotary motion sensor, so that the light sensor apparatus is upright.
Tighten the retention screw on the rotary motion sensor (Hand tighten only).
 On the bottom of the linear translator you should notice a threaded rod with a nut. Also take notice that the optics bench has a narrow slit running through the center of the track and that from either end slightly below the surface of the optics bench this slit opens up into a wider channel just big enough for the nut on the bottom of the linear translator.


Adjust the position of the nut until it enters the highest channel and the linear translator is resting on the raised surface of the optics bench.
Slide the linear translator down the track until the light sensor is approximately 1 meter (3.3 ft) from the multi-slit apparatus. This may require moving the multi-slit apparatus closer to the diode laser.
, You will be able to feel a slight popping as each slit grouping reaches this position.
Turn the diode laser on by connecting the power supply and flipping the switch on the back of the diode laser. Note that beside the on/off switch there are two knobs. One will adjust the diode laser in the vertical direction and the other in the horizontal direction.
At the other end of the optics bench adjust the aperture setting of the light sensor mount until slit #3 is selected.
With the laser on, adjust both the horizontal and vertical knobs until you have created an interference and diffraction pattern (looks like a line of light) that shines through the narrow slit of the light sensor apparatus that you just adjusted, insuring that that the pattern is also perpendicular to slit #3.
Setup your computer, including a graph on Data Studio plotting intensity vs. distance.
 One thing to keep in mind when choosing is that the smaller the slit size the harder it will be to detect maximums of higher m values.
Turn off the lights and adjust the computer screen in order to reduce ambient light.
Turn on the diode laser.
Move the rotary motion sensor to one side of the linear translator.
Click 'Start' on Data Studio to begin collecting data.
Slowly and smoothly move the rotary motion sensor to the other side of the linear translator.
Click 'Stop' to finish collecting data.
Be sure to collect the following data for a more in-depth analysis and save/print out your graph.

Slit Distance = d (Values may be found on the multi-slit apparatus)
Slit Size = a (Values may be found on the multi-slit apparatus)
Distance from multi-slit apparatus to the light sensor = l
Distances from central maximum to other maximums (see graph) = x
Wavelength = λ



