 A prostate cancer diagnosis can feel overwhelming. Although it is treatable, prostate cancer can cause major lifestyle changes and significantly impact your spouse's emotional and physical well-being. He will likely feel overwhelmed at first, so be there to listen to him express his feelings.Be an active listener. Let your spouse know you are listening by nodding your head and giving verbal signs that you hear him.
Some men need to yell and cry after receiving the diagnosis. Know that this is not personal. You can listen to his anger and demonstrate that you are there to support him while he processes his feelings.;
, Your spouse's diagnosis will have a big impact on your life, too. But try to remember that while you are both dealing with change, he is the one with the illness. He may need some time by himself to process his emotions. That is normal and healthy.Let him know you will be there when he's ready to talk. Try saying, "I respect your need for some alone time. Just let me know if you change your mind and want some company."
Remember that his emotions are not aimed at you. Try not to feel hurt if he asks for some space.
 There are many ways that you can bolster your spouse's spirits. You can offer him encouragement by simply reminding him that you are in this together. Say something like, "I'm here for you no matter what."Encourage your spouse to participate in meaningful activities. If he is a spiritual man, you can encourage him to keep going to church.
Prompt him to continue to spend time with loved ones. Many people tend to initially withdraw after a cancer diagnosis. Remind your husband that he loves being around his grandchildren, for example.
 When dealing with prostate cancer, it is important to keep the lines of communication open. Let your partner know that you are ready and willing to listen. You can demonstrate your support by asking questions.Ask how he feels about his treatment options. Listen carefully to any of his concerns.
Express your opinions. Try saying, "I feel like the doctor's first suggestion might work best for our family. What do you think?"
Be open and honest and ask him to do the same.
 For many men, it is comforting to talk about how they feel. Remind your spouse that you are happy to listen to him. If he expresses fear, acknowledge that that is a normal reaction.Avoid being judgmental. Everyone reacts differently when dealing with cancer. Remember that all emotions are valid.

