 Research shows a humorous man is a desired man. It’s theorized a sense of humor is an evolutionary sign of attractiveness because being humorous requires intelligence. Some tests have shown making a woman laugh improves your odds by nearly three to one.If you make a lady laugh, you’re golden.


Try listening to some comedians, taking their material, and fitting it to your personal situation.;
, Making her laugh is a great way to win her over, but making her laugh at your expense shows great confidence. It might be best to let her get to know you before trying this type of humor. Once she knows you are confident, she will certainly know you are joking when you use self-deprecating jokes. The trick to being self-deprecating is to make her laugh without believing how you just put yourself down. You don’t mean it, and she doesn’t believe it."I have the body of a football player — fantasy football."
"I walk two miles a day. One to the donut shop, and one home."

, Guys who have compliments readily available are ready for any situation. Finding the right time to unleash the perfect compliment can flip a switch in another’s mind from disinterested to piqued. Avoid cheesy pickup lines and go for something unique and specific to her that will attract her attention. Keep trying and you’ll eventually find the right type of compliment that wins women over.Use an uncommon word. Instead of beautiful, use “stunning.”
"The confidence you exude is really sexy."
"You really know a lot about this subject. You must be very intelligent."

, Being charming is not that difficult. In fact, some argue the average man can be a ladies' man and just as charming as any other. Truly being charming is about paying attention to a woman, and turning her on based upon that shared connection.


Being able to intelligently converse with a woman is a huge turn on. Learn her keys, what she likes to hear, and time your replies to let her know you're really inside her head.
Be genuinely interested in her. Ask her about her likes, dislikes, family, travel plans, dreams, etc.
Show your vulnerabilities. Many women are self-conscious, and it's comforting to see a man that has own flaws.