 If you own the car outright, then you can find your car’s replacement value by visiting the Kelley Blue Book website at www.kbb.com or the National Auto Dealers Association website at www.nada.com.At each website you will need to enter information about your car: the make, model, year, mileage, and general overall condition. The website will then tell you the car’s value.;
, Let’s say you still have $7,000 remaining on your car loan. You will calculate your car’s value by deducting the loan from the replacement value.


Find the replacement value by visiting Kelley Blue Book or the NADA website.
If your car’s replacement value is $12,000 and you have a $7,000 loan, then the car’s value is $5,000. That’s how much “equity” you have in the car. The bankruptcy trustee can use the equity to pay off your other debts.
 The car’s loan might exceed the replacement value. This is common. For example, your car’s replacement value might be $6,500. If your loan is $7,000, then you have “negative equity.”


In this situation, the bankruptcy trustee cannot sell the car because there is no equity in it.The trustee would have to hand over all of the money to the bank which uses your car as collateral. There would be no other money for the trustee to use to pay your other creditors.
 Each state allows people in bankruptcy to protect certain property so that the bankruptcy trustee cannot sell it. Most states provide an exemption for your car. However, only a certain dollar amount of value will be protected.


To find your state’s exemption, you should search the Internet. Type “your state” and “motor vehicle exemption” into your favorite web browser.
The amount states exempt differs significantly by state. For example, Illinois allows you to keep $2,400.In Arizona, you can exempt up to $6,000 (or $12,000 if you are disabled)., If your state doesn’t have an exemption, then you can use the federal exemption. Federal law currently allows you to protect $3,675 of value in the car., Now that you know your exemption amount, compare it to the value of your car. If the exemption is greater than the value, you can keep the car. The trustee will be unable to sell it.


For example, your car’s value might be $5,000. If your state allows you to exempt $6,000, then you can keep the vehicle.
However, if your car’s value is $10,000, then at least $4,000 would not be protected by the motor vehicle exemption. This means that the trustee can technically take the car and sell it at auction. The trustee would then give you the $6,000 after selling the vehicle.
 Some states also have “wildcard” exemptions. You can apply these to any piece of property. If your state has a wildcard exemption, then you can add this amount on top of the motor vehicle exemption.For example, your car may have a resale value of $5,000. Your state may only allow $2,500 to be exempt. If your state also allows an additional $2,500 in wildcard exemptions, then you can add the exemptions together and protect the entire vehicle.
To find any wildcard exemption, you should search the Internet. Type “your state” and “bankruptcy wildcard exemption” into your favorite web browser.
The federal government also provides a $1,225 wildcard exemption. This amount is doubled ($2,500) if you are married., Some states (and the federal government) provide an exemption for your homestead. The purpose of the exemption is the same for providing the motor vehicle exemption: if your house has value in it, the trustee can technically seize it and sell it. Then the trustee uses the value to pay off your debts. However, both states and the federal government want you to be able to protect your home. They therefore allow you to exempt some value in the house.


Some states will allow you to use an unused portion of a homestead exemption and apply it to other property. For example, your state might allow a $20,000 homestead exemption. But you might only need to protect $10,000 in home value. This means you have $10,000 left over in unused homestead exemption.
You may be able to apply the unused portion of a homestead exemption to other property, including a vehicle.To check, research your state law. You can stop into your nearest law library and tell the librarian that you are researching bankruptcy exemptions. The librarian should be able to help you find the applicable law.
 You should calculate the equity in your car. Then you should apply your state’s motor vehicle exemption first. If your state has no exemption, then apply the federal exemption.


For example, your state might allow you to exempt $2,500. If your car is worth $2,500 or less, then you can keep the car.
However, if your car is worth $7,000, then you have $4,500 in equity that is not exempt. The trustee can sell your car and use the $4,500 to pay off other debts that you owe.
 Your state might allow $1,000 as a wildcard exemption. If you the amount of equity left over is $1,000 or less, then you can keep the car.


However, you might still have equity left over after applying the wildcard exemption. For example, your car’s value may be $7,000. After applying your state’s motor vehicle exemption ($2,500), you have $4,500 of equity remaining. After applying your state’s wildcard ($1,000), you still have $3,500 of equity. The trustee could seize your car and use that $3,500 to pay off other debts.
 Next, apply any homestead exemption that you didn’t use. Your homestead exemption might cover the remaining equity in your car. If so, you can keep the car.


For example, your car might have $7,000 in value. After applying your motor vehicle exemption and wildcard exemption, you still have $1,000 remaining in equity. If you have at least $1,000 in an unused homestead exemption, then you can apply it to the car and keep the car.
If you can’t cover the remaining equity with a homestead exemption, then the trustee can sell the car and use the remaining equity to pay off your debts.
 Depending on how much equity remains in the car, the trustee might realize that it is too much work to auction the car for so little value. This is called “abandoning” the vehicle.After selling the vehicle, the trustee has to deduct the costs of the sale and take a commission. These might eat up any equity remaining in the vehicle.
For example, there might be $500 in equity available after you apply your exemptions. In this situation, the costs of selling the vehicle at auction could eat up this $500. In that situation, the trustee will probably not sell the vehicle.

