 Especially during the winter months, high-intensity interval training (HIIT) is a popular alternative that allows you to exercise for a much briefer period of time.While the typical HIIT routine will still take 20 or 30 minutes, this is a significantly shorter time if you're accustomed to doing 60- to 90-minute workouts.
If you've never done HIIT before, make sure you have good lung capacity and cardiovascular strength. High-intensity training is not a workout designed for beginners.
When in doubt, you may want to take a class led by a certified and experienced trainer who will be there to help you if you get overloaded.
 Whether you're doing HIIT specifically or simply adding cardio intervals to your regular strength-training regimen, try to avoid coming to a complete stand-still during your rest periods.Doing lower-intensity cardio during rest periods is part of what makes interval training more intense and allows you to decrease the total amount of time you work out.
For example, you might do a strength-training exercise such as power squats or mountain climbers for 45 seconds, then jog or walk for a 30-second rest period. Then you would move immediately into another strength-training exercise.
 The secret to high-intensity interval training is to have very limited rests between exercises. Each set of exercises is brief, and your rest in between should also be brief.This will dramatically shorten your workout, especially if you're accustomed to doing two or three sets over 10 minutes or so, and then resting for five or six minutes between exercises.
Even if you're not doing HIIT, you can still shorten your workout by decreasing the rest period between sets.
You also can use this technique to combine several methods. For example, you might do alternating sets with a cardio interval of moderate intensity between those sets.
 One benefit of HIIT that can save you significant time is that you do body-weight exercises that you can do anywhere. This means you don't have to go to the gym, and you don't have to mess with complicated machines that can take time to set up.You can design a 20-minute body-weight workout that you can do anywhere, without having to make a trip to the gym or use any equipment.
With a 20-minute HIIT workout, you may burn anywhere from 300 to 600 calories and feel like you've been working out for over an hour.
If you decide to switch to HIIT workouts, focus on doing at least two sessions each week. Leave at least one day of rest in between sessions.

