 If you somehow manage to get stuck, make your vehicle visible to others by flipping the switch to activate your hazard blinkers. If you have flares, activate them and place them around the outside of your car.
 Before you leave your vehicle, check your mirrors to see if any other cars are approaching. Go slowly when you do decide to get out to avoid slipping in the mud. If the conditions are too dangerous, stay in your car and call for emergency assistance., Turn your steering wheel so that your tires face straightforward. Apply just a slight amount of pressure to the gas pedal and switch gears between drive and reverse. Stop everything if you feel the tires spinning continually. Turn the wheel so that your tires are at an angle and try again.For manual vehicles, this maneuver works best when in the highest gear. For automatics, go with the lowest gear possible., If you get stuck in the mud, go to each tire and let out some air. Do this by applying a slight amount of pressure to the valve stem. Wait until you hear some air escaping and then re-check the pressure once more. This will give you some additional surface traction. Make sure to re-inflate them when you are back on solid ground., Before each muddy season, store a bag of sand or a small container of kitty litter in your vehicle. If you get stuck, sprinkle the litter or sand around your tires to help with traction., If you are stuck, shift gears to park. Remove the mats from your car and place a single mat under each tire. Let the mat just barely touch the tire with the rest of it facing forward. This will give your car some solid ground to grip onto. When you get back on solid ground, go back to retrieve your mats.In the place of mats, you can also use two to four carpet strips or even pieces of cardboard., Keep a foldable outdoor shovel in the back of your vehicle. When you are stuck, use this shovel to dig out the space around your tires. If you can remove enough moisture from the area, then your tires will be able to grip the remaining dry ground.If you get desperate, look for items in your car that you can use as a shovel. For example, a spare tire cover could be used to lift away the dirt.

