 Mosquitoes are a common summertime pest for animals. They breed in standing, stagnant water. To prevent mosquitoes from breeding on your property, remove any areas of standing water, such as flower pots, water buckets or bowls, and pool covers. Mosquitoes need only about 1/2 inch (1 cm) of water to breed, so be vigilant about not having standing water.Birdbaths can also attract mosquitoes. If you have a birdbath, change the water and clean the birdbath at least once a week.If you have a horse or an outdoor dog, they will need a constant source of cool, fresh water while they are outside. Change this water a few times a day to prevent the water from becoming stagnant and attracting mosquitoes.If you have a pond on your property, consider adding mosquito larvae-eating fish to the pond.These fish would help lower the mosquito population on your property. Visit a fishing supply store to learn which fish you should purchase.;
, Piles of leaves and vegetation (e.g., apples, berries) that fall from trees can attract mosquitoes and give them a place to hide. When you see piles of leaves and debris from trees, clear them up and throw them away., Clogged gutters can trap water, leaves, and other debris, which can attract mosquitoes. Cleaning your gutters will keep water flowing smoothly through the gutters when it rains. Plan to clean your gutters at the beginning of fall and spring. If you are not able to clean the gutters yourself, consider hiring a professional company that will do the cleaning for you., Yard sprays that kill mosquitoes are available at your local home improvement store. If you are unable to spray the yard yourself, consider contacting a pest management company instead. The company would focus on trees and shrubs where mosquitoes can hide during the day., For barns, it may be difficult to keep out the mosquitoes. Automatic spray systems are available that can periodically spray a mosquito repellent into the air. The repellent would likely contain pyrethroids, which are insecticides.Consider contacting a pest management company to install the system in your barn.
 Mosquitoes can be a big nuisance if they make their way inside your home. To prevent mosquitoes from buzzing around inside your home, place screens in the windows and doors. Check the screens regularly for holes or tears. Repair any damage you see.To repair holes, replacement screen material is available at your local home improvement store.Replace any screens that are damaged beyond repair.
If adding screens to your windows or doors is not practical, keep the windows and doors closed during peak mosquito hours: early evening to early morning., Mosquitoes come out at dawn and dusk. To prevent your pets from getting mosquito bites, keep them inside during peak mosquito hours.If you have a horse, keep it in its stall at dawn and dusk., Mosquito repellents are a great way to prevent your pets from getting bitten by mosquitoes. Several insect repellents (Vectra 3D, K9 Advantix II, BioSpot) are available for dogs. However, because cats are very sensitive to the insect-repelling ingredients in dog repellents, there aren’t many options for cat insect repellents. Highly-diluted essential oils (tea tree, mint) may be effective insect repellents for cats.Speak with your veterinarian before using essential oils as an insect repellent for your cat.
Cat-safe sprays and wipes that repel mosquitoes are available at your local pet store.Fly spray is an effective mosquito repellent for horses. Many types of fly spray are available, so talk to your vet about which spray would work best for your horse. It may help to rotate between several fly sprays., Human insect repellents contain DEET, which is extremely toxic to dogs and cats and can cause serious neurologic problems.DEET alternatives are available. However, these alternatives are usually oil based and can irritate the skin of a dog or cat.Use only pet-safe mosquito repellents on your dog or cat.


If you are putting insect repellent on yourself, do so in an area far away from your dog or cat so they are not exposed to the DEET.