 Walk toward your partner by strutting like you're on a cat walk, moving one foot in front of the other with confidence. Hold your head high and keep your shoulders back, letting your chest be front-and center. Keep one hand on your hip.


You can even stop to gyrate your body over the side of a wall before you move toward the center of the stage.
 This is not the time to be coy. Maintain eye contact whenever you're facing your partner, and don't blush and look away. Keep your lips slightly parted, so they look even more sultry. And whatever you do -- don't laugh. No matter how silly or out of your comfort zone you feel, nothing will kill the mood faster.


However, you can give just the hint of a sexy smile whenever you're about to do something hot, like remove another article of clothing or caress your breasts.
 Turn away from the person and take off your top or dress as you continue to move your body. Then, turn around while holding the garment and making intense eye contact with the audience. Take the garment and gently throw it in your man's direction.


If you're wearing a dress, then skip the next step, but if you just took off a top, then move on to the next stage.
 First, gyrate a bit, by moving your hips up and down, and moving your hands up and down the sides of your body, caressing your hips and stomach. Then, turn around, bend slightly forward, hook your thumbs into your skirt, and bend with your backside toward your partner as you roll down your skirt.


Let your skirt fall to the ground and kick it aside.
 Move around some more, walking around both sides of the chair, pressing yourself up against the back, and continuing to move up and down while caressing your body. Toss your hair back, lick your lips, and maintain your sultry expression. Look up at the ceiling as you caress your breasts, and show what a great time you're having.
 Lightly kick off your heels while placing one foot on the chair, showing off your gorgeous legs. Make sure to keep your heels nearby -- you'll need them again soon. Stroke your leg with your hands. Then, slowly roll down the stocking and toss it to your partner or to the crowd.


Repeat this step with your other leg, until your legs are bare and all you're wearing is your bra and underwear.
 Gently lower your feet back into the shoes, one at a time. You can hold on to the chair if you need help, as long as you continue to look sexy. The striptease will be sexier if you stick to the heels.
 Unclasp the bra until it's just covering your breasts, and hold it there. Turn around to show off your bare back, and lower the bra and toss it to the side. First, cover your breasts with your hands, gyrate, and continue to caress them. Then, slowly move your hands off your breasts, and turn around so you don't show too much at once.


Turn back to face the person, and let them see your sexy body.
 Turn around and pull down your underwear, taking care to leave your shoes on. When you turn to the front, first, cover yourself with your hands, and then move them away from your private parts to caress the rest of your body. Let everyone see how sexy you are, when you move around wearing only high heels.
 Lick your lips and kick your heels across the room until you're completely nude. And then, prepare for whatever's next -- lots of tips from the crowd, or a sexy session with your partner.

