 It can be found by hovering over the T-shirt icons on your map. Once you’re at the location, a blue dot on your minimap will indicate if the random event is available. Members of The Lost MC will steal from someone, then make a getaway in a van.You can kill the thieves before they get in the van, but it won’t result in a monetary reward.;
, Shoot the wheels, shoot the driver or shoot at the gas tank and set the car on fire. Doing so will cause the thieves to exit the van. Once they do, kill them.


Alternatively, you could toss a sticky bomb onto the van and detonate it.
 Walk over to the dead thieves and pick up the wallet. It should be glowing blue.
 If you return it to the owner, he will give you a $25 reward. However, you could keep the wallet and gain $250 instead.Completing these random events will also fill your special ability meter.
If you return the wallet and get the $25 reward, you can kill the owner to obtain the same amount of money you’d have if you hadn’t returned it. That brings the total of the reward to $275.
The money you obtain from the victim is the only monetary reward, since the members of The Lost MC don’t leave behind cash when they die.
 It is located across from the Los Santos Customs property that Franklin can purchase. If the random event is occurring, you will hear the victim cry out for help as four The Lost MC members rob him and escape in a van., The van’s doors will swing open and two of the thieves will shoot at you. Shoot and kill them, then do the same to the two in the front seats.
 Four more The Lost MC members will arrive on bikes. You can shoot and kill them from within your car, or you can get out and take cover to protect yourself from damage. Explosives, such as sticky bombs or molotov cocktails, can be used to eliminate them more quickly.They do not drop money when they are killed.
 If you decide to keep it, you will gain $120. If you decide to return it instead, the man will give you a $12 reward.By returning the wallet and then killing the owner, you can obtain a maximum reward of $132.

