 You can make it as long or as short as you'd like, but 100-150 pages of poems and lyrics is recommended.;
, There is no right or wrong way to design your book cover. However, some things to keep in mind include:


Know your message. If you aren't sure of the message you want to convey, you can bet that no one else will be, either.
Know the reader. Each book/compilation of works has a target audience, and your cover should appeal to this audience. If you attempt to appeal to everyone, chances are you'll end up appealing to no one.
Be smart in your layout. Size each element appropriately—Make your most important elements visible; remember that larger elements will carry more weight than smaller ones.
Choose colors that play well off each other.
Place elements so that the viewer's eye will flow well. Things to think about: If you use slanting lines, make sure they all slant the same way, don't break up important sentences or phrases with different fonts, and avoid "trapped space."



, In MS Word (2007 and newer) you may choose between several types of headlines. "Headline 1" indicates that the headline is the start of a new chapter, for example. If you want to include titles that are categorized under a title of a chapter, mark that headline, and choose then "Headline 2". Repeat this when making a title which is categorized under the subtitle. And now, choose the fan "References" and choose "Content index". You want to choose to let the program create an automatic index.
 If the option cannot be found, download the "Save to PDF" - plugin from Microsoft Downloads., The payment will be put on a PayPal account which should be set up in your own name (you have to be 18 years old to be able to use all of the functions). If you want to transfer the money to your bank account, then the principle is to tell the online bank the important facts about your account, like what kind it is, the ID, some codes and how much you'd like to withdraw to your bank account.


Lulu can both print physical books and publish an e-book. The only fee is 20% of your profits, which means that if the price of your book is 20 dollars, you will earn 11,875 dollars while the publishers take the rest of the pot.
, You should be fine with uploading your PDF. Be aware over that the later editions must be formatted in the same way as the original PDF - file, and the PDF must also follow Lulu's formatting rules. Before uploading, make sure you take a look on Lulu's tips and requirements.
 That means, getting followers and friends and posting a link that takes them to the site where they can purchase the published book. Easy, right?

