 It is important to face the total amount that you owe. Organize the list by credit card. Write down the amount you owe, the interest rate, and how much you are paying in late fees and other penalties such as over-the-limit charges. If you are behind in your payments, write down how many months late you are.;
, Put together a budget. Add up your monthly income, and subtract what you pay in your mortgage or rent, as well as your regular bills such as utilities, cable, and phone. Include what you will need to pay for food as well. After those necessities are deducted, take a look at what you have left to pay down your credit card debt.
 Make sure you are speaking with someone who can negotiate a settlement or a payment arrangement with you. If you get a customer service representative, you may have to ask for a credit manager or an authorized supervisor. Write down the person's name and direct extension, in case you need to follow up at a later date.


Negotiate a lump sum settlement, if you are able to pay it. Credit card companies may be willing to settle for a percentage of what you owe. Try to get them to accept 50 percent of the balance you owe. This is usually preferable to the credit card company, who will want to collect as much as they can, and close your account.
Ask for a modified payment plan. If you are unable to pay off a large amount of your balance, and you are having trouble meeting your minimum payment, tell the credit card company that. Explain any circumstances that led to your problems, such as divorce or job loss. Propose a monthly payment amount that you know you can afford.
Request a lower interest rate. The monthly payment often rises when interest rates go up. Some credit card companies charge over 20 percent in interest, even if you are a good customer and paying your bill every month. Ask that they return to the original rate you were offered when you applied for the card. Try to get your rate down to 10 percent or lower. If you are planning to close your account after you reach a deal, they might be willing to keep the rate at 0 while you are paying off the debt.
See if they will refund, or stop charging, late fees and penalties. If your balance has risen over your credit limit, it is likely because you are charged a fee every time you pay late or do not pay at all. Ask your credit card company to remove those fees so your balance is more reasonable. If they will not remove the fees that have already been charged, ask them to discontinue charging over-limit penalties.
 Once you reach an agreement, whether it is a payment plan, a settlement amount, or lower interest charges and fees, ask the person you speak to for a written agreement. This will protect you in case you find the negotiated arrangement does not go into effect.

