 Follow the shape shown in the image of the following step to help you design an eggplant shape template on pattern or brown paper. The shape is a little like a kidney bean, only not as steeply dipped in the center. The size is up to you; consider how many coins you're likely to want to carry and how much room you have in your handbag. It is recommended that you keep the length under 20cm/7.8" and within 10cm/3.9" width to keep it compact.

Cut out the template in readiness for use on the fabric.;
, Pin the paper template to the fabric in readiness for cutting. Then cut as follows:

2 pieces of external fabric following the eggplant template; this will be from the colored cotton fabric
2 pieces of plain cotton fabric lining
2 more pieces of plain cotton fabric for lining.
 Draw simple leaf shapes (see the image above as guidance) on paper. Cut out the template, pin to the felt and cut out four felt leaves., Face the right side of both fabrics together and pin in place. Stitch together, all the way around apart from the mouth end (the end the purse opens from)––leave an opening about 4-5cm/1.5-2". Then turn the external part of the bag inside out., Sew the cotton fabric lining pieces together, using the same method. Leave an opening with length of 4-5cm/1.5-2".
Then, place the lining fabric bag inside the outside fabric bag. Stitch together all the way around, apart from the open mouthpiece.
 Adjust the shape to neaten as needed. Then glue on the four felt leaves, cascading down each side of the mouth. Use a decorative stitch, such as blanket stitch.
 Insert the mouth opening into the gap of the purse frame, carefully aligning it over the mouth stitching and maybe just a little part of the leaf ends if they come up that high. You may need to wiggle the material a little to fit it properly., Gluing is a little faster but can be messier and less durable, while stitching requires a little extra effort but will likely last longer. Here is how to do both ways:

For gluing, use a fabric glue. Be careful not to overdo the glue––wipe away any excess glue immediately or it might dry as a noticeable blob.
For stitching, use an embroidery needle that is thin enough to fit through the hole. While holding the frame and the purse fabric together with your other hand, insert the needle from the wrong side of the purse about 5mm/0.19" away from the fabric's edge into the second hole of the frame to start. Then insert the needle into the first hole. From here, insert into the third hole from the wrong side again, then sew back into the second hole. Repeat the stitching for the rest of the frame in the same fashion. Pull firmly after each stitch, to ensure smooth and even stitches from both sides. Knot well when you reach the end. Pliers can be used to squeeze each end of the purse frame to prevent it from moving off the purse; if so, cover the frame with a piece of scrap fabric before applying the pliers, so as to protect the frame's finish.
 Your eggplant purse is now ready for use.




