 Being on time and present for each class will help you avoid getting in trouble. Make sure you have enough time to get ready and get to school in the morning so you don’t have to rush. Wake up 15-30 minutes before you normally do if you are having trouble getting to school on time.
 Focus your attention on the teacher and the lesson. Refrain from distractions like talking to your friends, passing notes, or looking at your cell phone. Rather than staring off into space or out the window, focus your attention on your teacher and what they are saying.
 Taking notes will keep you on track as well as help you remember the material you are being taught. Write down key words, definitions, equations, tips, and tricks that your teacher mentions., If your teacher asks a question and you know the answer, raise your hand. You can also ask questions or get clarification on things that are confusing. Participating in class will show your teacher that you are listening and trying to learn the material, which they will surely appreciate it., When your teacher assigns something, listen carefully to what they say and follow their directions. Do what is expected of you, even if you don’t really want to. It’s not up to you to determine if an assignment is worthy, you still need to complete it.

For example, if your teacher tells your class to pair up and discuss a book you’re reading, do so. Don’t ignore their instructions or talk to your partner about other things, simply bring up an interesting point about the book and ask your partner what they think about it.
 Make a planner that you can list all your assignments in so that you know what to do each day. Stick to your schedule and wait to play video games or hang out with your friends until your homework is done.

You can also pack your backpack each night before you go to bed so that you aren’t rushing around looking for your assignments in the morning.
 If you’re caught with something you shouldn’t have at school you are going to get in a lot of trouble. Leave banned items at home, or don’t buy them in the first place.

Never bring drugs, alcohol, or weapons to school. You can get expelled as well as get in trouble with the police, so it’s not at all worth it.
 Be respectful to your teachers as well as your peers. Don’t talk back to a teacher, just listen to them and understand that they are trying to help you. Avoid calling your classmates names, teasing them, or spreading gossip and rumors., You should admit when you have done something wrong, and tell the truth rather than lying. Not only are you likely to be caught in a lie, but then your teachers and parents won’t trust you moving forward. Own up to your mistakes and find a way to fix them.Never, ever cheat. You won’t learn what you are supposed to, and you’ll get in a ton of trouble when you get caught.
 Many kids get in trouble for using curse words or speaking inappropriately. Avoid talking like that at school or in front of teachers and parents. Think of other ways to express yourself in a mature manner.

For example, if a teacher assigns a 3-page paper, don’t say “This is BS! What a waste of time.” Instead, keep your thoughts to yourself or say something like “Wow, it’s going to be a long night.”

, Fighting will certainly get you in trouble at school, so you need to avoid it at all costs. If someone tries to pick a fight with you, simply laugh it off or walk away. It can be difficult to control your emotions in the moment, but it’s a far better solution than wailing on someone and getting suspended. If you feel like the situation is getting out of control, talk to a teacher or counselor.


For example, if someone says something rude to you, respond with “Hey, man, that was rude. Don’t talk to me like that.”

, Pay attention to who seems to do well in school and who is constantly getting in trouble. Don’t hang out with the kids that get in trouble, or you will likely get in trouble too. Find classmates who share your interests, and spend time with them.


For instance, if you love comic books, find a few friends who share your passion. You could even start a comic book club.
 Just because your peers think something is a good idea doesn’t mean it actually is. Think the situation through and trust your gut instinct. If you have a feeling you could get into trouble for doing something, don’t do it.

Say your friends want to steal a rival school’s mascot costume. Rather than going along with the plan, say “Nah, I don’t want to get in trouble. I’ll see you guys later,” and walk away. They may tease you about it, but they won’t be laughing when they end up in detention.
 A great way to stay out of trouble is to get involved at school. Join the student council/government or look for other ways to help out. Volunteer to organize a school event, such as a dance or fundraiser. You could also reach out to a coach and see if they could use your help managing a team or club., When you have a lot of free time on your hands, it can be easy to get into trouble. The best thing to do is to stay busy. Join a sports team or a school club so that you have activities after school. You can also get a job, which will keep you busy as well as provide you with some extra cash.For example, join the softball team, the art club, the swim team, or the drama club.
As for jobs, offer to babysit your neighbor’s children, mow lawns in your neighborhood, or apply for work at a local ice cream shop or restaurant.

