 There are many herbicides you might use, though you should be aware this plant is resistant to many common treatments. Regular herbicides used for dandelion control won't likely be strong enough to kill creeping charlie.


Three way herbicides, often called "trimec herbicides," should be prioritized, as the special compounds in these are effective at eliminating creeping charlie.Some herbicides may affect other plants around the creeping charlie. You should consult the label of your herbicide to understand the full effects before administering it.
Some herbicides leave behind residue for a period of time after its application that can be harmful to children or animals. In these cases, you should block off the area and/or keep an eye around children and pets until the next rainfall or until your label indicates the herbicide has diminished to safe levels.
 This is the ideal time for chemical treatment of creeping charlie. At this time of year, the plant begins storing nutrient in the stem and root system for the winter. This means your herbicide treatment will have a greater effect on the plant.When using a herbicidal treatment, more is not always better. Follow the directions that came with your herbicide for best results.
 A follow-up spring application is best suited to severe or especially stubborn cases., If you have a plot that is susceptible to creeping charlie, or if this plant is common in your area, even if you kill or remove it completely it'll likely spring up again from another source. In this situation, you'll likely have to apply herbicide yearly to your lawn to ensure the plant doesn't come back.


You can also make your lawn less hospitable for creeping charlie by creating a bright sunlight environment by pruning shade casting branches.
A thick cover of grass can also make your lawn less hospitable for creeping charlie. By planting grass that grows well in shade, it's less likely creeping charlie will pop up in shady areas that are more susceptible to the plant.