 Take a shower using warm water followed by cold water. You can also just use cold water. This may reduce the duration and frequency of common cold symptoms because cold water increase your white blood cell count, which will help you fight your cold.To do this, start with a very warm water. Next, turn the water as cold as you can and start spraying, using a removable shower head, from the feet up, then from the hands in.


Be sure to also spray your back. Also spray the cold water towards your chest.
Do not use very cold water with the very young, the very old, or anyone with a debilitating disease, heart disease, implanted medical devices, or one who is pregnant, has lung disease, or is very weak. Use cool water only.
Afterwards, wrap your body in as many towels as you need to totally cover yourself. Get in bed and stay under the covers until you are dry.
 This treatment is supposed to help reduce fevers and treat colds. You need a pair of 100% wool and 100% cotton socks. Soak your cotton socks in very cold water. After soaking, wring the socks out completely. Warm your feet in warm water. Then dry them completely. Your feet should be very warm and pinkish. Then, put on the cold, wet cotton socks. Put the wool socks on over the cotton socks.


Once you have the socks on, go directly to bed. Wear both socks for the whole night.
This approach usually starts relieving congestion within 30 to 60 minutes. You can repeat this twice each night if symptoms are not improving., Steam can help open up the nasal passages, help thin out mucus, and help the mucus drain. Boil the water. Add one to two drops of essential oils containing echinacea, thyme, peppermint, oregano, ginger, or garlic. Start with one drop for each quart of water. If you don’t have the essential oils, substitute ½ teaspoon of dried herb per quart of water. Once you add the oil or herbs, boil the water for another minute, then turn off the heat and move the pot from the heat.


Echinacea is believed to have immune boosting, antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and antiviral properties.Peppermint is a natural decongestant.Thyme and oregano boost the immune system and have antibacterial and antiviral properties. These also increase circulation of the blood by opening up blood vessels.Ginger has antiviral properties and increases blood circulation.
Garlic has antiviral and immune boosting properties.