 Respect is usually due either to being liked or to being deemed competent. Sometimes respect is a combination of the two.It can sometimes be difficult to be likable in professional situations. However, you do have some control about how others view you.
 Especially if you have a position of power at work, your own behavior will be modeled by those underneath you. You have the power to create a more congenial workplace by being congenial to others.Never yell, curse, or insult your colleagues and employees: always remain polite and professional.
 Studies show that demonstrating respect for others will make it more likely for them to respect you.Do not brown-nose, but do behave toward your coworkers with empathy and courtesy. Some ways for you to demonstrate your respect include:


Listening actively to their ideas.
Complimenting them when they do a good job.
Asking them for their input.
Behaving politely.
Showing interest in their lives.
 If you are a supervisor, you can create policies that will discourage your employees from behaving in an uncivil way toward each other and toward you. You should also make sure that you only hire employees who have a track record of behaving respectfully at work.Company civility policies can help make respect thrive in the workplace.
 While shy, introverted people are often not initially respected by their peers, over time respect will grow. Indeed, introverts are often respected more than extroverts given enough time.If you are introverted or nervous, be patient and focus on your work. Let your colleagues' respect for you build over time.
 Employees respond more positively to supervisors who are humble and behave respectfully themselves.Those who insist on being deferred to might receive more external signs of respect but will not actually be respected by their employees.Always be humble, and never push colleagues and employees to behave in a deferential manner.
 Morality is one of the key attributes of respect.If you consistently demonstrate that you are an honest, empathetic, upstanding person, you are more likely to be respected at work. Do not try to take advantage of your colleagues or the company: that will hurt your reputation in the long term.
 Don't be a doormat. Respect means that everyone must listen to one another and hear each other out. However, it does not mean that everyone has to agree on a course of action. You should state your knowledgeable opinion and allow others to express theirs. Don't worry about agreeing with everybody, and don't worry about having everyone agree with you., People are more likely to respect members of their own in-group as opposed to members of an out-group. This kind of exclusion can take place because of differences in gender, sexuality, race, ethnicity, nationality, religion, language group, or socioeconomic status.If you are not feeling respected at work despite your competence and kindness, it is possible that your colleagues' internal biases are to blame.


If workplace disrespect due to bias is taking place, you might consider contacting your Human Resources representative or ombudsman. It is important that you be treated fairly and with respect.

