 Comparing yourself to others -- in any way like job, looks, talent, intelligence, etc -- is unfair. You live an entirely different life than others, and it has affected and shaped you differently.This will help ease expectations you set yourself, and help put your own life in perspective.


Remember that you are unique; no one else has the same exact history as you.
For example, do not compare your looks to your friends. They have had different experiences than you.
If you feel like you are not as smart as your classmates, consider the fact you have a different educational history and experiences than them.
 Whatever you are struggling with, a great way to put your life in perspective to consider what has come before. Consider what has happened in history and think about your problems in relation to that.


Your problems and your life may still cause you to feel strong emotions. It is very important not to discount your emotions even if you think that you might “not have it that bad.” Reflecting on historical facts is meant to consider change, not to discount your thoughts.Read books on history or take a class about a culture that might interest you. There are also great history podcasts that are offered for free through very reputable institutes and organizations.
 A great way to find perspective is to talk to others. They can help you consider new view points or acknowledge your viewpoints and opinion.


Always be polite and respectful to people’s perspectives, even if they are different from your own. Perspectives and stances can be personal.
 Seeing a situation as hopeless can make it hard for you to get anything done, but you can change that. If you feel like you are not capable of changing something, then try to identify something small that you could do.For example, if you feel like you are not capable of finding a job, then try to identify what you might do to start the process. Perhaps you could identify three jobs that you would like to apply for or fill out one job application at a place that is hiring.
 A negative outlook may make you feel like things will never change, rather than viewing the future with hope and possibility. Try to reframe any negative thoughts that you have about the present with positive thoughts about the future.For example, if you think to yourself, “I am never going to finish this project,” try asking yourself something like, “When I imagine myself completing this project, what do I see happening to reach that goal?”

, Fears about how other people view you may also interfere with your ability to have a positive outlook. Instead of focusing on how other people may or may not see you, try to focus on how you see yourself.For example, if you find yourself thinking, “No one likes me,” try asking yourself, “What do I like about myself?”

