 You will need to store your lipstick in something so that it doesn't get dusty or dirty. Here is a list to give you some ideas:


Contact lens case
Empty lipstick or chap stick tubes
Empty lip balm container
Empty eye shadow or blush containers
Pill boxes;
, If you have not already done so, clean your container well using soap and warm water. Wipe your container down using a cotton ball soaked with rubbing alcohol; use a cotton swab to get into small spaces, such as corners.
 Your lipstick will start to harden quickly and you will need to pour it into its container before it sets. Make sure that your containers are within reach and open, so that they will be ready.
 You can do this by placing the crayon under warm, running water for a few minutes, then peeling the wrapper off.You can also use a craft knife to score a shallow line down the length of the crayon and peel the paper off.









Dispose of crayon parts that were not covered by paper, as these parts may be tainted with germs, bacteria or other crayon colors.
 Hold the crayon between your fingers and snap it into smaller pieces. If you are having difficulties breaking the crayons, you can cut them using a sharp knife. Breaking the crayon into smaller pieces will not only make it easier to melt, but it will also make it easier to mix colors together.
 Fill a pot with 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) with water. Place a metal or heat-safe glass bowl on top of the pot. The bottom of the bowl should not be touching the surface of the water.
 You will be using the hot steam to melt the crayon, butter, and oils.
 Using a lower temperature will prevent them from melting too fast.
 You can use all one color, or you can combine different colors to create your own unique shade. Stir the crayon pieces occasionally with a fork or spoon.
 You can use any type of food-grade oil, but some oils (such as coconut oil) might give the lipstick a more pleasant taste and smell than others.









For a sheer lipstick, use ½ teaspoon of oil; for a more intense color, use only ¼ teaspoon., At this point, you can also add in additional ingredients, such as extracts or essences, or even some cosmetic-grade glitter.
 Use oven mitts or a dish towel to lift the bowl so that you do not burn yourself.
 Use a spoon to help guide it into the container so that the melted wax does not get everywhere.
 You can let it cool in the kitchen (or whatever room you were making it in), or you can leave it in the freezer or refrigerator.
 You can use a match or lighter. Make sure that you are working close to a sink, or have water close by, in case the candle tips over.
 Keep the spoon about one inch (2.54 centimeters) above the flame., It will take about 30 seconds before the crayons start to melt.Be sure to stir them occasionally using a toothpick.
 You can use any type of food-grade oil, but some types, such as coconut oil, will give the lipstick a nicer smell and taste.









For sheer lipstick, use ½ teaspoon of your chosen oil.
For a more intense color, use ¼ teaspoon of your chosen oil.
 At this point, you can add in other ingredients, such as an extract for flavor or cosmetic glitter for shimmer. If the spoon becomes too hot to hold, consider using an oven mitt or wrapping the handle with a towel.
 Once the ingredients have melted and there are no more lumps, pull the spoon away from the flame and carefully pour the melted lipstick into the container. Be sure to blow out the candle.
 You can leave the lipstick to cool in the room you were working in, or you can stick the container into the fridge or freezer.
 Avoid using craft glitter; even the finest grain craft glitter will be too chunky to use for lipstick. Try using some cosmetic-grade glitter instead; you can purchase it in a beauty shop or online.


You can also use metallic crayons to create a pearlescent lipstick.
 When making your lipstick, use castor oil instead of the food-grade oil.
 You can mix however many colors you want, so long as you end up with what amounts to one crayon. Here are some color combinations you can try:To deepen a pink color, add some deep burgundy.
If the pink is too bright, add some peach-colored crayon.
Create a shimmery red-violet by mixing 1 part Gold and 2 parts Red Violet. You can add more shimmer with some gold cosmetic glitter.
Use one part each of Melon and Magenta to create a bright pink.
Create a bright red using 1 part each of Red Orange and Wild Strawberry.
For a creamy, neutral color, use 1 part each of Bittersweet and Peach.
For a silvery purple, use 1 part each of Silver and Violet.
 You will only need one or two drops of your chosen extract, essence or oil. Keep in mind that certain flavors and scents will be stronger than others, so you will need to use a little bit more/less. Keep in mind that the flavor and scent will become stronger after the lipstick hardens.Here is a list of extracts and essences that work well in homemade lipstick:


Coconut
Grapefruit or tangerine
Peppermint
Vanilla

