 A good diet is the foundation for a fit body. If you want to look like a cheerleader, work on eating a balanced diet rich in fruits and vegetables.Fruits and vegetables should be the staple of your diet. When possible, go for fresh fruits and veggies over canned or frozen varieties. You should also get in low-fat dairy products, lean meats like chicken or fish, beans, eggs, and nuts.
You do not have to give up your favorite foods to eat healthy. An occasional treat or indulgence is fine, as long as it does not come at the expense of a diet that's healthy overall. If you want to go out for ice cream with friends now and then, feel free to do so. Just make sure that most of your daily calories come from fresh, healthy food.
Protein is particularly important for those training for a cheerleader body. You need protein for aerobics and weight training. Make sure you get some lean meats every day, like fish and chicken. You should also strive for complex, protein-rich carbohydrates, like beans, quinoa, brown rice, and whole wheat bread.;
, Cheerleaders usually have lean figures. You should make time for four one-hour aerobics sessions each week. Aerobic activities tend to burn the most calories. Aerobic activities include things like:Biking
Running
Jogging
Swimming
Many sports where you run around, such as soccer, tennis, and rugby

, Weight training is also important if you want to look like a cheerleader. Cheerleaders engage in a lot of physical activity during their routines, so their bodies are often very toned. Incorporate some weight training into your weekly fitness regimen.Most people see significant improvement with just one or two 30 minute weight training sessions a week. Make sure to space these sessions out, however. You should not engage in activities like weight lifting more than one day in a row.
Start slow when lifting weights. As a beginner, you may only be able to lift a few pounds. That's okay. It's better to start slow than risk straining yourself. You should also warm up before you begin. Take a brisk 30 minute walk before you start training.
You don't necessarily need to lift weights to weight train. Activities like push-ups, sit-ups, and Pilates allow you to use your body as a weight.
 If you're going to make any significant changes to your lifestyle, you should talk to a doctor first. Exercise and a balanced diet are important for your health. However, you want to make sure your dietary needs are met and that you're not overdoing exercise. Make an appointment with a doctor to talk about your diet and fitness goals.
 As cheerleaders engage in a lot of aerobic activity, some of their hair is usually up in a ponytail. If you want to look like a cheerleader, you should keep at least part of your hair pulled back.Many cheerleaders only have part of their hair pulled back. They may pull the hair in front back into a partial pony tail. If your hair is too thin or short for a partial ponytail, simply pull all your hair back into a classic ponytail.
Some people advise straightening your hair, if it's curly, to look like a cheerleader. However, many cheerleaders do have curly hair.
 When it comes to make-up, the most important aspect is foundation. Use a few layers of a light foundation that matches your skin tone. Use your fingers, a sponge, or a brush to spread the foundation over your face. Work on evening out your skin tone, targeting red marks, acne, and other imperfections.If you want a bit more make-up, consider adding a touch of bronzer to your cheekbones. This can make your cheekbones look more defined, giving your face a slimmer overall look.
Do not use too much foundation. You want your skin to look even and natural. Foundation should not look caked on or excessive.
 While people may associate cheerleaders with a lot of flashy make-up, most cheerleaders keep make-up fairly minimal. Due to the excessive amount of physical activity involved in cheerleading, most cheerleaders go for light, natural looking make-up shades.Apply a light, natural shade of eyeshadow, like a beige or peach shade. You should also add a bit of eyeliner to make your eyes pop. Use enough that it stays on all day, but not too much to the point it becomes overwhelming.
A nice lipstick can have a nice effect. Consider a girly shade, like pink or purple. You may want to add a bit of lip gloss over the lipstick so your lips shine a bit.
Some cheerleaders do apply a sparkly shade of eyeshadow. This can be a fun touch, as long as you add a layer of primer on your eyelids. This will help the eyeshadow stay in place and keep it from spreading on your cheeks and face., If you want to embody the cheerleader look, go for preppy clothes. Seek out skirts, sun dresses, blazers, leggings, cardigans, tank tops, and flattering jeans. Pick bright colors and fun patterns, like polka dots, rainbows, and stripes.


If you're on a budget, go to a secondhand store to shop. There are often a wide-variety of skirts at secondhand stores that can help with your cheerleader look.
Many people associate cheerleaders with images from high school. You can look for something like a plaid skirt and blazer combo, which may remind people of the school girl image.
 It's a good idea to put a bow in your hair. Many cheerleader's ponytails are tied by ribbons or bows. Take a large, bright colored ribbon and wrap it around your ponytail. Tie it an attractive looking bow-shape.If you're not into bows or ribbons, consider a headband or barrette instead.
 Cheerleaders are known for their fun, perky attitude. Try to stay positive in your day-to-day interactions if you want to give off the cheerleader vibe.Compliment friends, classmates, co-workers, and family members. Even a small compliment goes a long way. Mention a little thing, like, "I really love your blouse!" or "Thanks for asking me how my day was!"
Try to see the bright side of situations. When faced with a challenge, try to look at it as an opportunity to grow and change.
 Cheerleaders are known for being high energy. Try to work on being energetic to help with your cheerleader image. Eating right and exercising, as discussed, can help with your overall energy. However, work on getting high quality sleep each night. This can also keep your energy up.


Try to go to bed and wake up around the same time every day, including weekends. Your body will naturally adapt to a regular sleep/wake cycle. You can also try having a bed time ritual, liking reading every night before bed. This can signal to your brain that it's time for sleep. Getting more rest will help you have more cheerleader energy.Caffeine can be used, in moderation, for an energy spike if you're feeling tired. A cup of coffee or tea can help you get through an afternoon slump. However, don't overdo it. Around 4 cups of brewed coffee a day contains more than enough caffeine for most adults.You should avoid relying on energy drinks or soda for caffeine, as the added sugar can cause weight gain and other health problems.
 Cheerleaders are known for being enthusiastic. If you want to give off a cheerleader vibe, work on being a personal cheerleader for those around you. Support people at work, school, and your personal life. If a friend is going to ask someone out on a date, let that friend know you're rooting for him or her. If a colleague has a presentation coming up, tell that colleague you're confident he or she will do great.