 Watch the news, read books on differing views, go on their websites. Nobody will take you seriously if you don't know the details on issues, or for whom you are voting. Be informed. Conservative conduct with good morals, lowering government spending and maintaining freedom while avoiding riotous and wild living are all conservative ideals.;
, Find several issues you believe in, and discuss them intelligently when the conversation turns to politics.
 Why did you choose this over other political ideals or topics? What makes your side's pro-growth economics and life issues better than the rest?

, Do you want to support the conservative words found on the money in the USA, In God We Trust, and such candidates as have pro-life beliefs? Those are not just words, but can be important concepts. They may be forgotten, opposed or taken for granted as a "slogan" or "private matters" by more liberal people, but you can seek a candidate who stands and honors your rights such as freedom of speech.
 If there is an alleged conservative scandal, don't dismiss it by saying, "Oh, they wouldn't do that!". Likewise, don't immediately assume a scandal on the opposite side is true as well. Get the facts first.



Some things seem like simply personal choices, but they may degrade/degenerate into no choice for the next generation (as it becomes "settled".).
 Don't get riled up listening to other speak. As American society tends to swing more to the left, so people will try to deride anything conservative while conveniently omitting the positive aspects of certain ideals. It's important to learn to defend your views intelligently. Every political system has problematic areas that need changing, but work for improvements, not lowering of standards.
 Examine and stay true to your decisions and point of view.
 Despite the earlier steps, if you think conservatives have not improved enough for your liking, feel free to get involved; adopt other views or support and vote for your ideals.
 In all things, you have many reasons for being a proud conservative.

