 The more crisp the bill, the easier it will be to make clean folds. Make sure there aren’t any existing creases, because you’ll be creating new creases that will guide you throughout the folding of the turtle.


If you can’t find a crisp $1 bill, try looking for a $10 or $20 bill.
Work on a flat surface like a desk or workbench so you can press hard on the folds.;
, Fold the dollar bill in half, lining the top of the bill with the very bottom of the bill. The top and bottom edges should not overlap or be folded on an angle.


If you unfolded the bill, there would be a line running horizontally through the middle of the bill.
 Fold it in half, so the left edge lines up with the right edge of the bill. Press down with your fingernail to flatten out the bill.


The bill should now be exactly a quarter of the size that it was when you started.
 This should reveal two creases forming a perpendicular cross in the middle of the bill. This also splits your bill into 4 equally sized quadrants.


The cross should meet right in the middle of George Washington’s cheek.
 The right hand side of the bill should align with the center crease. This also should leave George Washington’s face half covered by the right side of your bill.
 This should form a point where you folded both sides and resemble an upside down pyramid.


Make sure the flat end of the pyramid lines up, so you’re getting a perfectly diagonal crease.
 Unfold the bill so it’s flat, and repeat the steps, this time using the top corners of the bill. Take the top left hand corner of the bill and bring it down, creating a 90 degree angle. Repeat with the right hand corner.
 At this point, you should have two X shapes formed by the creases you just made. Fold the X on both sides so that each one has a crease running down the middle. Take the left edge of your bill and fold it horizontally so it lines up with the center crease, to get a perfect vertical crease down the center of your X.


This is the last crease that you need to make before you start folding your bill into a turtle.
 You should now see a cross in the middle of the bill, two creases on each side that form an X, and a vertical crease in each X. The middle of your bill should look like a diamond where the left and right X meet.


Creating creases may seem unnecessary, but it makes it easier to fold your turtle.
 When you pinch the top and bottom of the X it should form a triangular flap on the left hand side. If you folded your creases accurately, it should be a perfect triangle and the bottom of the triangle should run in a straight line.
If it doesn’t look like a triangle, unfold it and try it again.
Your edges should all line up, except for the edge near the center crease of the bill which should overlap the center crease by around a centimeter.
 Fold the excess flap that hangs over the center crease of your turtle, towards the left point of its shell. This will create a long rectangular fold on the left hand side of the middle crease.
 Pinch the right hand X and repeat the steps so you have a triangle of exactly the same size on the right side of your bill. Fold back the excess flap on the right hand side. Your bill should now look like a diamond.


If you folded your bill face up, you should see the pyramids in your right triangle and the bald eagle in your left triangle.
 This will form the shell of the turtle. If you flip your bill over, it should look like a hexagon. You’ve just completed your turtle’s shell.


On the top of the turtle’s shell you should see “In God We Trust.”

, This will form the turtle's feet. You will have four total center flaps to fold on a 60 - 90 degree angle.


You can change the angle in which these flaps are folded, just keep in mind they will change the appearance of your turtle’s feet.
 You should now have a hexagon shell and four feet from the folds you just made. If you’ve done everything right, your turtle should be able to stand on the feet you folded.
 This will form the turtle’s head. When you flip your turtle over and it will look like an upside down triangle at the top of your hexagon.


The more you fold the top in, the larger you can make your turtle’s head.
 This will give the appearance of your turtle head coming out its shell. You can repeat the process with the bottom of your turtle to create a tail, but loosen the fold and make it smaller so it doesn’t look like your turtle has two heads.

