 Pillows and blankets can be cheaper than other types of decor, and they can be found in many different colors, patterns, and designs. They are perfect for living rooms, bedrooms, and other sitting areas. If you decide to change the color later, you can easily switch them out.Try layering pillows with different patterns or shades of color. These will add a dynamic effect to your sofa or bed. For example, your bed might feature a beaded purple throw pillow, a lavender neck bolster, and two sham pillows with a floral violet pattern.
A blanket can be draped over a chair, the back of a couch, or tucked away in a basket.
You can match the blanket and the pillow as well. For example, you might have two dark red throw pillows on your coach with a crimson blanket folded on the back of the cushions.
 Invest in a set of curtains for rooms with large windows. These are a great way to add a spot of color in the room without purchasing more furniture. Curtains can be patterned or a solid color.Curtains can be bought or you can make your own.
 The inside shelves of bookcases are easy to paint, and they add a bold color effect to a living room, office, or kitchen. Sand the back of the bookshelf, and add a primer. Once the primer has dried, use a mini-foam roller to paint the back of the shelf. Wait six hours, and add another coat. Once it has dried, you can add gloss on top.You can paint each shelf a different shade of the same color to create a varied effect.Instead of painting, you can also wallpaper the inside shelves. Find a wallpaper in a unique print that suits your color choice. Measure the back of each shelf, and cut the wallpaper to size. Paste it on using wallpaper paste. Wait for it to dry completely before putting anything on the self., A cheap and easy way to dress up kitchen cabinets, old dressers, and drawers is to replace the knobs. New knobs can be found at hardware stores, furniture stores, or online. Unscrew the old knobs, and replace them with the new, brightly colored knobs., If you want something bigger that will draw the eye, invest in one large piece of furniture in your color of choice. Place this object near the center of the room where the eye will be drawn to it. Some examples of a statement piece include:A dresser
Desk
Table
Couch
Ottoman
Large piece of framed art
Chandelier or unique light fixture

, A rug will bring attention to a certain corner or the center of the room. Measure the space you want the rug to go before you buy it. Unroll it, and place your furniture on top to create a layered effect.


You can find rugs in a number of bold patterns, such as chevrons, polka dots, stripes, or ombre tones.
Good places to put rugs include under dining tables, in the middle of a living room, in front of doors, and in hallways.

