 You'll find this in the upper-left corner of the Toolbox. It looks like an oval with a dashed border.;
, By default, you'll be creating a freeform ellipse shape.
 Holding ⇧ Shift after you start dragging will allow you to make a perfect circle instead of a freeform ellipse. If it doesn't work at first, you may need to start a new ellipse and try again.


If you need to make a circle of a specific size, use the "Size" fields in the bottom section of the Toolbox.
 This will create a vector object from your circle.
 The circle you created will seemingly disappear. This is normal.
 Click the current foreground color in the Toolbox and select the color you want to use as the border for the circle.
 A new window will appear. You'll be converting the circle to a

, By default, this will be pixels but you can change it to another unit of measurement.


You can choose to create the stroke with different tools for a more artistic effect.
 The circle will be created with the border in the color and size you selected.
 You can use the Bucket Fill Tool to fill the circle with a different color after creating it. Select the color you want to use from the color picker, then click inside the circle with the Bucket Fill Tool selected., You'll find this in the upper-left corner of the Toolbox window. The button has an oval with a dotted border.
 The Ellipse tool can create ovals and circles.
 The shape will snap into a perfect circle. If this isn't working correctly, try releasing and starting over, GIMP can be difficult at times. Make sure to not hold ⇧ Shift until after you start dragging.


If you need to make the circle a specific size, use the "Size" fields in the "Tool Options" section of the Toolbox.
 A new menu will appear which allows you to select the selection you just created, essentially allowing you to create an outline.
 For a thin border, enter "1" for a single-pixel border. Larger numbers will add that number of pixels to each side of the selection. For example, entering "2" will result in a border that is four pixels wide.


You can change the unit of measurement if you prefer working with different units.
 Click the foreground color in the Toolbox and use the color picker to choose the color you want to use for the circle's border.
 This will fill the circle's border with the color you selected. Your circle now has a border color and a transparent center.
 You can use the Bucket Fill Tool to fill the circle with a different color if you want to. Select the color you want to use as the foreground color, then select the Bucket Fill Tool and click the inside of the circle., While this tool is normally creating an ellipse-shaped selection, you can use it to create circles as well. You'll find this tool in the upper-left corner of the Toolbox window.
 Click and drag on your canvas to begin creating an ellipse shape.
 This will snap the ellipse into a perfect circle shape. Make sure to keep holding ⇧ Shift as you release your mouse button. If this doesn't work properly the first time, try starting a new ellipse.


You can specify the exact size of the circle by using the "Size" fields in the "Tool Options" section of the Toolbox. Make sure the height and width are the same to make a perfect circle.
 Click the foreground color box in the Toolbox to open the color picker. This color will fill the circle. The circle will be borderless.
 The circle will fill with the color you selected.

