 This circular explains how to register the copyright you have in your pictures with the United States Copyright Office. You have a copyright as soon as you take the picture. This copyright grants you the exclusive right to reproduce the picture and distribute or sell copies, among other rights.However, by registering the copyright, you get additional protections, such as the right to bring a lawsuit in federal court. To understand the registration process, you need to download this circular and read it.This circular also explains how you can register a batch of photographs with one application. You do not have to register each photograph individually. Instead, you can register a batch of unpublished or a batch of published photographs if certain conditions are met. The circular explains the conditions.;
, You can register online at the eCO website.You must create a user ID and a password. The Copyright Office has published a tutorial that explains the online registration process.If you want, you can submit your registration and then mail in hard copies of your photographs. You have to make a “deposit” of the work you are registering.
Registering online is cheaper than registering using a paper application. It is also faster.
 You still have the option of registering your copyright using a traditional paper application. You should download Form VA.It is available from the Copyright Office website.
 You can download a PDF of the form and its instructions. If you do, then you can type in the requested information. Alternately, you could print off the form and neatly write in the information. The form will ask for the following information:the title of the work, as well as any previous or alternative titles
the title of the collective work, if the picture is part of a group
the name of the author, as well as the author’s date of birth and death
the nature of the work (i.e., “photograph”)
the author’s nationality and domicile
the year the work was created
the date and nation of first publication (if applicable)
the name and address of the person claiming the copyright (usually this is you, the photographer)
contact information where you can be reached
your name and signature

, After completing your application, you should make at least one copy for your records. Assemble the photographs you are registering and include your fee. Make a check or money order payable to “Register of Copyrights.”You can find the list of current fees at the Copyright Office website.Mail the completed application to Library of Congress, Copyright Office-VA, 101 Independence Avenue SE, Washington DC 20559., You can reach a Copyright Office staff member at (202) 707-3000 or toll free at 1-877-476-0778.You can also submit an online question by clicking the “Contact Us” button at the Copyright Office website.
 You have a copyright in your photographs even without registering them. Technically, you do not have to tell someone that the picture is protected by copyright, either. However, affixing the copyright notice does put a potential thief on notice.


You should affix the copyright symbol, which is the letter C inside a circle. You can also use the word “Copyright” or the abbreviation “Copr.”You can put this information on the back of a physical photograph.
If you post the image online, then include the copyright symbol directly beside the image. You could also include it as a watermark over the image.
 As part of the copyright notice, you need to state the year the photograph was first published.You should put the date right beside the symbol.
 The final piece is to include the name of the person who holds the copyright. The final result should read something like “Copyright 2015 William E. Smith.”, You can remind buyers that you retain the copyright to the work by putting this information on your bill of sale. A typical bill of sale includes a description of the photographs and the names of the buyer and seller. You also list the sales price.


At the bottom of the bill of sale, you could include a reminder that you retain the copyright to the images. You can type: “Unauthorized use and or duplication of this material without express and written permission from the copyright owner is strictly prohibited.”Remember that people can sell the physical photograph itself; they just can’t copy it. For example, a person can sell a physical book they bought but not copy the book and sell the copy. Similarly, a person can sell the copy of your photograph. This is called the “first sale” doctrine., Most unauthorized copying of photographs takes place online. This is especially true if you sell digital photos, which are very easy to reproduce. You should set up Google alerts and get daily updates whenever anything of yours is uploaded.You need a Google email account to set up the alert. Once you have created the account, you can go to the Google Alert webpage.You can create alerts for your name, as well as the name of different pictures.
When you save digital images of your photographs, be sure to use unique image names, e.g.: “barn_wedding_morning_36R9zT7e4.jpg” is a unique name. Make sure to use the “36R9zT7e4” on each image. You can create a Google Alert for that specific alphanumeric combination., You can also find if someone is posting your images online by using Google Images. Go to its website. Then click on the camera icon in the search box.You can then select an image saved on your desktop. Google Images will search the Internet to find where the picture appears online.
 The Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) provides a mechanism for you to get your copyrighted work removed when it illegally appears on a website—the takedown notice. With this notice, you identify the illegally posted content and request that it be removed. Even if you don’t live in the U.S., you can send a takedown notice.You can also send a notice even if you didn’t register your copyright. The notice should contain the following:Identify the work you have copyrighted that is infringed.
Identify what material on the website is infringing your work. Include a URL, if possible.
State that your complaint is made “in good faith.”
Claim that “under penalty of perjury, the information contained in this notification is accurate.”
State that you have the right to proceed because you are the copyright holder or the holder’s agent.
 After drafting your notice, you need to make sure it gets delivered to the right person. You can send it to either the website on which the image appears or the internet service provider (ISP) that hosts the website. Each should have an agent designated to receive DMCA takedown notices.


The agent should be listed on the website. Look for a “contact us” or “Terms of Use” link. The name of the agent often appears on those pages.
You can find the agent by visiting the U.S. Copyright Office and searching the directory.Search by the name of the company that owns the website. Sometimes companies will also be listed in the directory by the website name. For example, CNN hosts the cnn.com website and is listed under “Cable News Network LLP” and “CNN.com” in the Copyright Office agent directory.
If the company has not registered an agent, then try to find out the state where it is located. If you can find that information, then visit the state’s Secretary of State’s website and look for a corporation search function.
If you can’t find an agent listed, then find the ISP hosting the website. You can go to the www.whois.net website and enter the URL. The ISP may be listed., If the website owner or ISP does not remove the image promptly, then you should contact an attorney. Your lawyer can advise you on next steps. For example, the lawyer might draft and send a “cease and desist letter.” Or the lawyer can help you bring a copyright infringement lawsuit in federal court.You need to have registered your copyright before you can bring a lawsuit. If you registered your copyright, then you can get attorneys’ fees if you win your lawsuit. This makes getting an attorney affordable.
To find an intellectual property lawyer, contact your state or local bar association and ask for a referral.

