 Otto Link makes an amazing ebonite mouthpiece for jazz, as does Meyer. Vandoren v16 and Java are specifically for jazz, while the V5, as long as it is open, is a great saxophone mouthpiece. Also check out Jody Jazz and the Selmer supper session, as well as the Selmer sd20 All the greats, Charlie Parker, Coltrane, Cannonball, Brecker... used a jazz mouthpiece. Remember, a jazz mouthpiece should be open, for basic jazz from size 6-8 or 9 should work, for big band music, 5-8 should work and for crazy funk and fusion, 7-11. Don't be deceived by players that you can use your classical mouthpiece for jazz.;
, jazz reeds are highly recommended and so is a good ligature. Rico Select Jazz reeds are really good, and Vandoren makes four specifically for jazz, The jazz ZZ, Java green, java red, and the V16. The v16 provides a very full sound. Vandoren traditional reeds also work decently for jazz. Hemke reeds are also great for jazz. Smooth jazz star Kenny G uses Hemke reeds. Many websites allow you to buy one reed of a certain type. Do this for several and find the one you like best. It should both sound good and respond easily. The vandoren optimum ligature has a reputation as a classical ligature but if you choose the plate with four points, the reed vibrates to its maximum capability. Also check out the Francois Louis Ultimate ligature. Try to avoid all rovner ligatures, as they dampen the sound WAY to much and have WAY to much contact with the reed.
 It is a different form of playing, less control, more unpredictable and " from the soul" It's about grooving, but doing it well.
 Play scales in a different way. Get used to articulating and create your sound.
 These are Ionian (major), Dorian, Phrygian, lydian, Mixolydian, Aeolian (minor), and Lochrian (in ascending order).
 Listening is very important for developing a jazz style. Listen to such greats as Charlie Parker, John Coltrane, Sonny Rollins, Cannonball Adderley, and develop the style you want.
 There's no better way to learn to play jazz then joining some group and playing it first hand. If you are just starting, most middle and high schools have a jazz band.
 Get a professional to prevent you from causing bad habits that go into your subconscious memory.

