 By making something new, it's possible to learn about yourself. When you make something new from scratch, tiny pieces of you are visible in the final project. Whether painting a beautiful landscape or building a sturdy table, every creator leaves a mark on his or her creation. The process of creation is great way to observe these inner qualities as they come to the surface. These qualities can inspire you by changing the way you think about yourself. You may be surprised by what you find! Below are a few ideas of creative endeavors you may want to pursue:


Art: Drawing, painting, designing, producing music, and more.
Writing: Literature, criticism, articles, blog posts, poetry, and more.
Building: Furniture, hobby models etc., vehicles, practical art pieces, and, if you have the resources and know-how, buildings and houses.
Miscellaneous: Cooking, arranging, decorating, gardening, and more!

, One of the greatest ways to get a new viewpoint on life when you're feeling down is to do something nice for someone else, especially if this person is in a worse place than you. In addition to putting the problems keeping you from achieving your goals in perspective, performing a selfless deed usually creates a feeling of inner warmth that's genuinely difficult to recreate any other way. Most importantly, however, it makes life better for someone who may not enjoy the comfort, safety, or sense of purpose that you take for granted.


The recipient of your act of kindness can be a stranger (like, for instance, if you volunteer at a local homeless shelter or juvenile home), but s/he can also be someone who is close to you. Helping out a friend who's struggling with life's commitments can be an inspiring, perspective-changing experience and also a way to deepen your relationship and cement the bond that made you friends in the first place.
 The creative and inspirational benefits of meditation have long been touted by the practice's supporters, though the exact truth of these claims is still not a matter of scientific fact. Whether or not meditation provides a tangible, measurable benefit, it certainly provides intangible ones. Meditation can have a calming effect, which, can make it easier to focus and think clearly for some. Meditation can also be immensely refreshing, especially if you spend most of your day stressed out. Even just 15 or 20 minutes spent in quiet contemplation can be a luxury that few people are accustomed to!


If you're interested in the potential benefits of meditation, try sitting calmly on the floor or your bed with your back straight and your legs folded or stretched out in front of you. Set a timer for 15 minutes to half an hour. Close your eyes, take deep breaths, and try to think about nothing at all. Alternatively, focus on a simple word, phrase, or image until it loses its meaning. Though there are many fancier, flashier ways to meditate, this simple method works perfectly well.
See How to Meditate for more information.
 If you belong to a faith, praying for guidance in times of difficulty can be an inspiring experience. Many devout religious people pray for inspiration when they are having difficulty overcoming an obstacle or making a difficult decision. The effectiveness of prayer, like belief in a religion itself, is a matter of faith. If you believe in your faith, you may find prayer to be an inspiring experience, whereas non-believers who cynically attempt prayer are unlikely to gain inspiration because they don't truly believe it's even possible to gain inspiration from prayer on a fundamental level.


Note that different religions will have different guidelines for which types of prayers to say when you're looking for inspiration. Some may have prayers specifically written for the purpose, while others may not. For instance, Roman Catholics artists seeking inspiration may want to say a prayer to a patron saint of artists like Catherine of Bologna.In many religions, it may also be appropriate to say a prayer of your own making when seeking inspiration.
 As corny and cliché as it sounds, the love of another person can be extremely inspiring. Genuine human love is something that can change your entire life by completely changing your priorities. If you're an adult you probably know people who have made important changes in the course of their life because of their love for someone else — moving, pursuing a new job, sharing a new hobby with their partner, and so on. You may have even done this yourself!


Best of all, in addition to inspiring you, love can give you a reason to be inspired. For example, an artist who loves someone may push herself to complete her latest endeavor because she wants her lover to be proud of her, while an ordinary, everyday IT employee might be inspired to pursue the novel he's been meaning to write out of a similar sense of obligation to his lover.

