 Surprise them with an unexpected visit to let them know you miss and want to see them. Then, you're right there to do everything that you've promised. It might be best to give your partner a heads up so that they don't have other plans that complicate your trip.If your partner has a roommate or a close friend you are in contact with, you can work with this person to plan your visit and make sure your partner is available.
When you’re together, do your best to enjoy every moment of the visit so that you both walk away satisfied.
It's also important to consider the status of your relationship before showing up unannounced. Are you and your long-distance lover monogamous? If not, you might want to check in to be sure your lover isn't going to be out with someone else during your visit.
 Doing something new together is a wonderful way to explore the world and forge a deeper bond with your mate. When you are able to be together, plan a short jaunt to a special place like a lake or cabin to enjoy one another. Try out new activities like rafting, hiking, or horseback riding to up the excitement factor.


Sometimes, planning trips can be incredibly expensive and stressful.Make things simpler by choosing a location midway between where you both live. Meet up in a hotel or resort. This can allow you both to save on travel and provide you with a whimsical getaway that you can enjoy together.
 Before you depart from your visit, give your partner something that will turn them on while you’re away. This might be an intimate piece of your clothing with a naughty note, telling them how much you miss them and how much you just can't wait to be with them again. This will make them crave being with you.


You can also gift something for your partner to use during your Skype session such as a sex toy., In addition to giving your partner something to keep the flame burning, you can also go one step further and hide a small little gift for them to find. Leave little notes in their pockets or bags so they can discover them when you're not there. You could write something like “I’m missing you,” or, “I wish I was here to ____.”If you leave behind notes, be sure that you hide them in a place that is used exclusively by your partner so that someone else doesn't come along and ruin your surprise. Try their clothing drawers, in a wallet or purse, or in the pockets of a favorite article of clothing.

