 The way to get to the options menu may differ on your operating system.


For Windows users, activate the menu at top by right clicking on a blank space on the tab bar then click on “Menu Bar” then click Tools>Options. You can also click on the ☰ icon then click on Options.
For Mac and Linux users, on the menu bar click on Edit>Preferences or click on the ☰ icon, then click on Preferences.
 A list of tabbed settings appear on the left-hand side of the window.
 Under the History section, change the drop down action for “Firefox will” and change to “Use custom settings for history.”

, There are several options and closing the window will save your chosen specifications.


“Always use private browsing mode” will prevent websites from storing your information.
“Remember my browsing and download history” will keep track of websites and downloads performed in Firefox
“Remember search and form history” enables and disables auto complete in text fields and search fields which can store your personal information such as your address and website URLs.
“Accept cookies from sites” can be specified to allow to use third party cookies, or cookies that are used from websites accessed from the website you are currently viewing, you can also set a life span by adjusting them to expire or to clear out when you close the browser.
“Clear history when Firefox closes” will allow you to remove cached content when the browser closes. Clicking on the “Settings” button allows you to specify what kind of content gets cleared when the browser closes such as cookies, cache, browsing history and more., Click on the Show Cookies button.
 In this new window you will see a list of cookies. Click on the cookie to remove from the list then click on Remove Selected to remove the selected cookie.Scroll up and down or search for a specific cookie ID by using the search bar at the top of the window and typing in a cookie you are looking for.
You can also delete all stored cookies by clicking on “Remove All.”

, There are certain sites where storing your cookies may be useful.


Cookies can be used to track your habits on websites such as online stores.
Online forms can become easier to fill out if you preserve cookies. Keep in mind that stored form information can contain your personal information and may be visible to people that use the same computer or device.
Some services use cookies that are used to quickly log-in online can become easier to access if you use other security measures to protect your information such as lock screens on computers or devices.
 If you are not familiar with the source, it may be wise to remove the content.


Websites cannot share cookie information. Each cookie is created for each website that uses them.