 This is one way to get the attention of professionals who will pay you for your work or hire you for jobs.


Create a relationship with a photo gallery first. You can find listings of photo galleries through Photograph, which is a bimonthly listings guide, and through the Association of International Photography Art Dealers.Typically the photographer gets 50 percent of the photo sale proceeds.
Telephone the gallery, and ask about submission policies. Galleries have different rules. Some will only review submissions several times a year. If they are interested, they will want to see a portfolio. When you are starting out, your work might be publicized as inventory versus getting its own show.
 It’s important that your work be consistent. This is very important. You should focus on making every photograph, especially those in your portfolio, the highest quality.


Be creative, though. Make trends, don’t just follow them. Create your own signature style that is true to yourself. Make sure to capture your subjects' emotions and personalities in your shoots. Your work will stand out more if you have a consistent style that is your own. You want people to know photos are your own simply because they have your own look.
Invest in good equipment to ensure quality. If you don’t have a good camera, you’re not going to take professional quality photos. Buy a few quality lenses, and learn to work with natural light. Be careful with the details. The clothes shouldn’t be wrinkled. The backdrop shouldn’t be dirty, and so forth.
 It can be really hard to make a living as a struggling photographer when you’re starting out.


It’s often a good idea to have back-up plans to make money while you’re trying to get off the ground. You could take corporate photos or photos for weddings, for example.
You should assume you won’t make money for awhile, and you should consider whether this is the career for you as a result., Let’s be honest. If you really want to make it big as a fashion photographer, it’s the coasts where you will probably need to be.


New York and Los Angeles have thriving fashion scenes. Europe does too. If you want to stay in your small town, you’re probably not going to have many opportunities.It’s possible in some midsize cities to get work for catalogs or local modeling agencies, but being on the big city scene is the best way to network if you want to break it big.

