 Find out what their hours are, what day the water park opens; many don’t open until the end of May. Starting early in the morning when they first open is a good idea because it isn’t as crowded and the lines are shorter. And buying tickets beforehand will save you time in line at the entrance gates.;
, Which means packing everything you might need including:


Cell phones, sunblock, towels, swimsuits, sunglasses, comfortable shoes, camera, hats.
Cooler of ice, food and water if you don’t plan on buying food inside the park. Check their website and find out what the park allows to be brought in. Some parks don’t allow food or coolers. Most water parks and many other amusement parks also prohibit glass containers of any kind.
A fully stocked first aid kit. You never know when you might need a band-aid or aspirin. Although there are first aid stations, they are few and far between. Even large parks only have one or two first aid stations, so getting a band-aid can mean hiking a mile.
All prescription medications that people in your group may need. This includes medications like EpiPens, inhalers, etc. And if you’re taking a large group of kids, get all of their contact information in case of an emergency. Also be informed of any preexisting medical conditions of anyone in your group. Conditions like asthma, diabetes, hypoglycemia and epilepsy can be scary if you don’t know what’s going on.
 Wear comfortable shoes that you can walk all day in. Wearing loose clothing will help sweat evaporate and keep you cooler. Wearing a hat and a full coverage shirt will save you from being sun burned.
 Tell the children to look for a park staff member if they get lost and make sure they have your cell number. Make sure to designate a meeting place and time to gather your group when the day is over.
 Never let kids roam the park alone. Sending kids in groups of 2 or more with at least one mature teenager or adult is usually a safe bet. Make sure that each group has a cell phone or a two way radio to stay in contact. This wikiHow article provides useful information on what you should do in this scenario.
 Walking around all day in the summer sun can be a recipe for disaster if you don’t drink enough fluids. You sweat out much more water than you might think; up to a liter per hour of sun exposure. So keep those water bottles in hand and drink up!

, This is especially important during the hottest part of the day (2-5) in the afternoon. It’s during this time that the pavement in the parks has absorbed all of the heat and it will start to radiate everywhere. This means even the shady spots will have heat coming up from the ground, so get into an air conditioned place to cool off.

