 With a sexually transmitted infection like herpes, you don't want to rely on self-diagnosis. You want to be sure, and in order to be sure, you need to visit the doctor. Many times, herpes is asymptomatic, meaning that the symptoms either don't present or are too mild to be recognized.Other times, herpes presents with the following symptoms:


Small, painful blisters that scab over and heal over the course of several weeks. These may either be on your genitals or your buttocks.
Red, caking, or raw skin in the genital area, with or without itching.
Frequent pain or discomfort during urination.
Flu-like symptoms, such as fever, body aches (especially in the back and neck), and swollen glands.;
, Your doctor should be able to give you specific suggestions about which drugs and precautions to take in order to manage symptoms. As there is no cure yet for herpes, managing symptoms is the primary concern.
 Managing your outbreaks with proper treatment will help you:


Heal sores sooner and more effectively
Minimize the duration and severity of outbreaks
Reduce the recurrence of outbreaks
Minimize the chance of spreading herpes to any sexual partners

, Antiviral drugs lessen the number of herpes outbreaks by reducing what's called "viral shedding," or the process by which the virus makes new copies of itself on the skin's surface.Regular use of antiviral drugs also helps lower the risk that you'll pass the herpes simplex virus on to other sexual partners. The most common antiviral drugs prescribed for herpes include:


Acyclovir (Zovirax)
Famciclovir (Famvir)
Valacyclovir (Valtrex)

, Drugs are administered by a doctor during prescribed times. When the herpes virus is first diagnosed, drugs are usually prescribed. Then, on an intermittent or regular basis, drugs are also prescribed, depending on the severity of the outbreaks and the patient's individual needs.


Initial treatment: after you are diagnosed with herpes, your doctor will prescribe a brief trial (7 to 10 days) of antiviral drugs. If 10 days' worth of antiviral medication does not help manage the outbreak, your doctor may continue your course of treatment for a few more days.
Intermittent treatment: if you experience outbreaks seldom, or at irregular times, your doctor may prescribe an antiviral drug for you to use when outbreaks do occur. Having several days' worth of antiviral medication on hand will allow you to start a course of drugs as soon as the outbreak happens, minimizing its severity and duration.
Regular treatment: If you have regular outbreaks totaling more than six a year, talk to your doctor about taking antiviral medication every day. This is called suppressive treatment. Individuals with regular outbreaks who begin to take medication every day often find their outbreaks reduced by as much as 80%.