 Once you join, you can gain access to seminars, books, webcasts and even management job listings. If you want to enhance your management skills independently, then this is a good place to start.
 This is especially helpful if you have started your own business and you are trying to manage, delegate or hire managers. There are a number of ways that you can find a management mentor.


Post a classified on the American Management Association job board or website. The people who look at this site are likely to be professional managers. You can specify the time commitment and payment.
Network with people in the business community. If you find someone who has plenty of experience managing a successful company, ask the person to be your mentor. You can pay the person, offer services or find another mutually beneficial arrangement. If you already know the person well, then it can be a long-standing mentor/mentee relationship, where you can seek advice as problems arise.
Consult a business mentor website such as Pivot Planet. This website sets up advisers with people who would like to learn a new job or skill. Once you become a member, you can start coaching or informational sessions via web chat.
 Many local agencies offer low cost classes on business topics, including management. These can fill in small gaps in management knowledge, but should not be seen as full management training.
 Many universities, from local to ivy league, offer 2-day to 2-month courses specially designed for executives and upper management. These are expensive programs; however, the certification provides very valuable knowledge, networking and improves your resume.
 These 2 to 3 year degrees are offered by many 4-year universities. While this requires a significant commitment in time and money, it is the comprehensive way to learn all aspects of business management.


Many MBA programs can be at least partially completed online. If you have a steady job and do not want to take a break to attend a university, research MBA programs that offer online management courses and weekend classes. In some cases, this program may take longer than 2 years.

