 Once a box has three sides, the next player up can complete the box to score a point. Early in the game, there is never a reason to draw in this third line, as you are simply offering up a point to your opponent.
 Eventually, you're going to have to give up boxes, and it is very rare that you'll only give up one at a time. When contemplating what box to give away, count out the number of boxes a chain reaction would be worth. Is there another run that could give away that has fewer points?

, This may seem sacrilegious, as you're giving away free boxes, but what it actually does is force the other player to take the two boxes and then give you the next available chain. Note that this strategy only works if there are no open moves left -- otherwise they could take the two boxes and still avoid giving you a chain. When played well, this strategy will win you most games.


In serious games, this is called a "double-cross." Double-crosses are the heart of serious dots strategy.
Once you make a double-cross, you gain control of the board. Your opponents only moves are to open up a new chain for you or take the two boxes you've given them., If both players know the double-cross rule mentioned above, then it would seem like every game will come down to who wins the first chain, as they can then double-cross their opponent until they win. This is true -- the winner of the first chain is usually the winner. But there is a way to manipulate the game to ensure you win the very first chain, double-cross the rest of the time, and thus win the game. How? You control the number of chains available on the board based on a simple mathematical rule:


If there have an odd number of total dots (5x5 board, 9x9, etc.) then the first player wins if there is an odd number of chains. The second player wins if there are an even number.
If there are an even number of dots (4x4 board, 6x6, etc.) then the first player wins if there is an even number of chains. The second player wins if there are an odd number of chains.Note: A set of just two boxes is not considered a chain in this strategy.
 While the rule above is helpful in theory, you actually have to know how to set-up the right number of chains to make it work. To do this, consider that most chains take up large, continuous areas of the board -- sections, not randomly snaking lines. Instead of making specific chains, make specific areas. For a 5x5 example board, remember that the first player (for this example, Red) wants an odd number of chains:


Red should try to split the board into three parts by creating a "hallway" of boxes down the center of the board, either horizontally or vertically. This then creates a middle chain and two chains on either side -- three total -- for a Red win.
Blue should try to cut the board in half, with 1 chain on each side. This allows an even number of chains -- two -- and a Blue win., Continuing with the 5x5 example where Red goes first (and wants an odd number of chains), imagine there are three chains on the board, meaning Blue will lose. However, if Blue has at least 1 more box then Red, she can still tie the game, and she can win if they're up 3 boxes or more. To do so, you give up a chain before you're forced to, but you do so in a way that cuts the chain into two separate chains -- giving blue an even number of chains remaining and a new chance to win. You give up the first chain, yes -- but you also minimize the long-term damage.


Remember this only works if there is another option available that doesn't give up a chain -- a two-sided box you can safely draw a line in after cutting the chain up.
If you must respond to this scenario as Red, you have two options -- take the chain or leave the boxes for Blue later. If the game is early on, sacrifice the boxes. If you're near the end and it's close, take them and keep moving.