 Aviary panels come in several styles. Basically, they are made with a wood frame and wire. Some are wire all along the side, while other panels have door openings or are solid wood on one end.Generally, they are long enough that you can build a pen you can walk into. However, you can also turn them so the length runs along the ground, creating a much shorter pen. For instance, you could use the kind of panels that are solid on one end to create an impromptu hutch for your rabbit., Once you've decided on a design, buy panels to match your design. You should be able to find these at farm and tractor stores or home improvement stores. They were originally designed for birds, which is why farm and tractor stores may have them., If you put the aviary panels over concrete, you do not need to build in a mesh floor. However, if you are building it over grass or dirt, you will need to add in wire underneath the grass.
 Use wire meant to keep gophers out, referred to as "gopher wire." You can lay it out under the cage. You can hammer in ground staples to keep it in place. Normally, this wire would go under the sod, but as that's not usually an option with rabbit hutches, you can add it on top of the grass.However, be sure to cover the bottom of the cage with plenty of fresh straw to protect your rabbit's feet and to change the straw out regularly.Be sure to push the wire ends into the ground, so no one gets scratched on them.
You can also put in a wood floor, if you prefer.
 You can use screws or nails to join the panels, just as you would any wooden frame. If you use screws, you can take it apart later and make it into a new configuration if you would like.Another simple option is brackets and screws.To join using brackets and screws, lay the panels flat on the floor. Make sure they are as close as possible. Lay out 6 brackets along the seam. Use a drill to pre-drill holes where the screws will go. Drill in the screws. For corners, use corner brackets., The easiest way to leave a door on your hutch is to use an aviary panel with a door already installed.However, you can also use hinges instead of brackets on one of the panels, so that it swings out. The hinges are installed basically the same way as the brackets; you'll also need to add a latch for your door.

