 Lift one knee, then the other. Increase the speed to elevate your heart rate, and lift your knees higher to increase the stretch.









Keep your landing soft to avoid knee injuries.
Continue until your breathing is effected. This will increase your oxygen intake as you inhale more deeply and frequently.
Increasing your blood flow by getting your heart rate up will prepare your muscles for both stretching and dancing.;
, Extend both arms out to the side. Slowly move both arms in a forward circular motion. Start by making small circles, then increase the distance of your swing as you go so you are extending your arms further toward the ceiling and the floor.








Swing your arms forward for 20-30 seconds, then slowly bring the circles to a stop and rest your arms at your sides.
Repeat this exercise swinging your arms backward.
 From a standing position, plant your feet shoulder width apart and relax your arms at your sides. Rotate your upper body to the left. This should include your head, neck, shoulders and spine. Keep your hips facing squarely forward and don't allow them to move. Swing your arms sideways across your body as you twist above your torso. Twist back past center and on the right side.








Relax your shoulders. Your arms should be free to swing back and forth.
Twist left and right for 20-30 seconds

, Swing your torso to the left and and right. Relax your arms and allow them to sway like the trunk of an elephant.








Continue for 20-30 seconds.
Avoid bending too far or having your knees cross over the extension of your toes.
 Dynamic stretching could include lunging through downward facing dog to prepare for the movements required for dancing.This is more controlled than ballistic stretching, but moves through the range of motion and prepares the body for the requirements involved in the dance.Lunge forward by stepping one leg in front of you with the knee bent. Do not let your bent knee extend beyond your toe. Place your hands on the floor on either side of your bent knee with palms flat. Extend your bent leg back to meet your straight leg, but keep your feet should width apart. You should now be in a plank position. From this position, lift your hips and pull them back toward your toward your feet with your heels pressing toward the floor, putting you in a pike position.









Hold the pike position for 15-20 seconds.
For an extended stretch, lift and extend one leg behind you. Point and flex your toe, then replace your foot and repeat this motion with the other leg.
Another option is pressing one heel into the ground while slightly bending the opposite knee, then switching to pressing the opposite heel to the ground. This will give an additional stretch to your calves.
Slowly roll your spine back to standing, and repeat this entire process by stepping forward into a lunge with the opposite foot.
Repeat this entire process 6-8 times.

