 You might be the victim of domestic violence and need to leave quickly in order to protect your safety and your children’s safety. If so, time is of the essence. However, if at all possible, you should try to talk with a lawyer about your options.Typically, you need to get a restraining order against the other parent. Your lawyer can help you file for it. You may also be able to file for it yourself.
In some states, you can just leave so long as you call the local police, the county prosecutor, or Child Protective Services within 24 hours to explain why you left.Ask the lawyer about your state's particular rules.
 A restraining order is a judicial command telling the other parent to stop doing something. Generally, you can get a restraining order to prohibit the other parent from contacting you or coming near you. You might also be able to get the judge to agree to let you remove the children from the state.Your courthouse should have forms that you can pick up and fill out.


Look on the court’s website. Many courts publish their forms online. You can also stop into the court clerk’s office.
 Your emergency might happen on a Friday evening or during the weekend when the court is closed. Many courts have emergency procedures in place so that you can get an emergency restraining order even when the court is closed. You should call your police station and ask.Depending on where you live, someone might meet you at the station or at the courthouse and help you complete the paperwork. A judge who is on-call can then grant the emergency restraining order. When court reopens, you will then apply for a restraining order.
 Once you complete all of the forms, you should have someone look them over to make sure that you filled them out accurately. File them with the court clerk. There shouldn’t be a filing fee.


Ask when you should return. In some courts, you might have to go immediately in front of a judge to answer questions. In other courts, the judge will review the application and make a decision before the end of the day.
 The judge has the power to give you a temporary restraining order without hearing from the other parent, who you have accused of abuse. The judge can sign off on the temporary order, which you will serve on the other parent. However, before the judge can give you a permanent restraining order, the other parent must be given an opportunity to appear before the judge.


Temporary restraining orders last for only a limited amount of time. Generally, they last only 10-14 days.Your hearing for a permanent restraining order must be held before the temporary order expires.
 In many counties, the sheriff will make hand delivery for no charge. You will need to give the sheriff information about the other parent, including the following:


home address
work address
description of what the other parent looks like
picture of the other parent (if you have one)

, At the hearing, you will need to argue why you are entitled to a permanent restraining order. You should also be prepared to argue why you should be able to leave the state with your children. The other parent will also be able to argue why the restraining order and move aren’t necessary.If you win, the judge will sign an order. You should get a copy for your records.
See Get a Protective Order for more information on enforcing and extending your restraining order.

