 If you and your spouse cannot reach a Separation Agreement, you can ask the NY Supreme Court for a Judgment of Separation (“Judgment of Separation”) by filing a complaint for divorce and issuing a summons upon your spouse to appear in court (“Complaint” and “Summons”). When you file the Summons and Complaint with the court, you are asking the court to decide upon the terms and conditions of your separation and for the judge to enter his/her Judgment of Separation.A judge may grant a Judgment of Separation on any one of the five following grounds for fault of your spouse:Cruel and inhuman treatment by defendant that endangers the physical or mental well-being of the complaining spouse to such an extent that it would be unsafe or improper for the spouses to live together
Abandonment of the complaining spouse by the other spouse without cause or consent
Neglect or refusal to provide for the support of the complaining spouse where the defending spouse is responsible for such support under the Family Court Act
Adultery within five years of starting the lawsuit for a Judgment of Separation. Adultery must be without the consent of the complaining spouse
Confinement of the defending spouse in prison for three or more consecutive years after the marriage began

, New York has residency requirements governing Separation Agreements in the state. To become legally separated in New York, the following requirements must be met:


The couple was married in the state, either spouse is a New York resident when the action is filed, and has been residing in the state for at least one year before filing;
The parties have resided in New York as husband and wife and either party is a New York resident when the action is commenced and has been a resident for at least one year before filing;
The grounds occurred in the state and either party has been a New York resident for at least one year before filing; or
Either party has been a New York resident for at least two years prior to filing the action.
 A New York State Supreme Court is the only type of court that handles divorce cases, and a Supreme Court Judge is the only person who can legally grant a divorce. The county in which your spouse lives is the most common sense choice for filing your petition. If your spouse lives outside the jurisdiction of the court in which you decide to file your petition, he/she can subject the petition to a challenge on jurisdictional grounds.


If you lose a jurisdictional challenge, you must start the entire process over.
 You must file several forms with the Clerk of Court to begin the proceedings. You can obtain the appropriate forms by either:


Personally visiting your county clerk of court’s office and purchasing a forms packet to type up, sign, copy, and file.
Visiting NYCourts.gov to locate and retrieve the forms online. You will find both PDF- and Word-formatted forms that you can print and complete. Specific instructions for each form will appear along with it. Forms for Summons and Verified Complaint may be accessed at http://www.nycourts.gov/divorce/divorce_withchildrenunder21.shtml#ucdforms with additional instructions for completion found here.
You can also prepare a Complaint for Separation and Summons by using the forms for a Complaint for Divorce and Summons as well. Simply replace all references to the word ‘divorce’ with the words ‘legal separation’ in the Summons (UD-1a), Verified Complaint (UD-2), and Affidavit of Service (UD-3) documents.
 It may be prudent to seek assistance from an attorney to help you prepare and file your Summons and Verified Complaint. You can also seek help online at: http://www.nycourts.gov/courthelp/ and at the do it yourself site available at: http://www.nycourts.gov/courthelp/diy/index.shtml.


The complaint must include the full names and birthdates of you, your spouse and all minor children of the marriage; the dates of marriage and separation; the ground(s) for the separation; a statement regarding residency; and a brief description of what you are asking the court to grant you in the Judgment of Separation.
 You can also easily look them up online for your region.
 Personally deliver the one original and two copies of the Summons and Verified Complaint to the Clerk of Court for filing.After the clerk stamps everything “Filed,” you will retain the two certified copies—one for you and one to be personally served on your spouse. The clerk will also issue a receipt, which the applicant will need to show when proceeding to court.
 The court fee to obtain a court index number is $210.00 payable by cash, certified check (payable to the County Clerk), U.S. Postal money order, VISA, Mastercard, or American Express.Put the index number and the date of the filing on the two certified copies of the Summons and Verified Complaint. A clerk may also do this for you when you file the papers.
 Personal service of process on your spouse is the formal delivery of your court papers in order to officially notify him/her that he or she is a party in a lawsuit and that a response is required. You must have a third party serve both the Summons and Verified Complaint. If your spouse is personally served and does not respond to your court papers formally, he/she will waive his or her rights, and the court will grant your request for a Judgment of Separation by default. You can make the service of process as follows:Personal Delivery - This entails using a third party service that specializes in delivering the papers within New York state to the person to be served.
Substituted Service - This method requires two separate steps. First, you must deliver the process within New York state to a person of suitable age and discretion (who is willing to accept the papers) at the actual place of business, dwelling place, or usual place of abode of the defendant or respondent. Next, you must mail the papers by first class mail to the person to be served at his or her last known residence. You may also mail them to his or her actual place of business.

You must mark the envelope used for the mailing “Personal and Confidential.” Also, you must not show in any way that the envelope contains papers about a legal action against the person being served.
 The disinterested person who serves your spouse must prepare an Affidavit of Service (Form UD-3), which attests to the service of the Summons and Verified Complaint. You must submit this sworn, signed, and notarized Affidavit of Service (along with a copy of the Summons and Verified Complaint) when you visit the county clerk of court’s office to request they place your case on the court's calendar.
 There is a 40-day waiting period from date of service to place the matter on the court's calendar.
 You must appear in court for a hearing unless you and your spouse are able to reach an agreement that resolves all issues concerning the terms and conditions of separation. At the hearing, the judge will review evidence and listen to testimony before ruling on the contested issues. After the hearing, the judge will sign the Judgment of Separation decree and you will be legally separated.
 A Judgment of Separation can be converted into a divorce when certain steps are taken. To do so, the couple must:Live separately and apart pursuant to the Judgment of Separation for one year or more
Adhere to all the requirements of the Judgment of Separation for one year or more (specifically the party seeking divorce)
File a Divorce Complaint with the Court seeking a Judgment of Divorce

Because your Judgment of Separation will have been granted by the court based upon one of the same four “fault” grounds that are factors in deciding a divorce case, either spouse can file for a divorce based upon a “no fault” grounds one year after the date the Judgment of Separation was granted.



