 Draw or doodle with pencils or markers, paint with oil paints or watercolor, or sculpt something out of clay or dough. Look up new kinds of art projects or images to draw inspiration from.


Try coloring in a coloring book. You can even print off pages to color in from online, or download an app or computer program to color virtually.
Pick up an art form you’ve never tried, like embroidery, origami, or cartoon drawing.
 Pick up an instrument that you haven’t played in awhile or never had the chance to learn. Try to learn a new song, or just master a single scale or chord progression to start.


You can find chords or sheet music for guitar, piano, and other common instruments for nearly any popular song online. You can also use online tuners to help tune your instrument before playing it.
 Try something you’ve always wanted to get into or never even thought you’d try. Pick up knitting or crocheting, juggling, photography, or anything else you have around the house.If you have a hard time sticking to one hobby, try setting aside just a half an hour at a time to focus on it before moving onto a different activity, especially if you get frustrated or distracted easily., Help make your life easier around the house, decorate, or create a piece of furniture or other fun invention by looking up instructions online for do-it-yourself projects.


Put together photos into a collage or frames to display on a wall or shelves, or organize them into an album or scrapbook.
Try making your own beauty or cleaning products, wall decorations and lighting, or clever ways to display plants inside or outside.You can also help to keep areas of your home tidy and organized by creating your own storage solutions out of simple items like boxes, jars, or tin cans., Cook for yourself, family, or friends. Look up a new recipe for a healthy meal, a decadent dessert, or a fun appetizer for a themed event.


Don’t worry if you don’t have a lot of ingredients available at home. Look up recipes that involve that odd ingredient you’ve been keeping in the back of your pantry or fridge, or recipes that need only a few simple ingredients to make.If you don’t have the time or opportunity to cook for yourself regularly, use the time you do have to make meals in large batches and then portion them out into individual meal sizes to have at the ready throughout the week.

