 To keep your crush engaged, you'll have to find topics that are worth talking about. Make sure you find something that is not only interesting to you. Here are some ideas:


If something particularly exciting is happening in the news, you could bring it up, especially if it just happened. You could say, "Did you hear about...?" Make sure you don't pick anything too controversial, such as gun control, because you don't want to start an argument before you really know your crush.
If something out of the ordinary happened to you that day, tell your crush. If you ran into a celebrity, saw something crazy happen on the street, or got some big news, it could be worth talking about.
Nothing will bore your crush faster than telling him or her about everything that happened to you that day. Unless you're a secret agent or a superhero, chances are that most of your day is pretty mundane, and you don't want to look like a narcissist by talking about what you had for breakfast like it's the most fascinating topic in the world.
 If you're looking to take your relationship beyond flirting, remember that common interests can be just as important as chemistry in a strong relationship. Your love is guaranteed to last longer if you share passions other than your passions for each other. Here are some things you may have in common:



Music can be a great bond between two people, so try to strike up a conversation about music. If your crush has his or her 'What I'm Listening To' message working, look at the song he or she is listening to and say something like, "Oh, I love that band!" If the band is having a concert, you and your crush may even end up going together.
Your love for the outdoors. If both of you love hiking, biking, or camping, that can be a great bond. The outdoors are not for everyone, and your crush will respect you if you share that love--and may even ask you to tag along on a hiking adventure.
Your love for literature. If you both love good books, this will give you a lot to talk about. You can even impress him by recommending a great read, or reading a book he mentions. If the conversation is going well, you can even say, "Hey, I loved that book your recommended. Want to talk about it over coffee some time?"
Your love for good movies. If you're both into the movies, you will have plenty to talk about. You can casually mention a new film you're excited to see and can wait for your crush to ask you to come along.
 Make your crush see that you have a life outside of your computer. Mention your friends, your family, and definitely your interests, to show that your chat-life is just one small part of your fascinating personality. Here is how to show that your world is bigger than your chat screen:


Without being boring, tell talk about your favorite hobby. If you love to go biking, tell your crush about it. Mention when you have to go because you're going to pursue your hobby.
Mention your favorite friends, and say when you have to go because you and your friends are going out to dinner, to a concert, or wherever. This will make you seem like a fun person, and he may even want to join.
If you're passionate about your studies or a certain subject in school, don't be afraid to say so. Without looking like a nerd, you can show him that you really care about something--poetry or physics, for example. Remember that interesting people have interests, while boring people are bored by everything.

