 Lentil salad is a basic dish that combines cooked lentils with spices, cooked vegetables, and a vinaigrette. Before starting, soak your lentils in water and pick out any rocks or organic matter that you find. Drain the lentils before cooking. You'll also need some supplies, including:Medium saucepan
Stirring spoon
Frying pan
Medium bowl
Whisk
Fine-mesh sieve

, Place the lentils into a medium saucepan with the bay leaf and thyme. Fill the pan with water so the lentils are under about three inches (7.6 cm) of water. Bring the pan to a boil over medium heat. When it boils, reduce the heat to low and add a pinch of salt. Continue simmering for 20 to 25 minutes.

The lentils are ready as soon as they become tender. To test them, pick out a lentil with a spoon and crush it between your teeth. If it’s soft and easy to mash, the lentils are ready., When the lentils are cooked and tender, remove them from the heat. Place your sieve in the sink, and carefully drain the lentils through to remove the excess water.

Return the drained lentils to the saucepan. Place the lid back on and set them aside as you prepare the vegetables and vinaigrette.
 In a large frying pan, combine the cooking oil, carrot, onion, and fennel. Season with salt and pepper, to taste. Heat the pan over medium heat, stirring regularly. Cook until the vegetables are tender, about 10 minutes.

You can also add one to two cloves of crushed garlic to the mixture as well.Reserve the minced shallot, which will be used in the vinaigrette.
 In a medium bowl, combine the red wine vinegar, olive oil, and mustard. Whisk them together until the vinaigrette starts to thicken. Whisk in the minced shallot.Dijon mustard is recommended for this dish, but you can use any type of mustard you like.
 Combine the cooked vegetables, lentils, and vinaigrette together in the saucepan you cooked the lentils in. Stir to incorporate everything and coat the lentils and vegetables in the dressing.

As you stir the ingredients together, pick out the bay leaf and thyme that you cooked with the lentils.
 Allow the salad to cool to warm or room temperature before serving. You can drizzle some olive oil over the finished dish if you like, and season with more salt and pepper, to taste.

You can also let the lentils cool completely and toss them with lettuce or chopped fresh herbs. Good herb pairings include thyme, savory, and parsley.

