 This is the opening screen of the game where you can select from several game modes to play from:


To play in Halo 3's campaign, select the Start Solo Game (which will begin the campaign story in single player mode) or Campaign just below that (which will allow you to select a previously completed level an allow you to change the settings or number of players).
To enter multiplayer action, select Matchmaking (An Xbox LIVE feature which allows you to play games verse other players around the globe), Custom Games (a local or Xbox Live feature where players can verse each other on a variety of maps in customized matches) or Forge (which allows players to create, edit and play on maps for use in Custom Games).
Finally, Theater allows you to save and edit films or screenshots from your campaign and matchmaking experiences for later viewing. Once you can navigate these features, you'll have a better understanding of how to play Halo 3.;
, Note that playing different characters, such as the Arbiter or Oracle in Forge mode, will change the appearance of your HUD:


To aim, use the cross-hair in the center of your screen which is where your shots will fire (in addition, red marks will appear around it if you take fire, to show which direction you are being hit from).
Your shield's health is shown on the top middle side of your screen (it will turn red if you are nearly dead).
To view what weapons you have and how much ammunition they hold, look in the top right-hand corner of your screen - Your current weapon will be shown in bold with the number of shots remaining and your side-weapon will be shown slightly below that. Note however that the number of shots is not shown when playing in split-screen.
On the opposite, top left-hand corner of your screen you will find the grenades you currently have in your possession.
Your radar (which allows you to see the whereabouts of enemies and allies) is located in the bottom left-hand side of your screen, although in some cases, it will not be available.
Finally, you can find match or campaign statistics and leader boards in the bottom right-hand corner of your screen.
 Pressing the Joystick in also allows you to zoom in, whether with your binoculars or in some cases, a weapon's scope (such as when using a sniper rifle or rocket launcher).
Move around by rotating or moving the Left Joystick. The harder you move the Joystick, the faster your character will move - if you only move it slightly, it is possible to slow movement to a crawl. Pressing the Left Joystick in allows your character to crouch, making you a harder target and hides you from enemy radars.
Fire your weapon in Halo 3 by pressing and/or holding the Right Trigger on your controller. Different weapons have different abilities, so note what rate of fire they have. In cases, some weapons can be fired in combination with your zoom feature, so experiment with which weapons allow you to do so.

Throw a grenade by pressing the Left Trigger. Grenades throw on an arc, so aiming may be harder than other weapons. In addition, some grenades can bounce away while others can stick to walls or people, so experiment with the effects of the grenades.
Reload your weapon, swap or pick up weapons from the ground and/or perform an action (such as boarding a vehicle or opening a door) by pressing and/or holding the Right Bumper on your controller. The Right Bumper is a heavily used button in Halo 3, so get familiar with it.
Swap grenades by pressing the Left Bumper on your controller. You can carry more than one type of grenade, so pressing this button will allow you to select the best type for your situation. To view which is selected, look on your HUD for the type which is bolded.
Jump by pressing the A button - this can be used on combination with a number of other buttons, allowing you to shoot, aim or move whilst in mid-air. Jumping is useful for reaching places not normally accessed by walking alone.
Melee by pressing the B button on your controller - this performs a hand-to-hand attack with your weapon or fist and can be used to finish of an opponent.
Throw equipment by pressing the X button on your controller. Equipment is a recent invention found only in Halo 3 and has a variety of uses, so you will have to experiment with them. They can be equipped and picked up just like weapons.
Swap your weapons by using the Y button. This will pull your side weapon out and holster your main weapon. To swap again, press Y again.
To talk during a voice-restricted match, press the D-Pad in any direction and speak into your microphone if you have one.
Show an in-depth view of players and scores by pressing and holding the BACK button on your controller.
Pause the game, match or campaign by pressing the START button. This will pause the game for you only if you are in a multiplayer match, so beware. In addition, you will be able to access the pause menu, where you will be able to change game options and change teams.
 Halo 3 is basically a shooter, so weapons, cover, aim and strategy are all parts of the game which you must play. Primarily, the game uses a checkpoint system where you must navigate the level to reach a destination or eliminate a target, so navigation skills are key. On multiplayer matches, and indeed in co-operative campaign play, you must work with team mates and allies to finish your mission. Sharing resources, such as vehicles and weapons, are vital, so to play Halo 3 you must learn how to use the game and work with it. Practice makes perfect, so try out your new skills in a variety of scenarios.

