 After all, as a coach you are telling your athletes that practice makes them better, so why shouldn't it be the same for you? Study videos and go to specialized websites to learn new training drills and techniques. Even if you don’t use what you see, an hour a week studying them gives you extra knowledge of the game and will at least give you some ideas of your own.;
, Don't be pressured into trying to win, over trying to become better. If you're winning more games, you must be making the players better, right? That's not necessarily true. Winning is a good encouragement for the players and confident players with a winning mentality will play better, but don’t be tempted to just place the fastest, most skillful players up front and hoof the ball up to them every time. This may heed good results at the end of the game, but it doesn't help develop the skills needed for the athletes to progress.
 Playing like this is difficult to master, especially for younger athletes, but once passing and moving is second nature to them, winning won’t be a problem.
 Just because certain players have the skills that allow them to play a certain position well does not mean that you should limit their progress by labeling them. Rotate your team around, play some of your speedy wingers or strikers in defense. If you can make them realize that it is harder to defend when being put under pressure then they can implement that into their game when moved back to an attacking role.


Younger defenders generally try to get rid of the ball the moment they are put under pressure and if all of your players constantly put pressure on the opposition you team is guaranteed to gain more throw-ins corners and shooting opportunities.
On the flip side, have your defenders play in a more advanced role to help them develop their passing and control. They will not be the defense that crumbles under pressure.
 Some of the best keepers in the world almost play as an outfield player in the old sweeper style, rushing out to clear balls over the top of the defense or offering themselves as an outlay for the defenders being put under pressure and providing good football distribution themselves.
 This step is equally as important for you, the athletes, and if dealing with younger athletes, the parents.


When dealing with younger children (10 years or below) it is important to give them as much playing time as possible to help develop their skills and confidence.
Although it is still important as the athletes get older (11 to 14) to give them time on the pitch, it is equally important to ensure that correct attitude on the training ground and with each other is rewarded with team selection. This can be a difficult age to manage as the young athletes are at a stage of their life where they are trying to establish their own personalities and this can result in them being disruptive, lazy or egotistical (i.e. thinking they are the best player on the pitch and arguing with team mates to give them the ball constantly).
Hopefully with the groundwork in place by the time the players begin to become fully formed athletes (15+) they will have the strength of character and understanding that, if they are not getting selected for the team on a regular basis then the best solution is to work hard and force your way back into the team.
 The important thing to remember is there are three interested parties all after different outcomes:


The parents will generally want their children to play every minute of every game and be the star striker destined to be playing for Barcelona one day.
The children will just want to have fun with their friends and improve.
As a good coach, your agenda should be to make the athletes the best possible players they can become. This does not always result in getting the best results (at least not to start with) but you must stick to your promise the same way as you expect the athletes and parents to. Make sure you are prepared and have a plan for your training sessions. Turning up every week and just playing a match every training session because ‘it’s what the athletes want’ is a failure for you, them and football in general.
 If you are trying to coach 12+ athletes together half of your training session is going to be spent explaining the drills and trying to keep an eye on everyone at once. What happens if you need to have a 1 on 1 with an athlete? do the rest stand around and wait for you to finish? Get a couple of parents to volunteer allowing you to oversee the whole session. If you don't feel comfortable using parents, visit the local college, university or football team, there are always enthusiastic young sports students willing to volunteer.
 Take courses, plan sessions, listen to others. You may know a lot about football, you may even know a lot about coaching, but do you know how to adjust and get this over to, say, a bunch of 8 year olds.

