 Cut your bacon in half lengthwise. Preheat your oven to 375째F (190째C). Slice the pitted dates in half to create an opening and insert a small chunk of blue cheese inside the date. Then:


Pinch the date closed with your fingers and wrap the date with a lengthwise halved piece of bacon. Secure the ingredients together with a toothpick.
Continue stuffing dates until you have the amount you desire. Place the dates on a baking sheet. Choose a sheet with sides to prevent bacon grease from dirtying your oven.
Bake the bacon wrapped, blue cheese stuffed dates for 30 to 40 minutes in your oven. Turn the dates after 20 minutes so they cook evenly.
If you notice the bacon crisping, you may have to remove the dates sooner than planned to prevent them from becoming burned., This dish is a kind of potato pancake made from grated potato with a creamy, blue cheese center.Clean, peel, and grate the potatoes. Preheat your oven to 392째F (200째C). Place your peeled potatoes in a clean towel. Squeeze the towel to remove excess moisture from the potatoes. Then:


Season the potatoes with salt and pepper. Heat olive oil in an oven safe frying pan to coat the pan bottom. Spread half of your potatoes to cover the pan bottom.
Cook the potatoes over medium heat for 4 to 5 minutes. Slice up the blue cheese and layer it on the potatoes. Leave a 1-inch gap between the cheese and edge.
Layer the remaining potatoes on top of the cheese. Flip the potatoes and fry the uncooked side for 4 to 5 minutes. Then bake the potatoes while still in the pan for 10 minutes, remove the dish, allow it to cool, and enjoy., Mix your ground chuck in a clean bowl. Use your hands to form half your meat into 4 patties 3 oz (85 g) in size. These should be roughly round in shape. Push the patties down at the middle to create a indentation in the meat; this will be where you put the stuffing. Then:


Add a teaspoon of garlic paste to the indentation along with a small chunk of blue cheese. Top these ingredients with a twist of freshly ground black pepper.
Create 4 more patties 3 oz (85 g) in size. Flatten these normal patties and top your garlic paste and cheese stuffed patties with them.
Seal the two patties together with your fingers. You may need to additionally flatten each patty, but be careful not to release the stuffing. Refrigerate these stuffed patties until you're ready to grill them.