 Sleep deprivation is the most common cause of low energy and fatigue. Most adults need 8 hours of sleep every night. If you are sleeping in late on weekends, it's a sign that you don't get enough sleep during the week.
 Not being able to find anything among out-of-control piles of papers is stressful. Clothes that you never wear, papers that are falling everywhere and useless items that you feel bad about throwing out can invade your space and take over your life. Dump all unnecessary stuff in a big garbage can, and you'll be able to breathe easier and have more energy.
 Being dehydrated makes you feel tired and irritable. If you are not thirsty, that does not mean that you drink enough water. By the time you feel thirsty it's too late - you are already dehydrated.


Most people need at least 8 cups of water per day. The easiest way to know that you are drinking enough is to buy one of those "8 glass" water-bottles that they sell in most drugstores.
 Sitting in the chair all day can make you feel stiff and tired, and then you'd feel too lazy to get up, creating a vicious cycle of inactivity. Make it into a habit to take a walk every day, and your energy levels will increase.
 Having the same old routine every day sucks out your soul and steals your energy. Do not allow yourself to get stuck in a rut! Do something new on a regular basis.
 When you have a goal, you will tend to work harder to achieve it. And once you finish it, you will feel great. Think about it.
 Find something that excites you and drives you.
 Isolation is a recipe for bad mood and low energy. Even when you don't feel like dealing with anyone, spending time with a person whose company you enjoy will energize you.
 Carrying excess weight puts additional strain on the body and makes it to work harder. Shed the excess fat, and you'll feel lighter and more energetic.
 Emotions that are unexpressed remain stored in your body. This causes fatigue because the physical body then spends a great deal of energy holding onto those emotions.
 Did you know that people who feel sad are less energetic than people who are cheerful? Try doing something active that also makes you feel happy, like dancing to your favorite music or going out with your friends. You'll be so cheerful, you'll wanna get up and get going!

, If you feel like you know everything and you've done it all and you're satisfied with "status quo", you'll have less energy. It's just a fact. People who are dreamers, who tend to improve all the time, have more energy. You will always be trying to get better!

, Instead, eat several small meals (4/5/6) per day to get the metabolism going and you will feel better. Try it! It may or may not work for you. In general, regardless of how many meals you eat, try to eat only until you are full. Otherwise you will feel bloated and tired.

