 Above all, you want to be warm, confident host. Your guests shouldn't feel for a minute like they're stressing or taxing you, or else they will start to feel stressed as well. Drinks will spill, conversation will occasionally stall, and food may run out. That's fine! Just stay friendly and welcoming the entire time, helping your guests feel like they a part of your house and not some burden you have to shoulder., Set the tone of the party with a warm greeting when people arrive. Offer to take coats or jackets and direct them to the right room. It is usually best to let any guests who haven't been over before know where they can get a drink or some food, and point out the guest bathroom. If you can, take some time to talk and converse. If you're cooking or moving around a lot, lead them into the party, hand them a drink, and excuse yourself with a smile., Make an effort, once things calm down and the party is in full swing, to talk with each guest. You'll do a lot of drifting to make sure everyone is engaged and happy, but your guests will be happy that you took the time to see them. This doesn't have to be a systematic movement through the crowd. Just try to have one good, memorable moment with each guest before the night is over., Mix up the conversation groups by introducing people to one another and sliding from one group to another. Find ways to engage shyer guests, or those on the fringes looking at their phones, through conversation and activities. It is your job to steer conversation to new topics if someone is monopolizing the crowd or leaning into unsavory topics.


A good way to mix up groups is to ask someone for some help with something. You can then steer them to a new group when you're done, or make space for someone else to move in.
Enlist very shy friends as assistants. Ask them to help keep the food filled with you or prepare a dish for dinner. They'll appreciate the attention., Everyone may love dancing, loud music, and drinking in the first half of the evening. After dinner, you'll likely notice more people sitting and talking in intimate conversations, or moving away from the dance floor. Feel free to adapt accordingly, putting on calmer music and moving the chairs closer together. Put on a pot of coffee or tea after dessert to entice people to relax. You could also go the opposite direction, too, keeping things calm and conversational until people get a little tipsy, then upping the music to get people out on the dance floor for the second, raging half of the party.
 No one wants to see you scrambling around, cleaning the house while they're still trying to have fun. Make sure that any major messes, like spills, are cleaned up and that there are trash cans for people to deposit empty bottles, cans, and cups, and then relax. Enjoy your own party for a bit and don't worry about cleaning until later.


Cleaning usually signals to others that the party is wrapping up and it is time to go. This could be a nice, subtle way to start pushing people out the door.