 Red eyes accompanied by other serious symptoms can be a sign of a more significant problem such as a stroke or neurological disorder. Go to the emergency room or call 911 if:Your eye is red because of an injury.
You have a headache with blurry vision and confusion.
You see halos around lights.
You are nauseous and/or vomiting.
 If your redness persists despite the above remedies, if you are on blood thinners, or if the redness is accompanied by pain, changes in vision, or any sort of discharge, you should consult your doctor.Common medical causes of red eyes include:Pink Eye (conjunctivitis) — An infection of the transparent membrane that covers your eyes. It is treated with antibiotics and/or topical antihistamines.Chronic Dry Eye — This occurs when your eyes do not produce enough tears to lubricate them. It can be managed through punctual plugs (they plug the small holes in your eyelid that drain moisture), eye drops, and medication.Diabetic Red Eye — High blood sugar from diabetes can damage the tiny blood vessels in your eye, leading to red eyes. If diabetic, be sure to get regular eye exams. If untreated, diabetes can lead to loss of vision.Vasculitis — Occurs when the body's immune system attack blood vessels. It is treated through the use of steroids and other medicines to reduce inflammation.Glaucoma — An increase in eye pressure that can cause blindness. It can usually be treated with eye drops that relieve pressure.
Keratitis — An inflammation of the cornea that may be caused by wearing your contacts for too long or a minor injury. It may be accompanied by a bacterial infection. , Persistent red eyes that do not respond to medical treatment are often the cause of eye strain brought on by an inaccurate prescription or the need for bifocals.


A prescription that is too strong will force the muscles of your eyes to constantly work to bring objects into focus, resulting in strain and redness. It is better to have a prescription that is too weak rather than too strong.If you find yourself having to lean close to your computer screen to see it clearly, you may need bifocals to help you see clearly at multiple focal points.

