 As you prepare for your visit with your physician, it is important to have a list of all your current medications on hand, including the names of the medications, the doses, and the reason you are taking each one. It is also important to have a list of your past medical history, including any surgeries or hospitalizations from your past, as well as any ongoing health concerns that you have suffered from. This information will help your doctor to understand your whole health history better, so that he can evaluate your risk of POTS and move forward with diagnostic testing.
 In order to diagnose POTS, your doctor will need to measure your heart rate when you are sitting at rest. You will then stand and, after one or two minutes, your doctor will measure your heart rate again. If your heart rate increases by 30 BPM (beats per minute) or more when you stand, this means that you have POTS.
 The reason for this is to rule out a condition called "orthostatic hypotension" (this is when your blood pressure drops significantly when you stand, leading to a compensatory elevated heart rate). Because your doctor does not want to diagnose you with POTS if you actually have orthostatic hypotension (that is, if your blood pressure is actually more of a problem than your heart rate), she will need to measure your blood pressure while sitting, then again after you stand up.


If you have POTS and not orthostatic hypotension, then your blood pressure should not drop significantly when you stand up versus when you are sitting.
Alternatively, if your resting heart rate is above 120 BPM when you stand, this is also in itself diagnostic of POTS.,,"Your doctor can diagnose you with POTS by simply measuring your heart rate sitting and standing; alternatively, he or she may perform what is called the "tilt table test." This is a much lengthier and more detailed exam. In total, it takes between 30-40 minutes to do the simple version, and up to 90 minutes to do the complex version.


The tilt table test is where you lie on a table that changes positions at set time intervals.As this occurs, you are attached to machines such as an ECG and blood pressure cuff to continuously monitor your vital signs, including heart rate and rhythm, and blood pressure.Your doctor can evaluate the series of results and use this to diagnose POTS or other heart-related conditions., There are many other tests that can be used to aid in the diagnosis of POTS.Your doctor may suggest a catecholamine test, a cold pressor test, EMG (electromyographic) testing, and sweat tests, among other things. POTS is a heterogeneous disorder, meaning that it can manifest in a variety of ways and have different underlying causes. As a result, the best set of diagnostic tests to confirm the details of your POTS diagnosis will depend upon your doctor's assessment of your particular case.
 Approximately 25% of people diagnosed with POTS have impaired quality of life similar to someone who is officially categorized as disabled. This includes not being able to work, as well as possible difficulty with day-to-day tasks such as bathing, eating, walking, or standing; however, while some people with POTS suffer from a reduced quality of life, others are able to live normally and you might not know they have a medical condition unless they told you.The prognosis for POTS is highly variable from case to case.
For POTS where the onset follows a viral infection (termed a "post-viral episode"), approximately 50% of patients recover in two to five years time.If you have been diagnosed with POTS, your doctor can provide you with information that is specific to you in terms of prognosis, as well as working with you to develop a personalized treatment plan.Your prognosis will depend upon the subtype of POTS that you have, your overall health history, the underlying cause of your disorder, and the constellation of symptoms (as well as the symptom severity) that you are experiencing.
Non-pharmacological measures for the treatment of POTS include eliminating aggravating factors, addressing dehydration, and and increasing activity.
As far as medication goes, there have been no-long term studies on the efficacy of medications to treat POTS and all medication is used off label.

