 Lay a sheet of waxed paper or parchment paper on a baking sheet. Print off a page of snowflake designs or a single large snowflake that you like and slide the print underneath the waxed paper or parchment paper. You should be able to see the snowflake designs through the paper.If you're comfortable with piping, you could pipe the snowflakes without using printed designs. Just pipe the snowflakes directly onto the parchment or waxed paper.
 Get out a 7 ounce (200 g) block of high-quality white chocolate.Chop the chocolate into small chunks. Place the chunks or chips in a small saucepan and that can fit on top of a larger saucepan. Pour an inch of water in the larger saucepan and heat it until it simmers. Set the smaller saucepan with chocolate over the water and stir it until the chocolate melts.If you don't want to chop the chocolate, you can use white chocolate chips instead of the block.
Choose a high-quality white chocolate that lists cocoa butter in the ingredients.
 Use a rubber spatula to scoop the melted chocolate into a piping bag. You can use any tip you like although the melted chocolate won't show great detail once it's piped. If you don't have a piping bag, you can use a plastic food storage bag. Just snip one corner of the bag so you can squeeze the chocolate out.It may help to place the bag inside a large bowl or tall glass while you fill it with chocolate. Tuck the edges of the bag over the sides of the bowl or glass so they don't fall down with the weight of the chocolate.
 Gently squeeze the piping bag or plastic bag so that the white chocolate slowly comes out of the tip or corner of the bag. Use the melted chocolate to trace along the snowflake designs.If too much melted chocolate comes out of the bag, you may need to use a smaller tip or make larger snowflakes.
 You can set a silver cachou in the middle of each snowflake or use them to decorate each tip of the snowflake. You could also sprinkle the snowflakes with edible glitter for extra shine. Decorate the snowflakes while the chocolate is still soft. Set the snowflakes aside to harden.You can refrigerate the white chocolate snowflakes in an airtight container until you're ready to use them.

