 The Aztecs arguably was a very short lived civilisation, although its roots are far older.  The Aztecs principally were the Mexican peoples who spoke Nahuatl as a principle language, but the term Aztec is also expanded to include the Acolhua and Tepanec communities. Based in Tenochtitlan, the ruins of which modern Mexico City is built on, they expanded through trade and alliance as well as conquering and absorbing other communities. The word itself means a person from Aztlan, a part legendary ancestral home of the peoples, which may or may not be California. However, the Aztecs took much influence from their neighbours as well as former civilisations.


When the Mexican tribe arrived in what is now known as the Mexican valley between 1200-1300, they found it to be already occupied and so lived on the outskirts of Culhuacan state on Texcoco lake where they absorbed many of the customs from their hosts. However, after sacrificing the Culhuacan Kings daughter, they were expelled and forced to flee. The settled on a small island which was prophesied as being known when an eagle would be seen on a cactus with a snake in its claws. This image is still a national symbol of Mexico and found on its national flag today. There they enlarged the island and built their capital Tenochtitlan. There the Aztecs made wealth and power hiring themselves out as mercenaries in the frequent wars between city states. This eventually weakened the other states, making the Mexico more powerful.
The Aztec empire first formed in 1427, as an alliance between three city states - Tenochtitlan, Texcoco, and Tlacopan was the start of the eventual dominance of the entire valley and expand its influence across Mexico from the Gulf to the Pacific shores. It was this alliance that formed the main development of Aztec culture, social structure and empire
In 1519 the Spanish Conquistadors under Hernan Cortes arrived. The ancient exiled God of the region was in legend said to return with pale skin and a beard, which the Spaniards coincidentally had. They welcomed the Spaniards in initially, however over the next 3 years the Spaniards allied themselves with neighbouring states who disliked the Aztecs and their ways, although it took until 1521 until the Aztecs were fully dominated. This was seen as a positive boost to many local cultures who had lived under an Aztec control and had wished for their independence. The Aztec empire fell slowly - it took the Spanish 170 years to conquer the entire peninsula, although with numerous epidemics laying siege to the populous, which also wiped out many Meso-American communities and cultures, the Aztec empire was over.;
, Aztec religion is still not fully understood, as when the conquistadors arrived, much of the source books, known as codex, were destroyed.


Philosophy however seemed to have been an important aspect. The natural world in which the Aztecs lived were often at threat from flood, drought and other problems. Their philosophy often focused on attaining balance in this impermanent and unpredictable world.
Like many philosophies, Aztecs believed in a mysterious, indivisible unity known as Teotl that underlies the entire universe, but also a structured, dualistic reality which is the expression of this unity. The practical application was to develop a stoic nature in the people to be able to endure.
The Aztec religion was pantheistic, believing in many Gods that are still ultimately an expression of Teotl. Human sacrifice played a significant part in the ritual, although the contexts and extents of sacrifice are still argued upon today. One theory among several is that sacrifices appeased the Gods and ensured that the sun will rise and for the world to continue; that the sacrificial victim was to carry a message or plea to the Gods; that the sacrifices were a votive offering in expectation for something, or that the sacrifices were played out in relation to their creation myth with a deities self sacrifice for the world to be suitable for humans to live.
Sacrifices also were symbolic, being composed of food, flowers, effigies often made from dough up to blood-letting, animals and humans.
Death and rebirth played a central figure in Aztec religion. The Day of the Dead is still followed in Mexico today. The world was structured into a range of layers, with the underworld, earth world and upper world in the sky. These separate worlds were also divided into many upper and lower levels to which a person may expect to go after death.
 The Aztecs were great agricultural engineers. Creating crop terraces as well as vast systems known as Chinampas, they usually created a surplus of food. Chinampas are shallow swamps and lakes that would be slowly modified into cropland by dredging mud and silt and placing into large mounds in layers with plant vegetation. These would be secured with wattle banks and trees but still within the lake to form regular little islands. This highly fertile soil could create 4 to 7 crops a year and the canals of the area became highly useful to ship the produce to the cities. Many of the people worked in the chinampas to provide food and these are still used today.


One of the common pastimes was the ballgame. While the rules and even the purpose of the game is not fully known, its reckoned that the game was played as a hobby, as well as professionally played in the grand ball courts in the cities. The Meso-American ballgame is possibly the first sport to use a rubber ball. Today a similar ballgame known as Ulama is still played in central America.
Aztec society was unique in its time for having mandatory education for both genders after the age of 15 and before then they were typically home schooled. Typically these schools would teach Aztec philosophy and religion, as well as crafts and trades or military training. An important aspect of education was a training in huehuetlatolli which was a collection of sayings from the past and the elders. These often would teach important social etiquette and ethics.
Most people during the day were occupied in some form of trade or production, be it food production, textiles, metal working and engineering. Crafts and trades were a highly valued skill at all levels of society as it was on these skills that the empire depended.
The Aztec Calendar divided the year into 19 sections, and within these sections were often listed as the duties to perform, such as crop sowing, harvesting, making weapons and mats, as well as seasonal changes, but also ritual and social events such as sacrifices and feast celebrations.
The Aztecs also had sumptuous laws, which forbade the commoners from wearing certain fabrics and fashions to be able to identify and strengthen then nobility. Commoners were not allowed to wear cotton cloaks as well as some gold adornments.
Feast days and fasting was common, without exception to age, gender or health but did take a variety of guises, with priests living off one small tortilla per day, with a break every 20 days, where the ordinary peoples would cut out seasonings or reduce whatever few luxuries they had. The wealthy likewise were expected to fast, although their fasts were still extravagant meals, if not reduced in scale.
 Much of modern Mexican cuisine has its roots in the Aztec cuisine. The Aztecs were largely vegetarian, although this was more due to the scarcity of meat.


Typical foods were tomatoes, beans, maize varieties, squash and cucurbits, edible amaranths and chilli peppers. Other valued crops were avocados, edible flowers, agave, sweet potatoes and chia seeds. Crops imported from other districts included fruits, which did not grow well in chinampas. Food gathering such as herbs and wild mushrooms was also common as a way to supplement diet. Food was often seasoned with salt and chilli.
The Aztec elite admired the highly prized Cacao (Theobroma Cacao) which was made into a beverage including vanilla, chilli and other flavourings known as xocolatl (from which we get both chocolate and the word chocolate). This bitter drink would often be sweetened with honey and whipped to form a foam (as the beans had a high fat content called cocoa butter), which was highly prized and a sign of the cacaos quality. Cacao beans were highly prized also as a currency and were often forged being empty shells filled with mud.
Maize was a central staple, being ground into a paste or meal, which would then be made into tortilla or tamales, cooked into beverages such as atole and gruel and cooked in many other ways. It was often processed, being mixed with an alkali such as lye and this process would make many of its nutrients more accessible.
Protein overall was scarce, but included turkey, iguana, insects such as grasshoppers, agave worms and caterpillars, turtle eggs, spirulina algae and a variety of crayfish that was native in some lakes. While the extent is still open to debate, it has been suggested that cannibalism did exist in various levels of society.
Aztec people usually ate slowly and with solemnity, moderation and frugality. While feasts were common, food was still served in a complex ritualised manner and little went to waste. Maize being so prized that even if it fell to the floor, it would still be picked up and consumed. 

,