 Before you put your child on any type of medication for mental illness, you need to talk to their doctor. You should determine if you child has anxiety or another condition, and if the anxiety is severe enough to warrant medication.


If your child has anxiety, there may be non-medication management strategies that you can use to help the anxiety. These alternatives to medication may be preferable over medication.
Be sure that your child needs medication before putting them on medication. Don't just take a doctor's word for it. Think about your child's symptoms, get them checked out by a psychiatrist, and even get a second opinion if you don't feel comfortable giving your child anti-anxiety medication.;
, The most common type of medication prescribed for adolescents with anxiety disorders is selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). This type of medicine is considered an antidepressant, but has been found to be the most effective for treating adolescent anxiety. SSRIs help increase serotonin levels in the brain by blocking your brain from reabsorbing serotonin so that it remains available in your brain.A few examples of SSRIs include:Sertraline (Zoloft)
Citalopram (Celexa)
Paroxetine (Paxil)
Fluoxetine (Prozac)

, SSRIs are the most common antidepressant medications, but there are a few other types you may consider. For example, there are serotonin norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), which block the absorption of serotonin and norepinephrine.Examples of SNRIs include Duloxetine (Cymbalta) and Venlafaxine (Effexor, Pristiq).Atypical antidepressants may also be an option. These include tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs) such as Amitriptyline (Elavil) and Clomipramine (Anafranil).
The last type are monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), which include Phenelzine (Nardil) and Tranylcypromine (Parnate).
 Many anti-anxiety medications used to treat anxiety in adults are not used for treatment in children or adolescents; however, if your adolescent suffers from acute anxiety that is crippling them, interfering severely with school performance, or causing problems at home, your doctor may consider putting your child on benzodiazepines temporarily.Benzodiazepines can help with physical anxiety symptoms, such as rapid heartbeat, sweating, or trembling.Benzodiazepines include Alprazolam (Xanax), Diazepam (Valium), and Clonazepam (Klonopin).
 Anxiety can cause sleep disturbances, which can leave your child tired and irritable. This can negatively impact their school work and daily lives. The doctor may prescribe a temporary medication to help your adolescent sleep if insomnia or other sleep disturbances have become a major problem.Common sleep medications include Trazodone (Desyrel), Zolpidem (Ambien), Eszopiclone (Lunesta), and even Diphenhydramine (Benadryl).
 Before you choose to give your child any medication, you should be aware of the risks associated with adolescents taking antidepressants or other anti-anxiety drugs. Since antidepressants such as SRIs were designed and tested on adults, there have not been any definitive research on how these drugs affect developing brains.Each class of medication has it's own side effect and risk profile. Your doctor will help you decide which medication is best and safest for your child.
There is an increased risk of suicidal thoughts during the first few months of taking the antidepressant. When your child starts taking any medication for their anxiety, you should closely monitor them for signs of suicide.
 Before your adolescent starts any medication, you should take them to the doctor. You may start by taking them to the pediatrician or general physician, who then can give you a referral to a mental health specialist who specializes in adolescent mental health. Your child will need a psychiatric evaluation before being prescribed any medication for anxiety.In addition, your general physician may rule out other medical causes of your child's symptoms, such as an overactive thyroid, or other hormonal disorders.


During this exam, the psychiatrist will address any risk factors that may lead to self-harm
The psychiatrist will make sure your child has an anxiety disorder and rule out other disorders, such as ADHD or bipolar disorder.
The doctor will ask about your family’s history of mental illness.
You should make sure to tell your psychiatrist about any liver or heart problems your child suffers from, along with any medications they are taking, including vitamins, supplements, and over-the-counter meds., Even if you and your doctor decide your child should take medication for their anxiety, you should consider getting your child therapy. Psychotherapy, such as cognitive behavioral therapy, has been proven to help treat the symptoms, behaviors, and underlying issues associated with anxiety.Many studies have shown that medication mixed with psychotherapy and CBT is more effective than medication alone.Psychotherapy helps address the adolescent’s sense of failure, guilt, and self-blame. Talk therapy and CBT can help your child deal with their feelings, recognize their anxieties, and learn how to reduce them. CBT helps the adolescent recognize unhealthy thought patterns and replace them with healthier ones.
Parent counseling can help parents learn how to manage and deal with their child’s illness. It can also help parents learn how to deal with their own negative feelings associated with the child’s anxiety.
Group and school-based counseling can help the child deal with social aspects of their anxiety disorder.
 It is important for you to take your adolescent to the doctor for follow-up appointments. Your doctor will monitor your child’s progress on the medication, as well as their reactions. You should alert your doctor to any side effects, changes in behavior, suicidal thoughts, or other concerns.Never stop your child’s medication without first discussing it with your child’s doctor. Stopping medication can cause withdrawal symptoms.
 You should decide whether your adolescent is mature enough or trustworthy enough to take the medication on their own. Even if you believe they can be trusted to take their medication, you should watch to make sure they are taking the correct dosage. Most adolescents are prescribed the smallest dosage, which means taking more than that dosage can lead to an overdose.If your child is supposed to take half a pill, take it upon yourself to break up all pills before they start taking them so a whole pill is not taken by accident.
Talk to your child and explain the routine of taking the medication. Tell them how many pills they will take, how many times a day they will take it, and when they will take them.
Until your adolescent gets familiar with the routine, help them take their medication.
You may have to remind your child to take the medication each day.
Contact the school nurse if your child has to take their medication at school.
 You should monitor your child carefully after they begin taking antidepressants or other medications to treat anxiety. Antidepressants can cause many different negative side effects. Some physical side effects, like weight loss or gain, diarrhea, constipation, nausea, or headaches may not require an immediate call to the doctor.You should call your doctor right away if you notice any of the following side effects:Worsening anxiety
Signs of new depression
Panic attacks
Extreme agitation, restlessness, or irritability
Insomnia
Aggression or violent outburst
Dangerous impulsive behavior
Suicidal thoughts — you may want to take your child to the emergency room
Other behavior changes

, In addition to medication and therapy, there are ways your adolescent can manage their anxiety at home. The doctor or therapist can help give you ways to help your child at home, but common methods for managing anxiety includes relaxation techniques, stress-relieving activities, and socializing.You should encourage your child to exercise. Exercise helps relieve stress and has been proven to reduce anxiety symptoms. This can include any activity, such as sports, jogging, walking the dog, dancing, playing at the park with friends, or joining a gym.
Help your adolescent find ways to let out negative emotions. This may include creating art or music, dancing, singing, or writing.
Make sure your child gets enough sleep. Adequate sleep each night can help your child’s overall well-being, as well as reduce anxiety symptoms. Teenagers may need between eight and ten hours of sleep, while younger children may need nine to eleven hours each night.