 You can buy long ones and cut them down yourself, or you can buy shorter ones that are already the right height; they usually come in a pack. Look for something around 12 to 14 inches (30.48 to 35.56 centimeters) long and ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) wide. This will be the base of your wand.


You can leave the dowels blank, or you can spray paint them. Choose a neutral color, such as white, silver, or gold.Alternatively, you can stain the dowels instead. Use a natural stain, such as vinegar and coffee.;
, Choose two different colors of ribbon, preferably something that matches your wedding colors. Cut the ribbons so that they are twice as long as you want them to be. Something around 36 to 40 inches (91.44 to 101.6 centimeters) long would be ideal. You will need one piece of each color for each wand.


The ribbons can be the same or different. Experiment with satin and sheer, thick and thin combinations.
 Stack the ribbons together, find the center, then tie them around the dowel, about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) down from the tip. Make sure that there are equal lengths of ribbon to either side of the knot.Treat both ribbons as a single ribbon.
Consider adding a drop of glue to the dowel before wrapping the ribbons around it. This will help secure the ribbons and keep them from sliding down the dowel.
 Cut a short piece of gold or silver twine, about 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) long. Feed one end through the top loop of your bell.You can use jingle bells or standard, trumpet-shaped bells.


If you are using jingle bells, choose something small, about ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) in diameter.If you are using standard bells, choose something tall, about 1½ inches (3.81 centimeters).
The twine will be visible and lend the wand a decorative touch. If you don't want the twine to be visible consider using clear thread or fishing line instead.
Alternatively, you can use a very thin ribbon that matches your wedding colors.
 Place the twine right behind the dowel. Make sure that it is resting right over the ribbon. Wrap both ends over to the front of the dowel, and tie them into a secure, double-knot, right over the ribbons' knot., Instead of doing a typical double-knot, try a square knot instead. You simply reverse the order in which you crossed the ribbon strands. For example, if you crossed right-over-left the first time around, you will want to cross left-over-right this time around.