 Choose breasts or legs. Never both. Nights out often call for a little sex appeal; there is, however, a line that falls between classy and trashy. A mini dress, skirt or micro shorts are perfectly acceptable to wear but if you wear them with a low-cut top, you will be sending out an image other than that of a classy one. This also applies in reverse: a low cut top can be perfectly acceptable, providing your legs and thighs are not clearly visible too! Think a mini length shift dress, or a low cut top with a knee length or just above the knee length pencil skirt.;
, Insulting, suggestive or improper slogans or pictures will never be considered classy, though some may be humorous. When it comes to dressing classy, steer clear of any suggestive or rude language.
 Regardless of whether it is day or night, showing a little skin is fine: no one expects you to be entirely covered. But think about how much skin you would show at the office, meeting your boyfriend's parents or going to church. By all means, go for that crop top but make certain everything else is covered! A rule that many classy women go by is, "show only one thing, cover up the other entirely". That means if you are going to rock an appropriate amount of cleavage, do not wear shorts. Instead wear pants or trousers that cover up your legs.
 Those spandex micro shorts are not going to make the cut.


Try high-quality synthetics. They can look similar to natural fibers, particularly shiny protein-based animal fibers such as silk, satin and wool, and the subtle differences aren't necessarily bad. But they tend to cost less to buy, last longer, and, most importantly, cost next to nothing to maintain. If you prefer the feel of natural fiber, try synthetics on the legs, which are less sensitive, and outer layers, which are not felt much. If you're not sure about the surface appearance, at least try them on the legs, which are not observed as closely. You can find high quality products in some thrift stores if you know what you are looking for.
 Too-tight clothing is not classy! Tailored looks are a key feature of classy dressing. Squeezing into a dress is not classy!

, There will always be days where a nice over sized hoodie and tracksuit are acceptable but make wearing them the exception and not the rule. Baggy clothes do not make you look smaller; instead they just make you look frumpy and sloppy.
 Even in a casual outfit, ensure nothing is dirty, stained or damaged. Tacky items will only take away from the over all appearance.


Colors and fine patterns hide the inevitable occasional minor damage.
, Think of any of these as a pair of thin tights. If you couldn't wear that top with just a pair of tights under it then don't wear it with your leggings. End of story.
 Don't be overly fussy. Covering yourself in glitter and excessive orange make up will not look classy.
 The right accessories can give that outfit a boost, and make it look far more expensive than it is. A nice oversized pashmina style scarf with a pair of skinny jeans, a vest top, and sandals will look cute and classy.
, Things like jeans and simple coats are best bought at good quality as they will last you years.


Quality need not be expensive. The world has known how to make most of these items for many, many years, with established measuring and layout techniques, powerful machines, and modestly-skilled labor. Just check that not too many corners are cut, and don't spend a great deal because even the best clothing can get inadvertently torn or stained and wear through.



Sticking to shops like H&M and Forever 21 where prices are reasonable and quality is important is highly advisable.
, Once you have an understanding of classy dressing, shopping in cheaper shops will be very simple.Get simple clothing and timeless pieces that can be worn throughout and past your economic slump.
 Colors like light pink, red, clear, pearl, nude will never disappoint you no matter what color you are!

