 It seems elementary, but knowing your nurse, their name and how to call for their help is just a really good and important first step to communicating well with the team in the hospital.


You have a nurse assigned to your care at every moment you are in the hospital. That means from admission, throughout your stay, no matter if you direct admit from a doctor's office, you come through One Day Surgery Center, the Radiology Department or the Emergency Room, you will have a nurse assigned. This is critically important to your continuity of care. Always, there is a nurse who knows who you are, what your diagnosis is and where you are.;
, Nurses, as a rule, are proud to call themselves patient advocates. In order to have your advocate 100% engaged and invested in your well being you ideally should know who your nurse is, at all times. In addition, you should feel confident he or she is going to do the best they can to advocate and help guide you through initiation of the healing process and finally to your discharge.
 Once again, this is not your responsibility, exactly, but it will pay dividends if you have someone who is able to stay with you through the night and even during the day when you are having tests or need a lot of assistance with normal day to day activities. While you have a nurse 100% of the time assigned to your care, and you may have nursing assistants and orderlies too who will work to help you, they are also assigned simultaneously to other patients and you cannot have them with you all the time. So, having a family member or friend can be really reassuring to you.
 This written record is also not mandatory, but being able to recall events when you are ill is not an easy task. So, if you keep a record of when you saw the doctor, what tests you have done, what treatments you had that day, you can then feel a little more in control of yourself and what is happening. If no one is able to stay with you and keep a record, have your nurse write down what tests will be coming up and any significant activities you will undergo each day on a dry-erase or write-on/wipe-off board at your bedside so you have a reference point each day.
 If you come to the hospital with medications from home you should declare and show those medications to your nurse upon admission. You may be asked to have someone take them back home, but they are important for the admitting nurse to document and know what drugs you normally are on.
 If you are on a special diet, have certain home or sleep routines, these can often be observed while you are hospitalized, but your doctor has perhaps not known or not informed the nursing staff, so you must communicate those specific needs to your admitting nurse.
 That way, you will know when you will be reassigned to the oncoming nurse. You need to be aware of shift change as there is some overlap of nursing staff and a report time where the new nurse coming on will hear report from the nurse going off about patient updates and care needs. So this is a good time to put in request for what you need from the upcoming shift nursing staff.
 This way if there is any communications to you or to your nurse your family member will have that nurse's name to ask for when they call to inquire about you.
 This is particularly important if you do not have anyone with you when your doctor comes to visit you in your room. This way you will have a second set of ears to listen to any instructions given from your doctor or updates about tests he might review with you.
 Upon discharge there will be a nurse who does all of your education about home care instructions, when to return to the doctor for follow up and how to take medications at home. This discharge review will be given as a written handout too. You should make sure and keep your discharging nurse's name on the discharge instruction sheet and a phone number for the unit where you discharge from also so you can call back if you think of questions after you go home.

