 Set your oven to 325°F (163°C) and let it heat up. The process of seasoning cast iron involves coating it with a layer of oil and baking it. Seasoning, or curing, the pan will cover it with a non-stick surface, make the pan easier to clean, and protect it from rust.


Most new cast iron pans come pre-seasoned, but you'll have to season any that haven't been cured by the manufacturer.You can still season a new pan if it comes pre-seasoned, and you should definitely season an old or second-hand cast iron pan before using it.;
, Fill a sink with a small amount of hot, soapy water. Immerse a clean sponge in the soapy water, then wash the cast iron pan. Rinse the pan under hot water and dry it completely with a clean towel.You can also use a dish brush with stiff bristles to clean the pan.
Most people recommend not washing cast iron with soap once it has been seasoned, because the soap can slowly remove the seasoning. However, because you're about to season the pan, use soap now to make sure the pan is clean.
 Dip a clean cloth or paper towel into some vegetable shortening. Rub the shortening over the inside and outside of the skillet to coat the pan with a thin and even layer.It’s best to use a small amount of solid shortening for seasoning, because too much shortening or using liquid oil can leave a sticky residue on the pan.
 Place a cookie sheet or piece of foil on the bottom rack of the oven. Then place the skillet upside down on the middle rack. Bake the empty skillet for an hour.


The baking sheet is important because it will catch any shortening that melts and drips off the pan.
 After an hour, turn off the oven. Leave the skillet in the oven as it cools, about one to two hours. Remove the pan from the oven once it’s cool. Buff the pan by rubbing it with a paper towel or clean cloth to remove excess shortening.When you're finished, the pan should be a smooth and shiny black.
 Over time, this non-stick layer may wear away, especially if you use the pan to cook non-fatty foods. Repeat the seasoning process every few months, or when:The pan loses its luster and becomes dull
The color changes from black to dark gray
Food starts sticking to the pan

, Clean your pan as soon as possible after cooking with it. The longer food cools in the pan, the harder it will be to clean. After cooking with your cast iron pan, hold it under hot running water. While the water is running, wipe the pan out with a clean cloth to remove food particles.For mildly soiled and well-seasoned pans, this may be all you need to clean your cast iron.
If you're worried about bacteria because you aren't using soap, just make sure to preheat your cast iron before adding food. Cast iron heats up very quickly, and even over medium heat the pan will quickly reach temperatures high enough to kill any bacteria., For food that’s still stuck on your pan or baked-on leftovers, sprinkle the inside of a warm pan with a generous layer of coarse salt. Scrub the surface of the pan with a damp dish cloth to remove the stuck-on food.


When the food has been removed, discard the salt and scraps and rinse the pan out with hot water., Remove excess water from the pan by drying it with a towel immediately after cleaning it. Return the pan to the stove and warm it over low heat until all the water has evaporated, about two minutes.Never let cast iron cookware air dry, as this will cause the iron to rust.
 With the pan still on low heat, coat it with an additional layer of vegetable shortening, using a cloth or paper towel to spread the shortening evenly over the pan. Leave the pan on the heat for another 10 minutes.After 10 minutes, remove the pan from the heat and set it aside to cool. Before putting it away, wipe out any excess shortening with a cloth or paper towel.
Fully seasoning a pan is a process that happens over time. As you add more oil to the pan and cook fatty foods in the cast iron, the surface will become more protected and more non-stick.
 Iron is highly susceptible to rust, which can be caused when the metal is exposed to air and water. Seasoning your cast iron pan regularly will help prevent it from rusting. It’s important to remove rust spots immediately if they do begin to form, otherwise they will quickly spread.


Wet a mildly abrasive sponge or scrub pad with soapy water and scrub the rusted spots on the pan. To remove tough rust spots, try a bit of vinegar on the sponge. Rinse the pan under hot water.
Re-season the pan by coating it in vegetable shortening and baking it in the oven for an hour.
 There are a few things you can do to a cast iron pan that will virtually guarantee rust. To prevent rust from forming, avoid exposing the metal to moisture as much as possible:


Never immerse cast iron directly in water. Clean the pan by running water over, rather than submerging it in a full sink.
Always dry cast iron cookware fully after using and washing.
Store the pans in cupboards or from hooks with the lids off. Lids can trap air and moisture against the surface of the pan, and this will cause the metal to rust., The seasoning layer will protect your cast iron from small amounts of acid, so it’s ok to cook mildly acidic foods in your pan for short periods of time. But acidic foods that require long simmering times, such as tomato sauce, should be cooked in other cookware.With a long-simmering acidic food, the acid can find weak spots in the seasoning layer, and this can eat away at the seasoning and start to corrode the metal.
Be sure to remove acidic foods from your cast iron as soon as they're cooked, and wash the pan immediately., Always wash your cast iron by hand, and never put it in the dishwasher. The dishwasher will expose the pan to too much moisture, and this can lead to rust.


You should also avoid metal scouring pads on the cast iron, as these can damage the seasoning layer.Harsh soaps and detergents can also remove the seasoning, so avoid them unless you plan to re-season the pan right away.
 Never pour cold water into a hot cast iron pan, as this can lead to cracking and warping. If your pan is still hot from cooking, only use hot water to clean it.