 If a police car signals for you stop, either by blaring its siren or flashing its emergency lights, pull over to the right side of the road as quickly as possible.While changing lanes from left to right, use your turn signal. Also be sure not to slow down too quickly so that the officer does not have to brake to avoid hitting you.
Park your vehicle as far to the right as possible so that, when the officer comes up to your window, he or she will be able to speak to you safely without fear of being hit by oncoming traffic.
 Keep your hands in plain view until the officer has approached you to ask for your license and registration. This reassures the police that you are not reaching for a weapon.


Do not rummage through your back pocket for your wallet and license, or in your glove compartment for your registration, until the officer asks you for them. This could cause the officer to suspect you are reaching for a gun., A police officer may conduct a traffic stop only if he can point to specific and articulated facts that caused him to suspect you have violated a law. This includes any reason to suspect that you have violated a traffic law, such as speeding or a driving without a license plate.Ask the officer why you were stopped so you can be sure he actually had a basis for stopping you. If he gives a reason that you believe to mere pretext, such as accusing you of improper weaving when you were driving in only one lane, point out politely that you disagree with him and ask if you may leave.
If you are stopped as part of a roadblock or sobriety checkpoint, an officer may stop you regardless of whether he suspected you committed criminal activity.
 In the course of a traffic stop, an officer is likely to ask you questions about any suspicious activity he observes. If you have committed any crimes, such as driving while drunk, politely refuse to answer the officer's questions. Keep in mind you are under no obligation to provide the officer with any information beyond that on your driver’s license, vehicle registration, or proof of insurance.


Tell the officer: "I'd like to remain silent and I'd like to speak to a lawyer."
Resist the temptation to defend yourself. If, for some example, the officer asks if you have been drinking, do not say, "Officer, I just had one glass of wine with dinner." Such statements, however, inconsequential they may seem, will likely be used against you later.
 If an officer suspects you have been driving while under the influence of drugs or alcohol, he will likely ask you to step out of your vehicle and perform a field sobriety test, such as walking in a straight line. If you fail this test, he will ask that you take a chemical (breath, blood or urine) test to determine your blood alcohol level.


There are two schools of thought on whether you should take any sobriety test. In some states, refusing a breathalyzer test will result in your license being suspended for up to 12 months. Your license will be suspended regardless of whether you are or are not intoxicated. Simply refusing to take the test is sufficient reason for the Department of Motor Vehicles to revoke your license.Nevertheless, this penalty may be less than what you would receive for a DUI conviction, so you need to weigh your particular circumstances.In some states, the refusal to take a chemical test can be used at trial. For example, in California, refusal to take a blood or urine test may be presented at trial as evidence of your guilt and result in increased penalties if you are convicted.By refusing to the take the tests, you are gambling that the state does not have enough evidence to convict you.
There's a difference between a chemical/breathalyzer test and a field sobriety test. The field sobriety test (walking a straight line, counting, alphabet, etc.) is usually optional; you will not be penalized for refusing it. Even if you pass the breathalyzer, they can still use the field sobriety test to say you were impaired enough, and charge you with DUI. So if you do decide to blow, make sure not to incriminate yourself further with an optional field test.
Nevertheless, it may be wise for you to refuse any sobriety test, depending on your state.Without the results of such tests, it will be harder for the police to make a case against you in court.
Alternately, if you know you have not been drinking, then you can take sobriety tests., During a traffic stop, police need probable cause to search your vehicle. This means the police must be able to point to specific evidence that you are involved in criminal activity, such as the sight or smell of contraband or an admission of guilt for a specific crime. Regardless of whether the police have probable cause, they can always ask for your consent and you can always refuse to give consent.If the police begin to search you or your car, politely inform the officer that you do not consent to the search. For example, say: "Officer, I know you are just doing your job, but I do not consent to any searches."
This statement can help you if charges are filed. Should the prosecution fail to prove that the police had probable cause to conduct the search, it will be clear that you did not consent to the search. As a result, you will have a basis for suppressing any evidence discovered during the search, which could result in the dismissal of charges against you.

