 Believe it or not, there was a time when you took regular breaks from work. If your work schedule allows, take breaks and enjoy a quick recess. Even if you have to wait until after work, schedule time during the day to do something fun.


Try one of the activities discussed above.
Instead of eating your lunch at your desk while doing work, try going on a picnic in the park.
Recess time in school usually involves physical exercise outside so use shorter breaks to enjoy a quick walk around the block instead of waiting in line for coffee. You can also bring your drink with you.
 You might not have time to drag out a rest mat at work, but you can pack a snack to help you feel more like a kid. Snacking during the day keeps your blood sugar level and elevates your mood.To feel even more like a kid, forgo the grown-up protein bar and pack a juice box, fruit snack, or pudding cup.
 While adults are often afraid to admit they don’t know or understand something, children readily absorb information and are excited to learn new things.Take a community education class, join a book group, attend a lecture, or pick up a new hobby. If it seems daunting to venture out on your own, encourage a friend or family member to go with you.
 Many adults bring workplace stresses home with them, which prevents you from feeling youthful. When you return home from the office, turn off your work email and avoid focusing on the day’s problems.
 Researchers have found that children smile 400 times per day while adults only smile about 20 times per day. According to psychologists, smiling and laughing make you feel happier and more youthful, so get ready to grin and guffaw if you want to feel young.
 If you want to maintain a more youthful perspective, try watching a family-friendly movie or reading a book intended for a younger audience. These selections are often more lighthearted and less serious.


To take a trip down memory lane, pick one of your childhood favorites.
 Spending quality time with kids is one of the best ways to feel youthful.If you, your family, or your friends have children, try including them in the activities described above.
You can also volunteer at a local school, church, or community organization such as the Boys and Girls Club. These organizations are often looking for adults to serve as role models or mentors, and the children you interact with can teach you how to feel more like a kid again.

