 Some expert-made counterfeits won't be easy to tell apart from actual Rolexes. To spot these, you may need to examine the watch's tiny, intricate detail work, which is the hardest part of the watch to fake. To start, try finding your watch's serial number. This will require you to remove the band. You can usually do this by pushing the joint holding the band to the watch out of its place with a thumbtack or similarly-sized object. However, if you're uncomfortable with this, you can also have a professional do it for you. The serial number should be located between the "lugs" at the six o'clock end of the dial.


The lettering on the serial number should be perfect and precise, with fine lines. Some counterfeiters use an acid-etching method which produces serial number markings with a noticeable "sandy" appearance under magnification.Between the opposite set of lugs, there should be another similar marking. This is the case reference number and will be labeled with the words, "ORIG ROLEX DESIGN."An original Rolex will have sharp and detailed engraving located between the lugs. Counterfeiters often try to mimic these engraving, the result often appears like the serial number has been roughly etched into the casing.
Note that it's possible to look the date of your watch's manufacture up with your serial number — several handy online sources (like this one) can help you here.
 Starting in the early to mid 2000s, Rolex began etching the trademark crown logo into the crystal of their watch's dials.If your watch was made in the past decade or so, you may be able to see this tiny mark of authenticity. Use a magnifying glass or a jeweler's lens to carefully examine the glass at the six o'clock end of the watch's dial. Look for the Rolex crown logo — the same design as the much larger logo at the opposite end of the dial. The etching you are looking for is very, very small and can be quite tricky to see. You may find that it is easier to see if you shine light at the face of the watch at an angle.


Some counterfeiters do attempt to copy this etching, but it is extremely difficult to duplicate with the precision of an actual Rolex.If this etching is large enough to easily see with the naked eye, you may have a fake on your hands.
 Another mark of authenticity is the fine, etched lettering that is usually included around the rim of Rolex watch dials. Examine this lettering with a magnifying glass or jeweler's lens. The lettering should be fine, precise, and elegant, with no imperfections. Additionally, the lettering should be etched into the metal rim. If it appears to be painted or printed instead, the watch is likely a fake.


Note that, typically, all watches from Rolex's Oyster series bear this etching. Watches from the Cellini series often have non-standard designs (rectangular faces, etc.) and thus may not have this etching.
 Almost (though not quite) all Rolex watches have the trademark crown logo located at the top of the dial near the twelve o'clock marking. Examining this logo under magnification can sometimes reveal a fake. The logo should appear to made of high-quality metal construction. The circles at the end of the crown's points should have raised bumps. The outline of the crown should glimmer with a different metallic sheen than the inside.If your crown logo looks cheap or flat under magnification, this is a sign of poor craftsmanship (and a likely indicator of a fake).
 Rolexes are renowned for their perfection. Even small, relatively undetectable defects can be clues that your Rolex isn't top quality. Examine the lettering on your watch's dial with a magnifying glass or jeweler's lens. Each letter should be perfectly, precisely formed with straight lines and smooth curves. The spaces between words and letters should be consistent. If you notice that any letters seem to be even slightly uneven or smudged under magnification, this is a sign that the watch was made with sub-optimal printing technology and is probably not a Rolex.


It's also worth mentioning that, obviously, any sort of misspelling is also a dead giveaway that the watch is a fake.

