 This trick employs an oversized novelty coin. You will make it appear that the coin is levitating within the space made between your hands when the hands are loosely cupped together. This trick is harder to pull off when close to your audience as you will be touching the coin at all times.


The size of the coin is important, as it must be sufficiently large to still be visible behind the fingers.
To perform the effect, pick up the coin with either hand.
Bring the other hand to the coin and hold it with both hands, thumbs facing you.
 Make sure the pads of your thumbs are resting on the left and right edges of the coin.


Your thumbs should be pressing inwards against the coin, holding it up.
Your fingers should be curled, with the fingertips merely resting lightly against the front of the coin.
Make sure that only your thumbs are actually holding the coin up.
 You can help the illusion by extending your arms slightly and then pulling back toward you. The constant movement will help to distract the audience.


Slowly straighten your fingers. Extend your fingers toward each other. The right and left fingertips should be about 1 inch (2.54 cm) away from each other.
Keep your fingers as close together as possible. You want to use your fingers as a sort of barrier so that the spectator can't see your thumbs holding the coin.
As you straighten your fingers, also move your thumbs up and down in very small movements. It will appear as though the coin is hovering in the air between your fingers.
 This might take some time to make look as real as possible.


Once you have the handling of the coin down, observe yourself performing it in front of a mirror. Check to make sure that you're considering the spectator's perspective.
Ensure that the coin can be properly seen. Also, practice it under the conditions that you will display it. If you plan to sit at a table, practice it at a table as you will be closer to your audience.
Practice holding the coin with the pads of your thumbs so that it doesn’t look quite like you’re holding the coin in between each one.
See if you can get the coin to spin or rotate without dropping it to enhance the illusion. This will take some practice. Use your fingers to block the view of your thumbs.

