 Grab the bar with both hands, keeping your hands shoulder width apart or just beyond shoulder width apart. Wrap your fingers and thumbs securely around the bar.


Make sure that your hands aren't perfectly aligned with your feet. If they are, you may end up weakening your grip by kicking your hands on the upswing.
If your hands are too close together, you will actually drop the body further down and increase the distance your legs need to travel during the exercise. This will make it harder to complete.
 Tighten the muscles in your abdomen and buttocks. Extend your body down into a controlled hollow, making it fairly rigid without sacrificing flexibility or causing strain.


Your toes should point downward and your feet should actually be positioned slightly in front of your torso.
The body should be gently bent into a hollow curve. Imagine yourself lying on the ground, face-up, with your hands and feet lifted off the floor and the small of your back pressed to the ground. That is the posture you will need to mimic while hanging from the bar.
Your core muscles must be engaged and tight. Your arms alone will not be enough to support your body as you attempt to kip and swing your legs up.
 Use your shoulder muscles to swing your torso and legs back. Essentially, you're shifting the hollow from the front of your body to the back.


Imagine yourself lying on the ground again. This time, you would be face-down with your hands and feet lifted off the floor and your stomach pressed to the ground. Your hips and shoulders would also be stretch behind your torso. This is the posture you will need to swing into while hanging from the bar.
As you swing back, try to get your hips behind the bar instead of keeping your hips beneath it. Doing so will help you build more momentum while decreasing the angle you will eventually need to lift from.
Move your legs simultaneously throughout the entire process. If you don't, your coordination and rhythm will be thrown off, making the exercise almost impossible to complete.
 Snap back and forth between the forward hollow and backward arch. This movement is called "kipping," and you are using it to create a controlled swing.


A controlled swing creates momentum, and this momentum will make it easier to swing your toes toward the bar.
If you don't feel like you have any control during your kips, you are likely using your legs to swing instead of your shoulders. Focus on moving your chest back and forth during each swing., On the backward swing of your kip, begin lifting your legs, bending your knees slightly so that they meet your elbows.Press down on the bar with your hands and follow the motion of your body to draw your legs upward.
Your hips must be as far back behind the bar as possible as you begin lifting your legs. By swinging your legs up while you're at the top of your kip, you minimize the distance between your shoulder and the bar, thereby shortening the distance your feet will need to travel to reach the bar, as well.While your knees do not need to touch your elbows, it is helpful to draw them together during this exercise. If you skip this step and jump straight into a toes-to-bar, you can wear yourself out faster and cause muscle strain.
 From the bent knees-to-elbow position, extend your legs out straight until your toes hit the bar.


Make sure both legs extend out simultaneously during this step.
 As soon as your momentum no longer moves you toward the bar, begin your descent. To drop down, you need to extend your legs down in a controlled motion that is even with the vertical posts of the bar.


Do not kick your legs out. Doing so will waste energy and disrupt the rhythm of the kip.
A good way to prevent yourself from accidental injury is to essentially reverse the motion of your toes-to-bar. Tuck your legs in toward your chest before pulling them back down into their previous position.
 Work as many repetitions as desired for your workout. Continue kipping, and use the momentum to complete each consecutive toes-to-bar.


You should work in small sets while first learning the exercise so that you can perfect the motion and form. Focus on building good habits when you're starting out to avoid developing bad ones.
It is much easier to complete more repetitions at a faster pace with the kipping toes-to-bar than the strict toes-to-bar.
If your grip loosens in the middle of your routine, release the bar and drop down to your feet at the bottom of your downswing. Pause for a few moments before grabbing the bar again and picking back up where you left off.

