


Go to the Start menu on your Windows computer. Depending on the version of your operating system, your start menu may appear in the form of the Windows logo. The Start menu is located in the bottom-left corner of your screen.
Select Control Panel from the options on the right within the Start menu. You can also access the Control Panel by right-clicking on "My Computer" from your desktop and selecting "Properties.";
,


Click on "System and Security" when the Control Panel appears on your screen. If you use an earlier version of Windows, "System and Security" will be replaced with "Performance and Maintenance."
Click on "System" to access your System Properties.



Click on the link for "Remote Settings" on the left side of your System Properties window. If you have an earlier version of Windows, you can click directly on the "Remote" tab in System Properties.
Verify that a check mark exists in the box next to "Allow Remote Assistance connections to this computer." By default, this option should already be selected; if not, click in the box to add a check mark. This will allow you to help others, or receive help from another user.
Users with earlier versions of Windows will see this option as "Allow Remote Assistance invitations to be sent from this computer."
Click on the "Advanced" button.
Place a check mark in the box next to "Allow this computer to be controlled remotely" if you want other users to have control over the keyboard and mouse functions of your computer when they assist you.
Indicate the amount of time you want invitations to stay open after you send them. You can choose from minutes, hours, or days. For example, if you need help with a project you plan on working on for the next 4 hours, indicate "4 hours" to allow someone to assist you within that timeframe.
Click on the "OK" button, then select "Apply" in the System Properties window to save your remote assistance settings. You will now have the ability to communicate with other users on your network if you need assistance or if you need to provide assistance to another user.



Click on your Start menu, point to "Programs," then select "Remote Assistance." If you do not see "Remote Assistance" as an option, locate the program using your Windows Explorer search bar from within your Start menu.
 You can send an invitation for help, or respond to a user's request for help.


Click on "Invite someone to help you" if you need remote assistance; otherwise, click on "Help someone who has invited you" to assist another user.
Select your invitation method if you chose to invite help. Send an invitation using Windows Messenger, Microsoft Outlook, or as an attachment to use in a web-based email program. You will then be prompted for personal details regarding the option you chose and asked to provide a password that your helper will use to connect to your computer remotely.
Open the invitation file if you chose to accept an invitation to help. The invitation will either be in your email inbox or within your Windows Messenger. If the user who requested your help provided a password, use that password to access their computer remotely.
When a helper accepts an invitation for remote assistance, the user who needs assistance will then be notified on their computer that the helper is ready to connect and offer assistance. Another notification will be received when the helper has ended their Remote Assistance session and is no longer connected to the user's computer.

