 The kind of flavor you desire in your cigar will influence the kind of cigar you use when flavoring. The flavoring you use should come in a liquid form or should extractable to a liquid form., Most cigars already come with a certain flavor profile, so you should be careful when selecting the cigar you want to infuse with flavor. Some flavor profiles might not pair well with the flavor you want to infuse. Generally, you can expect that:


Cigars with a smooth and/or buttery flavor profile will often pair well with lighter, fruitier flavors. These are excellent for sunshiny, open-air smoking.
Cigars with deep and rich flavor profiles match well with liquor flavors, like whiskey and rum., You can use absorbent, sterile cotton pads to flavor your cigars. These are available at most pharmacies and drug stores, and can usually be found in the first aid section. Cut the cotton pads into 1½" (3.8 cm) squares for each of the cigars you want to flavor.
 Depending on the strength of your flavoring agent, you may need to douse your flavoring pad completely or apply a few drops. This pad will be placed in a Ziploc plastic baggie with your cigar to infuse it with the flavoring that has soaked into your pad.


In most cases, you'll have to douse your flavoring pad, but if using essential oils, or similarly potent flavorings, you'll likely only want a few drops maximum.
If you plan on storing your cigars outside of a humidor, you can maintain humidity in the plastic baggie by soaking a second pad per each cigar in distilled water. Keep the water soaked pad with the flavoring pad in the baggie.If cotton pads are not an option, you can also use paper towel squares cut to the same dimensions as the cotton flavoring pad. You may want your paper towel square to be a few layers thick to improve its absorbency., First you'll need to remove your cigar from its packaging, if necessary. Then you'll want to store your cigar with the flavoring pad so the cigar can infuse with the flavoring, but you don't want the cigar to touch the pad. This could cause your flavoring to become too strong. Insert each cigar you're flavoring in separate medium sized plastic baggies with the flavoring pad, and use tissue paper to keep the two apart.When preparing several cigars of different flavor, it can be easy to mix up which is which. You may want to write the flavor on the outside of the baggie to prevent confusion later on., It will take some time for your cigar to infuse with the flavor of the pad you have stored it with. Depending on the strength of the flavor you used, this could take anywhere from a few days to several weeks.When checking to see if your cigar is ready to be separated from the flavor pad, remove the cigar from the baggie and allow it to sit for a while, then smell it closely. If the original scent of the cigar is fully blended with the scent of your flavoring pad, the flavor has infused.
It may take some trial and error before you get the knack for how long your cigars need to be infused. Depending on the cigar you use and the flavoring, storing it longer may result in a stronger flavor.
If you do not have a humidor, a piece of gauze or paper towel moistened with distilled water can help maintain the moisture of the cigar while in the baggie.
 Now that your cigar is infused with new flavor, it's ready to smoke or store. Once you get the hang of this simple method for infusing your cigars with flavor, you can start experimenting with different mixtures of flavor, like vanilla and cherry, for example.

