 If you're on a regular speaking basis with the person you're wondering about, a conversation will offer lots of opportunities to figure out what he feels towards you. One thing that people who are interested in one another do is often make the conversations more intense, at least moreso than you would find in a casual talk. Personal information, secret fears and painful experiences could come up in a conversation where people are interested in one another. Bring the conversation to more of these intimate subjects and see how he responds. If he seem interested in making the conversation intimate, it's a sign that he's interested in you.
 Flirting includes a wide range of behaviour that is meant to show you are attracted to someone. If you are interested, chances are you're already showing some of the signs without knowing it. Smiling in his direction, holding (or averting) eye contact, laughing, compliments and gentle teasing all count as flirting.


If your crush responds to the flirting with flirtation of her own, it is a probable sign that he is interested.
Of course, if your crush is already flirting towards you, this is an even clearer sign of attraction. Keep your ear out for gentle teasing and compliments towards you, especially when those compliments are geared towards things that someone would normally be attracted to, such as your looks or charm.
 If you are the sort of person who likes to be funny, try to gauge how the person you're curious about reacts to your jokes. Someone who fancies you will laugh a lot more at your humour than if he wasn't interested at all. As a bonus, humour is an attractive quality, and even if someone isn't interested in you yet, knowing how to make you laugh will attract potential partners fast.


On the other hand, a total lack of laughter can suggest the person is not interested in you at all.Beware of those who don't laugh.
 In the age of online communication, the way someone acts towards you online can say a ton about the way he feels towards you. If you two are talking via social media or talking over text, you should notice how quickly he gets back to you in a conversation. If it's relatively fast, it may be good sign that he fancies you in a more-than-friendly way. Keep in mind that some people may be very busy on the computer and won't get back to you as fast as you think. Depending on how fast your crush is making other posts online, you should be able to figure out how busy he is at the moment.
 At last, when all other routes are exhausted, there is always the option of asking someone directly how he feels about you. In many cases, a guy or girl will make their feelings known in other ways, making a direct question unnecessary. However, if you're tired of waiting and need confirmation, it's a straightforward and simple solution.


It doesn't need to be elaborate. Just ask something as simple as: "I get the feeling you're attracted to me. Am I right in thinking that?"
If someone is easily embarrassed or shy, you might not get a straight answer out of them at first. This is why it's better to ask it in the middle of a conversation rather than going straight up to the person and asking abruptly about it.

