 Algal growth, molds, and buildup of body wastes from swimmers can all cause cloudiness. If the water is green or visibly contaminated biologically, avoid swimming in the pool and begin treatment to kill biological growth.;
, It should measure alkalinity, calcium hardness, total, free, and combined chlorine, pH, and cyanuric acid. These levels all have impact on the clarity, safety, and sterility of pool water. Many low-cost kits only test for pH and free chlorine levels, which might not give you an accurate picture of the chemical situation of the pool water., The two areas that are most likely to cause cloudy pool water are the pH and the calcium hardness, though low chlorine/can indicate biological contamination.


Non-chlorine pool cleaner alternatives like bromine can be measured with a DPD test. Multiply the chlorine level by 2.25. Recommended levels of chlorine should be multiplied as well. This particular test is impacted by the density of the cleaning agent, and bromine is more dense by this factor. , Buildup of sediment can interfere with the filtration and retention of particulate matter. Previous attempts to clean could have damaged the filter. You can monitor the filter for clogs by examining if the return pump in the pool has reduced pressure.


Avoid using backwash cleaning methods with a sand-bed filter, as this can reduce filtration efficiency by loosening the filtration media, and might force the purchase of a new filter.
 Vacuum any loose debris, scrub the sides and floor with a brush, and vacuum any loosened detritus. Run the pool filter for 8-12 hours to remove any flotsam and detritus that might be clouding the pool.
 If it is malfunctioning, or is a sand-bed filter, backwash cleaning methods could have damaged the filtration media. It is essential to continue pool maintenance, and any malfunction should be treated seriously. Check the lines and filtration media before deciding what to replace.
 Vacuum any loose debris, scrub the sides and floor with a brush, and vacuum any loosened detritus. Run the pool filter for 8-12 hours to remove any flotsam and detritus that might be clouding the pool.
 Loose colloidal particles cause cloudiness. They are either organic in nature (like algae) or mineral buildups (loose calcium). Adjust the chemicals to these ranges and run the pool filter system for another day before re-testing.


Free chlorine: 1-2 ppm
Combined chlorine: <.3ppm
pH: 7.2 – 7.8
Total alkalinity: 80 – 120 ppm
Calcium hardness: 180 – 220 ppm (higher levels are acceptable up to approximately 400ppm)

, Do not attempt to mix strong acids or bases in your pool or without eye and skin protection and respirators.
 Combined chlorine is free chlorine that has reacted with an agent in the water to form chloramine, which produces a strong chlorine scent. Pool shock kits should raise the chlorine to over 30ppm.


If your pH test kit uses litmus paper and produces a purple or off color, this may be due to high levels of chlorine. Test kits often have a reagent, typically thiosulfate, that will remove the chlorine and enable an accurate test.
High levels of cyanuric acid can reduce chlorine’s efficacy as a sterilizing agent and can be reduced with dilution. , High variance day-to-day indicates a chlorine demand problem. Monitor cyanuric acid levels, which acts as a stabilizer for chlorine to prevent UV degradation, and consider investigating your chlorinator or investing in one to ease the process of keeping your pool stable. , Add them according to the directions on the package according to the volume of your pool. The solutions should be dispersed and accomplished their chemical reactions within six hours of treatment. , You can also use dilution with softer water to soften the water. These are agglomerating solutions that work best in slightly alkaline water, and take several days for the full effect to be observed. The hardness of local water resources varies tremendously from area to area, and the strength and dilution of these products can be recommended by pool cleaning professionals.
 Clarifiers are agglomerating solutions that bind to colloids from the water and bring them out of suspension, to be removed by vacuum or through the filter. These chemicals are called flocculents, and the process is referred to as flocculation. Continue filtering for without interruption until the water clears.
 and continue to run your filtration system if the pool has not cleared. Keep in mind that too much clarifier will actually work against the clarifying process; particles will repel one another rather attract, and the concentration of the clarifier will increase. Follow label instructions to the letter. Do not repeat more often than 2 additional times over the course of one week.
 Discoloration, buildup, or rust, is likely the result of water hardness or alkalinity changes, rather than the flocculent.
 Multiple treatments failing generally indicates a secondary, unseen problem that can be detected and treated most effectively and safely by a professional. Multiple cleanings can cause skin and mucous membrane irritation for swimmers. Make sure any cleaning hardware is not malfunctioning.

