 It is common for children to develop a preference for one parent or even an extended family member, such as an aunt or grandparent. However, this is usually just a phase in your child’s development and it will pass.Your child’s preference may be related to who they spend the most time with each day. For example, if one parent stays home all day, then the child may develop a preference for that parent due to being around them more than the other parent.
 You may be upset because your baby prefers the other parent. Even though this may be the case, don’t be angry at your child. It is okay to let your child know you are upset or are hurt. However, make sure that everything you say and do comes from a place of love. Children absorb everything at this young age, so reacting with anger or in other ways could have a profound negative effect on them. This could also negatively affect your relationship and cause a greater rift.Stay positive and loving towards your child. Being upset or passive aggressive won’t work on small children.
Keep reminding your child how much you love them.
 Parents who are not preferred by their children may end up making their child feel guilty or bad for preferring one parent. This can lead to a negative relationship and hurt the child as they grow.You should also not try to buy your child’s love. Instead, try to bond with the child and fill their emotional needs like the other parent.
 You shouldn’t try dealing with not being the preferred parent alone. Talk to the other parent, especially if they are your partner. This helps you not bottle up your feelings and refrain from feeling resentment.When you talk to the other parent, you may discover that they feel overwhelmed because the baby is clinging to them and needing their attention constantly.
 Children preferring one parent over the other is a common developmental milestone. This can last for a few weeks to a few months. However, eventually, the child will stop preferring one parent over the other or move on to the next parent.


Keep loving your child and giving them the attention you usually do. Don't treat them any differently and your child will eventually come around.

