 You would want to go to an expensive salon if you struggle with getting nice hair cuts. Think about color; look up a seasons chart to find if you're a winter, fall, summer, or spring. Ask your colorist what she thinks would look good on you, look through magazines but do not copy the exact same style as popular girls at school. If you like your natural color, then just get a hair cut! Ask your hairstylist about your face shape and what she thinks will look good on you. Bangs work well for people who have a bit of a large forehead. Look up pictures online to find what you like.;
, You want to look nice and natural. Tinted moisturizer is a great tool that can make your skin look clear, soft, and even without clogging pores. Check sephora online if you have a budget of around $30. If not, try neutrogena, clinique, and bobbi brown. Concealer is an AMAZING tool. Buy one lighter than your complexion by about a shade or two, and use it under your eyes and blend. A good, pretty blush is essential. Blush gives you a healthy radiant glow. Mineral powder blushes are great for your skin, and are relatively cheap. NARS has famous blushes, but they are a tad expensive. Tints are great, and are also relatively cheap, and many double as a lip tint as well! Your eye color should be complemented by your eyeshadow. Check online to find an article on finding colors that work for eyes. Eyeliner is a tricky beast. It can open up your eyes wonderfully, but it takes practice to apply it like a master. Mascara is an essential tool everyone should own! There are so many to choose from, check sites like totalbeauty.com for reviews. Curl eyelashes, then apply mascara on the top lashes only, or you'll look like twiggy. Black mascara is good for brunettes and other dark colors. Blondes and redheads should use brown. Clear mascaras are great for natural looks and for clear brow gel. For lips, use plenty of lip balm and exfoliate with sugar on a toothbrush. Carmex balm isn't attractive in its yellow pot, but if you use it before you go to bed you'll have silky smooth lips in the morning. DO NOT GO OVERBOARD! Guys hate that and it looks silly. Keep your makeup minimal, in an "oops-I'm-accidentally-gorgeous" way.
 This means cleansing and moisturizing! Take off all your make-up and NEVER ever sleep in it. Proactive has always been great for people with acne, but if it's really severe then talk to a dermatologist. If you have minimal skin issues, check out Origins. They have wonderful cleansers like "Checks and Balances". Don't forget to drink plenty of water!

, Love it or hate it, society places a big importance on your clothes. Buy what you like, but make sure it complements your shape! Always try things on before you buy them. Clothes are only on hangers because it's an easy way of storing them. Everyone should have this basic wardrobe- dark wash jeans, light wash jeans, fitted t-shirts with a good neckline, long sleeved shirts, a nice coat, comfy sweatpants, camisoles and tank tops, a pair of boots, sneakers, flats, and heels. Remember, these are GUIDELINES!

, Have a few simple headbands and statement ones as well. Silver or gold bangles go with anything. Wooden bangles are cute also. Stores like forever21, pacsun, gap all have plenty of accessories.
 Get measured at a store that offers it, it will make a HUGE difference. It's good to have a basic black bra and white one too, then go crazy and get pretty colors and patterns. Make sure you have underwear in a few of these styles: boyshorts, bikini, seamless, and thong. NEVER EVER have a thong whale tail peeking out over your jeans! SUPER TRASHY. Aerie has bras from sizes 32AA to DDs, and great underwear sales. Victoria's Secret is also a great store.
 Put it at the back of your knees, inside of elbows, wrists, behind your ears, between your cleavage- but not all of those places at once! Choose 2-3 places depending on what you're wearing, but don't drench yourself in it!

, If you have freckles embrace them. If you have big boobs again embrace them. If you have curves, flaunt 'em! If you're flat all the way down with nary a curve insight, embrace it. People are attracted to someone who's confident in their own skin. Don't worry if it doesn't come natural, it's a gradual process.
 Be yourself and don't lie. The worst thing that could happen is if you talk to someone and they brush you off.
 No one wants to sit next to the girl with the sweaty pits and gunky teeth! In the morning apply deodorant that is clear and has a slight scent (dove and degree ultra clear are great!). You can never be too careful. Trim your nails (toe and finger) regularly and keep them clean. If you have some spending money, go to a salon and get a sports manicure. They trim and file your nails, buff them, moisturize, the whole shebang minus the polish. Brush your teeth, floss and mouth rinse. Carry a small compact mirror to check if there's anything in you teeth.Shave your legs and exfoliate and moisturize them regularly! Wash your hair every second day and shave your underarms every time you shower.
 Don't say 'like', 'umm', 'aaah' . keep your stories short. Don't swear often- it makes you seem like a trashy kind of person.
 Do not completely ignore them because if you treat them bad and you decide its all not that cool on the greener grass then you can go back to them. Sometimes its just better being a b-list babe but at the top is where the party is at.

