 Cell phones are easily the greatest distraction in modern society. Research indicates that, on average, people check their cell phones 150 times every day, or every six minutes in a 16 hour day. This cacophony does not promote a peaceful environment. Simply turn off all nonessential notifications – facebook, twitter, game updates, and email – as your default setting.
Make a few scheduled times throughout the day to check all your notifications.
 Work on your time-management skills. It is not uncommon to have several unfinished projects lined up around the house or work. The list may seem unending — household chores, unanswered mail, balancing the checkbook, hungry pets — but many of these projects can be completed in rather short time if you focus on completing them immediately. Adopt a “one-minute rule” mentality as most of unfinished chores can be completed in less than two minutes. By completing these projects as quickly as possible, it will remove many of the small, irritable distractions you deal with on a daily basis.
Keep a short to-do list to keep your day organized and efficient. By writing your tasks down on a piece of paper, you can let that thought leave your mind.
 An unclean environment is not pleasant to anybody’s eyes and a large amount of clutter lying around causes stress. Eyes are very attentive and subtly pick up many details of the surrounding area. Clutter does not allow you to focus your thoughts or attention because of all the visual distractions. Clean your desk, walls, and counters in your home and office of all unnecessary possessions so that you are not easily distracted.
The same goes for digital clutter. Dozens of desktop icons, opened programs, games, or instant messaging all compete for attention. Removing these items will help your focus.
 Or, cancel your cable or satellite subscription. There are fewer time consuming distractions than the television. Indeed, the average person watches between 37-40 hours of television each week. Cable or satellite television now offers nearly two hundred channels. Think about the amount of time you waste simply surfing through all of these stations and end up watching nothing.
If peace in the house is not a strong motivator, think about cost. The average cable package is now more than $100 per month, or $1,200 per year.

