 There is nothing more unsatisfying then seeing a chubby girl squeezed into a pair of too skinny pants and a shirt that shows belly. It just isn't attractive. Start by finding styles for your certain frame or shape. Every woman is beautiful, but every woman can also dress horribly wrong!;
, Whenever you wear a low-cut shirt, make sure it does not look trashy, as this may send the wrong message to guys. You can show off your collarbone, but going below the rib-bone is too much. Show off your personality in your clothes and accessories, this will give guys a clear look into how you are as a person.


Try a new look occasionally. Be sure it fits well, and that you like wearing it.
 If you feel good about yourself and your looks, that will often be a strong attraction. Try something refreshing, such as a lavender bubble bath or a body cleanser. Use deodorant.


Shave regularly, especially your legs and armpit hair.
 A facial will make your skin glow and stand out. You don't want your face to be full of pimples and dry skin.
 Fix up your nails with some strikingly colorful designs of your own creation. Guys like girls who take care of themselves, especially if they are a bit out of the ordinary.
 Don't go over the edge with make-up, guys can't take it! Try experimenting at home to get a good, natural look that enchants the best of your facial features. And think according to where you are going, and what time of the day it is. Darker make-up is used at night, and at clubs. Lighter make-up is used at day, and in the mall or at school/work. Also, find out what colors work best for you.


Try something new. Maybe start wearing red lipstick. Studies show that men are more drawn to women's lips than any other feature on their face.If your not in the mood for lipstick, try lip balm. Lip gloss works too.
 If he is drawn to you with a lovely scent, then he will actually start to see your inner beauty. Don't wear too much, though. Your crush doesn't want to smell you all the way across the room. Just when he's next to you.
 Curl your hair, braids, or maybe get it cut in a new way to make the most of your facial features. Keep your hair nice and clean. Trim your hair every now, to avoid having split ends.


Don't over style your hair. Heat damages your hair, so don't straighten it or curl it every day.
 Queen Latifah, for example. A stunning woman, and large. Have you seen her in the red carpet? She struts down that walkway with her head held high and back firmly straight. She's confident with her size, and so should you. Confidence and security are two things that men find sexy and attractive. A woman or teenager who isn't secure about herself tends to give off that same negative vibe. Basically, if you think you're ugly, guys will think that too. Hold your head high, strut your butt, thin or thick. You are your own person - love yourself and accept you, for who you are.


How do you feel about yourself inside? It all depends on you. Try to feel beautiful, and have self confidence.
 Be out-going, but serene. Keep your cool around guys you like, and be yourself. Don't be fake. Faking yourself attracts the wrong species of guy. Having a sense of humor is good too, but know when to be silent, and when to crack a joke.
 Some guys don't like you for looks, they like you if you talk. Don't be too shy, but don't be too talkative.
 Having a beautiful smile will attract a guy anytime. It also pulls your whole look together. It's nice showing your teeth once in a while.

