 In order to carry a conversation with your crush, you need to listen to what he or she is saying. If you want them to know you are a good listener, let your body language do the talking.Lean forward to indicate that you want to be emotionally and physically close to your crush
Nod your head to show that you are sympathetic
Maintain eye contact to reveal that you’re focused on them. This is easier to achieve if you put away your phone., Everybody shines and is at ease when they talk about their passions. While brazen flirts have a tendency to keep the spotlight on themselves, subtle flirts let their crushes shine. You can accomplish this by asking questions about your crush’s life and interests.Questions to ask include:


What are you passionate about?
What is your dream vacation?
What is your favorite pastime
What was the last movie you watched?
How was your day?
Where did you grow up?

, Subtle flirts do not over compliment their crushes. They choose their moments carefully. When you find the right time to compliment your crush, make sure the statement is sincere. Examples of coy compliments include:


”I love how passionate you are about (work, school, family, sports, etc.)”
”I’m impressed by your (patience, kindness, etc)”
”You’re a very good (listener, cook, etc)”
For added effect, pair your compliment with meaningful touch., Humor is an essential part of flirting, but some people may use it too much while others use it too little. Don’t be afraid to engage in playful banter with the person you are interested in, but pay attention to his or her physical cues to determine if you are using humor appropriately.For example, you might engage in some teasing, playful banter by saying something like, “So what is a pretty girl like you doing in a dingy bar like this?” To which a girl might respond, “Whoa, you want my life story? Buy a girl a drink first!”
You may want to tone down your humor if the other person does not laugh at your attempts at humor or starts showing signs of discomfort, such as turning away, avoiding eye contact, or crossing his or her arms. Likewise, you may need to be willing to engage in a little more humor if you notice these signs and you are not using humor at all.
Avoid using humor that is too sexual when you are just getting to know each other. This can make women feel uncomfortable and men may interpret the use of this kind of humor from women as an invitation.

