 If you have a good relationship with your current financial institution, it makes sense to begin with a quote from them. If you have a long relationship with them, you should know whether they are a reputable institution. However, it is important to shop around for other options as they’ll rarely offer the best terms., A good place to start is with friends and family. Ask who they received their mortgage from and if their experience has been good. If so, talk to the lenders that they work with and ask about their rates and fees., Your real estate agent should have experience with a variety of lenders. She might even have an in-house lender that can offer you a loan. If so, that should not stop you from shopping around.Be aware that a real estate agent might have a financial interest in referring you to their own in-house lender. This is illegal, though it does happen under the table sometimes. Don’t assume that an in-house lender is the best option even if your real estate agent suggests it is. Borrowers should always shop around.
 Do a web search for local lenders. Talk to as many as you can to get a sense for what rates might be available to you. Hud.gov offers a searchable online database of mortgage lenders.
 Many of these claim that they can offer lower prices because they don’t have to pay for a physical structure. Evidence does not suggest that this is true, but it is worth seeing what you can find. Be wary though. If the deal appears too good to be true, it likely is.Major online lenders include Quicken Loans, AmeriSave, and Nationstar., Mortgage brokers can shop around and finder you better rates than you might be able to find on your own. You may have to pay for your broker, however, though not necessarily. Many brokers get paid directly by the investor they sell the loan to, and can help save you considerable money. It’s also not necessarily the case that the broker has your best interests at heart.


Brokers have been known to secure deals that are in their own interest, rather than yours, though this is less common nowadays thanks to financial reform. Still, be sure to ask multiple brokers for deals to determine the best available price.
You should also ask how your broker is compensated and determine if she is charging you too much.Ask to speak to two or three recent clients of the broker to see if they have given satisfactory service to other customers.