 Your debt consolidation choices can be divided into two major categories: debt consolidation an debt settlement programs. Debt consolidation through debt management is the best option for most people. The debt management company notifies your creditors and gets debt concessions on your behalf, like waiving late fees. You make one monthly payment to them, and they distribute it to all of your creditors.Debt settlement programs, on the other hand, are usually poor options. They work like this: the debt settlement company takes the money you would be paying your creditors and puts it in an escrow account. They hold it in the escrow account for as long as it takes for the creditor to agree to settle for less than the face value of the debt. Your accounts go delinquent in the meantime.;
, A lot of things can be meant by “debt consolidation,” and there are a lot of shady operators who will claim to help you out of debt or “repair your credit.” The first step in making sure that the agency you’re dealing with it legitimate is by verifying their nonprofit status. Nonprofits offer more reliable debt consolidation services because they do not stand to gain from taking advantage of you.


Check with your state's charity regulatory body to see whether or not the agency is registered as a nonprofit.Nonprofit agencies won’t be lending agencies. Agencies offering “debt consolidation loans,” are probably not what you’re looking for. A debt consolidation loan is just one lender buying your debt from your creditors for less than its face value, at which point you make one payment to the new lender., There are two main trade associations in the world of credit counseling, the National Foundation for Credit Counseling (NFCC), and the Financial Counseling Association of America (FCAA). The NFCC and the FCAA work to develop standards for best practices across the credit counseling industry. In order to achieve accreditation, an agency must abide by those best practices.The NFCC, founded in 1951, maintains a directory of members at https://www.nfcc.org/locator/.
The FCAA is a smaller and newer agency, in existence since 1993. You can examine a directory at http://fcaa.org/our-members.
 A reputable agency will be highly rated and accredited by the Better Business Bureau (BBB). The BBB develops standards for ethical business practices and maintains ratings based on how well a business abides by those standards. In addition, the BBB website serves as a repository for consumer complaints along with the resolutions to those complaints.See how the agency you’re considering is rated by going to https://www.bbb.org/search/.
 Many states require that debt counselors hold a license to operate there. Search online to see if this type of license is required in your state. If so, you can contact the regulatory body in charge of licensing (typically the office of the attorney general) whether or not the counselor and/or their agency is licensed. If they aren't or you are unable to confirm that they are, you should move on to other options.

Some states, like Florida and Maryland, do not require debt counselors to be licensed., The Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD) also maintains a list of approved credit and debt counseling agencies as they specifically relate to renting or buying a home, going into default, and avoiding foreclosure.


See if the agency you’re considering is listed at http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hcc/hcs.cfm. Once you’ve narrowed your search by state, HUD will also give a brief listing of each credit counseling agency’s services and contact information.
 Reputable credit counseling and debt management agencies won’t have exorbitant fees. Counseling itself is usually free. Debt management might come with a set-up fee, and there’s typically a small ($0-$75) monthly fee to use the service., Before you can start on a debt management plan, you need to complete an initial credit counseling session. The credit counselor will evaluate your situation, decide whether you are a good fit for debt management, and tell you what your first steps should be.Whether you compete the counseling session online or over the phone, you need to gather all of your account information—including utility bills, credit cards, and delinquent accounts—for any revolving accounts. You’ll also need to know specifically how much you and your financial partner make each month.
Debt management programs are designed to deal chiefly with unsecured debts, so mortgage and automobile debts are usually not part of a debt management plan. However, many debt management companies may offer counseling about both types of debt, so it's good to ask.
 After you start on your plan, you should immediately begin tracking your expenses. Learning where you spend your money is the first step in deciding where you can cut back. There are a number of ways to do this.Sometimes your bank will offer sophisticated online tools to help you track expenses, many of the credit counseling agencies have online and paper expense trackers, and there are a number of financial apps that keep track of spending.
Some of the more prominent financial tracking apps are Mint, DollarBird, and Goodbudget. Look at the features of each to see which one is right for you., After most people have tracked their expenditures for a period of time, they will notice areas where they spend more than they need to. When you’ve monitored your spending habits for sixty days, revise your budget according to your best judgement.You can download a free budget worksheet at http://www.cambridge-credit.org/.
 If you’re a good fit for the program, your credit counselor will work out a debt management plan with you. They’ll give you a budget and make payment arrangements with your creditors. You’ll make one or two payments per month to the credit counseling agency, and they will apportion the payment among your creditors.The debt management plan is part of the budget. If you agree to payments you cannot make consistently, your consolidation efforts will not be effective.
Creditors may not agree to debt payment plan and elect to pursue collection efforts that may include lawsuits.
 Most of the larger credit counseling agencies offer other services. One of the more common is assisting in the development of a savings plan. Developing a savings plan and sticking to it is going to be critical in helping you realize your financial goals down the road, so make sure you avail yourself to this service., It’s always easier to save if you have a list of goals that you’re saving towards. Identify a set of financial goals for the next twelve months, and tailor your savings plan toward achieving those goals.Short term goals are the easiest to put off, which is why you should make sure you define them concretely. Whether you want to get a new car, pay off the remainder of your debt, or establish a rainy day fund, you need to define how much money it will take to accomplish those goals, and set spending and savings plans at levels that will allow you to accomplish them.
 Long term financial goals include adequately funding retirement or college accounts, purchasing real estate, and making additional investments along the way.Long term goals also need to be defined concretely. How many dollars do you need for an adequate retirement or college fund? Then connect them to your short term goals. How does accomplishing the short term goal allow you to accomplish the long term goal? By making the connection, you’ll make it easier for you to realize both long term and short term goals.

