;
,


If you are in middle school, you are probably somewhat new to MLA format, but you should be able to figure this out by clicking on such tabs as "view," "format," "layout," or simply the ruler at the top of the document, if you have that feature enabled.



On older versions of Microsoft Word, you may not have to change the font or size, as Times New Roman 12-point is often the default for 2003 or older.
On newer versions, the defaults are different. In 2005, the default size is 11. On 2007, the default is Calibri 11. Always check the settings.
 On 2007, click the expand button under paragraph. On 2005 or older, click on paragraph. The dialogue boxes that result from these actions are similar. Set the spacing to "double." Most teachers prefer double spacing no matter what format you write in, because it allows them to make corrections or comments.



The header should be justified to the far right. Type your last name and then add page numbers to the header. You may now escape from your header.
It is no longer necessary to put page numbers on the bottom, where they often interfere with text.
 Your heading should consist of:


Your full name (first and last, don't use nicknames)
Your teacher's name
Your subject and class, and possibly also grade, as needed (period 1, the name of the class with your class color if the teacher color codes their classes, etc.)
The date.

The date is most commonly written in the day, month, year format.


A sample heading.

Jane Doe
Ms. Jones
English, Blue
11 November 2011



, Do not bold, underline, italicize, highlight or otherwise make your title stand out.

Poems, short stories, episodes of television shows, periodicals or other lesser works should be in "quotations" with the first letter capitalized.
 Say something like, "As the author admits..." to literally introduce another person's words into your writing.
Insert and document it. It should be in quotation marks, but DO NOT put a period inside the quotation marks to end it. Just put the quotations.

Then document it. The author's last name and page number should be in parentheses, without punctuation between the two.


Finally, analyze it. Why is it important to your point? How does it prove what you want to say? What information can you draw from it?

, If it is similar in general appearance to papers you've written before, it's probably written correctly

