 Many years ago, most workplaces were made with wood floors, which have some cushioning even though they may seem pretty hard to walk on. However, in modern times, most businesses tend to have floors made from concrete, ceramic tile or marble, which have essentially no cushioning, shock absorbency or insulative properties. Consequently, stand in an area that's covered in more springy material such as wood. If that's not possible, then change positions just for the exercise, which will promote blood circulation and may ease the tension in your feet and leg muscles.


Concrete and ceramic tile will easily transfer cold to your feet which is not good for blood circulation, so stand in warmer areas without cool drafts.
If you work outside, find some grass to stand on while plying your trade or waiting for the next task.
 Anti-fatigue mats are designed to decrease the stress on your feet and legs by providing a cushioned surface to stand on over prolonged periods of time. These mats are typically made of thick rubber, but some are also made of foam, leather, vinyl or even wood. In many cases, your employer will readily supply you with an anti-fatigue mat if you ask because they are proven to reduce the incidence of feet and lower leg problems.Thick anti-fatigue mats can be a minor hazard at the workplace if people trip over them, so always be aware of where your mat and those of your co-workers are located.
 Take a look around your workplace and see if there's any carpet you can stand on and still be able to do your job properly. Carpet (even the thin, cheap stuff) provides much more cushion than concrete and will help your feet and legs survive the long shifts at work. If there is no installed carpet at your workplace, ask your boss if you can bring a piece from home.


Some businesses that sell carpet will give you a decent sized sample (big enough to stand on) for free.
Make sure the underneath side of the carpet doesn't slide too readily on the floor, or else you're at high risk to slip and fall.

