 If you don’t understand something your teacher is saying, raise your hand and ask questions. Don’t worry about looking dumb. The odds are that if you are confused about something, other people are confused, too.Even if you are the only one who is confused, having others thinking you are dumb is not worth the risk of not learning. Not asking questions about something you don’t understand is a sure way to keep misunderstanding.

Since math topics build upon one another, if you don’t master skills taught today, you likely won’t master skills taught tomorrow, either. So it is important to ask questions right away. 


, Before you leave class, make sure you understand what is expected of you. Look at your textbook and ensure that the assignment you wrote down matches what is in the book. If your teacher is grading with a rubric, make sure you look at the rubric before you begin your assignment. If you have questions about the rubric, ask your teacher.
 The surest way to survive math class is to complete all of your assignments. Even if you don’t understand the math involved, make an effort to try. Teachers usually give full or partial credit if you complete all the requirements of the assignment and show your work. If you don’t turn in your work at all, you will get no credit for your assignment.

It is very hard to raise your grade once you receive a few zeros on assignments. Even though a D isn’t a passing grade, it is much easier to recover from.

For example, if you have two assignments, and you earn a 0% on the first assignment because you didn’t complete it, and a 100% on the second assignment, your average grade is only 50%, which is an F. On the other hand, if you have a 60% (D) on your first assignment, and a 100% on your second assignment, your average grade is 80%, which is a B.
 Determine why your answers were marked incorrect. Was it because you didn’t show your work or made a minor calculating error? Or was it because you didn’t understand how to do the problem? If you made careless mistakes, take care to work more slowly next time. If you made mistakes because you did not fully understand the math concepts, speak to your teacher about getting more help.
