 If you can't find one, you can also use a grapevine or willow wreath instead.Do not use a Styrofoam wreath, as you won't be able to tie the deco mesh to it very well.;
, It might be a good idea to use a pair of wire cutters for this, so that you don't ruin your scissors. If you cannot find any pipe cleaners, cut some floral wire into ten, 6-inch (15.24-centimeter) long pieces. The orange pipe cleaners will blend in better, however.


You may also find pipe cleaners labeled as "chenille stems."

, Most floral wreaths have several "rows" or rings; you are only tying the pipe cleaners to the outermost ring. If you are using a different kind of wreath, then tie the pipe cleaners to the outer edge.


You only need to twist the pipe cleaners one of twice to close them.
You want to end up with a pipe cleaner tie in the following clock positions: 1, 2, 4 to 8, and 10 to 12.
 Make sure that the end of the deco mesh is pointing down and not up. You will be pulling the mesh downward, thus hiding this stub.
 Fold the pipe cleaner over to the left, so that it points towards the center of the wreath and out of sight.
 This will cover the 2 o'clock pipe cleaner. Gather up the deco mesh again, and twist the pipe cleaner ties around it to hold it in place. When you are done, fold the pipe cleaner down, and out of sight.Don't pull the deco mesh too hard, or it won't "puff" out like a pumpkin.
Do not cut the deco mesh. You will be pulling it back and forth across the top of the wreath in a zigzag pattern.
 This will cover the pipe cleaner ties at the 4 o'clock position.
 At you reach each clock pint, twist the pipe cleaners around the deco mesh, then fold them towards the center of the wreath. Here are the directions you should be weaving in:From 1 o'clock, pull the mesh down to 5 o'clock.
Pull the mesh up from 5 o'clock to 12 o'clock.
Pull the mesh down from 12 o'clock to 6 o'clock.
Pull the mesh up from 6 o'clock to 11 o'clock.
Pull the mesh down from 11 o'clock to 7 o'clock.
Pull the mesh up from 7 o'clock to 10 o'clock.
 Fold the deco mesh over the top of the wreath and towards the back. Pull the pipe cleaners to the back of the wreath, and twist the tightly around the deco mesh, tying it firmly in place. Trim off the excess mesh so that you have a 1 to 2-inch (2.54 to 5.08-centimeter) long stub.
 Cut a strip of burlap ribbon. It does not need to be very long; about 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) will do. Roll the ribbon into a tube.If you want a neater finish, hot glue the end down. This will create a smoother seam.
You can also use 5½ or 6-inch (13.97 or 15.24-centimeter) wide green deco mesh instead.
 Position the stem so that about an inch (2.54 centimeters) or so is behind the pumpkin. Tie the stem in place using a piece of floral wire. If you have any orange pipe cleaners left over, you can use one of those instead.


If you are using a grapevine or willow wreath, you may be able to just stuff the stem down between the vines., How long you cut the ribbon depends on the side of your pumpkin. If you have a smaller pumpkin, about 12 inches (30.48 centimeters) wide, then 6-inch (15.24-centimeter) long strips will do. If you have a larger pumpkin, go for 12-inch (30.48-centimeter) long strips.


You can also use narrow, green deco mesh for this. Choose something that is close to 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) long.
 Stack the two ribbon pieces, one on top of the other, and wrap a piece of floral wire tightly around the middle. Cut a V-shaped notch into each end of the ribbon.


Leave enough wire so that you can tie the leaves to the pumpkin.
 Once you have the leaves secure, gently fan the leaves out. If the ribbon had wire in it, you can shape the leaves by giving them a slight curve.


If your pumpkin is very puffy, you may have to pull the leaves downward in front of the pumpkin so that they are visible., If you can't find any green deco mesh tubing, you can cut long strips of narrow, green deco mesh, and roll them into tubes., Hold the tubes together, then wrap a piece of floral wire about the middle to hold them. Next, tie the tubes to the top of the pumpkin by winding the wire around the stem and the floral wreath.


You can cut the tubes down to different lengths.
If you tug on the tubes, you can make them thinner and longer.
Fold some of the tubes back up to the stem to make a loop, then tie the loops in place.
 This will give body to your pumpkin, and create the creases/ribs that real pumpkins have. At this point, you can also gently shift the leaves and the vines about, so that they lay nicely on top of the pumpkin.
 You can carefully hang the wreath from a nail on your door or wall. If you have a special wreath hanger (the type that goes over the top of your door), you will need to thread some ribbon or string through the top of your metal wreath, and tie it into a loop first. Then, you can use the loop to hang the wreath from your door.

