 Space each plant between 12–18 inches (30.5–45.7 cm) apart, and insert stakes to help the plant stand up if necessary.


This is the same process if you grow your peppers from seeds or if you transplant a store-bought pepper plant.
Plant the peppers as deep in the garden soil as they were in the pots, only adding a minimal amount of soil to the tops.
Space rows of peppers about 10–15 inches (25.4–38.1 cm) apart., Peppers especially need frequent watering, so be sure to make sure the soil they are planted in is always moist.


Water them for the first time with the chamomile tea or hydrogen peroxide mixture, as this will help to disinfect the soil that you planted the peppers in.
The soil can be dry at times, but pepper plants will produce the largest most succulent fruit when given a regular watering of a few tablespoons per each plant.
 This will add nutrients that help the peppers to grow, and help to block out some weeds from taking root immediately.


Straw and grass clippings make great mulch for pepper plants.
Add a layer about two inches thick to all of the soil between and around each pepper plant.
 If weeds pop up through the mulch, pull them gently by hand to avoid damaging the roots of the pepper plants. Weeds compete with your plants for space and nutrients and therefore should be removed from the planting area.
 Slow growth or the appearance of pale leaves are indicators that your pepper plants need fertilizing. Choose a high nitrogen fertilizer such as fish emulsion or compost tea and spread an even coating over the planting area. Water thoroughly after fertilizing to aid absorption.
 Usually, peppers take around two months to mature enough to be harvested. To encourage your pepper plant to keep producing early in the season, harvest your peppers just before peak ripeness.


Later on in the season when your plant is nearing the end of the production season, however, you can allow them to mature a bit longer before harvesting. The richer the color, the riper the fruit.
Cut the pepper at the top of the stem. Pulling on your peppers can damage the fragile stalks and roots.
If you are expecting a frost, be sure to pick all of the fruit, even if it is a bit under-ripe. A frost will damage any leftover fruit.,