 Because toddlers are so inquisitive, they may try to open doors. If your front door is unlocked and your child opens it, he or she could wander out into the world. To prevent this, you can buy special child-proof doorknob covers that will keep your child from opening the door.


These covers usually need to be squeezed from two sides in order to grip the doorknob and allow it to be turned. Toddlers cannot wrap their small hands around the covers and squeeze them sufficiently to turn the knob.
However, these covers should not be the only method used to keep toddlers from getting out of the home. Some ingenious toddlers figure out how to bypass these covers by inserting their finger into the hole in the cover and manipulating the doorknob or actually managing to remove the doorknob cover entirely.
 An added measure of security on doors is to lock them, preferably using two locks. Any doors that could lead to danger for toddlers should be locked. This includes doors to stairs and balconies as well as any other rooms that pose a hazard.
 Although coffee tables are functional and look nice, they are also the cause of many head injuries to toddlers that fall near them. If you would prefer not to remove the coffee table from the room, you can pad the edges and corners with a soft material. This can be done with special soft, plastic corner protectors that you can generally purchase at home furnishing stores. There are also protective strips that can be used along the side edges of the coffee table.
 One strangulation hazard that many people overlook is the pull cords on curtains, shades, and blinds. These long strings are usually hidden from sight, but toddlers are notorious for finding things that they are not supposed to find.


There are special cord holders that wind the cord up short and keep it securely hidden in a plastic case so it stays out of reach. You can purchase these at your local home furnishing store.
 Kids generally love to climb so keep your child from climbing up to the window by moving your furniture around. Move any furniture that is near a window so that your child cannot reach the window and accidentally fall out


Consider getting a lock that does not let you open the window more than a few inches. This way the child will not be able to open the windows and drop through it.
 Sometimes, light-weight furniture that has hard surfaces can cause injuries. Toddlers might try to use the furniture to assist them in standing or try to climb up onto the furniture. Their weight causes the furniture to topple and sometimes fall onto the toddler.

