 If you're confident that you can pass the above initial requirements, it's time to apply. You can do this online, but be prepared for a lengthy process and the need to fill in a lot of information about yourself. The application process starts at: https://www.cia.gov/careers/opportunities/cia-jobs/index.html. Look for a specific position of interest, read through its requirements and ensure that you meet them. If you don't meet the minimum requirements, don't apply unless you have a very good reason, because you'll be wasting your time.


Make sure to follow the application deadlines and instructions to the letter. If you miss one thing, your application will be rejected.
Spruce up your resume, as this will need to be submitted along with the online application.
Job listings are updated regularly. This means that if you don't see something of interest, check back again frequently.
 The vetting process can be lengthy, especially if you have numerous foreign contacts who need to be followed up as well. If you've been completely honest and open, this will speed up the checking process.


Don't write or call to check. You won't get a response.
As a general rule, if the CIA is interested in your application, they will contact you within 45 days.
Don't give up. Keep trying – it may be that you selected a position that you weren't cut out for, or that had too many other highly qualified people competing with you and one small flaw in your application had yours rejected. Just keep trying for a reasonable time and your persistence may pay off. In some cases, it may mean they'll take you when your experience improves, so get that PhD, go for that military position, or do something else extraordinary that will catapult you into their notice.
 All initial offers are conditional; if you get one, there is still a long way to go before you can be hired. You will now need to undergo a series of physical, psychological, security, and intelligence tests to verify your suitability to join the Agency.


Undergo a medical exam and psychological exam. The medical is designed to ensure you're in adequate physical condition for the needs of the job, and also to test for drug use. The psychological exam assesses your intelligence, judgment, and mental stability.
Wait for your background check to be completed. The background check is extremely thorough and often lengthy (it can take two years). The CIA website states: “The investigation addresses comprehensively one's loyalty to the United States, strength of character, trustworthiness, honesty, reliability, discretion, and soundness of judgment. In addition, it examines one's freedom from conflicting allegiances, potential for coercion, and willingness and ability to abide by regulations governing the use, handling and protection of sensitive information.”
Pass the polygraph test (discussed above).
 If you make it through the selection process, you’re lucky: only about 17 percent of candidates presented with conditional offers pass the background check and exams. Now you can accept your job and get ready for training, after which you still might find yourself not ideal for the job!


Participate in job training. For some positions, particularly those in the clandestine service, you may have a probationary training period during which you must successfully complete training for your specific position. You may have to relocate during your training period (about six months), and the Agency will usually not pay for relocation of your family during this time.
You will not be an official case officer until you pass the rigorous training, which, depending on the position, can be very difficult.

