 From time to time, check in with staff in their own office at an unscheduled time. If a staff member is frequently "clicking away" from a window when you walk in, or hanging up the phone, you may need to express some concern. Watching employees in person can also help you offer constructive criticism for their work., One simple way to keep employees accountable is to have regular conversations with them about how their work is going. Ask them what they have done since your last conversation, asking more questions and evaluating their responses as the conversation develops. Ask for details and tangible evidence of results., Have your employee record their work progress in activity logs, checklists, or progress reports. However, reports should not be overly burdensome or "busywork," but should encourage team members and management alike to keep in touch and on the same page. Don't be afraid to ask for proof of work described in a report when you speak with the employee., If you're concerned about productivity, ask for concrete proof of performance that is measurable and time-bound. If an employee is a project leader, set milestones but also ask for plans and timelines for the project. Check in with other staff to make sure all members of the project team are communicating. Personally track the progress of longer term projects and assess their accuracy and completeness.


For example, you could monitor data entries for an employee who is assigned to managing a database. You could evaluate the timeliness of the entries, their accuracy, and their adherence to company guidelines., Ask suppliers, customers, and other employees about their interactions with a given employee to get a picture of how that employee has been behaving. However, you need a way to increase the objectivity of these observation so that employees are not unfairly represented. When asking for this information, ask for details about the interaction instead of impressions. Ask for descriptions of the interactions instead of evaluations. And always keep an open mind; you never know when an employee is being misrepresented.