 Though being cool should come from within, people can make assumptions about you if your body language indicates that you're insecure and unsure of yourself. To have cool body language, just stand tall, keep your head high and your shoulders open, showing that you're proud to be taking up space.


Don't hunch over, or you'll look like you're cowering.
Don't cross your arms over your chest, or you'll look uncomfortable and insecure. Instead, keep your arms at your sides or use them to gesture as you speak.
Don't fidget with your hands or your clothes, or you'll look insecure.
 Have you ever met a cool guy who reeks of sweat and never brushes his teeth? Didn't think so. Shower everyday, use deodorant to cover up body odor, brush and floss your teeth twice a day and wash your hair regularly. Carry some mints or gum around with you to get rid of bad breath. Be sure to also wash your clothes regularly.
 Wash your face with warm water and rub on some moisturizer afterwards. If you have dry skin, moisturize with a product meant for dry skin. Avoid products with fragrances if your skin is sensitive. For oily and combination skin, use a moisturizer without alcohol and that is meant for oily/combination skin. For acne problems, Clearasil offers a number of products ranging from face washes to pimple creams.


Watch what you eat and drink. A healthy diet and drinking lots of water is also great for your complexion. Oily and greasy foods will make your complexion more oily and greasy, too.
 Don't be afraid to take up space when you sit or when you move around. Don't be afraid to be louder, even though it will create some social pressure. When you speak, slow down your words to show that you value what you're saying and you're not worried that you'll get cut off. Make good and fearless eye contact.


At the same time, know when to let other people take center stage. You can't assert yourself 100% of the time.
 Make sure your clothes fit properly and actually look good on you. Try to find colors or patterns that especially look good with your skin tone, and wear them most. Even a simple wardrobe like a t-shirt and jeans is fine as long as it fits and suits you.


If you need to go shopping for clothes, invest in only a few items of clothing of more expensive, higher quality clothing instead of buying lots of mediocre and cheap clothes. An example is Hollister.
Experiment with different styles, and try to find the one that plays off of your strengths and identity, whether you're preppy or going for more of a rocker or hipster look.
Having cool style means wearing what you love no matter how ridiculous you may look. If people make fun of your clothes and you stop wearing them just to please people, then you're not being cool.
 Just because you have nice clothes doesn't mean you can forget about your hair. Make sure it's in a style that suits you and that is comfortable and easy to maintain. Wash your hair regularly, and if it's short, try different hairstyles.


If you need to get a haircut or want a new style, the best method is to splurge on an expert hair stylist once, take a picture of that haircut, and get it done at cheaper places later on. If they style your hair in a certain way that you like, have them show you how to recreate that look on your own.
 You may think that it's not cool to smile, or that only dorks grin from ear to ear for no reason, but quite the opposite is true. If you're nice and smile at people, they'll feel welcomed and will want to get to know you. If you're too cool to say hi, then you'll just be hanging out by yourself in the corner while everyone else has a good time.


A smile makes a lasting impression. Even if people don't know you well, they'll like you if you smile at them. And if you don't smile at them, they'll think you're a jerk or a grouch before they even get to know you.

