 One of the reasons you may feel like you're not having any fun at work is because you don't enjoy the company of any of the people there. Well, you can change that by making the effort to get to know your colleagues and boss by making an effort to be nicer, asking questions, and enjoying the time you spend with them.


Take the time to get to know your colleagues by talking about your families and interests.
Don't be closed off at work. Look available instead of incredibly busy, and more people will want to talk to you. Indulge in the occasional chat session in the break room.
Step out for lunch with one of your colleagues, and you'll enjoy having a nice conversation and getting to know each other.
Don't let all of your relationships end with the work day. If you're growing closer with some of your colleagues, invite them out for a drink or coffee after work.
 You can have more fun at work by trying to make your work space just a bit more fun. Though you can only have so much control over what your work space looks like, there are a few things you can do to make your work environment a bit more appealing.


Decorate a bit. If you can, put up a fun poster or just bring in a brightly-colored vase with some flowers in it.
Bring some food. Bake cookies or bring in some chips and guacamole and see how it puts everyone in a more friendly, happy mood.
Liven up your work area. Hang up a funny calendar and pictures that make you smile in your work space, and you'll be on your way to having more fun at work.
 If you want to have fun at work, then you should try to have fun with the people you work with even after the work day is over. You can do this by having a weekly happy hour or a bi-monthly team meal, or just inviting a few people to have dinner after work once in a while.


If you're throwing a party, invite some of your colleagues. Bring them in to a fun environment.
You and your colleagues can also volunteer together. You'll be able to have fun together while doing a good deed.
 If you want to have fun at work, then you can't spend 12 hours a day perched over your desk even if it means you'll be home a bit faster. Taking breaks at least every hour will help your mind and body recharge and will get you feeling more energetic, and therefore having more fun, throughout the day.


Go out for lunch. Stepping out of the office for lunch, whether you're alone or with a colleague, will give you a brief break that will make you feel happier about getting to work.
Get a little bit of physical exercise. Even if you're at the office all day, take at least 10-15 minutes to go for a walk, whether you're walking outside or around the office.
Try taking the stairs instead of the elevator if you can. This will give you a quick physical break.
Switch tasks from time to time. Switch between filing, making calls, and sending emails and you'll see that each individual task becomes more fun.
 You won't majorly interrupt your productivity if you take the time to play a little game once in a while. Even just playing with silly putty or a slinky while you're at your desk will make your work day a little more fun.


If you have a more casual office, throwing a Nerf ball around with your colleagues can be a lot of fun.
If you have your own office, hanging a basketball hoop over your door and shooting a light ball into it from time to time will make your day feel more fun.

