 You can play the game online within Facebook or on your mobile device. Launch it, then hit the “Play” button.;
, When the game maps loads, navigate through it until you see 170. Hit the button for the level to begin.
 Once you’re in, analyze how your board is laid out. It will be good if you can easily make some special candies to help clear out lots of jellies. Do you see good moves to quickly get those?

, If you don’t like your board, go ahead and exit. You won’t lose a life as long as you haven’t touched any candy., Look for moves that will give you Striped candies. Bring the horizontally Striped candies near the bottom where the chocolate wheels are so that they can easily clear out nearby chocolate and jellies.
 These can be harder to make, but not impossible. Always keep a lookout for opportunities to make one. Using the Wrapped candies as bombs can really make the jellies go away faster.
 If you can, put a Striped candy and a Wrapped candy together. The best place to have this combo is in the middle part of the board so that it can take out jellies and chocolate near the chocolate wheels.
 Look for ways to generate a Candy Bomb by matching five candies in a row. It’s always useful to have this special candy. It’s extra special if you can combine it with a Striped candy to do more damage so that you can clear out more jellies and chocolate faster., At the start of the level, the chocolate is blocked by licorice. As long as you don’t break the licorice, the chocolate won’t spread. However, a move will come when the licorice will have to break, freeing the chocolate. Watch out for when this happens so that you can immediately control the chocolate.
 You can break the chocolate by making a match right next to it. Do not let the chocolate spread all over your board. It will be very difficult to complete the level if it does. Stop the chocolate early before it spreads all over.
 Take note the jellies exist under the chocolate. These also need to be cleared out to finish the level. There are jellies near and around the chocolate wheels, and these are the hardest to reach and clear. Using the special candies and combos will help a lot here.
 This isn’t a time-limited level, so you don’t have to hurry. Take a good look before doing a move.