 When you sit down to compose your request, you should use the standard letter format, with your personal information listed first (name, address, current date), followed by the name of your healthcare provider or the health care facility that has your medical records. You should then include a salutation, such as “Dear Dr.Jenkins” or “Dear Healthy Living Facility”.You should then open the letter by noting the purpose of the letter and how it relates to the HIPAA. For example: “The purpose of this letter is to request copies of my medical records as allowed by the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) and Department of Health and Human Services regulations.”;
, Your healthcare provider will likely have many patients and will require specific dates where she treated you so she can locate your medical records.


For example, you may note: “I was treated at your office between . I would like to request copies of the following health records related to my treatment at your facility.”, You can access several different types of information in your medical records, so be specific about this in your request. Your healthcare provider can then provide specific medical records or your complete medical records, based on your needs. You can request the following information in your medical records:A summary of doctor’s office visits.
Specific diagnoses for an illness, an infection, a disorder, or a disease.
Doctors’ notes.
Laboratory results.
Images such as X-rays or MRIs.
Information on medication.
Account and billing information.
 In your request, you should specify if you would like the receive your EMR on a flash drive, via a web link, or on a CD-Rom.Keep in mind your healthcare provider may not be able to accommodate how you receive your EMR and may only offer one option for receiving your EMR.
 According to the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA), your healthcare provider must give you access to your medical records within thirty days. If your healthcare provider fails to do this, they must note their failure to you in a formal letter and give you an exact date where you will have access to your medical records.If your health care provider fails to provider your medical records after the specified date, you can file a complaint against them with the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services’ Office of Civil Rights., Once you have completed the letter, you should contact your health provider’s office or the health facility that houses your medical records. Submit the letter to the required person(s) so it can be processed.
 Under the HIPAA, your health care provider cannot charge you a fee for locating your medical records. But your health care provider can charge a reasonable, cost-based fee to cover the cost of giving you access to your medical records.Keep in mind your health care provider cannot deny you a copy of your medical records due to a failure to pay for services rendered from the health care provider.
 Your medical records will likely contain medical terminology that you will not understand. You should speak to your health care provider and get her to clarify any technical or unfamiliar terms so you can understand your records., Though your health staff will try to update your medical records and maintain accurate information on you, inaccuracies can happen. Your doctor may have mistaken something you said relating to your medical history, leading to an incorrect note in your medical records. Speak to your doctor about any discrepancies or mistakes you notice in your records and get them fixed as soon as possible so your records are correct and up to date., Your medical records are good resources for staying on top of your health numbers, from your blood pressure numbers to your weight to your blood sugar levels. You can also keep track of how your health numbers have shifted over time.Having access to your medical records can also help you to better understand your doctor’s health recommendations. Your EMR will contain plans that your doctor has created for your care, allowing you to analyze your doctor’s approach to your health.

