, Unless it’s a text to say “good morning”, skip the formality texts that offer no flirtation value or act as energy zappers, such as “Hey what’s up?” They are typically followed by a routine back and forth that eventually dies out really early on.Before you text him or her, make sure that you have something of value to add to the conversation, whether it be a joke or a genuine compliment. Think of creative ways to initiate text messages like mentioning a lyric to a song you both like or a movie that the two of you love. Create inside jokes to build and show interest.
Text an attention grabber like, “I’m thinking of you so I know you’re probably thinking of me.”It’s cocky, without being overly cocky and is bound to get its reader to crack a smile and respond in a hurried fashion.
 Over-texting is the pitfall to many budding romances. Hitting it off and establishing a connection can lead to needy behaviors, over-texting being one of them.Text him or her once, wait for a reply, and if you get one, reply with one text in response. Think of texting as a dance, you take a step, and then they take a step, you take a step, and then they take a step. If you don’t get a reply, wait a full 24 hours to attempt to reach out again.
As the relationship progresses, you will be able to slowly increase the frequency of your text messages. Too much at once though feels over-eager and can read as desperation. Appearing scarce by allowing time in between texts creates intrigue.
 Flirting through text messages is about the rapport that builds the connection and the tension that fosters the attraction between you two.Tension happens through playful teasing so keep it light and flirt with him or her while you text.


Give him or her a cute nickname, preferably one that has something to do with a shared experience between you two, “punk”, “brat”, “dimples”, “smiley”, or “giggles”. You can call them something common like “babe”, “baby”, or “sweetie”.Create some playful sexual tension by texting things like, “Stop trying to seduce me, I know what you’re up to” or “Get your mind out of the gutter!”, Don’t rely on the phone as a crutch and forget about building a relationship in real life. Once it feels right, ask him or her out on a date.

