 Examples would be non-heat, no glue methods such as Protein Silk Fusion, Micro Links, or Extend Tubes.;
, This is important so that you are not using excess heat or blow dryers to blend your texture into the extensions. If you have naturally curly tresses and you desire straight hair, putting in straight hair extensions means blow drying and flat ironing your hair daily. This will NOT help with growing your hair and can cause breakage! Love your natural texture and find fusion hair extensions that can match your texture exactly! This means less blending issues, less heat, and easier to manage fusion extensions!

, Some fusion attachments don't allow you to condition your hair so it is important to pick a method that allows conditioning treatments. For example, Protein Silk Fusion allows heavy conditioners without the extensions slipping. This is ideal for those who require lots of conditioning treatments to their hair for optimal health. For those with fine hair, Micro-Links can only handle a little conditioner so this would be an OK option for you.
 This applies back to picking a texture that matches your own. Heat is damaging to all hair whether you have extensions or not. If you are trying to grow out your hair, heat is not your friend. If you must use heat, find indirect ways such as roller setting or wrap setting under a dryer.
 Coconut Oil is a fantastic oil to prevent split ends and condition hair from the inside out. Women from India have known this for generations and that is why millions of women around the world purchase their hair for extensions. Apply this oil to the ends of hair or use for deep conditioning treatments.
 Try to find a gentle sulphate free shampoo. This type of shampoo with not strip your hair. Harsh shampoos can lead to breaking and split ends.
 The great part with fusion is you will know when your hair is growing and how much it has grown. Fusion extensions will grow out with your natural hair. As they grow, they will move further and further from your scalp. When you notice you have a lot of growth, go in for your required maintenance to prevent any tangles or matting at the roots. Maintenance keeps fusion extensions fresh and helps them to last longer!

