 While Texas courts provide forms that you can complete and file yourself, if you anticipate paternity will be contested, you may want the help of an experienced family law attorney.Your local legal services office may be able to help you with a paternity case. You also can look for family law attorneys on the Texas Bar Association's website at www.TexasBar.com.
The website has a referral service that will find potential attorneys in your area based on your answers to a few questions. You can also contact the referral service by phone at 1-800-252-9690.
You also may be able to get help from the Texas Attorney General's Office, which assists with some paternity cases. Call the office at 1-800-252-8014 to find out what services are available.
Low-income Texans may be able to get free or reduced-fee services by going through legal aid or some family law clinics. If you're able to get assistance from the attorney general's office, you won't be charged attorney's fees.
 The petition asks the court to determine paternity of the child you name. This petition typically is filed by the mother of the child, the presumed father, or another man who believes he is the biological father of the child.Others may be able to file a petition in other circumstances. For example, if the child's mother is dead, you may file a petition if you are a close relative of the deceased mother.
Adult children also may file a petition to establish paternity.
If you've decided not to hire an attorney, you can get a fillable form by visiting the clerk's office of your local courthouse. You also can download the form from the Texas Legal Services Center's website at TexasLawHelp.org.
In most cases, you must file your petition in the court located in the county where the child lives, regardless of where you live.
If you have any questions about completing the form, you can ask someone at your nearest Texas Legal Services Center for help. Court clerks can explain what various information is required, but they won't be able to advise you on how you should answer the questions on the form or what information you should use.
 The evidence sufficient to establish paternity by court order typically is acquired by having the man in question and the child submit to genetic testing, which is at least 99 percent accurate at determining a child's parentage.If you haven't hired an attorney, you can get a form for the motion the same way you got a form for your petition.
You should go ahead and fill it out so you can file it at the same time you file your petition.
There isn't much information necessary for this motion – the bulk of it is already written for you. All you need to do is print your name and check the box that corresponds with your role in the case.
Then sign it and put your name and contact information at the bottom. There is space on the bottom of the first page of the motion form for a notice of hearing. You don't need to fill this out – the clerk will complete it when the hearing is scheduled.
Before you go to the courthouse, make copies of all the documents you plan to file – one set of copies for your own records and one for each party you need to have served with the documents.
 Once you've completed all the necessary forms, you must take them to the clerk's office of the court in the county where the child lives to initiate your paternity action. Take your original forms as well as copies.To file your documents to initiate your paternity action, you'll have to pay a filing fee, typically a little under $300.
If you can't afford to pay the fees, ask the clerk for an "affidavit of indigency." This is the form you use to ask the court not to charge you court fees.
You must provide details about your income and assets, and whether you are currently receiving public benefits.
If your income and assets fall below the court's established threshold, you won't have to pay any court costs for the remainder of your action. You typically do still have to pay if you hire someone to serve documents on the other people involved in your action.
The clerk will stamp your documents "filed" with the date, and typically will also set a court hearing on your motion to order genetic testing. Then the clerk will return all of your copies to you.
 Depending on who you are, there may be more than one person who must be served with your petition and motion. At a minimum, the alleged father or mother must have notice of the paternity action.You also must serve all other alleged fathers, and any presumed or acknowledged father.
If anyone has received public benefits on behalf of the child, you must serve the Attorney General's Office.
Technically, you can complete service by having anyone over the age of 18 who is uninvolved with your case take the documents to those who need copies. You cannot serve the documents yourself.
You also have the option of hiring a sheriff's deputy or private process server to hand-deliver the documents.
 The judge may hold a hearing to determine whether to grant your motion for genetic testing. After your motion is granted, the judge will order the alleged father and the child to undergo genetic testing.The testing must be completed by an accredited lab. The court may have a list of accredited labs near you that you can use for these purposes.
Typically, the person who requested the genetic testing is the one who pays for it. However, you and the alleged father may agree to some different arrangement.
If your paternity case was filed by the Attorney General's Office, there is no fee for genetic testing.
 Once genetic testing is complete, you typically will have another hearing before the court during which you can submit the results of that testing. The judge will then determine, based on those results, what order should be issued.The testing lab must create a report according to specific rules established by the court so it is admissible as evidence. The report must be signed under penalty of perjury by a lab designee.
The report must include the name and photo of each person tested, the name of each person who collected the specimens tested, and the date and location where those specimens were collected.
Each person who received the specimens in the lab must be identified, along with the date they received them and their purpose for receiving them.
 If genetic testing showed the man you alleged is in fact the genetic father of the child, the judge will issue an order declaring him the child's adjudicated father. This order can be used to establish child support and visitation.Ask the court clerk when the written order will be ready and what you have to do to get one. Some courts may mail the order to you when it's entered, while in others you'll be responsible for going to the clerk's office and picking up a copy of it yourself.
The judge also may make temporary orders about custody, visitation, and child support during a paternity case, at the request of any party to the case.

