 Make sure that the bowl is large enough to hold the rest of your ingredients.;
, You can also use steel-cut oats, old-fashioned oatmeal, or quick-cooking oats.Santa's reindeer love all sorts of oats.


This food is meant for Santa's reindeer. Do not eat this, or you may get a tummy ache. If you want to make some yourself, try using cereal instead. Corn flakes and rice cereal are great for this.
 The oats should be coated with the dye, but not soggy.If the oats are too watery, add some more oats. They will soak up the rest of the dye.
 Any baking sheet will do, but try to get one that is at least 18 by 13 inches (45.72 by 33.02 centimeters). If you do not have a baking sheet, you can use a plate, pan, or even a plastic lid from a box. You will need to spread the oats out over this in a thin layer, so make sure that it is big enough.
 You can also use a spoon or spatula if you want to keep your hands clean. Make sure that the layer is thin. You do not want any clumps or piles of oats.
 The oats must be dry before you move on to the next step. Any water left in the oats may cause the sugar to melt. It will take about 1 hour for the oats to dry., You are now ready to add the rest of your ingredients.
 You can also make your own edible glitter by mixing ¼ cup of sugar with ½ tablespoon of red food coloring, and then baking it at 350°F (175°C) for 8 to 10 minutes.Do not use craft glitter. If you leave the reindeer food outside, other animals may try to eat it and get sick. Edible glitter is safer., You can make your reindeer food healthier by adding things like nuts and raisins. You can also make it taste better by adding in crushed candy cane or chocolate. This section will give you a few ideas on what you can add. Don't get carried away, or the food won't taste as good anymore. Choose two to three items from this section and mix them in.
 Try to find some star-shaped sprinkles, red sprinkles, or red sugar strands.You can also use Christmas sprinkles. They come in many fun shapes, such as snowflakes, candy canes, and Christmas trees.
 You can use other spices, such as nutmeg or pumpkin pie spice.
 The red lentils will blend right into the oats. Even the pickiest reindeer won't be able to see it., They will appeal to the pickiest sweet tooth.


Do not add raisins if you or your neighbors have pets that visit your yard. This food is meant for Santa's reindeer, but cats and dogs may try to eat it too. Raisins are not good for cats and dogs, and can really hurt them.
 Nuts and coconut will fill them up and make them ready to travel the globe again.


Try toasting the seeds, nuts, and coconut in an oven at 400°F (205°C) for 5-10 minutes. This will make them smell nicer and bring out the flavors.
If you know that the reindeer visiting you are picky, you may want to skip these and try the red lentils instead. Picky reindeer may see the nuts and coconut and turn the food away.
 Place a few candy canes into heavy-duty resealable bag. Put the bag on a hard surface and hit the candy canes with a rolling pin. Keep smacking them until you get a powder. Add the crushed candy into the reindeer food.


If you don't want any large chunks in the food, pour the crushed candy through a sifter. The sifter will catch all of the big pieces, and let the powder pass through.The food will still taste just as sweet.
 You can buy them during the holiday season. If you cannot find any red chocolate chips, use red-colored melting chocolate instead. You can find it in the baking section of an arts and crafts store.


If you are using red melting chocolate, break it into smaller pieces before you add it to the reindeer food.
If you or your neighbors have pets that go into your yard, do not add the chocolate. It can be deadly for both cats and dogs, who may try to eat it.
 Mix 1 ½ tablespoons of water with 8 to 10 drops of green food coloring. Stir this into 1 cup (100 grams) of plain oats. Wait for the oats to dry, then add them to the red ones.
 Put the food into a jar, plastic sandwich bag, or a plastic container. Keep the food in a cool, dry place. If the food gets wet, it will get moldy. Reindeer won't eat that.
 If the reindeer are hungry when Santa stops by your house, they will eat the tasty food you made for them.
 Some reindeer do not like picking food out of grass. They may like eating out of a bowl or tray more.


Try finding a bowl with pictures of reindeer or Christmas trees on it.
If you can find a large dog bowl, paint the word "Reindeer" on the side. That way, the reindeer will know it is for them.
 Be sure to include a pretty label and some instructions on how to use it. Here are some ideas for cute containers that you can use:


Put the reindeer food into small, plastic bags. Tie the bags with red or green ribbon. See if you can find Christmas themed bags.
Pour some food into mini takeout boxes. You can decorate the boxes with stickers, or draw on them with a marker.
Buy some mini tins and decorate them with stickers before adding in the reindeer food. Stick a label on the bottom of the tin with the instructions.

