 It is important to know that before six years of age, children do not think of gender as permanent; they think that it is something that can be changed.Therefore, it is normal for your child to experiment with different kinds of dress, for example, for boys to wear dresses and for girls to wear suits.

It is also normal for children to want to play with toys that are normally reserved for the opposite gender.
 Be open with yourself about how you feel about your child’s gender non-conformity. Are your feelings positive, neutral, or negative, and why? If your feelings are negative, before discussing cross dressing with your child, speak with a support group. This will help you figure out a way to discuss your child’s behavior without making them feel bad about their self.You can tell your child, "No matter who you are or how you dress, as your mom, I will always love and support you.
Also ask them how they feel when they cross dress. Make sure they do not feel guilty about cross dressing. For example, say, "I want you to know that you shouldn't feel bad about dressing in boy's (or girl's) clothes.
 Let your child define who they are. Try not to label them or force your child to decide who they are. They will figure this out in time. It is your job to be supportive of them; whatever or whoever they are.

Offer to make cross dressing outfits for their toys, for example, a dress for Batman, or a suit for Barbie.
 Avoid punishing your child for cross dressing. Chances are they do not fully understand the meaning of their behavior. By punishing them, you are sending the message that you do not accept who they are. This can cause problems in the future if their cross dressing behavior continues on into adolescence. You want to be a good example of how to accept others who are different.

Don't make your child feel like they should overcome their behavior by saying, "You're old enough now to know that boys should not be wearing dresses. Why are you still wearing dresses and playing with dolls?" Or, "When are you going to grow out of this behavior?", It is important to avoid judging or shaming your child for their behavior. Instead, try to gain a better understanding of why they are crossdressing. You can do this by asking your child some questions, such as:

“How does dressing like that make you feel on the inside? Powerful? Brave? Pretty?”
“Are you playing a pretend game? Who are you pretending to be?”
“What you are usually thinking about when you play dress up?”

