 Make sure it's squeaky clean. Avoid using a conditioner until after you dye. Conditioner prevents the dye from sticking as well.;
, You'll need a comb, hair clips, tinting brush, bowls, rubber gloves (if the dye doesn't come with them), petroleum jelly (I'll explain why later), and your dye of choice.
 Now, take a bleach powder and cream developer (for your current hair color) and mix them up in a bowl with the brush. Stir until it feels like a frosting/whipped cream consistency.


Before putting in the bleach, take your petroleum jelly and put it on the top of your ears, sides of your head, and forehead. This will prevent the bleach from getting in your face.
 Take your bleach and a clean tinting brush, then start applying the bleach close to the root, but don't get it on the scalp or it will make your head itch. It helps if you have someone help you do this. Each time you coat a section, put aluminum foil on it. After you're finished with the whole head, let it sit for the desired color. It's usually 20-30 minutes. After you've done that, take out the foil, and rinse it out. Your hair should then be a brassy color.
 It's best to use a purple based toner, such as Wella Color Charm in the color Lightest Ash Blonde. Mix the toner and developer in a bowl with a clean tint brush. Apply the toner as you would the bleach. And process for 15-20 minutes. Be warned! The toner will go on purple, but relax, it will not stay purple once you've rinsed it out!


It should look like this.
 For the best results, use professional and good quality dyes such as Manic Panic or Special Effects.
 To conserve dye or make a whole tub last for your whole head if you have a lot of hair, add conditioner to the bowl. But don't add too much conditioner, as it can dilute the color. Next, put some petroleum jelly on your ears and sides of your forehead. If the dye gets on your face, it's very hard to take off. What you want to do is split your hair into sections and dye your hair from back to front make sure it's saturated and you get an even coverage. Get close to the root, but don't dye the scalp.
 This prevents the color from dripping or getting anywhere. Leave it on for a good hour and a half so that it sets and ends up lasting a long time.
, In order to maintain the color, use a sulfate and peroxide free shampoo to make it last. And for the conditioner, use the same brand. Or you can purchase a purple shampoo and conditioner!

