 Each tablet has their own pros and cons, and are made for different activities. Depending on what you're using it for (ex. drawing, photo editing), you be the judge yourself.


The Bamboo model is the most inexpensive tablet, and is made for the home and office. However, any input given will show on the computer screen instead on the tablet.

Bamboo Connect is the most basic model, as it's made to draw, sketch, communicate, and connect. It also comes with a copy of Autodesk Sketchbook Express. The Bamboo Splash is similar, except it also comes with ArtRage 3.
Bamboo Capture is one of the most popular models, and it includes Autodesk Sketchbook Express and Photoshop Elements. While it's made for editing photos, people who chose to buy this also uses Photoshop to draw and paint.
Bamboo Create is the most expensive Bamboo model, but it comes with larger tablet space, everything listed above (except for ArtRage), and Corel Painter is also included.


The Intuos was made for professionals and serious hobbyists. It comes in 4 sizes. They all come with Autodesk Sketchbook Express, Photoshop Elements, Anime Studio, and a 90 day trial of Corel Painter.
While the Wacom Cintiq is the most expensive model, you can draw and see your computer screen right on the tablet. Included are the same software packed in with the Wacom Intuos.;
, You can buy it retail or on the Internet.
 This should come with your tablet. Follow the installation instructions.
, These include a pen, and any other possible accessories you might have bought with the tablet.
 Simply place them over your tablet and they will begin working.
 To click, or draw, touch the tablet's surface.


Your pen will come with extra "nibs", or tips that you can use for your pen. Each has a different texture to even further take your drawing experience. Some are rougher like you are drawing on paper, and others are smooth and slick.
On programs that are Wacom compatible, your tablet can use sensitivity. The harder you press, the darker and thicker your lines will be.
 The sensitivity springs inside might break from this. Pressing too hard can also wear away at the surface of your tablet, which is not covered by your warranty.
 It can completely replace your mouse.


Your tablet does not have to be unplugged when you are done.
 They even have ones that resemble real paintbrushes!

