 Then, you will need to settle on a commission scheme that will be mutually beneficial.


It is a good idea to consult with your hiring managers and accounting department so that you know what pay range you are willing to give the right person. Hiring independent or in-house sales reps is likely to include a salary or commission negotiation process.;
, You may also include the number of years of experience you are looking for. These parameters will help you to narrow down choices during your research.
 Posting your own job descriptions tells people you are expanding. A proactive sales rep may contact you to interview while you are searching other channels.
 If you want to employ someone through salary as well as commission, you have higher risk, because you are giving benefits, training them and investing in support while they are on the road. Use targeted sales websites and national job search engines, like Monster and CareerBuilder.


Keep in mind that products selling at a low price in high quantity generally have a lower commission. Products that sell at a higher price in lower quantities will have higher commissions. Generally they fall between 2 and 25 percent.
Post each job under your industry and under "sales."

, If you have friends that market to similar people or businesses as you do, ask them if they use independent sales reps. If so, you may be able to find a qualified person who can offer both of your products during their sales trips.
 This is the best place to find independent sales reps that have experience working in your industry. Consider having a booth and interviewing sales reps at the trade shows.
 Ask if anyone has experience working with similar products. These agencies can give you a list of potential options, and you can arrange interviews with each rep.
 Salespeople tend to network well, so ask people who you like if they know anyone else who could cover another territory. If they are willing to stake their reputation on the person, you are more likely to get a qualified candidate.
 These sites list potential road reps or allow you to post your job on their site.

