 Make it as short as possible and not too complicated. If you have a script you won't have to worry about remembering what to say and you should be able to focus on the performance. You should try to follow the script but also leave room for spontaneous moments. Work in feeling and a sense of importance or excitement into your article to catch the watcher right from the start and keep them interested throughout.;
, The better your script and filming, the less time you spend on editing. Focus on delivering the speech straight to the camera and never second guessing yourself. If you want, practice without the camera on a couple of times to be sure that you efficiently deliver the speech.
 Try to avoid leaning over, fixing your hair, stuttering or fixing your clothes. Distracting movements will only inhibit you from doing your best. If you need any props, keep them on a small table to the side of you so that it is not visible to the camera. Try not to say things like "um" or "and" over and over. If you want you can put a full length mirror behind the camera so that you can see yourself and watch the way you move, but be sure not to use this as an excuse to fix your clothes or hair and be careful to look at the camera instead of the mirror the majority of the time.
 If you're doing this outside, at home or anywhere else where there might be people or noises try your best to cut down on extra noise during the filming. Let people know that you're going to be filming and you need it to be as quiet as possible. If you have animals try to keep them out of the frame and preferably in a different room.
 This is the most important step. Make sure that you are not distracted or tempted to look away from the camera at all. Videos in which people don't maintain eye contact are never as effective or nice to watch as videos where the person does. You'll probably feel a little silly talking to a camera, so take a deep breath and treat it just like you're having a normal conversation with someone. If it helps to envision someone you like to talk to as the camera than do that, whatever works you should do.
 You are your worst enemy, so try not to worry too much about everything you do. Have fun and let go. If you make a mistake don't let it show and no one will ever notice, so go on as if nothing happened and have fun with it.
 If you need help don't be afraid to ask! You can also find good instructions for video editing if you do a google search or a wikiHow search. It doesn't have to be perfect and if this is your first time creating a video don't worry too much about the editing.
 Send it in an e-mail to your friends and family or keep a copy on a CD or thumb drive to show to people if you want to.

