 A tasteful fabric drape works almost anywhere in a wedding: on the dessert table, across the altar, over existing drapery, bunched around the centerpieces, or anywhereelse you can think of. Use gold fabric to add a bit of glitz and romance to your wedding decor.


One of the easiest ways to include gold fabric in your decor is to use it around the bases of your centerpieces. Bunch gold fabric around the bases of your vases, candle holders, and any other center table decor.
Ask your wedding planner or venue coordinator about draping gold fabric along with any pre-existing curtains, valances, or other window treatments.
Use gold fabric or wide ribbon to create bows for the backs of chairs or wraps for cocktail tables.
 Get some warm white fairy lights and incorporate them throughout your venue. They work well wrapped around centerpieces, woven through bunched fabric, hung behind curtains, or strung up on trees and through bushes in outdoor areas.Warm white lights will give off a warm, gold light to immediate areas. Colored lights or cool white lights will not have the same effect.
You can find fairy lights at many home goods, home improvement, and craft stores, as well as online.
When planning your fairy light decor, make sure there are outlets or extension cords nearby so that the lights can be properly plugged in and turned on. Alternatively, you can purchase strands with battery packs to avoid the need for outlets.
 You can hang a backdrop behind the head table, behind the band or DJ, or even behind you during the ceremony. Make a gold backdrop simply by hanging gold fabric, or by stringing together cutouts of different styles and textures of gold paper.If you are using a professional wedding planner or decorator, talk to them about your backdrop options. Ask them, “Is there any way we can add gold into the backdrops?”
If you are going to DIY a backdrop, be sure to get measurements you start construction, and think about how you will hang your backdrop during the wedding.
 This golden-pink drink is a classic way to kick off any celebration, and a great way to add a bit more gold to your wedding without too much additional cost. Many venues or catering services include a champagne toast as a part of their wedding package, provided your personal beliefs allow the consumption of alcohol.If you do not wish to have alcohol at your wedding, you can opt for a sparkling gold juice such as sparking apple cider or sparkling grape juice.
If you are using a caterer or a bar service for your wedding, you likely are not allowed to bring in your own beverages. Talk to them about your toast options while planning your menus.

