 Participating in cancer awareness events in your area can help to put a positive spin your situation, connect you with other people who have had similar experiences, and give you an opportunity to raise money for a good cause. Some events you could participate in include:Susan G. Komen Race for the Cure
Zumbathon for Breast Cancer
Power In Pink Breast Cancer Awareness Walk

, If you’re unhappy with your appearance, you may not be interested in photographing yourself. You may find, however, that being the star of a photo shoot is empowering. Looking at yourself in this light may help you focus on how strong you are and how much this journey has taught you, instead of your illness.


Look into non-profit photographers in your area who specialize in taking these types of photos.If you are not interested in having photos taken of yourself, then you might consider looking at photo books of other women who have done this and reading their stories. Or you can look into other types of books on people’s experiences with cancer to get a more intimate perspective., Knowing you’re not alone in this fight and that there are others who are going through the same changes you are may help you feel better. Speaking with those who have the same issues with their appearances may offer you encouragement and insight. You may also get tips on how to make the most of the items that can improve the way you look.


If you don’t feel well enough to attend a support group, look for one that meets online. You can still receive the same amount of support; you just don’t have to leave your house to do so., Living with cancer is often extremely difficult because of the way it makes you feel. Dealing with changes to your appearance can make it even worse. Talking to a therapist about what you are experiencing and what these physical changes are doing to your mindset could improve your self-esteem and the way you regard yourself.


To get the most out of your sessions, look for a therapist who specializes in treating cancer patients., The people in your life are probably in awe of your strength while treating your cancer. Surround yourself with positive people who will make you feel good about yourself.


In addition, share with your loved ones some of your concerns. Many family members and friends of cancer patients are willing to do anything to make their loved ones feel less isolated. They may shave their heads or take other actions to show their support for you.
Let your loved ones know what you need in terms of support. They are probably happy to help in any way they can.