 If he shows up and his phone rings off the hook, and he keeps looking at it and then shutting it off, then it may be because the ladies are calling him 24/7. If he's texting as soon as you step out of the room and abruptly puts away his phone when you show up, then you're not the only girl in his life. And if he never leaves his phone unattended, not even for a second, then it may be because he doesn't want you to see all of the sweet texts from his other side pieces.
 Let's say you're his Facebook friend, and you better be. Check out his profile and see if there are tons of girls messaging him, if he's flirting all over the Internet, and if there are dozens of photos with him looking booze addled and surrounded by scantily-clad women. If that's the case, then you know where he goes when he falls off the radar for five days; and it's not just because he's having a crazy week at work. Is his facebook seemingly completely unmanned or he seemingly rarely uses it, yet you know he watches your every facebook move, that is a tell-tell sign.
 Have other women come up to you and told you to stay away from him? Have your friends told you that he's a player, and that he'll never be your boyfriend? Unless you think you can "tame" or "change" him, (and you can't) then these are bright red flags that say it's time to call it quits pronto. Don't think that you're different, or that these women don't know what they're talking about. If you've heard it from multiple people, then chances are, they're right.
 Has it been six months and you still haven't met his friends, talked about the upcoming months in your lives, gone shopping together, hung out during the day, or done any of the things that normal people do? It's okay if it takes a long time for him to say "I love you," but if he has rarely even said, "I really like you," and it's been a while, then things may not be moving forward because he only sees you as his plaything.
 Wake up! If you're even contemplating this might be a possibility, you've got a gut feeling in there that is trying to warn you. Look around you and assess the situation for what it is. How is it making you feel? Are you happy? Are you satisfied with the relationship as it is? Can you actually have a future with this guy? Most likely not, meaning you need to start thinking about whether this relationship is worth the risk.


Guess what? There's plenty more where he came from. Move on and locate your self-esteem; put it back where it belongs, reclaiming your self-respect and keeping your sexuality, physical health, emotional sanity, and sense intact.

