 Therapists share in common the will to help people by providing them with council, but there are many different jobs that fall under this umbrella. Consider the following therapy-related positions:


Counselors help specific populations in places like schools and churches. A counselor does not need specific training to establish a practice, but most do take specific courses to earn credentials.
Social workers have master's degrees and are typically employed by agencies to work with individuals or families requiring counseling. Some social workers specialize in counseling children.
Marriage and Family Therapists (MFTs) often have private practices and provide couples therapy in addition to therapy for individuals and families.
Psychologists have PhDs and study major approaches to therapy, including cognitive, behavioral, humanistic and psycho dynamic approaches, and work with individuals experiencing depression and other illnesses. Psychologists conduct psychological tests and provide talk therapy to their patients, but in most cases can't prescribe medications or other medical interventions.
Psychiatrists are actually medical doctors who study psychiatry after finishing medical school. Psychiatrists conduct medical tests, prescribe medications and work with primary physicians and other psychotherapists to devise a course of treatment for their patients.;
, If you're deciding which type of therapy will be the right fit for you, conduct research by talking with therapists who have chosen a variety of different career paths.


Different types of therapists have different strengths and skill sets. Psychologists, for example, spend time conducting research on different types of therapy. Social workers often enter intense situations and serve as mediators between upset parties. Shadow different therapists to decide what's right for you.
Ask therapists about the educational paths they took to get to their positions.
 Some degrees take many years to pursue, and it takes extra time to find the right job and build a practice. As soon as you know the general area that interests you, lay out a plan for yourself.


Get a college degree. No matter what type of therapy you decide to pursue, you'll need to start with a bachelor's degree. Consider majoring in psychology, and study both the sciences and the humanities, since both areas play into the work of a therapist.
If you know exactly what graduate program you want to pursue, make sure you take all the prerequisite courses.

