 Before deciding you're "just not that into him", canvas the possibilities that something else is making you feel bad. Ask yourself these questions:

Are you feeling this way all of the time or is it temporarily aligned with something else challenging that is happening in your life? It can sometimes be very easy to mix up a bad situation generally with feelings for a person who is nearest to you. Your own negativity might even have caused your guy to respond negatively. If you're going through a rough patch because of work, family issues, studies, etc., be careful to separate those problems from your guy.
Are you finding your love life bland and blah? If you've tried to resurrect a lapsing love life with suggestions and meaningful talks and still nothing has happened, maybe it is time to move on.
Are you feeling held back in what you want to do in life? A good relationship is one that nourishes both person's dreams, not just one partner's. If you're feeling restrained and restricted because of the relationship, it's possible you're in need of a change of pace.
Have you lost that loving feeling? Does he make your heart flutter or sink when he walks in the room? Can you be bothered making room for him on the couch or not? Do you still get a thrill asking him out to a dinner date or does that now feel ho-hum? All telling signs that if you don't feel the love, you're probably not that into him.;
, How you call it quits with your guy all depends on how long you have been seeing him. Either way try to make the break up as classy as possible. Do not attack him personally, even if he's been a real jerk to you. You will come out feeling better, stronger and confident that you have done the right thing!, Here is a range of ways to tell him, depending on how long you've been together:

"Mr X, I just met you but I don't think I want to take things further". In this scenario honesty is the best policy. Politely explain that although the short time you have spent together has "been a blast" you feel that you are not suitable for one another and wish him all the best. Most guys take this "rejection" (because that's what you are doing) in a fairly mature manner. If you have only known him for a few days or few weeks you can do this face to face , via text message or even over the phone. If you do feel though that he may not take the rejection well, then a text message or a phone call is acceptable.
"Mr. X, I've been dating you for a few months but 'I'm just not that into you' anymore." This one can be tricky depending on where your relationship stands emotionally and physically. Again, honesty is always important and following through with your decision, so you can't change your mind when you are lonely and pick up the phone and call him. It has to be a clean break for both of you, so you can both move on with your lives. If the relationship has come this far, breaking up with a guy you are "just not that into" is probably best done face to face. Again, there is no need to personally attack him, just be honest and tell him how you feel.Again , if you think he may respond badly to the break up, choose a way that is safe for you and makes you feel comfortable.
"Mr X, I've been seeing you for a year or more but things have changed and I am 'just not that into you'." At this point you should know your guy (who is soon to be your ex guy) fairly well. It would be safe to say that you would know exactly how to call it off before it goes on for a few more years. Most etiquette books will say that breaking up face to face is far more classy than sending an email or a voice message but it is entirely up to you and making sure that you feel safe in the situation.

