 When you are wiring a lot of cameras at once, you'll need one simple place to bring all of the feeds together to your DVR. This should be a place that is easy to access, and where you can comfortably run wires from anywhere in the house. Attics, offices and your internet router all make good places to base your surveillance system.


You should only need one DVR for all of your cameras.
 The most common surveillance cable is a Siamese cable, named because it consists of two cables attached together. One is for power, and the other is for video. This means you will only have to run one wire through your house to set up each camera. The cable is usually sold as RG59 or RG6.The braided red and black side is for power. Red is positive and black is negative.
The singular, cylindrical cable is for video. Each end will have either a BNC attachment or a coaxial cable.
 Power boxes, available online and in hardware stores for $30-$50, allow you to power your cameras through a single wall outlet. They come with multiple ports and are great for powering close-together cameras or cameras that aren't near an outlet, like attic cameras. However, you will need to run lengthy amounts of wire to attach each camera to the same box.


Always attach the cameras before hooking the box to electricity.
Make sure you buy a power supply box big enough to power each one of your cameras. They should list how many outlets they support on the box.
 Your DVR can handle multiple cameras at once, allowing you to record every room in the house with only one box. Your monitor will then display every camera, or you will have to cycle through them using the "input" button on your DVR.
 To have a truly professional looking system you can run your cables through the walls and towards your surveillance hub. Be sure you know the layout of your walls and the location of any pipes, cables, or studs as you begin running wires. Running cables requires you to drill a hole in the wall, then thread the cable through the walls to your DVR through open spaces in your house, usually the attic.


If you are not comfortable drilling into your walls and running cables through, call a professional carpenter or handyman to take care of the cabling.
You can also secure cables to the walls or baseboards using a staple gun.
Consider hiding cables under rugs, but tape them down so that no one accidentally trips.
 There are many home security companies that will install cameras, motion sensors, and automatic emergency calling for you, though they cost much more than a typical DIY installation. However, if you have a large house, are uncomfortable with wiring, or want extra features like motion-sensors and alarm systems, call a security firm near you.


ADT, LifeShield, Vivint, and SafeShield are larger, nationwide providers of home security systems.

