 Aspirin is known to increase the uric acid in the blood by slowing its excretion. This can worsen the symptoms of gout., This group of drugs are known to relieve pain and decrease inflammation – two of the most common symptoms of gout.


Ibuprofen should be taken by mouth in doses of 800 mg, every 3-4 hours. However, your doctor may adjust the dosage depending on the condition of your kidney.Indomethacin should be taken four times a day in doses of 25 to 50 mg dosage. Dosage adjustment may also be necessary depending on the patient's overall treatment plan for the kidney failure., This drug is effective in preventing gout flare ups. Though it is not completely known how colchicine works, it is believed that it suppresses the activity of neutrophil and leukocytes, leading to decreased inflammation.Take an initial dose of colchicine during a gout flare up. It should be 1.2 mg by mouth and 0.6 mg an hour later.The maximum dosage of colchicines that can be taken in an hour is 1.8 mg by mouth. A very high dose of colchicines may lead to gastrointestinal upset., If you have a known allergy to NSAIDs, corticosteroids may be a good alternative. Corticosteroids act by inhibiting and suppressing inflammation in the body.


Corticosteroids are also known as immunosuppressant drugs – meaning they suppress the body's immune system.
Take 30-40 mg of oral corticosteroids once per day.., This drug is usually used for the long-term management of gout since it is more likely to be tolerated by the body and is relatively inexpensive. To produce uric acid from purine metabolism, xanthine oxidase is needed. With the help of allupurinol, the production of xanthine oxidase is inhibited.The initial dose of allupurinol is 100 mg per day. This dosage may be increased to 200 to 300 mg (for mild gout) or 400-600 mg (for moderate to severe gout) per day.Allupurinol is especially prescribed to people with kidney failure who suffering from gout as a result.
 This drug is a uricosuric agent which works to lowering uric acid by promotion the elimination ability of the kidneys. It should be noted that probenecid should never be used as part of the initial treatment of gout flare-ups, but rather it should be used as a maintenance drug.The maintenance dosage is 500 mg by mouth, every 12 hours. Your doctor may decide to increase this dosage by 500 mg each month, until uric acid is decreased and controlled.