 This is important; if your hair is too wet, it won't dry all the way overnight. You can dampen your hair by lightly misting it with some water.


You can also add a little bit of hair product, such as hairspray or styling cream. This will help the wave hold better.;
, Once you have the headband on, you won't be able to part your hair. It won't be a good idea to part your hair after you get the waves in. Doing so might disrupt the wave pattern.
 The headband should be no more than an inch (2.54 centimeters) thick. If you have one of those really wide headbands, then try folding it over inward. You can also make your own by wrapping a piece of elastic around your head and knotting it.
 The section should be no more than a few fingers wide.
 Pull the section up, over, and under the headband. Gently slide it back towards your face to make room for more sections.
 You will be adding hair to the section after each time you wrap it around the headband.
 Be sure to tuck it under the headband. Also, try to keep the hair fairly loose as you wrap it. If you wrap the hair too tightly, it will end up being curly instead of wavy.
 Keep gathering and wrapping sections of hair around the headband until you reach the back of your head. Repeat the gathering and wrapping process for the other side of your head, and stop when you reach the back of your head. You will likely have a long tail left over. That is okay. You will tuck it in during the next step.
 Reach around to the back of your head and find the extra hair strands that you didn't tuck in. Twirl them into a rope. If you have enough room in your headband, you can try wrapping that rope around the headband. If you do not have enough room, roll the rope into a bun, then secure it to the back of your head with bobby pins.









You should also tuck or pin any flyaway strands or loose strands the managed to escape the wrapping process.
 If the headband is tight, it may leave an imprint on your forehead the next day. To prevent this from happening, simply slide the headband up on your forehead until it reaches your hairline.
 Start by pulling out any bobby pins. Gently slide the headband up and out of your hair. If it does not come off easily, you may have to unwind the strands of hair from around it. Do not pull too hard, however; if you do, you may end up stretching the waves out. Once you have the headband and bobby pins out, you can comb your fingers through your hair to soften the waves.









If your hair doesn't hold styles too well, consider setting your waves with some hairspray or styling cream.

