 So, before you start looking like an indie rockstar, you should listen to the right music. This will make the entire process a lot more natural. You are not limited to stereotypical indie bands such as Arctic Monkeys or similar. Indie people are known for being really open to any sort of music, and knowing a lot about it. You should be able to maintain a conversation about any of the different ages of rock (classic, art, punk, metal, stadium, grunge, indie) because these are the ones who created the whole indie movement. If possible, join a band, sing or play an instrument.;
, Indie people love art above all things (even more than coffee) so express yourself through art. Paint, photography, music, filming, are all great ways to express your artistic interior. Go for one that suits you the best, or even better, more than one.
 Meaning the right places for vintage shopping, coffee, concerts, art expositions, and so on. Frequently go to them with your friends, and have fun.
 Indies LOVE vintage. Vintage everything,music, clothes, cameras, movies, shows, accessories, and so on. Vintage gives indie a true sense of originality that is hard to find in a mainstream store.
 This mean, mixing a vintage band tee with some black vinyl legging, grey low top converses or flats and a simple black jacket. Some indispensable items in your closet should be vintage tees, flannels shirts and dresses, skinny dark jeans, legging, flats, and great sneakers. In this try to go for Adidas superstars, low top neutral colored Converses (black, white, or grey, if possible) and neutral colored Vans canvas. Ankle boots look really nice too.
 Accessories can make or break and outfit. In jewelry, you don't want anything too big or tacky. A great option would be a simple golden, black or silver long necklace, golden or silver charm bracelets (if you want a more edgy look, you can go for studded bracelets) and simple earrings, just if you want, that match the outfit. Piercings are also a great option for a more edgy look, just keep it simple. A snakebite, a nose ring, maybe some extra studs in your ear. Don't wear two facial piercings at the same time. Another great way to accessorize are scarves. Solid colors, animal print, plaid, or anything that you want, as long as it matches your outfit. Berets give a bohemian look, and are a must and those hippie headbands look really cute. You'll need some simple black or white belts, and maybe a studded one. Sunglasses are CRUCIAL. The ideal would be to have more than one, to match with the outfits.

