 It’s easiest to make friends with somebody when you have something to bond over. Think about all the people you know and ask yourself who you share the most similarities with.


For instance, you could befriend someone you go to school with, or a co-worker who shares some of your hobbies.
Don’t discount the possibility of becoming friends with someone very different from you. Sometimes great friendships come from unlikely places.;
, If the person you’re talking to does not know sign language, or if you do not use your voice, you can communicate by writing notes or typing on your phone or computer. Text messages can also be a good way to communicate with a hearing person.If you prefer to write notes, carry a small notebook and pen with you.
 If you don’t already know the person you want to befriend, approach them with a friendly, open attitude. Say hello and ask them what their name is. If you know you have anything in common with them, break the ice by making small talk about that.For instance, if you want to befriend your fellow volunteer at the animal shelter, you could chat with them about your mutual love for dogs.
If it isn’t obvious that you are deaf, mention this right away to avoid confusion. Be matter-of-fact and upbeat about it, so the person doesn’t feel like they need to treat you differently than they would otherwise.
 Ask questions about the person’s life, and give them your full attention when you communicate with them. Show them that you think they are a likable, interesting person. They will probably be flattered and want to keep talking to you.

Be genuine, and don’t go overboard. If you act too interested in minor aspects of the other person’s life, you might scare them away.
Don’t ask inappropriately personal questions. For example, it’s fine to ask someone you’ve just met about their pets, but you probably wouldn’t want to ask them about their relationship with their significant other.
Remember to talk a little about yourself, too, so the conversation doesn’t seem one-sided.
 Invite the person to join you for an activity or event later. Keep your request casual, and don’t pressure them to come along.Say or write something like, “I’m going to grab a cup of coffee across the street, want to come?”
If the situation isn’t conducive to inviting the person anywhere, you can ask whether they’re on Facebook, or request their phone number.
If the person says no, don’t assume they dislike you – they may just be busy or shy. Try again in a week or two before you give up on making friends with them.

