 A person with narcissism will always keep the conversation on themselves. It doesn’t matter how relevant it is to the topic, a person with narcissism will always find a story or anecdote that places him or her in the center of discussion. The important thing to a person with narcissism is that you and your circle of friends is talking about him or her.Relevance is one key to understanding a person with narcissism’s self-reference. People will naturally try to relate conversations to personal experiences and things they understand. A person with narcissism is different because he or she will always look for a way to interject their experiences or perspective, even if it has nothing to do with what you are talking about.
 As you might expect, a person with narcissism keeps the focus on themselves and their accomplishments. People with narcissism will expect to be recognized as important, influential or superior, even if their accomplishments do not necessarily warrant it.A person with narcissism will likely try to exaggerate his or her accomplishments. He or she will try to make him or herself look like the most important person in every conversation.
Because these are exaggerations, a person with narcissism might not always be successful. If he or she fails at doing something, you can be sure there will be excuses or other explanations for why it didn’t work. The answer certainly won’t be an admission of fault or making a mistake. Someone or something else will always be at fault., It’s certainly natural to dream of being successful, but a person with narcissism will fixate on it. He or she will talk about unlimited success, power, beauty, or any other signal of greatness. These fantasies will be the obvious end result of the individual’s personal greatness, even if he or she has not done anything to deserve that.In many cases, these fantasies will be unattainable, causing him or her to lash out at people who suggest they aren’t possible.
 People with narcissism tend to avoid using “I” statements. When a narcissist makes an assertion, it is not meant to start an argument, but end conversation.It seems counter-intuitive, but narcissists don’t want to use “I” when talking about their ideas. Beginning a statement with “I think” or “My opinion is” suggests that what they are saying may not be completely correct, or is open to critique.
 A person with narcissism will want to show how successful or powerful he or she is, and will make references to other famous or important people they know as proof of this. Listen for referrals to notable people, especially if he or she is using them as a way to show how smart or talented they is.This is different from citing authorities to back up a position. A person with narcissism isn’t interested in providing a background for their assertions. Instead, it is about using this authority to stop conversation and get you to admit he or she is correct.

