 There are a lot of financial considerations to think about with regard to homeschooling, which can cost a family anywhere from $300 to $1000 per year.In order for a parent to homeschool their child or children, they must be home for most of the day, which precludes most regular, full-time employment. If you are living in a two parent household, determine whether you family can subsist on one salary alone; if you are a single parent, determine if you can support your family by working on a part-time basis, or reconsider homeschooling as an option.Alternatively, you should also factor in the money you will save by homeschooling children – e.g. not paying private school fees (if applicable), or travel costs to transport your child to school and back every day.;
, Consider the size of your family before deciding whether or not homeschooling is right for your children. Home education can be difficult for large families, and requires a prioritization of subjects learned and age groups focused on. Some subjects will likely have to be combined, while children with large age gaps will have to be separated at different junctures.Try plotting out a hypothetical school day to see if it would be feasible to cover lesson plans for all of your children, while ensuring that they are all monitored, entertained, and properly cared for (e.g. completing lessons on fractions and spelling with a seven year old child, as well as lessons on geometry and the solar system with a twelve year old child.)

, When deciding whether or not to homeschool your child, consider what your goals would be with this undertaking. Make a list of things that you would like to achieve with your child during the first year of homeschooling. Some of these aims might include:meeting or exceeding state requirements for grades
adapting to your child's learning style
getting closer as a family
keeping control of school days

, If your child suffers from health problems or has special needs, homeschooling may be an ideal option. Learning at home may provide a safe, peaceful, and healing environment for your child to thrive in. Additionally, there will be significantly less exposure to colds and viruses often spread between students in classrooms; this is important for sick children who are especially vulnerable, but worth considering for any child’s health., Taking on the responsibility of educating your child means assessing your own strengths and weaknesses and deciding what areas of study you might require help with teaching. Make a list of subjects that you don't have a strong background in, or that you struggled with as a student. Consider seeking help from your partner, family, friends, a homeschooling co-op, or tutors.Consider online classes, where you can access expert teaching in the subjects on your list to supplement your homeschooling curriculum.

