 This means taking proper care of your teeth, hair, and body. This also means eat fresh foods like fruits and vegetables, not a bag of potato chips, although, once in a while is fine.;
, So no smashing someone's window as a dare or pulling someone's pants down. Walk elegantly, with poise and charm. Straighten your back, hold your head up, speak about mature things, and have manners, don't goof off at inappropriate times, unless you want to be the class clown.


Don't talk about disgusting things, like bodily fluids, functions, or inappropriate things. Engage into a different discussion if this situation ever arises.
Play games such as truth or dare, spin the bottle, etc. But never go too far!

, Being nice to people means more friends, which is great.
 So don't tell everybody you're getting braces, or you need glasses.


If you do get braces, aim for more neutral colors like: white, pale pink. Just something not so noticeable like fluorescent orange. Clear braces are ideal.
If you get glasses, ask for contacts instead. If your parents are against it, ask them why. If it helps, promise not to wear colored contacts.
 Study, do homework, and take exams. Don't stress about tests, but if you're certain you'll fail, study!


Write hints, tips, and notes on index flash cards.
 This will make you feel better about yourself. High self-esteem means a happier you! Everyone likes to be around a cheery, happy person, and not a depressed sob.
 People like confident people and are drawn to them. Speak loudly enough and clearly to kids and adults. Smile when you walk down the hall, and start discussions with people.
 It makes you look prettier and more approachable. People are more likely to be open to an enthusiastic, smiling person, rather than a person sitting in a corner with their head down.
 Don't dye your hair all the time, or be caked with foundation. A streak of colorful hair dye or a bit of lip gloss is okay, but don't overdo it!

, If you gossip about other people, your friends may begin to wonder if you start gossip about them. It may also give you a bad or stuck up reputation which is the last thing you want when trying to seem perfect.

