 Resumes should be created to be easily and quickly read by the recruiter or hiring manager. These individuals may have a short amount of time to read multiple resumes and your resume must be written to keep their attention and easily highlight your key strengths. Therefore, writing concise sentences is extremely important for any resume, and even more so when you are trying to fit all your qualifications and strengths onto one page.


An example of how sentence a should be written vs. how it should not is:

“Developed a new email campaign and implemented that campaign which increased the company’s sales by 10% in just 1 month” VS:
“Developed and implemented an email campaign that increased sales by 10% in 1 month”.


As you can see, the second sentences can be read more quickly and easily when opposed to the first sentence.
 Although you shouldn't present your entire resume as a bulleted list, it is important to stay away from large paragraphs. Large paragraphs, in terms of a resume, are considered 5 lines long or longer. When you are trying to limit your resume to one page, it may be best to stick to the main ideas and not get too detailed.


Your reader will not have the time or attention span to read through a detailed story about your latest project and will probably not have the space for it either.
Therefore, it is important to briefly describe what you did and report the results while leaving out the fluff.
For example, “Contributed to a 10% sales growth” vs. “Hired to help increase sales and was able to do the job successfully to contribute to a 10% overall sales growth”.
 It is important to keep your resume relevant to each job you are applying to. This means that you most likely cannot use a general resume for all your applications.


In order to figure out which information will be most relevant, read each job description carefully and determine the qualifications desired by each employer. Then, add or keep these qualifications in your resume.
Delete all other information that the employer will not care about if you want to keep your resume to one page.
For example, you are a recent graduate who completed an internship as a financial analyst. Prior to your internship you were a parking attendant. When you apply for a full time financial analyst position it is important to keep the internship information in your resume and delete your experience as a parking attendant.

