 You should have your mole examined by a doctor or dermatologist before you get it removed. They will be able to tell you whether your mole is malignant. They will also discuss what mole removal method is best for you.


The vast majority of moles are benign. However, symptoms including itchiness, bleeding and changes in size or color may indicate that the mole is malignant. If a mole is malignant, it should be removed as soon as possible.
If your mole is not dangerous, it may not be necessary to have it removed. However, many people prefer to have their moles removed for aesthetic reasons.
 There are several methods of removing moles and you should carefully consider which method is best for you. You will need to think about:



Effectiveness. Consider how effective each treatment is supposed to be. Will your chosen procedure remove the mole completely? Is there a risk that it could grow back?

Cost. Different procedures will vary in terms of price, so think about what you can afford.

Risk. What are the risks associated with each procedure? Can the mole become infected? Is there a risk of scarring or nerve damage? Will you need to be put under anesthetic?

, This type of removal works best for surface level moles. The mole is either removed with a surgical scissors or shaved off with a scalpel.


First, the surgeon will cut the mole away, so it no longer forms a bump on the skin.
With this type of removal, stitches are unnecessary. The wound will be cauterized or covered in a cream or solution to stop the bleeding. Then a topical antibiotic will be applied.
The wound will be bandaged up and you'll be free to leave the office in a matter of minutes., This type of removal works best for moles that are darker in color or flat moles that penetrate deep within the skin.


First, the mole and surrounding skin will be sterilized and numbed.
Then, the surgeon uses a scalpel to cut out the mole. How deep of an incision needs to be made will depend on the size of the mole and whether or not it's malign. A wider area is usually cut away when the mole is malign, to ensure it is removed completely.
The wound is then stitched closed. Some types of stitches require a follow-up appointment to be removed, while others will dissolve on their own., This is an alternate mole removal method which uses liquid nitrogen to freeze and destroy the mole. It is only offered by certain clinics.


The liquid nitrogen can be applied to the mole directly using a cotton swab, or may be applied in the form of a spray.
The liquid nitrogen may need to be applied several times to completely get rid of the mole. It will cause a blister to form on the skin, but once this heals, the skin should return to normal., Electrocoagulation burns the mole by shocking it with an electric current. This destroys the mole's tissue after several sessions. There is no need for stitches with this method, as the heat from the electricity cauterizes the wound.


Two other specialized mole removal methods offered by some clinics are radiosurgery, which uses radio frequency waves rather than electricity, and laser treatments. Both of these work on the same idea of burning the mole tissue away. 