 Food can give you the energy to get through the day, but it also helps your body grow. Getting the vitamins and minerals your body needs by eating healthy, regular meals and snacks can help you grow taller faster.Have breakfast, lunch, dinner, and two healthy snacks every day. This makes sure that your body has enough energy to get you through your day and encourages it to grow.;
, You need different vitamins and minerals to grow. You can get what you need by eating a variety of foods from the five food groups every day. The five good groups are: fruits, vegetables, lean proteins, grains and dairy every day. Make sure to choose different food options at every meal so that you get enough nutrients to grow.Select fruits and vegetables such as strawberries, blueberries, apples, broccoli, spinach, and potatoes. Lean proteins like chicken, fish, and eggs are good options to help you grow. You can get grain by eating whole wheat breads and pasta or some cereals. Dairy is found in sources like milk, cheese, yogurt, and even ice cream.
Eat two healthy snacks in between meals. Some good snack choices are low-fat string cheese, yogurt, an orange or apple slices.Healthy snacks help keep you full in between meals as well as avoid junk food.
 Create a plan for your meals each day of the week. This can help you make sure you’re getting enough vitamins and minerals to grow. Talk to your parents about doing the plan together so that you can get healthy meals at home and when you’re at school.


Write a specific plan for each meal every day. For example, you could write, “Monday: whole wheat toast with peanut butter, a cup of strawberries in Greek yogurt, and a glass of orange juice for breakfast; apple slices for a mid-morning snack; turkey sandwich, cut veggies and dip, and glass of milk for lunch; string cheese and crackers for afternoon snack; chicken breast, steamed vegetables, and salad for dinner; cup of blueberries and raspberries for dessert.”
Pack your lunch on days that the food isn’t as healthy as you would like. For example, you might want to pack a salad or sandwich on wheat bread instead of having the pizza and fries your school offers. Remember that you can have one “cheat” day a week so that you don’t crave or overindulge in your favorite foods.
Get your parents involved in your meal plans. This might include writing the plan together, cooking with your mom and dad, or even helping them grocery shop.
 Just like food, getting enough to drink helps your body grow faster. Water is the best choice. But even milk, fruit juice, and sports drinks can help you grow taller.Drink the recommended amount every day. Boys between 9 and 13 should drink 10 cups every day and girls of the same age should drink 8 cups. Boys between 14 and 18 should drink 14 cups every day and girls between those ages should have 11 cups. If you are physically active or it is very hot outside, you may need to drink more.
Eating nutritious food like fruits and vegetables can add 2-3 cups of water towards your daily total.
 Nutrition is important to your growth. Because of this, you don’t want to eat too many unhealthy foods. Foods like sweets or French fries or drinks such as soda may keep you from getting what you need to grow.Choose healthy foods whenever you can. For example, a salad instead of fries will help you grow faster and grilled chicken is better than a cheeseburger. If you choose where to go out for dinner, choose a restaurant with healthy food options instead of a fast food restaurant.
 If you eat a lot of unhealthy foods and want to grow taller, try replacing them with more healthy options. You can do this gradually so that it isn’t a shock to your system. It will also help you figure out what you like and don’t like.


Change your food and drink choices simply and gradually. For example, you could have brown rice instead of white rice or cake with fruit instead of cake with frosting. To drink, you could have sparkling water with flavor instead of soda., Tell your parents that want to eat healthier to grow taller. Ask them to help you get the nutrition you need by helping you make healthy choices and cook food. Getting your whole family involved can make everyone a bit healthier and you taller.Ask your parents if you can shop with them. You can all make decision on food and meal planning together.Make sure to include foods from all five groups., If you are worried that you’re not getting enough vitamins, you could take children’s vitamins in addition to eating a healthy diet. Always talk to your parents and doctor before taking any vitamins or other medications.Get most of your vitamins and minerals from food and drinks. This is easy if you eat a variety of healthy foods every day and get enough to drink.
Stay away from megavitamins, supplements, hormones, or anything not safe for children. These may harm your health and prevent you from growing taller.
 Just like nutrition, exercise or even just moving are important to growing taller. Playing sports or even going for a walk help build your bones and muscles, which also help you grow taller. Try and to do some type of activity every day.Do at least an hour of moderate activity every day.You could do things like running, swimming, biking, or even walking. Activities such as playing hide-and-seek, jumping on a trampoline or with a rope are other ways to get your body moving.Join a sports team or intramural club at your school. For example, if you’re not into competitive sports, participate in a group that plays a sport like volleyball or dodge ball for fun.
 As you walk or sit during the day, the bones in your spine press together. This makes you a bit shorter at the end of the day.Doing some stretches in the morning, afternoon, and evening can grow taller throughout the day.


Stand against a wall with your back against it. Raise your hands in the air as far as you can. You can also sit with your back against a wall, raising your arms and bend forward to touch your toes. Hold each stretch for 5-10 seconds and repeat 10 times.Sit on the floor and spread your legs wide apart. Bend forward at your hips and stretch your arms out to touch each of your feet. Hold the stretch for 5-10 seconds and repeat 3-4 times.
Hang from a bar or a set of rings. Try to touch your legs to the ground to make yourself taller.
Recognize that your body will be its natural height after a good night’s rest., Doing some gentle yoga can stretch out your body. Even if you’ve never done yoga, just trying one or two poses can do a lot to stretch you out and make you taller. If you do an entire yoga session, this also counts towards your daily activity. Join a local yoga class or do a yoga DVD or podcast at home.


Do a gentle form of yoga like restorative or yin yoga for the best stretching.If you can’t do a full yoga session, do downward facing dog for 10 deeps breaths. Downward dog looks like a triangle: you put your hands and feet on the floor and raise your bum in the air.
 You might really enjoy playing video games or spending time on your tablet. These types of activities don’t help you move and grow. Make a schedule of when you have down time on your computer or devices. Ask your friends to do activities that move your whole body instead of sitting around the house.


Try video games such as karaoke or Wii that get you moving.
Remember that some down time or mindless play will help you rest, which is also an important part of growing.
 How you stand can affect not only on how tall you appear, but also how tall you grow. Standing up straight and sitting in a chair with a back can make sure you stand properly and help you grow taller. They’ll also help you look taller than if you were slouching.Avoid sitting with your shoulders hunched over or forward, which can cause your spine to grow crooked. Pull your shoulders back and pull in your belly for the best posture.
 Just as moving your body is important to growing, so is giving it enough rest. Sleep helps your body recover from the day and grow better. Remember that sleeping also gets your body back to its taller self, too.Sleep between 10 and 12 hours every night. Take a short nap of 30 minutes during the day if you’re tired. You can also do a relaxing activity that doesn’t require a lot of movement or using your brain.
 Like unhealthy food, unhealthy habits can also keep you from getting taller. Drinking alcohol, taking drugs, or smoking cigarettes can keep your bones and muscles from growing properly. These habits can cause your posture to be hunched or stooped with osteoporosis as you get older.Talk to your parents, a trusted adult, or medical professional if you drink, smoke, or take drugs. These people can help you find a way to stop any of these habits, which will help you grow taller in the long run.
 Genetics play a major role in determining how tall you are. For example, if both of your parents are not very tall, you may not end up very tall. However, you may also have tall relatives that you don’t know. You may end up taller than you expected- or even taller than the rest of your family!Ask your parents and grandparents if they know how tall your ancestors were. You can also ask your siblings and parents when they grew. This can give you an idea of when you might have a growth spurt.
Remember that you have other awesome things about you other than your height. Try and focus on things such as your great hair or something that you do really well.
 If you are worried about your height, make an appointment to see your doctor. A medical professional can not only make sure that you’re growing properly, but also diagnose potential issues hindering your growth. A doctor may also be able to give you tips to grow taller faster.


Be honest with your doctor about your concerns about getting taller. Make sure your doctor knows things like what you’re eating, what activities you’re getting, and if you have any bad habits such as alcohol.
Ask any questions you have about getting taller. Your doctor may be able to reassure you that just being patient is all you need to do. Puberty affects growth and can happen at different times for different people.
Your doctor can also show you what percentile you fall into compared to your peers of the same age for height. Together, you can then use this information to discuss potential issues.