 This means really listening, so that you learn about her deepest fears, convictions, desires, and hopes. Remember what she tells you, and occasionally do something that shows you've heard what her deepest wants are.


Always be prepared to listen to her viewpoint. Even if you don't agree, strive to understand what she's saying so that you can reach a compromise. Ask questions that provoke her to say more instead of just asking "yes" or "no" questions.
Listen without debating, fixing or responding. Avoid disagreeing when she finally trusts you enough to open up to you.
 Remember that non-sexual touch is very important for women and is something you can put into play every day you see one another.


Stroke, rub or simply touch her arms, hands and neck. A simple touch as you go to the bathroom and return again when at dinner together can do wonders.
Stroke her hair. If it's windy, brush the hair out of her eyes and off her face.
Stand behind her, wrap your arms around her and hug her. You can kiss her neck, whisper in her ear or nibble her ears as well. Hold her hips with your hands.
When she rolls over to go to sleep, kiss her in between her shoulder blades. It's an erogenous zone.
Squeeze her hand three times for "I - love - you."
Kiss her eyelids, or give butterfly kisses (using your eyelashes) on her cheeks.
When introducing her to your friends and family, put your arm around her. If you're talking to a female friend, pull your woman closer to you. Kiss her hand around your best buddies to show her she's worth it.

Hug her. Hugs are great for cheering her up, for saying hello and for reassuring her if she feels jealous.
Give her random kisses.
 A public show of your affection and love for her is a display of your pride in being with her.


If you spend time looking up generic pick-up lines, sift through them to discard the trite, the lame, the obvious, the inappropriate and the downright silly. You know your woman best – do her a favor by reflecting your love, not your cliches.
Keep flirting throughout the months and years that you stay together. Don't let the spice creep out of your relationship.
 When you ask for her help, you're showing that you trust her enough to let down your masculine guard and show some vulnerability. It's a heart-melting gesture.
 She'll appreciate that you're seeking solace in her love. Alternatively, if you call her on the phone and she's crying, go around and see her rather than trying to cheer her up on the phone alone.
 Humor easily melts a woman's heart because you're demonstrating to her that you can relax easily and see the funnier side of life. A sense of humor shows her that you don't take yourself too seriously and that you're ready for a humorous take on the most challenging issues the 2 of you might face together. Laugh a lot, and keep the warm smiles for her. Whenever she's feeling down, do your best to make her laugh.
 Sometimes it can be tempting to make a relationship too serious in its focus, or to try to be a serious couple in a way you think conforms to societal expectations, thereby deadening the spontaneity in your lives. Always take time to re-inject fun into your time together, no matter how long you've been a couple.


Do what she wants to do,. Spending time doing the things she finds fun is a ready-made way to make her melt. Put aside what you'd rather be doing and indulge her, even if it means seeing a chick flick once in a while.
Take her to your favorite sport. Spend more time talking to her (even it's to explain the sport) than watching the game.
Do crazy things together once in a while to shake things up. Unexpected surprises will thrill her heart!

, Respecting a woman's intelligence shows that you hold her in high personal regard. Put aside the corny pick-up lines, gender jokes or put-downs. Flirt with her intelligence as much as her beauty and sexiness and you'll make her melt.
 True friendship shows that you'll be by her side regardless of your status as partner or lover. Being a friend shows that you're willing to be there through thick and thin, that you're trustworthy and that you trust her with your deepest confidences. Women see friendship as being at the heart of any good relationship, and being her best friend will make her melt.

