 Your stomach is part of your upper digestive system and it helps to process the nutrients in the food that you eat. After leaving the stomach, food goes into your small intestine, and then into your large intestine.The main potential symptoms of stomach cancer can be divided into those which directly affect your abdomen, and those which are more general.The abdominal symptoms which typically present earliest include heartburn and indigestion. Heartburn (or dyspepsia), a burning sensation in the chest and upper abdomen, results from regurgitation of acid into the esophagus.
A tumor in the stomach will often lead to improper breakdown of food in the stomach, which, in turn, can lead to burping and other symptoms of indigestion.
Just because you experience these symptoms doesn’t mean you have cancer, but if you experience them frequently, speak to a doctor.;
, Stomach cancer can cause abdominal swelling, which can cause frequent bloating. You may feel bloated after eating, and might feel unusually full even after eating only a small amount of food. Feeling bloated can be one of the early symptoms of stomach cancer.

Stomach pain, and pain in your sternum (breast bone) can be associated with stomach causes.If you find yourself frequently feeling full and bloated, and are experiencing some of the other early symptoms, visit your doctor., If you are having difficulty swallowing, it is possible that this is being caused by a tumor at the junction of your esophagus and stomach.A tumor here can obstruct food, causing dysphagia (difficulty swallowing).
 In stomach cancer cases, obstructions may exist at the junction of the stomach and the intestine, blocking the passage of food. This could indicate a tumor at the junction of the stomach and intestine. The most obvious symptom that this is occurring will be chronic nausea and even vomiting.Vomit in rare cases may be in streaked with blood. If you are vomiting and you see blood, make an appointment to see a doctor immediately., You may experience more general symptoms that are not specifically related to your stomach, but can nevertheless indicate a problem and may suggest a more aggressive or progressive cancer growth. Be sure to check your lymph nodes. Enlarged lymph nodes are a symptom of a number of illnesses. In the case of (stomach) cancer, cancer cells will travel from the stomach (or wherever the tumor is located) through the lymph ducts, to the left axillary lymph nodes. This then causes swelling.

Look out for signs of cachexia (decrease in muscle mass). Cancer cells will increase your basal metabolic rate, which will then result in a wasting of muscle.
Loss of blood from the cancer can result in anemia, which may cause paleness and weakness.
People with cancer may have chronic fatigue, a feeling of lethargy, or trouble staying alert.