 Pull furniture away from the wall that you're going to tissue paper. Remove the furniture from the room temporarily, or push it to the other side of the room. Take down paintings, pictures, decorations, and light covers from the wall.


When you remove light and electrical covers from the wall, tape the screws to the back of the plate so you don’t lose them.;
, It’s a good idea to tape up any surfaces or items that are touching or near to the wall. This will protect adjacent surfaces from paint. Apply painter’s tape and press it down with your fingers to secure it in place. Items and surfaces to tape include:Adjacent walls
Ceilings and baseboards
Window and door casings
Switch plates

, Paint has a tendency to drip, so protect the floor below the wall you're painting with a large plastic or canvas drop cloth. Tape the edges of the drop cloth to the baseboards if you're worried about the sheet moving around.


If there's any large furniture near the wall that you weren't able to move, cover it with the drop cloth to protect it., Tissue papering a wall with gouges or nail holes will result in a messy look. Inspect the wall for holes, and mark holes you need to fix with a pencil. You'll need a putty knife and drywall compound or spackling to fill holes:Scoop some drywall compound onto the putty knife
Apply the compound to the wall, pushing it into the hole with the putty knife
Hold the blade edge of the putty knife flat against the wall and scrape off excess compound
Allow the compound to dry for 24 hours

, When the drywall compound is dry, go over the entire wall with 120-grit sandpaper using an orbital sander. This will smooth out the compound, remove excess dirt and grime, and give the primer an even and slightly rough surface to stick to.For small areas and tough to reach corners, use a sanding stone to sand the wall.
 Washing after sanding is important because it will remove dust and leftover dirt from the wall. Fill a bucket with warm water and add a tablespoon (15 ml) of liquid dishwashing soap or all-purpose cleaner. Dip a sponge into the water, wring out the excess, and wipe down the wall.When the wall has been wiped, empty and rinse the bucket and refill it with clean water. Use a clean sponge to wipe down the wall with plain water to remove soap residue.
Once the wall has been rinsed, allow it to dry for another 24 hours.
 A base coat, such as primer or a neutral paint, will even out the surface color of the wall you're tissue papering. Fill a paint tray with a latex primer or paint. Use a roller to apply a thin coat to the wall. Use a brush to get paint into corners and where the wall meets the ceiling.After applying the base coat, allow the wall to dry for about four hours.
 Tissue paper is thin and wrinkles easily, which is why it’s so great for adding texture to a wall. Take a piece of tissue paper, crumple it up gently into a ball in your hands, and then delicately unfold it again. The wrinkles will stay in the paper and will show up on the wall when you apply the paper.Repeat this process with several pieces of tissue paper and set them aside. How many pieces you'll need for your wall depend on the surface area of the wall.
 Use the same paint that you used for the base coat. It will act like glue and hold the tissue paper to the wall. Wet a roller with the base coat paint. Starting at the top left corner of the wall, roll a thin layer of paint onto a section of wall that’s about 4 feet by 4 feet (1.2 m).It’s important to work in small sections so the paint is still wet when you apply the tissue paper.
 Spread open a piece of crinkled tissue paper. Line up the side of the tissue paper with the corner where the two walls meet. Line up the top of the tissue paper with the corner where the wall and ceiling meet. Press the tissue paper flat against the wall.


Use your hands to flatten out the tissue paper. Don’t worry if there are some small wrinkles and creases., Take a dry paint brush and brush the tissue paper gently to secure it in place against the paint on the wall. Then, gently go over the paper with a clean roller to smooth it out and flatten down the wrinkles.


When you're brushing and rolling the tissue paper, be particularly careful at the edges, because you don’t want to scrape or tear the paper., Once the tissue paper has been rolled flat and into place, grab the roller that you used for the base coat again and apply a thin layer of paint over the tissue paper. Press gently to avoid moving or tearing the paper, and be careful around the edges.A layer of paint on top of the tissue paper will help secure it in place and protect it from damage.
 Move over one section to the right from the original tissue paper. Apply a thin layer of base coat to the next 4-foot by 4-foot (1.2-m) section of wall. Overlap the paint on the right side of the original piece of tissue paper by an inch or two (2.5 or 5 cm).Be very careful when applying paint to the tissue paper, as the edges can rip easily.
 Open a fresh piece of crinkled tissue paper. Line up the top of the paper with the ceiling and the left edge of the paper with the original piece of tissue. Overlap the tissue paper pieces by an inch or two (2.5 to 5 cm), and press the paper flat onto the wall.


Use a dry brush to secure the paper in place. Go over the paper with a dry roller to smooth the paper and flatten wrinkles.
Paint over the tissue paper with a thin layer of base coat to protect and encase it.
 Continue working across the wall horizontally, painting small sections and applying overlapping pieces of crinkled tissue paper. When you get near the end of the wall, measure the final section of wall and cut a piece of tissue paper to size so it will fit.When you’ve applied the final piece of tissue paper to the top section of wall, go back to the left-hand corner of the wall and start again one row down.
Once you’ve painted the final piece of tissue paper, allow the wall to dry overnight.
 Fill a paint tray with a latex paint in a color of your choice to match the rest of the walls or the décor of the room. Saturate a clean roller with the new paint. Working in small sections, apply a thin layer of paint over top of the tissue papered wall. Use a brush to paint in the corners.


To achieve a more interesting effect with the paint, apply the top coat in a random pattern, overlapping the strokes until the entire wall is covered.Some of the most popular top coat techniques for tissue papered walls include using metallic paints and glazes to achieve a gilded look, or highlighting the raised wrinkles with a darker or lighter paint color than the rest of the wall to create more depth.
 As soon as your final coat of paint has been applied to the wall, remove the tape by pulling it toward yourself at a 45-degree angle. If you leave the tape too long, the paint may dry to it, and you'll rip paint off with the tape.


Once the tape is gone, you can remove the drop sheet that was covering the floor.
 Give the final coat of paint at least four hours to dry. When that time is up, you can return furniture to the room and rehang pictures, paintings, and switch plates.


Latex paint needs about 30 days to cure, or harden fully. You can rehang pictures as soon as the paint is dry, but there may be some stickiness. To avoid this, wait 30 days before rehanging pictures and decorations.

