 Before you even start teaching someone the game, you must make sure that the decks you use are up to the task. The win conditions of both decks absolutely must be reducing the opponent's life total with creatures as that is the core of the game and any deviation from that will mean that  the opponent is confused. The decks must also have a large amount of "Vanilla" creatures: creatures with no abilities, so that your pupil understands simple combat. However, the deck must also have resonant cards with cool art, so that they will be interested in the first place.;
, Don't go into detail, but say that you use  mana to summon creatures and spells, and  that the aim is to reduce life totals  from 20 to 0.
 Have them shuffle their deck and draw seven cards and do the same. It might be tempting to teach them all about the game before they play it, but you want them to get playing as soon as possible. This is so they can interpret the information you tell them in context. Also, playing a game is  far more fun than just sitting down and listening.
 It is hard to teach what can and can't be played without knowing what is in your opponent's hand, so this makes it far easier.
 Playing a land is (almost always) the first game action you do in MTG, so tell them how to play their lands and get them to play one. They'll probably be interested in casting their other spells, so teach them about that too (and help them while applicable).
 You don't need to tell them all the phases and steps (Such as the end of combat phase or upkeep) but do tell them about the key ones; untap, draw, first main, combat and second main.
 When the players have creatures on board, you need to explain how they attack and block. Many new players seem to think that you can directly attack creatures, so emphasize that you cannot. Try to explain this well, as this part of the game is (obviously) key. This is where having mostly vanillas in your deck is important, as you don't want mechanics like deathtouch stuffing up their conception of combat and making it harder to explain.
 While doing this, be patient. It may seem odd to you that they need combat explained every turn, but Magic is really hard and you were new once as well. Also don't tell them what to do all the time. You know the correct play, but they need to feel like they are playing against you, not sitting back while you play against yourself. Even if their play is frustratingly bad, let it slide unless it violates rules. Give them general tips, sure, but don't direct their every move.

