 You can choose any loose-leaf tea with large enough leaves that it won’t sneak through the filter. Another option is to cut open a bag of your favorite pre-bagged tea and pour it directly into your French press. For every one cup of tea, add one tablespoon of tea leaves.









Green teas are full of antioxidants and health benefits. For an energy producing cup of tea, choose a green tea or mix that includes green tea.
For a simple, pure cup of tea, try a white tea. These are the least processed of all the tea varieties and offer a light, sweet taste. White teas also have ties to improved complexion and skin health.
Black tea is a dark, rich tea with a full flavor. Traditional black teas include earl gray and English breakfast tea, but there are many other varieties available.
If you want a flower based tea, try an herbal tea. These are often caffeine free and aid in digestion. Popular herbal teas include chamomile and peppermint.
For an energy boost similar to coffee, try a mate tea. These give a cup full of good-for-you vitamins in addition to a great taste and bit of caffeine.
Oolong teas are a strong tea popular in China. These are often likened to black teas, and can be found in a variety of flavors., On a stove or with an electric teakettle, boil one cup of water per one cup of desired tea. Make sure that your French press is warm to the touch before adding the boiling water, to prevent it from cracking with temperature shock.









The temperature of your water will change depending on the type of tea you are brewing. In general, 200 °F (93 °C) is considered a safe temperature for your water to be brought to.
 Place your loose leaf tea in the bottom of the press, and add as much water as you need for your cups of tea. Stir it around a bit to give the tea a better chance to steep.
 Leave the plunger up on the press, and wait about three minutes for the tea to brew. Waiting too long for it to brew will cause the tea to go bitter, ruining the taste.
 Once it has brewed enough time, pour your tea into a classy china teacup or your favorite cozy mug and enjoy! Add lemon, sugar, honey, or cream to customize the flavor of your tea.








