 If you want a “private account,” it’s going to be a lot harder to drive up followers because random people won’t be able to see it.


Take your account off private in the Instagram account settings in order to drive up your followers fast.
If you need a private account for some reason, you will have to use your contact lists from other social media and email in order to alert people that you have an Instagram and allow them access.;
, A lot of people are drawn to themed Instagram sites, which are basically Instagram sites that post mainly one type of photo.


Different themes include things like food, lifestyle, fashion, fitness, scenery, and architecture. Think about something everybody wants to know about or something that is irritating everyone or something that everybody wants to experience.
To find a theme that will drive up your popularity, you want to choose something that people relate to. Topics like losing weight, overcoming anxiety, being attractive, having nice skin, sports, playing guitar, and so on, can earn you a following.
Unless you’re a celebrity, people probably aren’t going to be very interested in a picture of your feet at the beach or pictures of the sky. Finding a theme that you have passion over and some expertise in, is a better approach. Make sure it's natural to you. People can tell when people fake an interest just because it's "in." Do what you love.
 First of all, your account has to be attractive for a certain audience. Spend some time defining that target audience in your own mind.


For example, a lot of soccer or sports accounts that follow and upload the latest news are followed by thousands or even millions of people because people want to know what is going on with their favorite team or sport while skipping through their everyday Instagram timeline.
If you determine your audience, you can consider the audience's interest when creating great content., Naming your page is quite easy, but you need to do it correctly. It’s a good idea if your name is reflective of your theme (or yourself if you are a personality).


Don't make the name difficult like a series of numbers or people will be less likely to type it or remember it. Have a short, simple, yet catchy username. People will find it easier to search you, and they will remember it.
Piggy backing on trends and choosing a name that people are already interested in can help drive up followers. However, never pretend to be someone you are not.
 The bio needs to be neat, catchy and short. Try to capture your theme in a way that will interest followers by making it clear exactly what they will get if they follow your page.


Put in a quote that is inspirational or just describe your account. The profile picture should be eye-catching and/or simple. To add a bio on your profile page, click "edit your profile."
Make sure the content relates to your account, as you do not want something that is totally irrelevant. Remember that language style on social media is a lot more conversational than you’d find in, say, the newspapers.
Include a call to action in your bio if you are a company or selling something. This is a sentence in which you urge the follower to actually do something (check something out, buy a product)., Editing your pictures is very important because you are trying to make them look the best that they can be. This can mean you shouldn’t over edit them, though. But do enhance them subtly. This will help draw followers.


You can use different photo-editing apps that are widely available for free online. Some things you could do to make your photos look better is to boost the brightness, use filters, and crop them.
Don't edit photos so much that they look doctored or obviously phony. Enhance what's already there very subtly. Be aware that some research has found that doctored photos don't do as well. So make any changes so subtly it's hard to tell they are there.
 Inactivity can make you lose followers. However, posting constantly every day can bore people too. So find the right balance.


Once a day is recommended by some people. Others post several times a week. You don't want to fill your site with new content on a daily basis.
Strive for thematic impact versus endless posts. Focus on content versus sheer quantity, but don't let your site go dormant for long periods of time (say over a week).
 Captions with your photos help explain them and showcase your personality. They’re really important, so work on keeping a consistent voice.


Put some hashtags relating to your picture in your captions. Hashtags are extremely important on Instagram. Hashtags are the way many people interested in similar topics will find your page.
For example, if you've posted a picture of a cat, you could use hashtags like #KittyCat #Paws #Cat. If somebody searches for that hashtag, finds your picture and likes it, they could become interested in your account and follow you.
You want to use hashtags that relate to the content you’re posting. To create a hashtag, use the "#" sign and then the word after it that relates to your photo. If you're a public user, look for popular hashtags such as the ones listed under the Trending Topics bar. Instagram allows as many as 30 hashtags per photo.
However, your hashtags need to be genuinely related to the post otherwise they falsely promote your page and clutters a user's search with irrelevant posts.
 Have unique pictures. Instagram is usually about pictures. The more unique your pictures are, the more people will like your account. Take them yourself. Start by building a portfolio that contains about 20 pictures that match your theme and are very high-quality.Good photos only have a person in one-third of them. In photography, this is called the rule of thirds. Position the person on one of the lines of thirds, as if you had divided the photo into equal thirds. The best filter for Instagram photos is Mayfair.Post your passion. Keep your Instagram account consistent by posting images of a similar nature. This way, you can target a specific audience who are more likely to follow you because their niche interest is met and know what to expect from your blog.
Users are also more likely to follow accounts that use high-quality images. So get a decent camera.
Delete photos that are inappropriate, or seem bad quality. If you're taking bad quality photos, no one will follow you. Set up some good lighting, preferably natural, and snap away until you find the perfect photo!, Although some filters and subtle enhancement can be effective at times (you don't want poor quality photos on Instagram), research has shown that non-manipulated photos sometimes get the most attention on Instagram.


Furthermore, the same study found that photos with lower levels of color saturation were also more popular.Gray, blue, and green photos were the most attention-getting on Instagram. Photos with faces in them received more likes.
 You can get shout outs from people by asking them for one. Don't hesitate to do this. It's a common practice on Instagram.


By giving people shout outs, and having people give you shout outs, you are both helping each other by notifying your current followers about their Instagram and vice versa.
A shout out just means you alert your followers to the fact they should check out the other person's site. It’s a basic rule of social media. If you give people attention, they are likely to return the favor.
 A smart social networking plan involves integrating all aspects of your “Internet footprint.”


You can link your Instagram account to your Facebook and other social networking platforms, which can then notify your friends/followers that you have an Instagram.
You could also just put a status or Tweets on your other social media platforms asking your followers to check out your Instagram page and follow you. Try to share your picture in every social media site you are on, such as Facebook, Twitter, Email, Tumblr, Flickr, Four Square.
 There are even hashtags that mean you will follow someone if they follow you back. For this purpose, use hashtags like #F4F, #TBT and #FBF to seek follows from strangers.


Go to "search" and then "tags" and type in "likeforfollow" or "followforfollow" and then like or follow the person that tagged that on their photo.
People you follow are likely to return the favor. Don't forget that most people on Instagram are trying to boost their audience, too. Some others include #FF (Follow Friday), #instafollow, #l4l (Like for like), #tagforlikes and #followback., There are various apps that you can link to your Instagram in which you can gain followers in exchange for liking or following other users.


Just search in your app store under “Instagram followers” to find examples of these.
This is a quick and easy way to help get your Instagram noticed. Most of the apps work in this way: You follow a user or like a photo and earn coins or tokens for liking or following a user. Then, you use those coins to submit your account/photo for a set amount of likes/followers from other people.
There is usually an option in these apps to buy coins or tokens instead. The downside is you will be gaining followers who drive up your raw numbers but aren’t invested in your content. So driving up followers with great content is a better approach to increase engagement and loyalty.
 There’s a good reason it’s called social “networking.” Social media, including Instagram, is not about just passively sticking things online and waiting for people to find them.


It’s about having conversations with other users. So go on their page. Comment on their photos. Follow people in order to get them to follow you back. Many people will return the favor. Strike up conversations.
Respond back if someone asks you a question or compliments you on your own page. If you are perceived as rude, people might unfollow you.
Follow and interact with people who are more popular on Instagram than you are. If they take notice of you, they can drive a lot of their traffic your way. Go to the list of followers on a site you like, and click/ tap on the box that says "followers" above the "following" bar. Once you get the list of all of that account's followers, you can click the blue "follow" button on a bunch of the account’s followers and have them follow you back.
 Official accounts are the accounts of celebrities and famous people or organizations.


When you follow official accounts, many times the fans of that particular account follow you.

Try creating an open fan page. This is a great way to gain followers. You could have a fan page following a specific celebrity or you could follow a type of person, such as rappers.


Follow your friends. When you follow your friends, they get the notification. If your friends are nice enough, they'll follow you back.

