 Start by using a sharp kitchen knife to remove both ends of each onion. Aim for the fibrous white or brown eye on either side, and try to minimize the amount of vegetable you take off with it.Make sure you’re using a solid cutting board, as you may need to apply quite a bit of force to get through larger, tougher onions.
For a more efficient cut, slice the onions with a smooth lever action rather than a crude sawing motion.;
, Pull off larger sections of the flaky husk by hand to expose the rubbery skin underneath. The simplest way to remove this skin is to cut the onion in half down the center (widthwise—the way you’ll be slicing the rings), then peel away the entire skin in one motion.Be careful not to cut the onion the wrong way (lengthwise), as this will ruin the rings.
If the skin is being especially stubborn, heat the onion momentarily in a warm pan to loosen it up.
 Make each cut as consistent as possible so your onion rings will all come out roughly the same width. Once you’ve sliced the onions, separate each individual ring by hand. Your onion rings will vary in size due to the layering of the rings, giving them some added visual appeal and diversity.Keep in mind that that each slice will produce four to five onion rings. Depending on how big a batch of onion rings you want to make, you may only need to use a single large onion.
You can make the onion rings as thick or thin as you desire, though thicker onion rings may take longer to cook all the way through, and may have more of a raw crunch as a result.
 Use about two cups of flour, along with four teaspoons kosher salt, two teaspoons ground black pepper and a generous pinch of paprika, cayenne pepper, garlic powder or any other spices of choice. Sift the flour and seasonings together to make sure they’re evenly distributed.Stir the flour and seasonings with a whisk or fork to break up lumps.
Some other spices you can use to enhance the flavor of your onion rings and add your own unique touch include seasoned salt, lemon pepper, chili powder or Cajun seasoning., Crack four whole eggs into the bottom of a separate bowl. Pour in two cups of whole fat milk or buttermilk and use a whisk to beat the ingredients together until they’re fully incorporated. This milk and egg wash will serve as your binding agent for getting the dry breading to stick to the onion slices.For more tender onion rings, soak the onion slices in buttermilk for two to five hours before breading.The higher the fat content of the milk, the heartier and more flavorful the breading will be.
 Drop the onion slices into the flour and seasonings and mix them around until they’re lightly covered. Alternatively, you can place the onion slices in a gallon freezer bag with the flour and shake them together for better coverage. You may have to do this in batches until all of the onion slices have been coated.Coating the slices in flour before you dip them in the wash will ensure that the natural moisture of the onion doesn’t cause the breading to slough off.
 Briefly submerge the slices so that the dairy mixture clings to the outside of the flour layer. Let the excess liquid drain off.If the wash isn’t clinging well enough, whisk in a small amount of flour to thicken it up.
In addition to holding the breading together, the egg in the wash will protect the onion from the heat of the oven as it cooks to prevent it from drying out or getting too done.
 Transfer the wet onion slices to a final bowl containing the panko crumbs. Run the slices through the breadcrumbs on each side, shaking the bowl to help them to coat more evenly. The onion rings will now have an extra thick layer of crispy breading and are ready to go in the oven!Panko crumbs are made from light, airy flakes of bread that don’t absorb fats as easily, meaning they’ll retain their crunchiness better than regular breadcrumbs.Some varieties of panko crumbs come pre-seasoned. If you’re using seasoned panko crumbs, be sure to account for this by adjusting the amount of other seasonings you use in your recipe.
, Grease the sheet liberally with cooking spray, or line it with a few sheets of parchment paper for ease of cleanup later on. Make sure you leave a little space between each onion ring. This will allow them to cook more evenly and prevent them from sticking together.The type of oil you use to grease the baking sheet is up to you. Olive, canola or sunflower oil will make for a lower calorie indulgence. For richer tasting onion rings, go with vegetable, peanut, or coconut oil.
If you’re running out of space, place the smaller rings inside the bigger ones. Just make sure there’s still some room remaining between the rings., Slide the baking sheet onto the center rack and keep an eye on the onion rings as they bake. At the halfway point, flip the onion rings over and allow them to finish cooking on the opposite side. This will ensure that they come out with just the right golden-brown finish.Baking cuts down significantly on the amount of oil you use, making oven-fried onion rings a healthier but no less delicious alternative to the traditional fried variety.
Use a fork or pair of tongs to flip the onion rings over so that you don’t risk burning yourself.
 Let the onion rings cool for a few minutes after you take them out of the oven. Finish with an extra sprinkle of salt, a pinch of shaved Pecorino cheese or a dash of truffle oil. Place the onion rings on a separate plate or serving dish, set out a few cups of ketchup, ranch, honey mustard or red pepper aioli (if you want to get fancy) and dig in!These onion rings make a great companion for a juicy burger fresh from the grill, or are good enough to enjoy on their own.
Put uneaten onion rings in an airtight container and store them in the refrigerator. Leftovers should stay good for four to five days. Reheat in the oven to preserve the flavor and crunch.

