 You can purchase your Xbox anywhere. You can also purchase your Call of Duty game there. It is an ideal place to go because you can get insurance just in case.;
, Now you are ready to set up your Xbox. In the box you will find two cords. One is a power cord, and the other is a video cord with three prongs. Once you have all the items laid out you can continue to step 3.
 Red to red, white to white and then yellow to yellow. If you do not have the right corresponding colors then you will just have a blue screen. Then you put the other end of the cord into the slot in the back of the Xbox. If you can still not get the colors matched up you can call Xbox customer service.
 Then you want to put your Xbox by a power source. And then you want to plug one end into the power source, and then you need to plug the other end into the back of the Xbox where there is a slot for it. Make sure you are close enough to a power source, and not too far from the television, so both cords will reach the Xbox.
 To accomplish the goal to play team death match on Stadium you need to buy the maps. You can go to Game stop and buy a 1600 Microsoft card. It will cost about 20 dollars. Then you will go home and prepare to play.
 The game screen will soon appear. You will then take your controller that came in the box, and then click with the green A button on the downloadable content option. Then, you will type in the code from the back of the Microsoft card into the spot on the screen. If you typed it in correctly you will now have the new map pack.
 Next, you will click on the Xbox live option. Then, you will be able to customize a class to play with. You can pick any gun you want. Also, you can pick a secondary weapon, and then any attachments you wish.
 Then you go to TEAM DEATH MATCH it will take a while to find a game to play in. You have a one out of four chance of getting STADIUM the best map.
 Some people like to camp in the same spot the entire game. Also, some people like to run around, and that may work for you. It's your game now, so do whatever you want and don't forget have fun with it. If you don't have fun you aren't going to want to play it anymore.

