 As soon as you know that you need to cancel the shower, start planning how best to inform everyone. The sooner you let them know, the less disturbance it will cause for them and their schedule. Of course, if something unexpected occurs and you have to cancel at the last minute, your friends and family should understand., If the reason is painful, you may not want to share details with everyone who was invited to your baby shower. Plan the reason that you will give for why you are canceling.


For those you are less close to, you can write a card or email saying something like “Dear Cynthia, I’m writing to let you know that my baby shower on August 19th has been canceled. I’m sorry for any inconvenience that this causes, and I hope to see you soon! All the best, Lisa.”, If you feel comfortable sharing the details of your situation, consider letting your guests know why you're canceling. Your guests should understand and be empathetic. This may bring you all closer, and can help you feel supported in whatever you’re going through.
 If you are canceling the shower several weeks in advance, send cards out to your guests by regular mail. You can create a notice using a computer program such as Microsoft Word or Adobe InDesign, or you can write the cards out individually if you have the time. Consider using cardstock to print or write the cards.
 If you have to cancel only a week or two before the shower, it may be too late to send cards by mail. Instead, send an email to all of the guests letting them know that the shower has been canceled. Emailing the guests is also a great option if you are trying to save money, since you won’t have to pay for cardstock and postage.
 If you need to cancel the shower at the last minute, calling will be the fastest way to ensure that all of your guests know that there won’t be a shower. It will be more difficult to give no reason for the cancellation over the phone, so prepare what you would like to say in advance. You can leave a voicemail telling the person the news if they don’t answer.Regardless of how far in advance you are canceling, consider calling your close friends to let them know, rather than sending a card or email.
On the phone, you could say something like, “Hi Cynthia! It’s Lisa. I’m sorry for the short notice, but we’ve actually decided to cancel my baby shower. There is just so much going on with preparing for the baby’s arrival that we’ve decided to wait. I will keep you updated if we reschedule!”
If you choose not to share a reason, you could say, “Hi Cynthia! It’s Lisa. I’m sorry for the short notice, but due to unforeseen circumstances, we’ve decided to cancel my baby shower."

, If it is too distressing or overwhelming for you to inform all of the guests, ask a close friend or your partner to help you make phone calls, send cards, or send emails.
 Depending on when you cancel, your guests may have already purchased gifts for you. In your cancellation card, email, or phone call, you may want to give them ideas of what to do with those gifts. Tell them to either return them, or donate them to a charity that accepts baby supplies.