 Many women feel bloated and uncomfortable during their period. You can help offset bloating by drinking lots of fluids. Try to limit the amount of caffeine, alcohol, and sugary drinks that you consume.Drinking plenty of fluids, especially water, is a good way to help alleviate bloat.
 Many women experience some level of pain during their periods. Usually, this pain is related to cramping as the uterine wall contracts. You can take over the counter pain medications, like ibuprofen, acetaminophen, and aspirin to help manage your pain. These medications can be found at any drug store, and you should follow the manufacturer’s recommendation for dosages.Talk to your physician if over the counter painkillers do not work and you continue to have severe pain during cramps.
 Heat helps to relax the muscles in your abdomen when you have cramps. You can take a heating pad or a hot water bottle and place it over your stomach where the pain is, or take a warm bubble bath or shower.


Massaging your lower abdomen in light, circular motions may also help to soothe pain., During your period, you may find that you are craving different foods. Unfortunately, salty, sugary, and processed foods can make cramping more painful. The foods you eat should be nutritious and give you energy throughout the day. You may be craving a certain treat, like chocolate or ice cream, and it’s okay to give into that craving and have some, as long as it is in moderation.Foods high in potassium, like bananas and leafy greens, can help alleviate bloating naturally.
Eat plenty of foods that are rich in calcium, like beans, almonds, and dairy.
 Many women feel nauseous during their periods, which can be very uncomfortable. Changes in your hormone levels can lead to gastrointestinal distress, or you may feel nauseous as a result of pain from cramps or headaches.While you may have lost your appetite, try to eat bland foods like white rice, apples, and toast, that will settle your stomach. Ginger, either in teas, supplements, or in its root form, is a natural way to relieve nausea as well.


Treat your nausea with over the counter medications, especially nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), such as naproxen or ibuprofen. These can help period-related nausea by preventing the production of a hormone called prostaglandins, which may be the cause of your nausea., Exercise is a great way to naturally manage your pain. When you exercise your body releases mood-boosting endorphins, which can alleviate pain and keep your mind off your period-related discomfort.You may want to do a less strenuous workout than your normal routine if you have pain.


Light exercise that warms up your core, like yoga, can also help to minimize bloating.Feel free to skip the gym if you really aren’t feeling up for it. While exercising can help you manage your symptoms, you don’t need to force yourself to exercise.
 While some pain and discomfort are normal during your period, you may need to consult your doctor if your symptoms are unmanageable. You can talk to your primary care physician or your gynecologist about these issues, and they may recommend that you see a specialist. They might be able to prescribe pain medication, make recommendations to change your lifestyle, or suggest you take oral contraceptives.You should see your doctor you are spotting in between periods, you have a very heavy flow, very painful cramps or if your flow lasts more than 10 days.