 Although you may not like to see what you've done wrong, knowing what has offended the vice principal will help you be able to write out the apology better.
 Make sure you have inserted the apology somewhere in the letter in an obvious area where the vice principal will notice it. Also, explain that you understand what you've done is wrong. Have a respectful and apologetic tone throughout the letter, and keep a bad attitude away from your words.


Avoid writing too many kind compliments. This will raise suspicion within the vice principal, and you don't want him/her to think you're only trying to get away with your inappropriate behavior.
 This includes grammar mistakes, punctuation, etc. If you think several of your sentences have a bad structure, try switching the words around. You could also change the order of the sentences, rather than completely rewrite them.


If you find yourself uncertain of how well-written the letter is, have your parents or a trusted adult read it. They might give you helpful suggestions.
 Avoid using the stationery just yet. The revised copy should be free of cross-outs and grammar issues. This way, when you're writing the final copy onto the stationery, you won't be confused by all the scribbles, and you'll be less likely to mess up.
 If you don't have good handwriting, you could ask someone to write it for you. Another option is to use a computer, and type out the letter instead. That way, you'll be sure that the vice principal knows exactly what you're saying. Don't forget to sign the letter as well so that the vice principal knows it is you!


Although you may be too embarrassed or tempted to not sign the letter, it's best that the vice principal knows it's you that is apologizing. That way, no mistakes will be made, and you'll be certain that another student won't claim the letter as his/her own.






Signing the letter shows that you accept your mistakes as your own responsibility, and you are willing to be honest about them. This is a mature and wise move to make.
 Although it is not recommended you draw directly onto the letter, you could do that if you want to. Avoid including inappropriate drawings that might offend the vice principal. It also isn't recommended that you draw a cartoon character that the vice principal may not be familiar with. Instead, draw something innocent that speaks of how apologetic you are (ex: a cute puppy).

