 Figuring out your WPM while speaking is a little more difficult than the two methods above. Most noticeably, there aren't any good online programs that can make the calculations for you. However, with a little effort, you can still find your speaking WPM manually. Start by copying a speech (preferably a reasonably short one that you haven't read before) into your word processor, then finding the number of words in it with the processor's "word count" feature. You'll also need a stopwatch for this test.


A list of major historical speeches is available at historyplace.com.Many of these speeches (like, for instance, George Graham Vest's "Tribute to the Dog") aren't well-known by the general public, making them great for this test.
 Start the stopwatch and begin reading the text out loud. Talk at your normal speaking rate — again, unless you're trying to figure out your maximum speaking rate, going quickly has no purpose. Speak with a moderate, conversational pace, pausing whenever feels natural.
 When you finish the speech, stop the stopwatch. Once again, your WPM is given by dividing the number of words in the speech by the number of minutes it took for you to speak it.


For example, if it took us five minutes to deliver a 1,000-word speech, we would find our WPM by dividing 1,000/5 = 200 WPM.
 The test above is alright for determining your WPM, but it's not perfectly accurate. The way we speak when delivering a speech is a little different than the way we speak when we're actually talking in our day-to-day life — many people, for instance, deliberately talk more slowly and clearly when reading aloud. In addition, since you're reading from a written text, the test is also partly a test of your reading speed and not your natural speaking speed.


To get the most accurate results, you'll want to record yourself speaking to someone else in a semi-casual setting for a long, uninterrupted stretch of time, count the words manually, and divide by the number of words by the number of minutes. This is fairly painstaking, but it's the most accurate measure of your actual speaking speed.
One good way to get yourself talking for a long stretch of time is to gather a group of friends and tell them a long, detailed story that you know well and have told before. This way, you won't need to pause to remember how the story goes — you'll only be limited by your natural speaking speed.

