 Worm composting (also known as vermicomposting) is a bit more complicated than the standard method, so you’ll need a few more things.A plastic bin with a lid and a minimum volume of about 18 gallons (68 liters).
A second plastic bin, shorter and wider than the first bin.
A drill.
Screen material. Don't use metal screens--they'll rust!
Waterproof glue.
Shredded newspaper, enough to make a three-inch (10 cm) layer in your bin.
One pound (1/2 kilogram) of dirt.
A spray bottle full of water.
A trowel or scoop.
A small container with a lid.
One pound of worms,either red wrigglers or earthworms. Buy them online, at a bait shop, or get them from a local composting group., You’ll need two one-inch (3 cm) holes about two inches (6 cm) from the top of the bin--one on one side, and one on the opposite side. Then, drill a 1/8-inch (3 mm) hole on the bottom corner of each side. This lets extra liquid drain out so your worms can thrive., You don’t want your worms to escape into your house! Cover each hole with the screen material, and secure it with waterproof glue. Make sure the glue is completely dry before continuing with your composter., The short bin will collect the drained liquid and any runaway worms., Combine the soil with your shredded newspaper, and spray it with water until the entire mixture is damp., Spread it over the bottom of the bin until it’s completely covered. Make sure it’s very damp, but not wet enough to form puddles., You can just put all of your worms on the top of the mixture--they’ll burrow their own way down. Leave them alone for about a week to allow them to get used to their new home. You don’t need to feed them during this week--they’ll gather nutrients from the soil., Save your food scraps in a sealable container and add them to the composter once a week. Don’t add more often than this--your worms need time to break down the scraps.Don’t use animal products! Worms won’t be able to break them down before they rot.
Cut up your scraps as small as you can. This makes it easier for the worms to eat.
If your worms aren’t eating a specific item, take it out of the composter.
 It doesn’t need to be completely dried out. Just scoop or siphon out any excess liquid to make sure it doesn’t soak back into the composter., When your bin is almost full, start adding your food scraps on one side of the composter only. This will “train” your worms to stay on that side so you can remove the compost on the other side. Do this for about two weeks, until most or all of your worms are on the same side of the container., Take the compost from the opposite side of the section your worms are gathered in. It’s okay if a couple of worms are removed--you can pick them out and put them back in the container, or simply bring them along, especially if you plan to use the compost outdoors., You can spread this compost directly on your soil. If you want to plant new seeds, make sure they’re in the soil and not the compost.