 To make a layered hair bow, you will need three lengths of ribbon in complimentary colors or patterns - one piece of ribbon will be used to form your "main bow" so it should be wider than the other two. You will also need a glue gun, a threaded needle with a knot tied at the end, some scissors, a bottle of fray check and a barrette.
 Take your widest piece of ribbon and make a loop in the center, similar to the loop you make when you're tying a shoelace.


This first loop will determine the size of the finished bow, so readjust it until you find a size you like. If you're using patterned ribbon, make sure the patterned side is facing out.
Holding the first loop securely with your thumb and forefinger, make a second loop on the opposite side. You should see the shape of a bow coming together.
Make a third and fourth loop, using the same technique. The fourth loop should come down across the center of the ribbon (from left to right) to form the second tail of the bow.
At this point, take a second to readjust each of the loops, to make sure they are all the same size.
 Holding the four loops securely at the center point with your thumb and forefinger, grab the threaded needle in your other hand and run in the the center of the bow, from back to front.


Make a number of stitches through the center of the bow to secure it. It doesn't matter if the stitches are messy, as you won't be able to see them when the bow is finished. Tie a knot in the thread at the back of the bow, then cut the thread with your scissors.
If one of the tails on your bow is still attached to the spool of ribbon, cut it off. Keep the tails of the bow nice and long for now, you can cut them to your preferred length later.
 Take the two smaller lengths of ribbon and use the same method to make two more bows.


Try to make these bows slightly smaller than the last one, as you will be layering them on top of one another.
 Take your larger bow and sit the two smaller bows on top, making sure the centers are aligned.


Take your threaded needle and run it through the centers of all three bows, from back to front. Make several stitches to securely attach the bows.
After several stitches, take the thread and wrap it around the center of the bow several times. Pull it tight in order to scrunch up the center of the bow.
You may need to adjust the loops and the tails of the bow a little to make sure they are smoothed out and in the correct position.
After you've wrapped the thread around the center of the bow several times, bring it around and tie a knot in the back to secure, then cut the thread.
 Take a new piece of ribbon (it can be any of the three colors or patterns) and tie a simple knot. Readjust the ribbon to make sure the patterned side is facing out.


Align the knot over the center of the bow - this will cover up those messy stitches you made earlier!
Flip the bow around and use your glue gun to place a dot of glue on the center of the back of the bow. Take your barrette, open it, and press the top half into the glue.
Take one end of the knotted piece of ribbon and pass it through the open barrette. Press it down to stick it to the glue beneath. Cut off any excess.
Place a dab of glue on the piece of ribbon you just passed through the barrette, then take the opposite end of the knotted piece of ribbon and stick it in place. Cut off any excess.
Now the bow is securely attached to the barrette.
 Flip the bow over so it is facing the right way around. Take your scissors and trim all six tails of the bow.


The easiest way to do this is to trim them at an angle, from the outside in. How long or short you cut the tails is a matter of personal preference.
The final step is to take a bottle of fray check and run a small amount along the cut edge of each tail. This will prevent the ends from becoming frayed.