 To stay out of trouble, plan in advance how you will handle a confrontation if it happens. When a bully is screaming at you, you're less likely to freeze up and go blank if you already know exactly what you are going to say.Interrupt them. Say something like, “Sorry, I need to make a phone call,” and walk away before they can stop you.
Offer to continue the conversation after class – they may have forgotten you and moved on to something else by then.
If you know you can pull it off, smile and act amused. The last thing a bully wants is to be embarrassed in front of his friends.
 You can avoid trouble at school if you learn to take charge of a dangerous situation before it gets out of control. You may be able to calm your opponent down if you can figure out their underlying motive for harassing you. In some cases, you may be able to find another way to work things out that doesn't involve fighting.Every time the bully asks a question, reply by asking her to explain herself. (“Why do you believe that?” or “What makes you think I did that?”)
Be careful not to lose your temper or come across as sarcastic, as this will only make them angrier.
 If you're being bullied, you are not alone. Talk to your friends about the problem, and get their advice. You'll probably find that many of them have had to deal with the same thing in the past. You can avoid getting into trouble at school by asking them what they did to resolve the situation.


One out of every 5 high school students in the US reported being bullied at school in 2013, and 1 in every 6 has been bullied online.Five percent of US students missed a day or more of school because they did not feel safe from a bully., In instances where bullying may lead to physical harm, always tell a parent or a teacher. Bullying is a serious problem – there have been numerous occasions where bullying has resulted in severe injury and even death. You can avoid getting into trouble if the school knows you aren't the one causing the problem.Allowing a bully to get away with it will just encourage them to become more violent.
Parents and teachers will be able to come up with a plan to fix the problem without letting the bully know that you are the one who told on them.

