 Before you can position yourself as a super-cool person worthy of envy, you've got to figure out what cool means. Is this the right place for putting on shades and slouching? Is it the right time to talk about the Chocolate Vomits show at which you stage dived last night? Acting cool at work may be a lot different than acting cool in middle school, but you can learn to identify the different cool and uncool crowds, and tailor your coolness accordingly.


In a very large group, like a whole middle school or a whole company, try to find a smaller group of people to befriend and be cool with. Situate yourselves as the "in" group in opposition to the lamestream, er, the mainstream.
In a smaller group, it might be more appropriate to remain aloof to play it cool. If you come out too strong, you'll likely just make everyone think you're a weirdo, not cool. Find another cool buddy to be cool with and position your small clique as the in group.;
, According to an analysis of "cool kids"one of the traditional markers of coolness is that other people perceive that cool people are more experienced, mature, and knowledgeable than they are. That doesn't mean you need to have spent time under the bleachers, at underground rock clubs, or in foreign countries to give off a cool vibe, nor does it mean you need to start bragging about things you've never done. You can learn to put on a mysterious and experienced act that people will believe.


Practice vague responses to specific questions about your experiences that will seem cool. If someone asks if you're a virgin, or have ever smoked a cigarette, say, "What is this, a sewing circle?" or "That's a boring question" and change the subject. Throw it back in their face.
Never make stuff up. It won't make you seem cool to lie and say you've been to Europe, or that you've done illicit things in the back of a car when you haven't. The truth will come out eventually and you'll be exposed and embarrassed.
 Acting cool means being different, doing things that make you stand out from the crowd. You're floating above the lame drudgery of the world in your super-cool cloud. You can't be a follower and act cool. Other people should want to be like you, because you're setting trends, surprising people with your fresh outlook and opinions, and bucking the common wisdom.


Play devil's advocate in group discussions and casual conversations. Don't get attached to being right or wrong, just poke at people's expectations and dissent every now and then for the sake of coolness. All your friends ragging on a teacher? Stick up for her. Being different is cool.
Alternatively, it may be "cooler" to join up with the crowd in some cases. In middle school, acting cool might mean embracing the newest Justin Bieber song, even if you're not crazy about Biebs. You can still listen to the good stuff when you're alone. But try to be true to yourself.
 Let the world come to you. Acting cools means relaxing, not rushing into anything due to uncool excitement. Instead, just chill, kick back, and wait.


Let other people talk first. Practice good listening skills, staying quiet until someone else wants to start the conversation. Acting cool means you're not desperate for chat. Just take 'er easy. Whatevs.
Take long pauses before you speak, even if you're fairly sure of what you're going to say. Dramatic pause will give people the chance to contemplate your smarts and your seriousness. Be stoic, like Kathryn Hepburn, Clint Eastwood, and the titans of cool.
Don't forget to slow your roll, too. Walk more slowly. Look around, scoping the sites. Smell the flowers. Walk with a cool lope, rather than an efficient bustle.
 Uncool people have a tendency to make it their mission to tear down cool people. Cool people from Kanye to Picasso to Yoko all have their haters, and it's lame. If you're going to join the ranks of the super-cool, and start acting like the cool, enviable person with the awesome life that you have, it's a given that you'll attract some haters. Learn to deal with them.


Keep a close watch on your social networking, unfriending or ignoring anyone who hates on your awesomeness. You don't need to listen to it. Instead, surround yourself with people who'll lift you up and support you in your coolness.
Prepare cool responses to haters. If someone tries to make fun of the super-hip style you're trying out at school, saying, "What are you wearing?!" have a cool response prepared just in case: "Maybe I should let my mom dress me, like you do."
Spread the coolness around and bestow it on others. The bigger your cool clique, the less chance haters will have of effecting you. Build a strong group of cool friends with similar interests so you won't have to be a lone wolf.
 One common misconception is that "cool" kids are an exclusive group, like the Navy SEALs, and if one of your friends can't pass the cool test, they'll get cut. A cool person treats everyone with respect and kindness, regardless of whether or not they're really "cool."


Seek out a diverse group of friends. Befriend other kids at your school that aren't necessarily considered "cool" and speak up for them to your friends. Build good will rather than sewing resentment.
Some recent studies show that kids considered "cool" in middle and high school end up experiencing functional difficulties in their early adult years, as a result of pretending to have more mature experienced early in life, alienating friends and close ones.Don't make the same mistake as the ruthlessly cool. Keep your real friends around.

