 A prime rib roast with the bone in will have about 1 serving per pound, so plan to buy a pound of meat for every adult guest you're serving. Each guest will end up with about 6 ounces of meat. You certainly don't want to skimp, and the leftovers will be delicious, so you may want to buy an extra pound or two.;
, The prime rib roast, also called a standing rib roast, is a fairly rare cut of meat, since butchers may need to sacrifice more common cuts of meat to get a large roast. Therefore, plan ahead and ask your butcher to cut you a prime rib roast in the size you need by a certain date. When you get the roast, it should be heavily marbled with a thick cap of fat and deep red meat that springs back when touched.


You should be able to order a prime rib roast at your supermarket's meat department, but you may also try a local butcher.
This roast is far more costly than other cuts of meat. If you are going to indulge in a prime rib roast, you may as well ensure you are getting a high grade of meat, like USDA Prime, if that option is available (most meat on the market is USDA choice quality, which has less fat marbling).
You might also consider getting a dry-aged or grass-fed roast, both of which will yield beautiful results.
 You may do this at home or ask your butcher to do it for you. Cutting the bones away from the roast, then tying them back on with kitchen twine will make the roast easier to carve the roast once it's cooked.Slide a sharp knife between the top edge of the bones and the meat. Carefully cut them from the roast. You may leave the ends attached if desired.
Wrap a piece of kitchen twine under the bones and around the meat, and tie it tightly.
 If you bought a less expensive cut of meat, you might want to apply a rub and let it refrigerate overnight so the flavors meld with the meat. If you bought USDA Prime beef, grass-fed beef or dry-aged beef, there's no need for a rub; you can cook your prime rib as soon as you get home from the butcher shop.
 In order for the meat to cook evenly, it's necessary to remove it from the refrigerator and bring it to room temperature about 3 hours before you start cooking. Season it on both sides with salt and pepper. Place it on a large platter and cover it with plastic wrap, then set it on your kitchen counter.
 Position it so the fat side is up, and the rib side is down. This way the drippings from the fat will help the meat become nice and juicy while it cooks. The pan you use should only be slightly bigger than the roast.


You'll need a meat thermometer to check the internal temperature of the meat. If you have the type that should be inserted in the meat before cooking, go ahead and insert it, making sure the tip is not touching the bone.
 Cooking the roast low and slow, so that the proper internal temperature is reached without overcooking the meat, will result in a tender, succulent interior. Don't worry - the final step of searing the meat will bring about the crunchy outer crust prime rib is known for.
 When the internal temperature is 115 to 120 °F (46 to 49 °C), the meat will be rare. If you prefer it medium, wait until it reaches 125 to 130 F. The cooking time depends on the shape and size of your roast, but as a general rule you should allow 15 minutes per pound. Check the thermometer often to make sure you don't overcook the meat.


Make sure the thermometer is not touching the bone, fat or the pan when you measure the temperature.
 Let it rest for 15 to 20 minutes while you heat the oven to a higher temperature to sear the meat.After this resting period, there will be no need to rest the meat again before serving.
 At this temperature, the meat will achieve a perfect sear without overcooking the interior.
 Leave it in the oven for 8-10 minutes, or until a brown, crispy crust has formed. When you're satisfied with the crust, remove the roast and prepare to carve it right away. Do not overcook the meat or allow it to burn.
 Place the roast on a carving board. Cut and remove the string tying the bones to the meat, and set the bones aside. Carve the roast into 1⁄4 to 1⁄2 inch (0.6 to 1.3 cm) slices against the grain using a very sharp carving knife.
 In a saucepan, heat up 2 tablespoons of the drippings. Add 2 tablespoons of flour and whisk until the gravy has thickened. Add the rest of the drippings and enough cream to make 1 or 2 cups of liquid, depending on how many people you're serving. Season the gravy with salt and pepper.


Beer, stock, or water may be added instead of cream., Ask your guests how well they would like their meat done. Meat near the edge will be more done than in the center slices. Place the gravy in a dish to be passed around the table. The meal is excellent with creamed spinach, Yorkshire pudding and fresh salad.

