 NOAA is a federal agency responsible for executing laws pertaining to the ocean. Some of those laws help protect oceanic mammals, marine fisheries, and habitat from destruction. One piece of NOAA's mission is to support fisheries in order to maximize the productivity of sustainable fisheries. In addition, NOAA helps protect, recover, and conserve protected species.


While NOAA patrols, inspects, and monitors fisheries, they cannot do it all by themselves.If you see a fishery being overfished, or if you see a restricted fishing area being fished, contact NOAA immediately. When you contact NOAA, give them your information, a description of the activity you are seeing, and in depth instructions about where you are at.
 Government agencies are not the only organizations trying to protect marine wildlife. There are countless nonprofit organizations around the U.S. with the mission of protecting and conserving these animals. If you have any question about laws or regulations, or if you need help bringing a lawsuit against someone you think has broken the law, contact a local nonprofit.


For example, the Turtle Island Restoration Network (TIRN) is a nonprofit organization working to protect marine wildlife around the globe. They have multiple offices staffed with attorneys, scientists, and outreach specialists ready to help you., Ocean fishing is a huge industry around the world and accounts for a large supply of our annual seafood. Unfortunately, if fishing is not conducted in a sustainable manner, it can lead to overfishing and population depletion. When a fish population becomes depleted, it can be hard for individuals to reproduce. If fish can't reproduce, you can't continue to eat them. Therefore, it is important to understand the laws and regulations regarding what can be fished, when it can be fished, and the manner in which it can be fished.


Some species can only be fished at certain times during the year and in certain areas. For example, salmon fishing in the ocean of the coast of Washington state can only take place at certain times and in certain locations.
In addition to having fishing seasons, some species can only be fished using certain methods. For example, some fishing can only be done with a hook and line, while in other situations you may be able to use a trawl netting.

