 A rectangular solid, also known as a rectangular prism, is a three-dimensional shape with six sides that are all rectangles.In other words, a rectangular solid is simply a three-dimensional rectangle, or box shape.

A cube is really just a special rectangular solid in which the sides of all of the rectangles are equal.
 The formula for the volume of a rectangular solid is Volume = length * width * height, or V = lwh.
 The length is the longest side of the rectangular solid that is parallel to the ground or surface it is resting on. The length may be given in a diagram, or you may need to measure it with a ruler or tape measure.


Example: The length of this rectangular solid is 4 inches, so l = 4 in.
Don't worry too much about which side is the length, which is the width, etc. As long as you end up with three different measurements, the math will come out the same regardless of how your arrange the terms.
 The width of the rectangular solid is the measurement of the shorter side of the solid, parallel to the ground or surface the shape is resting on. Again, look for a label on the diagram indicating the width, or measure your shape with a ruler or tape measure.


Example: The width of this rectangular solid is 3 inches, so w = 3 in.
If you are measuring the rectangular solid with a ruler or tape measure, remember to take and record all measurements in the same units. Don't measure one side in inches another in centimeters; all measurements must use the same unit!

, This height is the distance from the ground or surface the rectangular solid is resting on to the top of the rectangular solid. Locate the information in your diagram, or measure the height using a ruler or tape measure.


Example: The height of this rectangular solid is 6 inches, so h = 6 in.
 Remember that V = lwh.

In our example, l = 4, w = 3, and h = 6. Therefore V = 4 * 3 * 6, or 72.
 Since our example rectangle was measured in inches, the volume should be written as 72 cubic inches, or 72 in3.


If the measurements of our rectangular solid were: length = 2 cm, width = 4 cm, and height = 8 cm, the Volume would be 2 cm * 4 cm * 8 cm, or 64cm3.

