 While you choose, stand away from the bar to indicate that you’re not ready to order. If the bar isn’t very busy, consider talking to the bartender for drink recommendations. If the bar is busy and you don’t know what you want:


Order a simple well drink, such as a rum and Coke.Look at the beer taps on the wall and choose one that looks interesting.
Look at the bar menu for cocktail or wine choices.;
, Once you’re ready to order, stand close to the bar with your hands on the counter. This will indicate that you want to order a drink. Once the bartender is ready, they will approach you and ask you for your order.


Never whistle, snap, yell, or wave money at the bartender., Speak loudly and clearly, especially if the bar is crowded. If you’re ordering multiple drinks, order them all at the same time. If the bartender needs clarification on your order, they will say so. When ordering mixed drinks, say the liquor type or brand name first and then what kind of mixer you’d like. For example:


“I would like a rum and Coke, please.”
“Two Bacardi and sodas, please.”
“I need one margarita on the rocks and two pints of Guinness. Thank you!”
“May I have a glass of your house Chardonnay?”

, Once the bartender hands you your drinks, they will tell you the total. Make sure you already have your cash or credit card ready. Otherwise, you will waste time rummaging through your pockets or your purse.If you want to keep ordering drinks, use your credit card to open a tab. Your bartender will add drinks to this tab and charge your card at the end of the night.
If you pay with cash, you may not be able to open a tab.
 Depending on where you live, it may be appropriate to tip your bartender. You can leave a cash tip in the tip jar or write a tip on your credit card receipt.


In the US, you should leave 10%-20% of the bill total as a tip.
In France, the service charge is included in the bill.
In Brazil, tips are not expected but they are appreciated. Consider tipping 10% of the bill total., Restaurant bars are bars that are attached to or inside a restaurant. These bars are usually small, consisting of a bar counter and a few tables. The bartenders make drinks for the restaurant as well as for the bar patrons. Order drinks that follow the theme of the restaurant. For example:


Tex-Mex and Mexican restaurants usually specialize in margaritas.
Seafood restaurants that call the bar area the “Tiki Bar” usually serve tropical cocktails.Upscale restaurant bars usually serve wine and expensive cocktails.
 Beer bars specialize in beer and often don’t carry nicer liquors or wine. A beer bar usually has at least twelve beer taps along the wall. Beer bars can also be called taverns, breweries, and craft beer bars. If you’re not sure what kind of beer you like, talk to the bartender for a recommendation or ask for a beer sample.


Wheat beers are lighter colored beers with a crisp yeast flavor.
Ales range in color from light brown to black. These beers have a deep, mellow flavor.
IPAs (India Pale Ales) are golden beers with a hoppy, floral flavor.
Porters are dark, foamy beers with a roasted malty flavor., Wine bars usually have an extensive wine list and may not carry beer or liquor. These bars often serve small appetizers to enjoy with your wine.If you’re not familiar with wine, ask your bartender for recommendations.


Riesling is a sweet, bubbly, white wine.
Chardonnay is a white wine with light citrus notes.
Merlot is a smooth red wine with fruity herbal notes.
Pino Noir is a red wine with light fruity flavors and an earthy undertone.
 Cocktail bars, also called Mixology bars, pride themselves on quality craft cocktails. These bars often have a trendy atmosphere and an extensive cocktail menu. You can order any kind cocktail you’d like at these bars. If you’re feeling adventurous, ask the bartender for recommendations. Martinis are a classic choice. These strongly flavored drinks can be ordered with or without olives, shaken over ice, or stirred.
A Jack Rose is a mellow, pink drink made with sweet apple brandy.
Order a Bourbon Sweet Tea for a refreshing, boozy drink.
If you want a sweet drink, order a velvety Chocolate Martini., A pint is a customary unit of measurement containing about 16 fluid ounces in the US and 20 fluid ounces in the UK.Pint glasses can come in many shapes that are used for specific types of beer.


A Goblet is usually used to serve dark ales.
A sturdy glass mug can be used to serve American ales and porters.
A standard pint glass has straight sides and can be used to serve any kind of beer.
A snifter is used to serve Scottish and Belgian ales., Well drinks are mixed drinks that are made with well liquor, also called house liquor. This can be any cheap, generic brand of liquor that is stocked for the purpose of making inexpensive mixed drink.If you don’t specify what kind of liquor you want in your drink, you will usually get the well liquor. Most bars stock these well liquors:


Rum
Vodka
Gin
Tequila
Whisky

, When ordering a mixed drink, specify the liquor first and the mixer second. Mixers are non-alcoholic beverages that can dilute and improve the flavor of medium and low quality alcohols. However, it is considered wasteful to add mixers to expensive, premium alcohol as it will ruin the flavor. Standard mixers include:


Soda, or soda water
Coke, such as Coca Cola or Dr. Pepper
Cranberry juice, also called “cran”
Tonic, or tonic water
Lighter colored sodas, such as Sprite, ginger ale, or ginger beer

, The terms “tall” and “short” refer to the size of the drink and the amount of mixer in it. However, both drink sizes have the same amount of alcohol in them. If you don’t specify what size you want, you will usually get a short drink. When ordering, specify the size before the liquor type. For example:


“I would like a tall rum and Coke, please.”
“Can I have a short gin and tonic?”
“I’d like a tall vodka cranberry.”

, You can specify the drink size before or after saying the drink name. For example:


“Give me a double vodka cranberry, please.”
“Can I have a tequila soda, double?”
“I’d like a double gin and tonic, please.”

, These drinks are usually ordered without mixers. However, margaritas are the exception, as they can be served frozen or over ice.Specify how you want the drink served before any other descriptors. For example:


“Can I have a neat double whisky, please?”
“I’d like a margarita on the rocks, please.”
“Can I have two neat Glenlivets?”

