 When talking, try to have a high voice, but not so high that it sounds fake. Get a nice girly voice you can stick with and not something what you have to stress over all day trying to keep it in tune. If your voice is naturally low, be especially careful to make the changes gradually and slowly because it's very easy to seem creepy and fake, which doesn't describe Elle at all. Practice in the mirror or even sing more, singing will help tremendously.;
, It is easy to see that the key to acting like Elle is to talk like her. You need to talk with proper grammar, and in a more informal, popular manner at the same time. Greet a few of the people you meet, because it shows your confidence and kindness. It makes people want to talk to you more as well. But in fancy settings, it'd be best to use more formal language. Increasing your vocabulary helps, too, because it makes you sound smarter.
 You need a signature colour. It doesn't matter if it is pink, blue, or even gray. Always dress the part. If you're going someplace serious dress for it. If you're going to the gym dress for it. Whatever it is, show it off. Wear clothes that are appropriate for the occasion, but still reflect who you are.
 Not too big, nor to small. Use whatever style suits you. They block UV rays and show off the shape of your face more, try on different ones to see what looks best on you.
 If it is a pearl bracelet or diamond ring, it will look good on you, and make your outfit look complete. Also, it's better to invest in a few timeless, nice pieces of jewelry than have a bunch of tacky stuff.
 Elle is a vegetarian. That means no meat. If you want to go vegetarian, do this gradually because it may be hard to give up meat altogether for some people. Also, you always see Elle drinking Evian, so drink plenty of water. Water will also keep your skin clear.
 Elle is very physically fit. Try to get some exercise equipment. But, exercise regularly. If possible, get a gym membership and if you're at college, odds are there's free equipment to use, so take advantage of it. Take the stairs, walk to class (if possible) and squeeze in a run to get even more exercise in.
 Before any make-up, put some cream on your face, just in case you get spots. All you really need is mascara, blush, and lipstick or lip gloss. If you're going out somewhere, then maybe add some eye-shadow and foundation. Always remember to wash your face after because leaving makeup on not only can cause acne, but ages you faster. Yikes!

, Have a shower or bath every day. Make sure you wash your hair every other day with shampoo. Do not forget to wash your whole body too. Keep your pores cleared, feet smooth, smelling fresh, hands moisturized, and manicured. If you have one or two zits, don't worry about it, we all get them. However, see a dermatologist if your acne is severe, painful or not going away after a few weeks.
 Your hair should always be clean. This means totally dandruff free. Also, dye your hair warm blonde. If you can't, try to get warm blonde highlights. Ask your hairdresser if your hair is cut in layers. After washing your hair, always dry it upside down. Don't bother straightening it once it's dry. This technique is called feathering your hair.
 You really need to hang round with girls who are just as kind as you. But, make sure that they are both popular and girly. If you can't find the right group then just make your own! It should be at least three girls, and then make friends with other popular people while still hanging round with your own clique.
 Hand in all your homework on time and scent it with your signature perfume. Also, make sure you have all your stuff with you for your lessons.
 Elle's is pink, but yours can be any color you want it to be!

,, Elle's special place is a manicure and pedicure shop, but yours can be anywhere. Even a homemade spa! Take one day a week, preferably Sunday, to pamper yourself.
 That's why everyone loves Elle. She's never rude and is always nice to everyone.
!

, Even if they're mean to you, don't stoop to their level and be mean back, Elle would never try to hurt anyone.
 Elle has beautiful features, yet still she wears sophisticated clothes and never has her boobs out. Look at magazines for ways to accentuate (or hide) features without revealing too much flesh. An older sister, friend or a person working at your favorite clothing store can help you with this.
 Keep your clothes as appropriate to the occasion as possible, but it's better to be too dressed up than too casual because you can often tone it down. Being not dressed enough is harder to fix, but you should obviously not go running errands in a prom dress. That's a surefire way to make you feel uncomfortable and conspicuous.
 Just an animal that you can talk to and love.
 It does not have to be in your signature color, but it has to be cute.
 Elle is anything but the stereotypical dumb blonde and is a law student with perfect grades. So study and try to pass your classes and get as high of a GPA as you can. If it's a 4.0, awesome! If not, know you tried your best and will just have to do better next time.

