 Place the almond pulp into a large mixing bowl. Add the rice flour, ground cinnamon, baking powder, and salt. Stir everything together, making sure to break up any large chunks.


You can try using ground flax seed or chia seeds instead of rice flour.
 Continue stirring the mixture until it starts to come together. Don't worry if it looks a little crumbly at this point.


If you are vegan, you can use olive oil, coconut oil, or even vegan/dairy-free butter.
If you are vegan, try agave nectar or maple syrup instead of honey.
 If the mixture is still too dry, stir in some water, 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) at a time until it starts to stick together.
 Place a sheet of parchment paper on your work surface. Set the dough on top, and form it into a disk using your hands. Use a rubber spatula to scrape everything out of the bowl, if needed.
 Loosely wrap the parchment paper around the dough, and secure it with a piece of tape, if needed. Place the wrapped dough into the fridge, and leave it there for 20 to 30 minutes. This allows the dough to firm up and makes it more workable.


Towards the end of the chilling process, preheat your oven to 375°F (191°C).
 Once the dough is firm again, take it out of the fridge and set it down on the counter. Unwrap the dough, and place another sheet of parchment paper on top of it. Use a rolling pin to roll it out flat until it is 1/8-inch (0.32-centimeter) thick.
 Remove the top sheet of parchment paper first. Use a sharp knife or a pizza cutter to slice the dough into squares or rectangles. You should have enough dough to make about 20 crackers.
 This will help make the crackers bake more evenly. You'll need to prick each cracker at least once. Since these crackers taste similar to graham crackers, you can make several rows of holes to make them look more like graham crackers.


For something even more graham cracker like, sprinkle the tops of the crackers with a mixture of cinnamon and sugar.
 Use the parchment paper to transfer the crackers to a baking sheet. Bake them for about 10 to 15 minutes, or until the edges turn golden brown. If you want them to be crispier, you can bake them a little longer.


Turn the pan around about half-way through the baking. This will help the crackers bake more evenly.
 Store any leftover crackers in an airtight container in the fridge.

