 Bella's never seen in anything bright or tight, she prefers loose and stark. Some key pieces in your wardrobe should be colours such as black, brown, purple, green,blue, grey, cream, beige, and white.


Wear what she wears: boot cut jeans, skinny jeans, hoodies, denim jackets, hooded coats, knit hats, stripey tops, converse, comfy shoes, blouses, checked shirts with a plain vest underneath, some dressy clothes like a blue dress and shrug that she wore to the prom (If you wear uniforms try to wear pants and dark colored shirts with sneakers or flats) . For your pajamas wear a plain vest/ t-shirt and loose patterned bottoms.





;
, Go for subtle pieces that don't make people wonder what you are wearing. Try finding basic t-shirts, jeans and simple jackets.
 Just have your iPod/mp3 player (she likes music), school books for studying, a laptop/computer, your camera (Charlie gave her one, Renee gave her a scrapbook), a plain school backpack in a block color, some gloves , some thin headbands, not too much jewelry: a silver (moonstone) ring and some black bracelets, a charm bracelet maybe and, knowing Bella, some plasters.
 Bella doesn't like dressing up much, so maybe when you have to wear a dress and perhaps a lot of jewelry, tone it down with a cool, casual pair of converse.
 Bella likes the colors blue and purple, so you could try wearing a lot of those colors, although this is not a must.
 Bella always wears her hair naturally (straight in the book but wavy in the movie) wavy with a cute thin headband. Never curl or straighten your hair. But if you have curly hair then straighten it. At a special occasion maybe have it in a loose curly hair do. If you have straight hair leave it in a bun/plait overnight and you will wake up to natural waves, but this is bad for your hair because then it will lead to dandruff and downfall. If you have curls leave them down but if you have frizzy hair either use non-frizz products.


She also has brown hair so if you have medium brown, dark brown or light brown hair that will be fine. Dye it brown you want to look like Bella. Any brown color will work.






Bella has long, brown hair, but if you like your hair type then there is no real need to change that. The biggest thing is to stay away from over the top styles (don't go around everyday with a red carpet-worthy up-do or anything of the sort); keep it natural.






Drool-worthy waves are achievable with both a flat iron and a curling iron; but if you don't want heat to damage your hair, try tying your hair in buns after shampooing and conditioning your hair. After your hair has dried you should have gorgeous waves! However, don't sleep with wet hair because it increases chances of dandruff and hair fall.
Alternatively, wear your hair straight like Stephenie Meyer pictures Bella.
 Bella doesn't wear much visible make-up so for your beauty regime, just brush your teeth (floss, use mouthwash), use face wash and apply moisturizer. If you need it apply a foundation that matches or is a shade lighter then your skin tone (remember to blend so it matches your neck). Apply a little bit of black/brown eyeliner (not like Jane's) and some black/brown/clear mascara (you could curl your eyelashes). Apply a clear/ beige/ light lip gloss or have nude lips but Bella usually has pink/dark pink lips so maybe just use a chapstick. Remember to remove your make-up at night with a face wash/ face wipes to avoid spots/pimples and if you get one don't pick at it just leave it and apply a little coat of concealer.


If you absolutely have to wear make-up, avoid things like primer, eye-shadow, lipstick, and eye-liner. Since Bella is very pale, don't go for bronzer, either (If you are dark-skinned then forget about trying to be pale, love your beautiful skin the way it already is). Instead, stick with small amounts of some basics, like:






A foundation in the same color of your skin tone, applied only in the places where you need it.
A concealer, applied over pimples and under the eyes.
A loose powder to prevent shiny skin. You can also carry blotting paper on the go if you wish.
 Shaving is optional, moisturize body + put on a deodorant and light body spray. Bella always smells nice!

, She bites her nails but that doesn't mean you should if you don't want to. Just keep them medium and natural.


Avoid nail polish.
 Bella's fragrance is nearly the main component in the first book and mentioned in all the others. She smells irresistible to vampires and slightly floral. You'll be surprised at the compliments you may get! Since Bella is basically a no-fuss person, go for crisp, clean scents. Musk is also the way to go. Go to your local mall to check out which scent is for you. Or if you want, you can apply a sweet-scented fragrance as in The Short Second Life of Bree Tanner she describes Bella's scent as "seriously sweet", but put on just a little.
 Bella is a very shy, timid person, her dominant personality trait is low self-esteem, but be confident in yourself. Wear things that you feel comfortable and happy in although, in Twilight and part of New Moon, Isabella's look can be described as plain. In the books Eclipse and Breaking Dawn, Bella finds part of her feminine side.
 Bella may be clumsy, but it's a graceful kind of clumsy. Improve your posture by keeping your back straight and your chin up.

