 This is your chance to do what you want. In elementary school, everyone knew you and you didn't really want to do something dramatic. In Jr. High, only a few people will know you. So you can do whatever you want to do. Have you always wanted to try out for soccer, but were to afraid? Not anymore. You now have the chance to change your name, change your style, or maybe just give yourself an attitude check. You can also branch out from your old friends, and make new ones. Don't be afraid to be a whole new you in Jr. High.


Another advantage to different schools merging is that being new to the district gets a lot easier. While being a new kid in elementary was difficult as many students have known their classmates since kindergarten, being new in junior high is not an issue as, in a sense, everyone is a new kid as well. In an average middle school about five schools come together, meaning each student won't know other students from at least four schools. This makes it easier to blend in and make friends.;
, With all the hormones rushing through your system, it's very good to get your attitude in shape. You are entering a new chapter of your life, so clear away previous baggage as much as you can, it will hold you back. Keep a positive outlook on your new lifestyle, nobody wants to be around miss Debbie Downer. Socialize with others and respect their beliefs, middle school is when a lot of teens and young teens are finding themselves, so don't be judgmental. Everyone wants to be liked for who they truly are. Complement the commonly forgotten and you'll have yourself a troupe of TRUE friends in no time.
 If you want to have a great time in Jr. High then you have to want it, see it, and feel it. But don't think that when you close your eyes and picture success that it will just magically happen. You have to tell yourself you can do it. You have to work towards it.
 The teachers can answer your questions if you have any, and you will get your schedule and locker combo. You will probably be able to try out your combo on your locker while you're there, and find your classes, too.
 There is a right way to open a combination lock-


Turn right 3 times to the first number.
Turn left PAST zero, 1 time and the stop on the second number.
Turn right to last number and open.
 Use your schedule and a map of the school to draw out your route you will take to all your classes. When you start to get used to school though, your route will probably change as you figure out new shortcuts and your classes change. Remember:


Room 101 is usually on the first floor and room 202 is usually on the second floor.
Water fountains are usually near the bathroom.
Stairways are almost always at the end of the hall.
 When you start Jr. High, you may find yourself waking up earlier than you did in Elementary school—often times Jr. High starts earlier. It's how they fit all their classes into 8 hours. You might have walked to school before but now you have to ride the bus, or you have to be driven to school. Or you might have a lot more activities after-school. Try to get at least 9 hours of sleep a night—if you have to get up 6:00 AM, then you need to be in bed by 9:00 PM at the latest.
 When you buy your school supplies, organize it into a binder. This is best because it will keep you organized as you switch classes. Use dividers for each class and keep pencils in a pencil pouch. Remember organization is one of the most important parts of getting ready for junior high! Another way to get organized is to have folders for every individual subject, and you can carry your pencil bag, planner, etc. to every class.
 Your school will have an ice cream social or meet the teacher night, so take advantage of that time to decorate your locker and get to know the halls a little better.
 The new social scene is pretty new and fun, but don't forget to study too. Get used to taking notes so that you can easily prepare for tests and quizzes. And keep a planner, so you'll never forget another due date. Don't be afraid to ask questions and get help if you need to. It's better to get things as you go along, then to be too shy to ask and end up super confused at the end of the day. And remember, school studies can be fun too. Get a study group together, start the study at Starbucks Club for your BFFs before a test. But don't forget that while study groups are fun, you should still learn from each other. Don't study this way if you just get distracted.
 Everyone's a little nervous on the first couple of days. In about a week everyone will be used to the new teachers, campus, and classes and you'll be making new friends! Once you are used to it, Junior High can be the best years of school!

, First couple of days, the locker room may be a little awkward. Just smile, talk to a friend while changing (if you have a friend in your P.E. class) and do so quickly.


If the shirt of your uniform is pretty long, put the shirt on first and then the pants. Do this backwards after P.E.
The first day changing is always awkward. Be one of the first to change, and try not to act too embarrassed. No one is looking at you or cares what you look like. If you are still scared, wear your P.E. clothes under your uniform clothes.
 Each night before school, look at your planner or calendar to see what's in store for the next day. Set out or think about what your going to wear. Pack your backpack, make sure your homework's done, and have your parents sign any papers that need to be signed. Pack your lunch or tuck away lunch money into your backpack. Shower or bathe now, so you'll be clean for the coming day. The next morning, you'll want to stretch and shower if you didn't the night before. If you did just clean yourself up quickly in the bathroom, get dressed, and have a healthy breakfast. Stay away from sugary cereals. They'll give you a quick energy boost, but then make you feel sluggish throughout the day. Do a quick mirror check then grab your stuff and go.
 Everyone is afraid on the first day. No one cares if you are a few minutes late to class. If you can't open your locker, it's okay. You will eventually make it to every class. The teachers will ease into the homework. Your first period or homeroom teacher will help you with most everything. You can get away with almost anything on the first day. But don't use this to the wrong advantage!

, You won't need to bring all of your supplies on the first day. All you need is a folder, a notebook, and a pencil. Carry all of that around throughout the day. On the other hand, some schools may encourage bringing all your school supplies as soon as possible, so you can be ready as soon as possible.
 Even though you will have extra time on the first day, don't get too used to being late to class. Learn when to stop at you locker. Teachers will tell you that you should go at the beginning of the day, before and after lunch, and at the end of the day. This isn't recommended unless it is more convenient for you that way. Make sure you have enough time for locker stops.
 Chances are you'll hit puberty sometime during junior high, and you want to be ready. Begin washing your face regularly if you don't already to minimize acne. Be sure to wear deodorant every day. Girls, learn how to apply makeup if you're allowed/want to. Carry an emergency kit in case you start your period, too.

