 Whirlpool tubs require extensive electrical wiring and a pump, which needs to be within a few feet of the tub. If you have a closet or cabinet adjacent to the tub, it can be stored there. If not, you’ll need to get an alcove tub with an apron or a drop-in tub that’s built into a deck. These styles will hide the electrical equipment.If you have an adjacent space to store the pump, you can opt for a freestanding tub like a claw-foot tub.;
, Figure out the length, width, and depth of the space you’d like the tub to fill. And unless you’re building a brand new bathroom, get the measurements of the bathroom doorway to be sure your new tub will fit through it.If you’re interested in a drop-in tub, keep in mind that the deck it drops into will take up a few extra inches of bathroom space all the way around the tub.
 Unless you’re doing extensive renovations, your new tub’s drain will need to be in the same location as the old one. Note whether the drain is oriented left, right, or center, and look for a new tub that will match it., This is usually printed somewhere on the side of your water heater. Whirlpool tubs require a lot of hot water, so if you have a particularly small unit, you may need to upgrade to a larger one. Aim for your water heater to have at least ⅔ the capacity of any tub you buy., Water-jet whirlpool tubs force water through jets, giving more pressure and a forceful massage. In air-jet whirlpool tubs, air is forced through tiny holes for a lighter massage. A combination whirlpool tub uses both, but will be more expensive and may use more energy.One drawback of a water-jet tub is that you can’t use bath salts or oils, as these will damage the pumping mechanism.
Another water-jet drawback is that some water stays in the jets, and mold can develop if they’re not regularly cleaned out.
 Acrylic tubs are the most popular, but fiberglass is the lightest and cheapest material. Cast iron is durable and retains heat well, but it’s incredibly heavy. You’ll need to install additional floor support if you opt for cast iron., Some whirlpool tubs have colored lights built into the sides that offer light therapy to help balance your energy while you bathe. Others have self-cleaning jets that blow air out after every use to dry the lines and prevent mold., If you have elderly family members or anyone with mobility issues in your house, get a walk-in tub. There are tubs with doors and grab bars to make getting in and out easier. If you have small children, think about getting a shallower tub with sides that are easier to climb over., Whether you want to buy from a small, local dealer or a large home supply store, you need to be able to examine a variety of tubs before buying one. Something may look good online, but it could be uncomfortable once you climb inside., Make sure the size and shape of the tub and the placement of controls, armrests, and jets are comfortable. If you and your significant other plan to both use the tub at the same time, you should both climb inside to make sure it’s roomy enough., Check out Consumer Reports and other rating sites to be sure there aren’t any common complaints about the tub you like. Also check for complaints against the manufacturer and dealer, especially if they are new or unfamiliar to you.
 There’s a lot that goes into installing a whirlpool tub, including complex electrical work. You may need to have an additional fuse installed or make plumbing modifications. Call an electrician or a general contractor and give them the specifications for the tub that interests you. They’ll let you know if any work needs to be done before installation.Also ask your contractor to build a deck if you'll be purchasing a drop-in tub.
 Once you've selected your tub, then you can purchase a faucet and accessories like a handheld sprayer. Different types of tubs require different types of hardware, so be sure that you purchase a free-standing tub filler if you've chosen a free-standing tub., Typically, the business you buy the tub from will offer installation services for an additional fee. Schedule this at the time of purchase, or just wait and hire your own plumber or general contractor to do the job.