;
,,


The Village Chiefs' quest level one are the most easiest quests. It only has 5 quests, but the fourth one contains a Tigrex wandering around. It's best to move to another area number and dodge the Tigrex's moves. After completing all 5 quests, the village chief will ask you to complete an urgent quest. The urgent quest needs a Giadrome to be hunted down, in the snowy mountains area. Then after hunting it, you can initiate level 2 quests from the village chief.
 The first three are gathering quests in the snowy mountains, the jungle and the desert. They are quests that can let you explore around within 50 minutes, collecting as much goodies as you can. As you progress along, you end up encountering harder and larger enemies in level 2 such as a Yian Kut-Ku, a Congalala, a Bulldrome and a Cephadrome. Armor with great defense and high attack weapons would help when encountering one of the monsters. Make sure some of your weapons have an elemental attribute (example: water, fire, ice, etc.) that is strong against one of those monsters. It's okay to have a regular weapon as well. Once you finish all quests in the level 2 section, the village chief will ask you to do another urgent quests again. The monster will be a Khezu, which is an electric type wyvern that can shoot 3 electrical bolts out of it's mouth, which can paralyze you for quite a while. Watch out when it is angry. You will know when a monster is angry just by watching it snort out ice, fire, or even fart. In some monsters such as a Congalala will make it's nose and it's bottom red when it is angry. Also, monsters will be much faster at attacking and doing actions. When a Khezu is angry, it will emit electrical jumps that can damage you and decrease your health very low that you will almost fall unconscious. When you defeat it, you then start the level 3 quests from the village chief.
 It contains two gathering quests the can let you explore, in the swamps and in the forest and hills. There are even more harder and much stronger enemies such as a Daimyo Hermitaur, a regular and a green Plesioth, another Congalala, a regular and a purple Gypceros, an Iodrome and a Blue Yain Kut-Ku! There are 18 quests altogether, but most are very challenging, but the price reward can get even higher due to the monsters strength, rising in each quest level. The best way in defeating wyverns are by using a bow. It can reach a certain monster by a long distance. There are also unlimited arrows so you never run out unlike bowguns, you need to buy loads of ammo in each quest. But for bows you can just buy coatings (power, poison, paralyze, sleep, paint and close range coatings.), but you don't have to buy them because you have the unlimited arrows. Unless you have an elemental attribute bow, no need to worry. Once you have finished all level 3 quests, the village chief will ask you to do an urgent quest. But this one, is harder. It is a Blangonga, a faster version of a Congalala, but it has white fur, lives in the snowy mountains, and can order it's fellow Blango's, which is a smaller and weaker version of a Blangonga. It's like Blangonga's are the Congalala's brothers, and the Blango's are the Conga's brothers... Moving on, you will need a bow called, Kut-Ku Stave 1, which has an elemental attribute of fire, made from Yian Kut-Ku materials, which you'll need to defeat lots of times. A Blagonga is an ice type, so you get an advantage in defeating it. Always dodge the Blagongas jumps and attacks, as how they are more powerful than you think. Once you have finished hunting the Blagonga, you can initiate level 4 quests, which mostly takes place in the volcanic zone!

