 You don’t want to bleach or dye unwanted areas of your hair, so put your hair up in a tight bun. Make sure that you have as much of the bottom part of your hair leftover as you’d like. Check in the mirror to make sure that you’ve parted a straight line separating the top and bottom parts of your hair., You should use a color stripper to remove the current red dye from your hair. You can find a color stripper at any beauty supply store. The exact directions for use depends on the product you’re using.Your hair may appear slightly red and yellow when you remove the color splotches.
 You need to use a bleach to remove the rest of the color. Use a powdered hair bleach with a 20-volume developer. Only use it on the part of your hair you plan to color. Leave the bleach on for twenty to forty-five minutes and rinse it out thoroughly.The specific directions for use depends on the product your using. Follow the instructions carefully.
 Stripping and bleaching your hair will likely leave it feeling dry and damaged. Make sure to condition your hair once you rinse the bleach out. A deep conditioner that you need to leave on from five to fifteen minutes is ideal., Pour the color and developer in the mixing bowl. Mix them together with an applicator brush. You will probably use the entire bottle of hair dye, but you should consult the instructions for how much developer you need to use., Use the applicator brush to apply the dye to your hair. Apply the dye to the bottom part of your hair until it is saturated in the dye. You can leave the color on as is, or cover the dyed hair in pieces of aluminum foil. Wait for the amount of time specified on the instructions. The amount of time you will wait may be between twenty and thirty minutes., Once the specified amount of time has passed, begin rinsing it out. Remove the pieces of foil if they are still in your hair. If not, you can go ahead and rinse your hair. Make sure all of the color rinses out your hair. The water should run clear when you are finished.