 You want your eyeshadow to stand out, as rose gold eyes should really pop. Always start with a concealer to form a nice base on which you'll place your eyeshadow.








Dab the concealer all over your eyelids and into your brow bone.
Gently rub the concealer into your eyelids until it's blended into your natural skin tone.;
, You want to start off with a lighter shade of eye shadow. Opt for a shimmery, rosy color to start. To start, use your finger to press the eye shadow onto the outer half of your eye. Then, use your finger to pull the shadow inward to the other corner of your eye. This will create a faded effect. The color should start darker on the outer corner of your eye and lighten as it moves inward.








Repeat this process on your lash line. Apply a light line of eyeshadow using your fingers that moves from the outer to inner corner of your eye.
Repeat with the other eye.
 Once you've added your light layer of eye shadow, create smoky corners using a darker shade of rose-colored eye shadow. Imagine your eyelid is split into three parts: a rectangle in the center and two triangles on either corner.








Focusing on the outermost corner, fill in this triangle with a darker color of rose colored eye shadow. You can use your fingers or a makeup brush.
From there, use a shadow brush around the edges of the triangle and into your crease. Use the darker eye shadow to define this corner of your eye.
 Select a coppery, dark shadow for your crease. Use an angled brush to define your crease by slowly swiping on the eye shadow in back and forth motions. On the inner corner of your eye, draw a horizontal line pointing towards the bridge of your nose with the darker color.
 Take a fluffy blending brush. Use it to blend your eyeshadows together. Use light, circular motions to help all your eye shadow blend together so it looks smooth and even. The horizontal lines should look less defined when you're done.
 Take another makeup brush. Opt for one that's flatter and skinnier. You will use this to further define your crease with a dark shade of rose colored eye shadow.








Starting at the outer corner of each eye, draw a very defined line using a very dark shade of rose colored eye shadow. The line should follow the natural line of your crease.
When you're done, use a blending brush to blend your crease line slightly into the rest of your makeup.
 Gold eyeliner is important for rose gold eyes. To make gold eyeliner, use glitter and gold pigments and mixing medium. On a flat surface, mix your two pigments together.
From there, add a small drop of your mixing medium. Use a utensil, like a spoon, to mix everything together.
 Use a small pointed make up brush here. Dip it in your gold liner. Draw a thin line running along your lash line. Start at the inner corner of your eye and move outward. The line should get gradually thicker the closer you get to your outer eye.
 You can use brown or black eyeliner to define your water line. Simply add a line of black eyeliner on the water lines of both of your eyes. This should make your eyes stand out more, as they will be dramatically outlined.
 If your eyes are too dark, you can add some lighter eyeshadow to the center of your eyes. Dab the eyeshadow near the center of your eyelid. From there, you can use a blending brush to blend the eye shadow outward to create a lighter effect.
 Opt for a volumizing mascara, as this will make your eyelashes standout. To apply, use the mascara brush starting at the root. Then, wiggle the brush outward to the end of your eyelashes.







