 You’ve probably heard that fiber is good for you, but do you make it a priority to eat fiber at every meal? Doing so will go a long way toward helping you prevent constipation. Fiber adds bulk to your stools, making them easier to pass. You need 24 to 36 grams per day.These foods contain high levels of fiber and will prevent you from getting constipated. Try incorporated at least one at every meal:

Cabbage, cauliflower, broccoli, and other cruciferous vegetables
Lentils, black beans kidney beans and other beans
Peaches, strawberries, blueberries, papaya, apples
Almonds, walnuts, peanuts
Wheat, bran and other whole grains
Flaxseeds;
, If eating high-fiber foods doesn't feel like it's doing the trick, you can make sure you're getting enough fiber by taking supplements. Most fiber supplements come in the form of a powder you mix with water and then drink. They are made with fiber content from plants and animals that's known to be beneficial to humans.Keep in mind that getting too much fiber can result in loose stools and other side effects, so be sure to take only the recommended dose.

Supplements that include psyllium are geared toward dealing with constipation by bulking up the stools.
Supplements that contain inulin and oligofructose can stimulate growth of beneficial bacteria in the intestines, which also reduces constipation.
 Prunes are a natural source of concentrated fiber, and they also contain sorbitol, which is a natural laxative. If you like the taste of prunes, try having some whole prunes or prune juice every morning. Prunes will help your stools move through your digestive system, preventing constipation., Sometimes constipation is caused by an imbalance of bacteria in the gut. Eating yogurt that contains probiotics restores these beneficial bacteria that facilitate proper digestion. Try eating a cup with breakfast every day as a way of preventing constipation.
 Constipation happens in part when your stools don’t contain enough water to easily pass through your body. When you're a bit dehydrated, you can easily become constipated. Make sure you drink water with every meal and any time you're thirsty to stay well hydrated.Aim to get eight to 10 cups of liquids each day (or 32-40 ounces).When you feel constipated, increase your water consumption immediately. It can prevent the constipation from getting worse.
Start your day with a big glass of warm water and lemon for better digestive health.
Carry around a water bottle. It'll be much easier to drink more, and it can serve as a reminder to stay on track with a fiber-rich diet.

