 While living with AF can be challenging, there are ways that you can make dealing with AF easier. These are habits that should be followed every day to help make life easier for you. These include:


Taking all medications exactly as prescribed
Continuing to take any prescription medication unless your healthcare provider says otherwise
Discussing any medicine-caused side effects with your healthcare provider
Monitoring your pulse daily, especially if you have an artificial pacemaker
Keeping a record of your pulse along with the day and time the pulse was taken and notes about how you felt at the time;
, There are some substances that can make your atrial fibrillation worse and that contribute to an irregular heartbeat. Because of this, you should avoid the substances such as:


Sodium, which can increase your blood pressure, which triggers AFCaffeine
Tobacco
Alcohol, which trigger AF in some individuals
Cold and cough medications
Appetite suppressants
Psychotropic drugs used to treat certain mental illnesses
Antiarrhythmic in certain individuals, although they are used to treat arrhythmia as well
Anti-migraine drugs
Drugs for erectile dysfunction
Street drugs such as cocaine, marijuana, “speed”, or methamphetamines

, High stress levels can increase your blood pressure, which can worsen your AF. High stress levels can also cause other heart diseases because it causes the constriction of your blood vessels. To reduce your stress levels:


Reduce your exposure to your stressors
Create a schedule for yourself
Take breaks throughout the day
Practice yoga
Set aside some time each day to meditate, There is not a specific diet that is for AF patients; however, your diet can be tailored to the underlying cause and prevention of AF, as well as to lower the risk of stroke and heart attack. You can also create a diet that reduces the conditions that can make your AF worse. Eat more vegetables and fruit, avoid large portion sizes, and eat whole grains instead of refined carbohydrates, which include white breads, white rice, pastries, and dessert cakes.


A diet that is low in refined sugars can help to reduce your blood sugar levels and lower your chance of AF.
A diet that is low in fat, particularly saturated fat, can help to reduce your cholesterol, which contributes to heart issues.
A diet that is low in sodium can help to reduce your blood pressure, which lowers your risk of AF and other heart issues., Nicotine can cause atrial fibrillation. In addition, tobacco smoke causes the constriction of your blood vessels, which can lead to high blood pressure and can make your AF worse. It also decreases the amount of oxygen in your blood, while the nicotine can do damage to your heart. It can also lead to many other heart problems, including coronary artery disease and stroke. If you are having a hard time quitting:


Talk to your doctor about methods and medications you can use to quit.
Join a support group for people who are trying to quit smoking., Your heart is a muscle, and like any other muscle, it needs to be worked out. Doing cardiovascular exercises will help work out your heart and decrease your risk of AF and other heart diseases. Try to get at least 30 minutes of exercise five days a week for a total of 150 minutes, or 75 minutes of vigorous exercise. Also make sure you include two to three days of strength training.


Focus on light cardio exercises that can help to get your blood pumping. Some light cardio exercises that work well include fast-paced walking, light jogging, casual cycling, and light swimming.
Increase how long or strenuous your fitness levels are when you get stronger. Start moderate to intense cardio or your light cardio for longer periods of time once you get used to light cardio.
Make sure you ask your doctor which exercises you can safely do with your heart issues., There are established guidelines and treatments for atrial fibrillation using certain medications. The three main factors to be considered are the control of your heart rate, conversion of your atrial fibrillation to normal, and anticoagulation therapy. Your doctor will decide on the class of medication and individual dosing to provide you with based on a full physical workup. The four classes of medications for control of the ventricular heart rate are:


Beta blockers such as metoprolol, which reduce blood pressure by blocking the effects of epinephrine
Nondihydropyridine calcium channel blockers, such as verapamil and diltiazem
Digoxin, which increases the intensity of heart muscle contraction without increasing the length of contraction
Amiodarone, which causes a prolonged phase of the heart contraction

