 It is common for people to try and find happiness through other people rather than from within themselves. For instance, have you ever caught yourself thinking “I’ll be happy if I find someone to share my life with.” This type of approach makes things much more difficult because you are constantly waiting for happiness to find you. Instead, try thinking about the things within in your own life that make you happy.For example, maybe your morning coffee makes you happy everyday, or you find joy in a daily exercise routine.
These are things that you can control. Life will seem a lot easier if you can find inner gratitude.
 Setting even a small goal for yourself can help you to build your confidence. Try starting out with something that you know you can achieve, such as exercising for 30 minutes three times over the course of a week. After you complete your goal, acknowledge the accomplishment and then reward yourself in some way, such as by watching a favorite movie or by buying yourself something small, like a new app for your phone or a new lip balm. Then, increase the difficulty of the goal slightly, such as by setting a goal of exercising for 30 minutes four times over the course of a week.

Reflecting on things that you have already accomplished can also help you to build up your self-confidence.Try making a list of all of the goals (big and small) that you have accomplished in your lifetime. This could include things like graduating from high school or college, traveling somewhere you have always wanted to go, or shaving 30 seconds off of your mile time.
 Many people will make things harder on themselves by always focusing on the worst possible outcomes. Have you ever found yourself thinking: “What if my partner cheats on me?” “What if I lose my job?” “What if I fail this test?” Although these are all possibilities, they are not likely to happen. Instead of spending time thinking about possible negative outcomes, you should devote your energy to the present moment. You are less likely to fail a test, if you spend time in the present studying the material., In order to be proactive you have to try and anticipate what is coming, and easily adapt to changing circumstances. For instance, proactive people do not need to be told what to do. Instead, they usually identify problems as they occur and begin responding to them immediately. Being proactive is an excellent way to make your life less difficult and it is characterized by a more flexible personality., Many people want to make positive changes in their lives, but will fall off the bandwagon quickly. For example, how many times have you tried to eat healthier, and then after a few days you find yourself enjoying fast food? The best way to make a lasting positive change is to learn how to develop habits. By learning how to create new habits you can make a lasting and meaningful change in your life.For example, try accomplishing one small task for 5 days in a row. This could be something as simple as pulling the covers up when you get out of bed in the morning.
Do not attempt to "make the bed," just pull up the covers. After a few days this behaviour will become habitual and you will realize that it would be just as easy to make the bed as it is to pull up the covers.
Remember to start very small and introduce tiny changes to your routine. Once you have learned how to create new habits it will be easier for you to tackle larger life changes.

