 A highlight video or a video that showcases your quality skills can help you stand out among other applicants. If your club or high school films your games, reach out to your coaches for access to these videos. If they do not, you will need to invest in a quality camera and have a friend or family member film you. The film should include your game highlights and some of your best plays. You can also include footage of yourself showcasing your skills during practice or alone.Keep the video relatively short. As a general rule, they should be less than ten minutes. If a coach wants to see more film, they will ask you for it.
Put this video online and attach a link to the video in your resume.
 There are a number of websites, like BeRecruited and Top Drawer Soccer, that are dedicated to high school recruitment for NCAA sports. You can make a profile on these sites to increase your exposure. These profiles include your soccer stats, high school, height, weight, and soccer awards.


Recruiters may look at these profiles to get a general understanding of your skill level based on your statistics and rewards.
This should be done as a complimentary part of your recruiting process and cannot replace directly contacting coaches.
 Check with your current coach to see if they have contacts with any of the schools on your list. Send an introductory email or letter to coaches of teams that you are interested in.


Your introductory email or letter should include your name, high school, graduation year, and contact information. Let the coach know that you are interested in playing for their team and why you think you would be a good fit on the team.
You should include a professional resume that contains detailed statistics from your past seasons of club and high school play. Include a copy of your high school transcript and standardized test scores as well. Be sure to include a link to the highlight reel that you have filmed.
 Respond to every coach that responds to your initial email. These early stages of correspondence are very important in establishing a relationship with the coach.


If you do not hear from a coach after two weeks, reach out to them again.
Never ignore an email or phone call from a coach, regardless of whether you are interested in the school or not. You never know how the recruiting process will go and you will want to maintain positive relationships with different teams.
 Coaches receive hundreds, or thousands, of letters from high school players who want to play at the college level. If a coach is interested, they may contact your club or high school coach to act as an intermediary. To show them that you are interested in their team, you should be familiar with the school and the team history.During your correspondence with coaches, show that you are familiar with the team and that you are interested in attending that college for a reason.
 Colleges often host developmental or showcase athletic camps to attract top-level players from across the country. Recruiters will be attending these camps and will also use this as an opportunity to assess players’ skills. These camps are predominantly offered in the summer and soccer offseason.


Be friendly with the other people at the camp. While you all may be competing for the same scholarships, you want to demonstrate that you are a team player and someone who can get along with teammates.
 You will attract attention from recruiters when you are succeeding on the field. Play at your highest level in your varsity and club games and become a standout player on your team. Treat every practice and game seriously as a way to improve your skills and your chances of being recruited. Play the best game that you can every time and play as if the coach from your top choice school was watching you.


Keep track of your record, your statistics, and any awards that you win.
Update college coaches if you have a significant accomplishment they would be interested in, like your varsity team winning your state league.