 An adult husky should eat two meals a day. Puppies, however, will need to eat more often to start. Feed your husky three meals a day until three months of age, then two meals a day after that. If the puppy is struggling to finish his meals or his tummy is very full and distended on three meals before the age of three months, then divide the daily allowance between four meals instead.
At 12 to 16 weeks, you will notice the puppy just picks a little at the afternoon meal. At this point, you can discontinue it.Feed a high-quality food that is not full of artificial additives.This is important at any age, but especially so for a growing puppy.
Feeding on a regular schedule will help with housebreaking the dog, as most husky puppies will need to go outside 15 to 30 minutes after eating.Do not allow your husky to "free feed" at any age. Providing meals at set times, and taking the dish away when the dog is done eating, is one way to show your stubborn husky that you are in charge.;
, Huskies are naturally clean dogs. They will groom themselves, and have little odor. As a result, you can bathe a husky as seldom as once a year. But, the dog's thick coat will require frequent brushing.Most of the year, you should brush your dog once a week, taking this opportunity to clean and inspect its ears and brush his its teeth.During shedding season, daily brushing will help decrease shedding in your home., Because huskies are working dogs, their feet are very important to them. You should trim long hairs on their feet and keep their nails trimmed.Dogs have blood vessels in their nails, so it's important not to trim too short. If you aren't experienced trimming a dog's nails, it may be best to ask a groomer or vet to do it, or at least show you how., Because the Siberian husky's tendency toward eye problems, it is important to get your puppy's eyes checked at a young age. Specifically, huskies are often diagnosed with:Cataracts, a film over the lens of the eye.
Corneal dystrophy, a cloudiness over the cornea that females are especially prone to.
Progressive retinal atrophy, a condition in which the dog's eyes slowly degenerate until it becomes blind.
These conditions are often hereditary. Find out all you can about your puppy's parents to find out if they are likely to occur.

