 The word ‘boundaries’ can sometimes seem negative. Instead of thinking of it as a boundary you are setting for yourself during the holidays, think of it as a holiday goal you are setting.Changing your perspective and taking a positive attitude about it can make it easier for you to stick to your limits.


For example, instead of thinking, “I’m going to limit myself to one dessert a week,” you might think, “My goal is to have less than two desserts each week.”
Or, for instance, rather than saying, “I can only spend $10 on each gift,” you could say, “I’m going to see how many meaningful gifts I can buy for $10 or less.”

, Some studies suggest that writing down your goals can help you achieve them.Similarly, writing down your holiday boundaries for yourself can help remind you of them and encourage you to stick to them.


Make a list of the specific areas that you want to set boundaries and limits for this holiday season. For instance, you might write, “spending, working, sleeping enough, and partying.”
Write a specific goal for each area. For example, “Complete all reports without working overtime the week of Christmas.”
Keep your list with you or post it somewhere you can see frequently to remind yourself of what your boundaries are.
 Sometimes you may have trouble sticking to limits that you set for yourself because it’s simply too easy not to stick to them. Putting some creative obstacles in place is a good way to make it hard not to cross the boundaries that you set for yourself.


For example, if you keep your credit cards in the front of your wallet, it’s easy for you to whip them out for a quick, unplanned purchase. Try storing them in your spare wallet, in your coat, in your closet. Or, you can try using cash for all of your in-store purchases. Then you will spend what you actually have instead of charging it onto your credit cards.
Or, for instance, you might place the fruitcake your aunt sent you behind the carrots, celery, and lime water in the refrigerator. This way you have several healthy choices before the cake.
 One way to stick to the limits you set for yourself is to regularly give yourself a pat on the back.Encouraging yourself can help you maintain a positive attitude about your boundaries and goals, while rewarding yourself can help give you an incentive for doing so.


For instance, before going into a holiday party you might think to yourself, “I can eat less than six pastries tonight and if I do, I can have an eggnog latte tomorrow morning.”
Or, for example, if you turn down a holiday get together because you need to work on a project you might reward yourself with a relaxing bath.

