 If you are considering reporting your boss for their behavior, pause before going to upper level management. First, have a talk with your boss to see if things improve. There could be things going on in their life that you don’t know about or perhaps they are frustrated with your work as of late.During a time of calmness, approach them and see if they have a few minutes to talk. If they are typically very busy, then set up a meeting beforehand.
Say something like “I really enjoy working here but sometimes, especially in the mornings, you yell at me and other team members. That makes it hard for me to want to work hard for you because I am frustrated. Is there anything going on with you right now or anything that I can do better or differently?

, Moodiness might cause your boss to accuse you of poor performance, even when you are doing your best at your job. By keeping detailed records of what the boss has asked of you, including asking for clarifications, extensions, and changes to your work, you can provide proof when your moody boss accuses you of not following directions. It's not your place to prevent their moodiness, but it is your place to prove that you had a set of expectations in place and that you have fulfilled these as requested.After meetings with your boss, consider sending them an email about what you were asked to do, to clarify.
You can say something like “As a clarification, in our meeting you said that you want me to create a one page document highlighting all of our services and to share it with the team before publishing it. I wanted to confirm that this is correct before moving forward.”

, Know that you have a right to express your boundaries in the workplace. This means making it clear in a polite but forthright manner when things are not appropriate in your interactions together. For example, if your moody boss is working up to a screeching match about some work you've done, instead of screeching back, simply say firmly that you will return to discuss the work when the two of you have had a chance to calm down and think about it a little more.


Or, if you feel constrained to sit there, be calm and confident and when the tirade ends, simply say "Thank you for your observations. I will consider them all in detail and provide you with a written response."
Use evidence and logic when your moody boss veers off into blanket allegations or rants.
Avoid accusations, allegations, and ultimatums yourself. These upset any person, moody or not, and even if your boss is using these tactics, don't copy.

