 To make the chocolate hazelnut bark, you’ll need an 11-inch by 17-inch (28-cm by 43-cm) baking sheet. Place a piece of parchment paper on the baking sheet as a liner so you can easily remove the bark when it’s ready. Set the baking sheet aside.You can substitute a silicone baking mat for the parchment paper if you prefer.;
, Add 2 pounds (907 g) of the chocolate of your choice to a heatproof bowl, and place the bowl inside a saucepan with water that’s simmering on the stove at medium to medium-high. Heat the chocolate in the double boiler until it is melted and completely smooth.Stir the chocolate constantly to ensure that it heats evenly and doesn’t burn.
Dark chocolate, bittersweet chocolate, semisweet chocolate, and milk chocolate will all work well for the bark.
 Once the chocolate is completely melted, add ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of hazelnut extract and ½ cup (150 g) of chocolate hazelnut spread. Stir well to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully blended, and remove the bowl from the heat.You can find hazelnut extract in the same aisle at the grocery store where the vanilla extract is sold.
 After all of the ingredients are combined, transfer the mixture to the prepared baking sheet. Use a spatula or spoon to spread it in an even layer across the sheet., When the chocolate mixture is spread on the baking sheet, sprinkle 1 cup (90 g) of finely chopped hazelnuts over the top. Distribute the nuts as evenly as possible across the chocolate.If you’d like to give the bark a salty flavor, sprinkle some sea salt along with the nuts.
 Once you’ve sprinkle the nuts over the chocolate, place the tray in the refrigerator. Allow the bark to chill until it is completely firm, which should take 25 to 30 minutes.If you want to cover the chocolate before you refrigerate it, tent some foil over it. If you use plastic wrap, it may fall into the chocolate and stick to it as it chills.
 When the chocolate hazelnut bark is firm, remove it from the refrigerator. Use clean hands or a butter knife to break the bark into pieces and serve.Store the bark in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to a week.
 For the spicy orange hazelnut chocolate bark, you’ll need a large baking sheet. Cover it with a piece of parchment paper to keep the bark from sticking to it as it chills.A silicone baking mat also works well for lining the baking sheet.
 Add 8 ounces (227 g) of chopped bittersweet chocolate to a large microwave-safe bowl. Heat the chocolate in the microwave on high in 30 second intervals until it is completely melted. Be sure to stir it after each interval to help the chocolate melt evenly.You can melt the chocolate in a double boiler if you prefer.
 Once the chocolate is melted, add ¼ teaspoon (½ g) of cayenne pepper, 1 teaspoon (2 g) of finely grated orange zest, and ⅜ cup (68 g) of coarsely chopped toasted hazelnuts. Stir well to ensure that the ingredients are well blended.If you prefer to have the orange flavor without the spice, leave out the cayenne pepper.
 When the chocolate mixture is fully blended, transfer it to the prepared baking sheet. Use the back of a spoon or an offset spatula to spread it over the sheet in an even layer., After the chocolate is spread over the baking sheet, sprinkle the remaining ⅛ cup (22 g) of coarsely chopped hazelnuts over the bark. Add some flaky sea salt to taste as well.You can omit the sea salt if you prefer.
 Once you’ve added the hazelnuts and sea salt, put the baking sheet in the refrigerator. Allow the bark to chill until it is solid, which should take 15 to 20 minutes., With clean hands, break the bark into individual pieces. Place the bark on a platter or plate for serving.Store the bark in an airtight container at room temperature. It will stay fresh for 5 to 7 days.
 For the hazelnut marble chocolate bark, you’ll need a large, rimmed cookie sheet. Set down a layer of waxed paper or foil to make it easier to remove the bark when it’s finished chilling.You can also use parchment paper or a silicone baking mat to line the cookie sheet.
 Add 6 ounces (170 g) of white chocolate to a medium microwave-safe bowl. Place the bowl in the microwave, and heat on high for 30 seconds. Stir the chocolate well, and if necessary, heat for another 30 seconds to melt it completely.If the white chocolate still isn’t melted after 1 minute, continue heating it in 15 second increments until it’s completely smooth. Be sure to stir well after each increment.
 Add 6 ounces (170 g) of semisweet baking chocolate to another medium microwave-safe bowl. Place the bowl in the microwave, and heat on high for 30 seconds. Stir the chocolate well to see if it’s melted, and heat for another 30 seconds if necessary to melt it completely.As with the white chocolate, continue heating the semisweet chocolate in 15 second increments until it is melted completely. Stir well after each time that you heat it.
 Once both chocolates are completely melted, add ¼ cup (45 g) of finely chopped toasted hazelnuts to each bowl. Stir well to ensure that the nuts are thoroughly incorporated in each chocolate., After you’ve mixed in the nuts, use spoons to transfer the chocolates to the cookie sheet. Place the chocolates in alternating side by side rows until you use up all of the chocolate.Spread the chocolates evenly so it has a thickness of approximately ¼-inch (6-mm).
 Once the chocolates are arranged in alternating rows, take a knife or small metal spatula and swirl through both chocolates. The goal is to mix them slightly to create a marbled effect.You don’t need to be perfect when you cut through the chocolate. You can create as subtle or dramatic a marbled effect as you like.
 After you’ve swirled through the chocolate, place the cookie sheet in the refrigerator. Chill it until it is firm, which should take approximately 1 hour., When the bark is solid, remove it from the refrigerator. Use a knife or clean hands to break it into smaller pieces and serve.Store the bark in an airtight container.

