 Oftentimes, relationships take a turn for the worst because you are only able to spot your partner’s faults. As you work to rebuild trust, attempt to clear up the fog that has been clouding your view. Recount all the wonderful reasons you chose this partner.


Challenge yourselves to see the good in each other. Each day for a week, share three things you admire about your partner. Or, express joy for something nice your partner did., Betrayal creeps into a relationship when one or both partners doesn’t feel empowered to communicate. You should be able to share your thoughts, feelings, and opinions without censorship. Improve your communication habits by speaking with “I’” statements.”I” statements decrease the chance of your partner getting offended by your words. They allow you to take ownership of any thoughts or feelings you have. These statements usually start with “I feel.
For example, you might come home from a party and say, “I felt ignored at the birthday party. I felt like you were talking to everyone but me.” This is much less accusatory than saying “You ignored me at the party!”

, Sometimes, it hurts when your partner brushes against a weak spot. Maybe you are sensitive about your family and your partner makes a tactless remark. You think “What a jerk!” or “Did she intentionally criticize me?” In order to rebuild your trust, you have to turn the volume down on this defensiveness and start giving your partner the benefit of the doubt.If you attack everything your partner says, they will start censoring their words around you. That’s the slippery slope before lying and betrayal reenter the picture.
Besides, your partner probably has your best interests at heart. Don’t expect everything that comes out of their mouth to be spun in gold. Hold yourself and your partner to realistic standards and your relationship will thrive.
 As you and your partner begin to communicate more openly and regularly, it can help to refine your listening skills. Listening to your partner when they speak is a great way to show that you respect them and gain their trust.When your partner is speaking, give them your full attention. Remove distractions like cellphones and TVs. Wait to have serious discussions when the kids are preoccupied or asleep. Make frequent eye contact. And, rest your arms and legs at your sides with a relaxed posture. Smile or nod as appropriate.
When your partner finishes speaking, paraphrase what they said to be sure you got it right. You might say, “It sounds like you are saying…” or something similar. This confirms that you were listening and makes your partner feel better validated than if you rushed to offer a response.
 Mutual betrayal can take a toll on a relationship. If you and your partner are struggling to restore trust, see a professional couples therapist. A therapist can help you clarify your relationship goals and devise practical strategies to improve honesty and communication.