 The basic requirements are that you’re over 18 and are able to make a significant time commitment to fostering. You should also have a means of transportation for getting dogs around and a suitable space in which to care for foster dogs.You’ll need to have your own vehicle or reliable access to someone else’s and/or dog-friendly public transportation so that you can get dogs to veterinary exams and meetings with potential adopters.
Many programs for fostering dogs require that you have a fenced-in outdoor area to make it easy for dogs to go out throughout the day.
If you do not own your home, be sure that your landlord allows dogs on the premises.
Keep in mind that foster programs will typically require you to go through an in-depth application, interview, and training process. They may also require references.;
, Besides basic care, many foster dogs require training and socialization. Fostering requires daily effort that will adjust your typical schedule to accommodate a dog’s needs and routine. You don’t need to be around 24 hours a day, but it’s important that you plan on being around more often than you’re not.It’s also important to decide in advance how long you’re willing to foster a dog for. Fostering can range from a couple weeks to a few months.
It’s best not to have any travel planned while you’re fostering a particular dog.
Some foster programs may require that you’re around during the day.
 If you live with other people or pets, you should take them and their needs into consideration before you commit to fostering. Be sure that everyone you live with is on board before you begin fostering dogs.For instance, if you have a pet who is not keen on other dogs, it’s probably not a good idea to bring new ones into your home. If you have other pets, you should not foster puppies who are not fully immunized or dogs with communicable illnesses.
If you have young children, it’s risky to invite an unsocialized dog into your home. Also, keep in mind that the children will also need training in order to ensure a positive fostering experience for everyone.
 Many foster dogs will have special needs that makes the shelter an unsuitable environment for them. These may include puppies that are too young to be adopted, pregnant females, and adult dogs in need of socialization or special care due to injury or illness.Consider which behavioral and medical issues that you’re willing to deal with in advance. Fostering programs will provide you with briefs about a dog’s health needs and temperament before assigning them to you.
 Animal shelters and pet rescue organizations will often have associated foster programs. Do an online search for “fostering dogs” and your closest town or city to find programs in your vicinity.Keep in mind that most foster programs require you to live in the immediate area, so that it’s easy for you to bring the dog in for medical care and arrange visits with potential owners.
You can also contact shelters and rescues in your area over the phone or visit them in person to see if they offer fostering.
 Once you know which programs exist locally, find out more information about each program. You can do this by calling the host organizations directly or by visiting their websites. Be sure that you find out about the resources and requirements for each program to be sure that they align with your needs and qualifications.The best programs will provide supplies and veterinary care for foster dogs as well as training and support for you.
You should also inquire about what types of dogs are most common in their fostering program to make sure that you’re prepared to deal with them.
Some programs have prerequisites for dog foster carers, such as day-time availability, a fenced-in yard, or a home without pets or children. Be sure to check that you fit with their qualifications.
 All programs will require you to fill out an online or paper application to become a foster carer. The form will ask you for details about your contact information, lifestyle, and living situation as well as about your preferences for the number and type of rescue dogs you’re willing to host.Filling out this form thoroughly will help programs match you with compatible dogs.
 Responsible foster programs require a home visit before they’ll place a dog with you. An employee or volunteer associated with the organization will come to your residence to ensure that it’s safe and suitable for dogs. They’ll also be able to answer any questions that you may have about the program and offer advice about caring for dogs and making your living space more dog-friendly.Some programs require the whole family or all housemates to be present so that they can verify that the foster dog will be entering a friendly, willing environment.
 Most foster programs offer an orientation and free training courses for volunteers that will teach you how to care for foster dogs. They will also provide information about how to handle any special training needs or behavioral issues associated with your wards.Never accept a dog that has behavioral or medical issues that you have not been trained to deal with by a qualified trainer.
 The majority of foster programs will provide you with the necessary supplies to foster a dog, including food, bowls, toys, a crate, bedding, collar, and leash. They are, however, always grateful if you can supply these basic needs yourself.Keep in mind that you may need to supplement these supplies with additional food and/or treats. See if your dogs have any special dietary needs before purchasing kibble or snacks or them.
If a program does not provide basic supplies, be sure that you’re ready to assume the financial costs of caring for a dog before you commit to fostering. Even the most basic pet care supplies can run you $500 or more per year., Since it may be difficult for foster dogs to adjust to their new environment, help them be at ease by immediately introducing a healthy routine that they can count on. Their daily schedule should involve feeding, walking, socializing, and being let out regularly.It may also include training and/or grooming as necessary.
 The most urgent training that most foster dogs require is basic socialization. Many of them will have had limited or negative contact with humans. It’s your job as a foster parent to prepare them for life in a new home by giving them plenty of positive attention.Be sure to let dogs spend time around people throughout the day. For instance, encourage them to be in the living room while your family watches television together.
Give the dog plenty of individual attention each day by petting and playing with them.
 The foster program should supply you with grooming tools and training about how to keep each specific breed in fine fettle. Well-groomed dogs are more likely to be adopted, so it’s important to help maintain their coats and cleanliness.Most dogs will only require daily to weekly brushing and a good wipe-down with a towel when they go outside in sloppy weather.
Other specialized grooming requirements, such as trimming their fur or nails, can be left to professionals at the shelters.
 The shelter you’re fostering for will advertise that your dog is available for adoption. However, if you want to speed the process of finding your foster dog a forever home, you can help advertise them to potential owners.Write an attractive but honest description of the dog, and post it to community forums like Craigslist or dedicated pet adoption sites like Petfinder. People are much more likely to respond if you include current, appealing photos of the dog.
You can also advertise on social media by posting cute photos and descriptions of your ward and tagging or providing a link to the shelter where they’re available. There’s a chance that someone in your network is looking for a dog like yours!
The shelter will appreciate it if you put potential dog parents in touch with them. However, let the shelter handle the adoption process itself.

