 Grading can be a stressful part of teaching, especially if you teach English or another subject where you are evaluating student writing. You might feel obligated to provide extensive feedback to help your students, or you might simply feel panic when you get a large stack of papers on your desk.Some things you might do to reduce your stress about grading include:


Setting a limit on how much time you can spend on each paper, such as 7 to 10 minutes.
Grading in a pleasant environment, such as at a coffee shop, while listening to some relaxing music, or while sitting outside.
Taking frequent breaks, such as 5 to 10 minutes every hour.
 Being well-organized can also help you to manage your workload and reduce your job stress. You can do this by keeping track of your responsibilities, appointments, and other important information in a planner.You might also plan ahead by getting as much work done as possible in advance. For example, instead of writing one lesson plan, you might write three to get a jump on a new unit. Instead of postponing some recordkeeping for the weekend, do it right away so that you can enjoy your weekend instead.
 Taking breaks is essential to staying sane in any job, but teachers often tend to bring their work home with them. Some things you can do to ensure that you get regular breaks include:Setting aside at least one weeknight and one weekend day every week where you do not bring any work home with you.
Taking your personal days, sick days, and vacation days as needed.
Making the most of your summer vacations and doing as little work as possible for the coming school year.
 Working with another teacher in your subject area can also help to reduce your workload. By finding out what another teacher has used with success in his or her classroom, you may be able to save yourself the time and hassle of trying to come up with something out of thin air.If your school has a mentorship program, then take advantage of it. Get to know someone who has more experience than you to get resources and lesson plans that you can use in your teaching.
You might also just ask another teacher if he or she would be interested in meeting to swap teaching ideas sometime. You might be as helpful to this other teacher as he or she is to you.
 Another important part of managing your stress is knowing when to say no. You may be asked to help out with all sorts of special projects and events, but it is not possible for you to do it all. If taking on these obligations stresses you out, then say no for a while.Try saying something simple like, “I’m sorry, but I can’t help you with that. I am just too busy this week.”
Avoid listing multiple excuses or trying to explain yourself. Just be straightforward and say no.

