


Though citrus trees may seem to have a lot of common, significant differences between breeds and varieties do exist. Learn how much water, sunlight, and fertilizer is required to support the citrus trees under your care.;
,


If the citrus trees in your nursery require more water, fertilizer, or sun exposure than is currently being provided, it is up to you as the nursery manager to change this.
Increase the water supply of the citrus trees through automatic irrigation systems or additional manpower. Adjust soil pH by increasing or decreasing the amount of fertilizer provided to the trees. Finally, sunlight exposure can be managed through the addition or removal of overhead canopies.
 Walk through the citrus tree nursery at least once per week to examine the trees for signs of disease or damage.


Broken limbs, dry leaves, and discolorations are all possible signs of citrus tree illness or damage by weather or other environmental causes.



Citrus trees are typically fickle when it comes to cold weather. Watch the local weather predictions on a daily basis, and be prepared to cover the trees quickly when a freeze warning is issued. Covering citrus trees can be a time consuming task, so invoke the assistance of other employees when possible.



Though you as the manager of the citrus tree nursery, are in charge of the entire facility, it is impossible to perform all duties required to keep it operating. Determine which tasks are not manageable for you, and assign these tasks to employees. Make sure that each employee is familiar with the task assigned before he or she performs it on their own.



Without customers, your citrus tree nursery will go out of business quickly. Determine who your customers are, and advertise directly to them. If your main customers are individual community members, running television commercials, placing ads on the radio, and putting up billboards is ideal.
In contrast, if you are marketing to larger commercial organizations, such as schools, restaurants, and other retailers, making phone calls, sending emails, and scheduling interviews is appropriate.

