 In addition to the hand gesture, there is a “peace symbol” that some people think of when they refer to a peace sign. It’s a drawn image.


To make this symbol, start by drawing a circle. To get a perfect circle, you could draw around a circular object, such as a roll of tape or the bottom of a cup.Draw two lines vertically down the middle of the circle to form a band. Use a ruler to make sure that the each edge of the lines is the same distance away from the center of the circle.
The line should be the same width as the outer circle. This symbol, as used for peace, dates to 1958 when it was drawn by a graduate of the Royal College of Arts in England to protest nuclear war., Start in the middle point of each of the vertical lines.


Draw two slanted lines straight from the middle to the outer circle.Draw another circle within the circle that is the same width to the outside of the circle as the center and sloping lines inside it.
Connect the inner circle’s lines to the bands, rather than drawing through them., A compass can help you get a perfect circle, and you could use a straight edge to get a straight line.


When using a compass, make a dot and then create a circle with the compass. Then lower the diameter of the Compass, and draw a second circle within the first.Take the straight edge. Draw a straight line down the middle of the circle. Then, draw a second straight line down the middle of the circle.
Use the straight edge to draw a sloping line from the middle of the vertical line to each outer edge of the circle. The sloping lines should form an upside down V that fills the bottom half of the circle. Then take an eraser and erase all of the lines inside the shapes you created.
 The white dove is another traditional symbol of peace. If you draw a white dove, most people know this means peace.


To solidify the meaning, draw an olive branch in the dove's beak. As with peace signs, the dove can have different meanings, though.
In Christianity, doves symbolize the Holy Spirit. Doves have also historically represented freedom.Doves are released on wedding days as symbols of purity and to mark the start of a new life.
Historically, the Greeks felt that the olive branch turned away evil spirits. The dove with olive branch is also said to symbolize hope as well as peace.

