 Most people know that one of the worst salad ingredients you can add is a high-fat, high-calorie dressing. The worst dressing offenders are those super creamy and rich dressings.Dressings that are creamy are not only high in calories and fat but many times have added sugars and preservatives. Adding these to your salads can take a healthy bowl of greens in the wrong direction.
Dressings to skip include: french, bleu cheese, ranch, creamy caesar, thousand island and honey mustard.
Dressings like bleu cheese dressing will add a whopping 145 calories per 2 tablespoon serving.
Although you should skip those high-fat dressings, grabbing a bottle of the low-fat or fat-free isn't a great option either. These may be lower in fat, but are generally higher in sodium, sugar and other additives. Manufacturers often add more sugar to make up for the flavor lost in reducing fat.;
, Ingredients that add a little bit of crunch are delicious, but when these items are high in fat or fried, that crunchy texture comes along with a lot of extra calories and fat, as well as sodium.


Whenever you fry something — whether it's pan fried or deep fried — excess oil soaks into the food adding fat and calories.In addition, foods that are high in fat will add a lot of calories as well.
You should aim for less than 2,300 mg of sodium a day — the amount contained in 1 teaspoon of salt. Too much sodium may increase your blood pressure.Limit or skip items like: bacon bits, fried chicken or crispy chicken, fried shrimp or fried cheese.
Items like bacon bits can pack about 140 calories per ounce plus over 900 mg of sodium., while some crispy chicken will add an extra 15 grams of fat per serving., High-fat ingredients aren't the only items that can push your salad in an unhealthy direction. You also need to watch out for those carbohydrates that are filled with extra calories with no nutritional value.Some of these items are also fried (like those crunchy noodles). Deep frying these items also adds extra fat and calories.
Limit items like croutons, sesame sticks, crunchy noodles, crackers or tortilla chips.
 You might be surprised to learn there can be a lot of sugar in some salads. Some ingredients contain a significant amount of sugar, which pushes up your salad's total calories.


A little bite of sweetness is tasty in a salad. But typical sweetened items contain a lot of sugar which will increase their total calorie content.Limit items like candied nuts or sweetened dried fruit.
Candied nuts, like walnuts or pecans, can ring in with about 180 calories per ounce., If you want to whip up a healthy and nutritious salad, you need to start with the right type of green. Although all lettuce is low-calorie, not all choices are nutrient-dense.


Nutrient-dense foods are those that are moderately low in calories and very high in a variety of vitamins, minerals, fiber, protein or antioxidants.
In regards to your salad greens, you want to choose a lettuce that's high in vitamins, minerals, fiber and antioxidants.
For example, iceberg lettuce is crunchy and low in calories. Unfortunately, it's also low in any valuable nutrition.Instead, fill up your salad bowl with really nutritious greens like: kale, spinach, Swiss chard, arugula, romaine, butter lettuce or watercress., In addition to your greens, boost the nutrient content of your salad by adding on even more nutrient-dense foods like fruits and vegetables.


Both fruits and vegetables are naturally low in calories and generally contain a wide variety of vitamins, minerals, fiber and antioxidants. Each fruit or vegetable can offer your salad extra nutrition.Fruits and vegetables can also add a lot of different flavor profiles and textures to your salad.
For example, roasted carrots or onions will add a nutty flavor to your salad, while sliced strawberries and blueberries will add a naturally sweet bite.
 Many people go wrong when it comes to the type of protein they add to their salads. Stick to leaner protein sources, like grilled chicken, lean steak, eggs, grilled or baked fish, beans, tofu, low-fat cheese, or lentils, to make sure your salad stays nutritious.


Instead choose leaner cuts of protein. These are lower in fat and calories but will help keep you feeling satiated longer.
Avoid high-fat protein sources or proteins with unhealthy fats (trans or saturated), such as bacon, sausage, dark meats, and full-fat cheeses.
 Fat does add more calories to your meals; however, not all fat is bad — in fact, fat is actually a necessary part of a healthy diet. Some foods contain healthy fats that can help boost the overall nutrition of your salad.


Some foods contain healthy fats like omega-3 fats. This particular type of fat has been show to support your heart and artery health.Try adding these heart healthy fats to your salads: nuts, salmon, mackerel, tuna, anchovies, avocado, olive oil or olives.
Note, that these foods although healthy, are still calorie-dense as well. It'll be essential to measure your portion sizes of these foods. For instance, one portion of fish is about 3-oz, while one portion of avocado is 1 oz.
 Since even a healthy salad can get out of control once the dressing goes on, choose a dressing that'll be a bit lower in calories. This can help make sure your healthy salad stays healthy.


The best bet for a salad dressing is to go with an oil-based dressing and limit your portion size to 2 tablespoons. If you use a heart healthy oil like olive oil or walnut oil, you'll also get in a dose of healthy fats.You can also try basing your dressings off of hummus or avocado. Blending these items in can help give you a creamy texture in addition to healthy fats.
 One easy way to make sure that your salad is not only healthy, but nutritious, is having a few different colors in your salad. Explore the colors of rainbow when it comes to your salad ingredients.


Fruits and vegetables come in a range of colors. What makes each fruit and vegetable a particular color is either a vitamin or antioxidant in that particular fruit or vegetable.In addition, fruits and vegetables that are particularly bright or very saturated in color may signify a very high level of a specific antioxidant. For example, carrots, blackberries, beets or raspberries are extremely high in a variety of antioxidants.
To make your salad super nutrient-dense, make sure your salads have at least three different colors of either fruits, vegetables or both. Three different colors means you have at least three different types of vitamins or antioxidants.
For example, you can have green spinach tossed with blueberries, roasted beets and topped with grilled salmon.
 Another quick trick to keeping your salads calories in check is by monitoring how many toppings or ingredients you use in your salad. Limit the total amount of toppings or ingredients you use to help keep your overall calories in check.


Another area that an otherwise healthy salad can get out of hand is when you put too many toppings on or use too many ingredients.
Even if you have a bunch of nutritious toppings (like grilled salmon, avocado, blueberries, and nuts), if you keep adding and adding, the total calories will continue to go up.
 For example, you might have a spinach salad topped with grilled salmon, feta cheese, roasted sunflower seeds and sliced avocado.

Naturally low-calorie toppings can count as "free" foods, meaning you can add as many of them as you like. These include: artichoke hearts, asparagus, bean sprouts, beets, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, carrots, cauliflower, celery, cucumber, edamame, eggplant, green onions, pea pods, peppers, radishes, tomatoes, and zucchini.
 Portion size is also an important part to keeping your salads healthy and calorie controlled. Always measure your portions of any of your salad ingredients.


If you're preparing salads at home, pre-measure all your toppings and ingredients. If you're out to eat, try to do your best to estimate appropriate portion sizes of all the items on your salad.
For protein (like grilled chicken, fish or steak), measure out a 3 – 4 oz serving, 1/2 cup or a piece the size of a deck of cards.For fruits, measure out 1/2 cup chopped, 1/4 cup of dried fruit (about the size of an egg) or about one small piece.For dairy foods, you're most likely going to be adding cheese to your salad. Measure out about 1 – 2 oz of cheese or about the size of a golf ball.If you're going to put some grains on your salad, like quinoa or brown rice, measure out about 1 oz or about 1/2 cup of grains.For vegetables, you'll want to measure about 2 cups worth of lettuce (about two big handfuls) or about 1 cup of more dense vegetables (like cucumbers or tomatoes) per serving., One of the best parts of making a salad at home is that you can control all the ingredients. This is especially true if you make your own salad dressings at home.


Salad dressings, especially the creamy store-bought versions, can be one of the highest calorie salad ingredients.
Cut back on your total calories, fat and sugar by making your own dressing at home. You'll have full control of exactly what ingredients, and how much you use, when you make your own.The healthiest and most nutritious salad dressings are the basic olive oil, vinegar or lemon juice plus spices.
However, if you do enjoy creamier dressings, try making your homemade dressings with low-fat Greek yogurt, pureed avocado, hummus or low-fat buttermilk. You get the same creamy consistency with less calories and fat.

