 If you have not done so already, set up your blog or website before you embark on any other step mentioned in this article.


You will need some sort of URL for your ads to link to. Moreover, setting up a blog allows you to interact with potential customers and others in the industry more efficiently.
If you are actively selling a product or service, you should consider having both a website and a blog. Websites are fairly stationary existences, only receiving updates when new stock arrives and similar events happen. This stability makes it easier for customers to make purchases. On the other hand, a blog is most effective when updated regularly and may contain content that relates to your company both directly and indirectly.
 SEO stands for "Search Engine Optimization." Essentially, SEO keywords allow your website or blog to appear higher within search engine results, which increases its exposure to potential customers.


Pick out keywords that accurately relate to your company and include these keywords in the HTML "META" tags on each of your website's pages. You should also repeat these keywords throughout blog posts and the text of your website's homepage.Keywords should describe the content of your website and the content of any post or page you apply them to, but in order to get the most out of the keywords you use, you should also choose terms and phrases that people are likely to search for. Something too generic will cause your page to get lost among search engine results, but something too specific will limit the number of people who stumble across it.
 On occasion, you should forward a few of your own blog articles to these outlets and ask if they might be willing to consider posting that content on their website. In exchange, offer to post some of their content on your blog, as well.


In this manner, you benefit from their customer base and they can benefit from yours.
The more your business's name appears throughout the Internet, the more familiar people will become with it, and the wider your customer base will spread.
The posts you exchange should not be blatant advertisements for your business. Instead, opt for posts on how-to topics related to the company, stories about your business successes and failures, and lessons you learned while building and running your business.
 Reciprocal links and banner ads harness the same principles as cross-blogging. By exchanging links or banner ads with company websites that share a similar target audience, you benefit from the other company's customer base while it benefits from yours.


In exchange for inserting links to your products on their website, you will need to find space on your website to insert links for products sold by that same partner company.
Similarly, you can directly ask another company or blog to do a banner ad exchange. Offer to place a banner ad on your website for the other company as long as that other company places a banner ad for your website on theirs.
 While directory listings tend to be fairly plain and simple, they are still an important means of advertisement. People search directories with a specific concept or desire in mind, so there's no need to "pitch" your product or service here. You only need to let others know that your company exists.

Search out all online yellow pages and similar online directories and submit your business's contact information directly to them. If your company has a physical location, make sure that you list it under online travel directories, as well.
You can also do an Internet search for individuals, business associations, and industry associations that maintain popular lists of resources applicable to your business. You should also create an entry for your business on those specialty listings.
 Do not neglect your old customers in your ongoing search for new ones. E-mail lists are a good way to advertise to repeat customers or potential customers who have demonstrated an interest in your business. Place a link on your website that allows interested parties to sign up for updates on your business's news and promotions.


Periodically send new product announcements, information on special offers, and coupons. You should also include any useful information directly related to your business.
You could also allow customers to sign up for a weekly, bi-weekly, or monthly e-zine in which you write about your company, your products and services, and your overall industry (even when it does not connect directly to your company). E-zines tend to be a little more in-depth than standard promotional mailings.
 Online message boards and similar communities allow you to interact with other people who share your interests. Choose an interest or topic that directly relates to your business and join online communities that address it.


You can advertise your business through these communities as long as the community rules do not forbid it.
Make sure that most of your interactions within these communities are personal rather than business oriented. If you are permitted a personal page or tagline, include all of your business information there. Most of the actual discussions you have with people through these communities should not directly refer to your business, however. If you push your business too much, you might lose community members' trust.

