 If you want to confront the person and tell him or her that you don't want to hang out anymore, you should plan what you say carefully. If you have a random outburst or don't choose your words wisely, the person may not think that you're being serious or that you really thought it through. You're going to tell that person that you don't want to hang out with him anymore, so you can think of the best way to explain why.


If the person is just really annoying and you don't have the heart to say it, just say that you're not enjoying the friendship, that the friendship is harmful for you, or that you'd just like to spend some time apart from the person — permanently.
If there's a more concrete reason, like the person makes you feel bad about yourself, the person always talks about himself and doesn't listen to anyone, or the person is even outright mean to you, then you can tell the person this.
If you don't want to be honest, that's fine too, if you think it'll just cause major conflict. Tell the person you don't have time for friends, that you're going through a hard time and want to be alone, or that you just want to focus on your studies.;
, Pick a time and place where you can be relatively alone, and say what you have to say. Stand a bit far away from the person and cross your arms over your chest, showing that you're already retreating. Don't give the person an opening to try to win you over, promise to change, or even try to touch or hug you.


Keep it short. Don't give the person a lot of time to react.
Maintain eye contact. Show the person that you really mean it.
 If you want to be nice after confronting the person, you can steer the person toward a club, activity, or new location that can help the person make some new friends. This can not only be better for the person, but better for you. But you should only do this if you're feeling a bit sorry for kicking the person out of your life.


If the person finds new friends, he'll forget about you in no time at all.
 If you've decided to cut off contact with that person for good (after potentially steering him in a new direction), then make the decision final. Don't let the person grovel, randomly show up, or follow you into a coffee shop and force you to have coffee. No means no, no matter what. If the person continues to bug you, you shouldn't sound threatening, but be confident and decisive about your decision.

