 Oregano oil is thought to have antiseptic and antispasmodic properties. Apply five to six drops of oregano oil directly to a clean cotton swab into and apply it on your skin tag three times a day. You should see the tag gradually dry up. This process usually takes about a month.After apply oregano oil for the first time, tie off the skin tag at the base using silk thread or dental floss. Leave the thread there until the tag falls off.
Once the tag falls off, rinse the area with warm water, apply an antibacterial ointment, and secure with a bandage until it is fully healed.
Be careful when applying natural oils, such as oregano, as they can irritate your skin. If your skin appears red, immediately discontinue using the oil. You should also avoid treating the area around your eyes.
 This oil is well known for its anti-fungal properties. Get out a clean cotton ball. Dip it into clean water and then place three drops of tea tree oil onto the ball. Wash the area of the skin tag and the skin 1” around it using the cotton ball. Repeat three times a day. This is an effective way to dry up your tag as long as you are consistent with oil applications.Make sure to include the water as it lessens the possibility of the oil irritating your skin, including your fingers. You can also dilute tea tree oil by mixing it with olive oil.
Some people also recommend placing a band-aid over the treatment area until the skin tag falls off due to dryness.
Be careful treating the area around your eyes as the oil can cause irritation.
 You can either snip off a piece of an aloe vera plant or squeeze it to get the gel or you can purchase a bottle of aloe vera gel at a store. Get a cotton swab and dip it in the gel. Wipe it on your tag as often as you like. This method relies on the natural curative properties of aloe vera and its effectiveness is hit or miss., In a small bowl mix castor oil and baking soda until it reaches a thicker consistency. Get a cotton swab, dip in the paste, and apply it to your tag. Apply as often as desired although watch for skin irritation. The effectiveness of this method is widely acknowledged among natural remedy practitioners., Get a fresh garlic clove and grind it into a paste in a small bowl. Take a cotton swab, dip it in the paste, and place a small amount on top of your skin tag. Cover the tag with a bandage. You can do this once a day.Another method is to take a garlic clove and slice it into “discs.” Then, select one disc and place it on top of your skin tag. Secure it with a band-aid. Follow this process in the morning and remove the disc and bandage in the evening. Your skin tag should fall off within the week., Get a cotton ball and soak it in apple cider vinegar until it is totally saturated. Place the cotton ball on your skin tag and hold for a few minutes. You can move the ball in a circular motion on the skin to increase absorption if you like. Repeat this process three times per day until your skin tag falls off. This method is usually quite effective. Depending on your skin the vinegar may not be as effective so you can try using apple cider by itself. It is typical to experience some itching when treating your skin with vinegar. If it gets too annoying, dilute the vinegar a bit with water before the next application.