 Find a professional furrier by looking in the phonebook or online. Call a few of the furriers in your area to see if they will examine your coat, and if you need an appointment to have them do so., Bring your coat into the shop and let the furrier examine it. This process can take anywhere from a few minutes to an hour or longer. You may be required to pay a small fee, but a professional appraisal is worth it so that you can resell your fur coat for the maximum value., Once the furrier has completed the examination, have them give you an examination certificate or paperwork that states the value of the fur coat. Make sure the name of the furrier is listed, along with the furrier's credentials, the date, and the value of the coat, all printed on a company letterhead.
 In your advertisement, note the type of fur the coat is made from, the size of the coat, and the value of the coat. You should also note what the lining is made from, the length of the fur coat, the color of the fur coat, and the listing or asking price.You can use sites such as Craigslist, eBay, Cashforfurcoats.com, and Buymyfur.com.
 Arrange your coat on a hanger or mannequin and take photos from the front and back, as well as from each side. Also take close-up photos of the fur as well as any damaged areas. Ensure you have good lighting to show potential buyers the plushness and texture of the fur coat., Upload the photos of your fur coat online, and label them accordingly. Add details that let people know what they are looking at (e.g., “Front of Chocolate Brown Mink Fur Coat”). Be sure to upload several photos so potential buyers can get a feel for all aspects and angles of the coat., Give potential buyers a means to contact you, such as an email address or telephone number. Provide them with any other details they may need, such as if you are willing to pay for the shipping cost, or if they will be responsible for that., You can choose a local shop or an online consignment shop. Do an internet search to find retailers that specialize in selling furs by consignment., You will have to split the profits from the sale with the consignment shop, so review the policy and contract before agreeing to or signing anything.

Choose the shop that has the best policy (such as offering cash rather than store credit), the most agreeable contract (perhaps one that will pay for you to ship the coat to them), and will give you the most money for your fur coat (e.g., a 70-30 split, rather than a 50-50 split)., You can either drop off the coat and certificate, or ship it to the company if it is not local. They will contact you when the sale has been made and provide you with payment for your item.