 These include:


The United Nations Charter, Articles 1(3), 55 and 56
The Universal Declaration of Human Rights 1948 (UDHR), Articles 1 and 2
The International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights1966 (ICCPR), Articles 2, 3 and 26
The International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights 1966 (ICESCR), Articles 2 and 3;
, You will find a relative consistency across the Articles in terms of the principle of non-discrimination on the ground of sex. This principle is considered to be customary international law and as such, is binding on all countries, whether or not they have signed relevant treaties. It is important to note that most countries are a part of the United Nations and are therefore bound by the UN Charter.
 CEDAW stands for the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women. This convention has been signed by over 160 countries. The explicit objective of CEDAW is to support the principle of the elimination of discrimination between women and men and the achievement of women's equality. It provides the basis for achieving equality between women and men by ensuring that women have equal access to, and equal opportunities in, political and public life. In addition, it supports the rights of women in education, health and employment. Under CEDAW, countries who are parties to the agreement must take all appropriate measures to ensure that women can enjoy all their human rights and fundamental freedoms.
 These instruments do not always have a human rights approach but as a whole, the additional treaties support the principle of non-discrimination on the grounds of sex. Many of these instruments can be found in ILO (International Labour Organisation) Conventions which are concerned with employment, maternity protection, equal pay, part-time work and work from home. In addition, a range of other instruments of importance for protecting women's human rights include conventions dealing with human trafficking, refugees, slavery, education, marriage, racial discrimination, torture, rights of the child and migrants, amongst others.
 There may be conventions made at a regional level that are applicable to your country. Examples that are supportive of women's human rights include the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights, 1981 and the European Convention for the Protection of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms, 1950. Both these treaties prohibit discrimination on the grounds of sex.
 Although soft law instruments are not binding, they are very influential and indicative of country intentions in the relevant field. In the area of protecting women's human rights, relevant non-binding but key instruments include:


The Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Violence Against Women, 1993
The Beijing Platform for Action, 1995
The Beijing +5 Outcome Document, 2000

