 When making an arrest, police officers may only use the minimum amount of force necessary to protect themselves and bring a suspect into custody. If you resist an arrest or argue with an officer, he will be authorized to use more force against you. For this reason, it is always safer to avoid resisting arrest.If you believe your arrest is unjustified, pay close to attention to all of the events that led up to your arrest and ask to speak to an attorney. With your attorney's help, you may be able to dismiss the evidence against you on the basis that it was obtained in an unconstitutional manner. In addition, you may have a basis for filing a civil rights lawsuit against the police.
If the police use excessive force against you in making an arrest, tell your attorney. The use of excessive force may also provide a basis for dismissing the charges against you.
If you are injured as a result of abuse by the police, take photographs of the injuries as soon as possible so that you have evidence of police misconduct., Once a person is arrested or detained by the police, he is no longer free to leave. Under such circumstances, a person always has the right to remain silent.If a police officer advises you that you are being arrested, or refuses to let you leave, do not feel obligated to answer any of his questions. You can either say nothing in response to the officer's questions or announce: "I'd like to remain silent." You may have to repeat this more than once, as police will continue to come back to you and ask if you want to speak.
Also understand that police can lie to you. Police may tell you that if you talk you will probably get a light sentence or that the prosecutor might not bring charges. Insist on remaining silent.
By refusing to answer an officer's questions, you will avoid making statements that could be used against you in court.
 Once you have been arrested, you have the right to have an attorney present during any questioning by the police.Tell the police that you would like a lawyer. You can say, "I want to talk to an attorney" or "I will not say anything until my attorney is present."Don't worry if you cannot afford a lawyer. If you are indigent, the government is obligated to provide you with a criminal defense attorney. However, you might not be able to speak to one right away. If you are kept in prison, you might not be able to speak to a public defender until your arraignment, which could be in a few days (if you are arrested on a Friday).
If you are arrested on a minor charge and immediately released, then you can talk to an attorney once you are out. Also, you may be able to meet with your attorney while in prison if you have a private attorney or if your city has a legal aid organization that sends attorneys to the prison to meet with arrestees., Within a reasonable amount of time after your arrest, you have the right to make a phone call.You can call any person you wish, including a lawyer, bail bondsman or relative.
If you call your lawyer, the police may not listen to the call.
 Once you have been arrested, the police may ask you to write a statement describing your involvement in a crime or sign a waiver of your rights. In general, do not write any statement or sign any document until you have talked to a lawyer.


The only document you can safely sign is a promise to appear. This is a piece of paper that informs you of the date on which you are scheduled to appear before a judge.
 If you are charged with a crime, your attorney may be able to suppress the evidence against you by showing that it was obtained in an unconstitutional manner. Even if you are not sure whether or not the police complied with proper procedures, pay close attention to what the officer says and does and write down everything you remember about the incident. Once you have a lawyer, this record will serve as a guide for you to describe the exact events that led to your arrest to your lawyer. For example, if during the course of a traffic stop, a police officer searches your car without probable cause or a warrant, you may be able to suppress any evidence he found during that search on the basis that the search was illegal. If you have a record of exactly what the officer said and did, it will be easier for your lawyer to determine whether your rights were violated and, if so, argue to the judge that the evidence against you should be suppressed.

