 Some people simply don’t want to be bothered by preparing a breakfast in the morning. While this is entirely understandable, it’s important to recognize that you’ll be more productive during the day if you kick start your metabolism with at least a small breakfast in the morning.Good quick options include a handful of almonds, a whole grain English muffin, a hard boiled egg, or fresh fruit with reduced-fat cottage cheese or Greek yogurt.
You could keep a box of Cliff bars or a similar prepackaged bar in the car if you find yourself rushing out the door every morning.
 If the reason you tend not to eat breakfast everyday is because you’re in a rush to get out of the door, you need to adjust your schedule. Get up ten to fifteen minutes earlier to give yourself a chance to start your day more calmly - and with the opportunity to eat something as well., If you actually want to be hungry in the morning, you should stop eating at least 2 hours before bed. If you are always hungry during the night, think about whether your dinner meals are adequately satiating., Make breakfast a social occasion by sitting down at the table with your family or a roommate each morning. Over time this will help make breakfast a habit., Even if the thought of eating early in the morning doesn’t appeal to you, get in the habit of eating breakfast by starting small. If you like to exercise in the morning, it's important to eat something - even if only a piece of fruit, before your workout. Exercising will also increase your appetiteOne great option for those who don’t wake up hungry is a smoothie. Not only will a smoothie give you the health benefits of eating breakfast, they can also be made to be especially nutritious.
The specific ingredients in a breakfast smoothie are up to you. Use plenty of fruits and veggies, and consider using a liquid dairy alternative as the base, such as almond milk. Include powdered protein or seeds for additional vitamins and nutrients.
If you start the day with something small and then exercise, be sure to eat a more substantial meal within two hours after you work out.
 It may seem too easy to be true, but simply opening your blinds can help get your metabolic patterns on a more consistent pattern. This, in turn, can help you feel hungrier in the morning. For maximum effectiveness, open your blinds all the way as soon as you wake up and enjoy the sunlight while you’re getting dressed and preparing for the day.Get dressed before you get to the kitchen. Getting dressed for work before making your morning dietary decisions can help motivate you to be conscious of your health when deciding what you want to eat.
 There are many foods that are commonly considered "breakfast foods," but this distinction is ultimately unimportant. If you feel like eating leftovers from the night before or slicing up a tomato with fresh mozzarella, feel free! The important thing is to get something in your body that has nutritional value.In fact, look to include more vegetables in your diet wherever possible. Even if you do go for a breakfast classic like an omelet, include asparagus, bell peppers, or other veggies.

