 A petition can be a powerful tool to show the government not only that you are opposed to the death penalty but also that many other people feel the same way. You can begin by writing out a clear statement of your position, something like, “We, the undersigned petitioners, strongly oppose the death penalty in this country/state and encourage the government to abolish it immediately.”, A strong petition statement will include a few sentences that support your position. This will be based on your prior research.You may say something like, “Recent research demonstrates that the death penalty is biased against _______ race of people, as ____% more are killed than whites.”
You might also include statistics on the number of deaths: “In 2015, ____ people were put to death. This number is outrageously high.”

, If you are trying to present a petition that will be binding on the government to take some action, you probably have to follow certain rules. Some of the rules that generally apply to governmental petitions include the following:a minimum number of signatures for the petition to be valid
whether you must use specific forms or petition sheets
whether you need printed names along with signatures
whether you must include addresses for each signer, or any other information
deadlines for submitting the petitions to be considered on an upcoming ballot

, Based on what you find regarding the petition rules in your area, you will need to establish goals and expectations for gathering names. It is usually recommended that you try to collect up to 50% more names than the minimum requirement.It has been found that in most petition campaigns, many signatures are either invalid or unverifiable. Collecting many extras will ensure that your petition will be accepted.
 You are not likely to be able to collect all the signatures that you need on your own. Think about the number of signatures that you need, and then figure out a reasonable number that can be collected by one person. This will let you know how many volunteers you should have., You will need to get copies of the official petition sheet, sufficient numbers of pens to collect signatures, and clipboards for each volunteer. If you are able to set up a collection station at a fixed location, you may also choose to get a table and promotional materials as well. Be sure that all your volunteers fully understand the cause and are ready to talk on the issue when they approach people to sign the petition., You want to be sure that your volunteers are not approaching the same people over and over to gather signatures. Organize their efforts with assigned locations, either as fixed stations or in neighborhoods to visit door-to-door. It would also help to arrange common times to collect signatures., When your petition drive is complete, find out where you need to send the petitions, and have them delivered.If you are just trying to influence the votes of your legislators, then you will want to send copies of the signed petitions to your state or federal representatives and senators.
If you are trying to get a specific question placed on the ballot for a vote at the next election, there will be very specific rules you must follow. You will have to provide the original and certain numbers of copies to the Secretary of State's office. If this is your plan, make sure that you research the procedure very carefully ahead of time.
If you are just trying to raise awareness of the public's views on the death penalty, then fewer rules apply. You will want to share copies of the completed petitions with news outlets, both in print and on television.

