 Alcohol isn't for everyone, and it certainly isn't a "healthy life choice." So don't feel like you are lame or unexciting because you don't want to drink. Understanding your own reasons not to drink will help you say no in even the trickiest situations.


If you've made a decision not to drink, for whatever reason, stick to it. "Just one drink" is often the recipe for an unpleasant night.
You do not owe anyone an explanation for why you don't want to drink. Alcohol is a recreational drug, not a way of life or philosophy. If you don't want to drink, then so be it.
 Going to bars or house parties is like asking for temptation, especially if you are trying to quit drinking or are easily pressured. Suggest alternative events for your friends, find new places to hang out, and try and plan activities to do other than just sitting and drinking.You do not have to avoid all people who drink. Rather, make sure there won't be a strong drinking culture that could tempt you or lead others to pressure you to "join the gang."
Let your close friends know in advance that you are not drinking. Let them know why and ask them to help you stay sober so that they are on your side before the party starts., When someone asks if you'd like a drink,the best response is a simple, firm "No thank you." While this should be enough, oftentimes people will push you for an explanation or reason, or will plead with you to have a drink with them. You want a quick, direct, and honest "no" ready when offered. Make sure you make good eye contact and say your words clearly and firmly:"I don't drink anymore, thank you."
"I'm the designated driver tonight."
"I'm allergic to alcohol!" is a great, joking way to lighten the mood when refusing., This is often enough to convince people not to ask you to drink. It doesn't matter what it is, but sodas and other fizzy drinks are often great ways to imply that you're drinking without actually imbibing.


Talk to the bartender ahead of time and let him know that you won't be drinking alcohol. Tip him/her anyway and thank them for soda and water.
If someone is super persistent, just take the drink and leave it in your hand. Once you have the drink you should feel free to leave it without drinking, and most people won't know that it isn't simply a refilled glass

, You're likely to drink a whole lot less when you're in a place with distractions such as food, games like bowling, darts or billiards, or going out to a show of concert. You're also more likely to forgo drinks if the lighting is up, the place isn't crowded, and you feel comfortable. Make sure people have something else to do or talk about and drinking will become a background activity, not the main event.
 If the constant badgering to have a drink is beginning to ruin your night, it's time to go. Alcohol is not, and should not be, an activity by itself. If the only thing people are doing is getting drunk and they do not respect your decision to stay sober then you should leave.
 If you know you're going to want to drink more than you should, implement some methods to remind yourself to stop. Remember the reasons why you don't want to get drunk, and think about why a sober night is important to you. Some suggestions include:


Use the rubber band flick trick. Wear a rubber band around your wrist. Every time you feel the temptation to drink, flick yourself back into making a conscious choice not to.
Have a buddy remind you when enough is enough. This might be a buddy who doesn't drink or is good at knowing his or her own limits and stopping. Or it could be a family member.
Distract yourself. Get up and dance, talk to someone for a while, or play a game of pool.
Allow yourself different rewards, like a shopping spree, a favorite item of food, seeing a movie, or calling a friend long-distance, if you're able to refrain from alcohol.