 Since unpaid back child support can result in stringent civil and criminal penalties, an experienced family law attorney may be best able to protect your interests.


Federal law empowers states to take enforcement measures such as freezing bank accounts, suspending professional licenses or driver's licenses, and placing liens against your real or personal property.If any of these actions have been taken, it is all the more important that you hire an attorney to help you roll back these measures.
Although you may be able to work something out on your own, an experienced attorney knows all the options available to you in your state and can determine based on your situation which motion or petition will best achieve the result you want.
 You should review the original order carefully to ensure there are no errors. Although it may be too late to have the order amended, an error in calculation can be used to argue for a reduction in the arrears you owe.


Other errors may be used to set aside the judgement. For example, you may have been improperly served with the order because it was mailed to the wrong address. If such an error exists in your case, you may be able to get the amount of back child support you owe reduced as well as eliminating any interest charged as a result of your delinquency., Check the child support enforcement agency's record to make sure it matches yours and that there were no mistakes in processing your payments.


If the agency failed to credit you for payments you made, you may be able to petition the court to have your back child support redetermined.While the court typically can't make retroactive changes, you can get the amount corrected if errors were made in crediting payments., Depending on your state and situation, there are a number of petitions and motions available that you can file with the court to make arrangements to pay back child support.


For example, most states allow you to file a petition for equitable forgiveness if you didn't pay child support because the child actually was living with you during a portion of the time you were supposed to be paying child support to the other parent.You also may be able to file a motion to modify your current child support payments if your income has decreased substantially and you are unable to afford the current amount. Lowering your current payments can free up money to pay down your arrears.Under federal law, courts cannot modify child support retroactively, but you may be able to at least get your current payments lowered.Most states have forms available for the most common motions that you can fill out yourself if you don't have an attorney., Under federal law, the court that issued the original order has continuing jurisdiction over your child support case.You typically have to pay a filing fee to file your motion, often around $100. If you are unable to pay the fee, you can ask the clerk for an application to have the fee waived. The judge will approve your application if you meet the court's financial requirements.After your motion is filed, you will be responsible for serving the other parent with a copy of the motion. Usually you can either have a sheriff's deputy give the motion to her personally, or you can mail it using certified mail. The clerk of court will be able to give you more information about service when you file your motion.If you can reach an agreement with the other parent so she supports your motion, the process will go much more smoothly. The judge is far more likely to approve your motion if both parents are in agreement., Depending on the type of motion or petition you filed, the judge may order a hearing so he can review and decide the matter.


Bring copies of all the documents you've filed along with any evidence that supports your motion or petition and bring them with you to court.

