 In many cases, diabetes symptoms can be minimized through weight loss. Consult with your veterinarian about the best way to achieve weight loss safely, however, the basic principle will be to feed your cat fewer calories over the course of the day.Not all cases of diabetes in cats are weight related. If your cat is not overweight but has developed the condition the cause could be genetic or due to a medication it is on.;
, Your veterinarian may suggest a specific cat food that will help your cat lose weight. In many cases, putting your cat on a diet formula will help it to lose weight. These specialized diets are similar to ordinary cat food, they are just formulated to give your cat fewer calories.


The vet may also suggest decreasing the amount of food you feed your cat every day.
 Weight loss can also be increased by increasing your cats physical activity. Play with your cat often, encouraging it to run around, pounce, and generally move its body.


You can also give your cat toys that it enjoys playing with and chasing after.
 It is recommended that a cat be fed a diet that is high in protein and low in carbohydrates. If at all possible, the carbohydrates that your cat does eat should be complex carbohydrates only, so that sugars are broken down and digested very slowly.Look for commercial cat foods that are high in protein, such as animal protein, and low in carbohydrates, such as grains.


If you want to give your cat a very specific diet, you can make its food at home. However, this kind of diet can also be accomplished with a commercial raw diet, which is usually only available at a natural pet store or from an online supplier., In order to keep your cat's blood sugar level stable it's a good idea to feed multiple small meals over the course of the day. Instead of feeding your cat one large meal, which will make its blood sugar spike, spreading the food out over the day keeps the cat's blood sugar at a more even level.If you are not home to feed your cat during the day, try purchasing a timed feeder for your cat that will give it small meals throughout the day.

