 Obviously, it can be hard to get your hair looking exactly like the hair in the product picture, but use that as a frame of reference. Choose a color that you might be comfortable with if it were a couple shades lighter or a coupler shades darker, just to be safe.
 There are some tips on what to do pre-dye that might not show up on the dye package instructions. Here they are:


Don't wash your hair. It might not be ideal, but try to leave your hair unwashed for as long as possible before dyeing. Your hair builds up natural oils that will protect the follicles from damage. Shoot for three days of not washing.
Use Vaseline or petroleum jelly on your hairline to prevent staining. You don't want the outline of your forehead looking a different shade.
Use an old towel over your shoulders, preferably one that will never see the company of friends, lovers, or the public.
Enlist a friend or family member to help you. They'll be able to apply the dye more evenly, eliminating patches.
 Many people skim the directions or try to cheat by only leaving the dye in their hair for half of the recommended time if they want a darker shade. This doesn't work!


Dyes strip the hair of its natural pigments. Everyone's hair has blue, red, and yellow pigments, just in different concentrations. Blue is the first pigment to go when you dye your hair, then red, then yellow. If you don't leave the dye in long enough, you'll only strip blue and red pigments perhaps, and end with yellow hair. Follow the instructions on the product box to avoid ending with yellow hair!

, This is just as important as the pre-dye routine. Make your hair look brilliant with these steps:


Use conditioner after dying to seal the hair follicles and reduce fading.
Use conditioner in your hair before jumping into the swimming pool. This will form a barrier between the chlorine and your hair.
Apply weekly coats of color seal gloss. This will keep the color in your hair looking vibrant and beautiful, and ensure that you won't have to dye it as often.

