 Click the Start/Orb button on the lower left-hand corner of your desktop screen to bring up the Start Menu.;
, Click on “Control Panel” from the Start menu to open it on a new window.
 Choose “Programs” from the list of categories displayed on the Control Panel window then select “Uninstall a program,” which is displayed under Programs and Features. A list of all the installed applications on your computer will open inside the Control Panel window.
 Scroll down the list and look for applications labeled “iLivid”.
 Select the iLivid application and click the “Uninstall” button at the top of the list to completely remove the program from your computer.
 Launch Google Chrome and click its menu button on the top righthand corner of the window.


The menu button is three horizontal lines stacked on top of each other.
 Click on “Tools” from the drop-down list and select “Extensions” from the slide-out menu. A new tab will open displaying all the plugins installed within Chrome.
 Look for any extensions named “iLivid” or anything that you may find suspicious, and click the trash bin icon beside it to delete the plugin or extension from your web browser.
 Launch Firefox and click its menu button on the top righthand corner of the window.


The menu button is three horizontal lines stacked on top of each other.
 From the screen that pops up, click on “Add-ons” and select “Extensions” from the left menu panel. A new tab will open containing all the plugins installed within Firefox.
 Look for any extensions named “iLivid” or anything that you may find suspicious, and click the “Remove” button to uninstall it from your browser.
 Launch Internet Explorer (IE) and select “Tools” from the menu bar at the upper lefthand section of the browser window.
 Click on “Internet Options” from the dropdown list to access the browser’s settings.
 Click the General tab and select the “Settings” button under the “Search” field to open the “Manage Add-ons” window.
 Select “Toolbars and Extensions” from the left menu panel to view all the installed plugins inside Internet Explorer.
 Look for any extensions named “iLivid” or anything that you may find suspicious. Select these extensions and click the “Disable” button on the bottom-right corner of the window to uninstall it from your browser.
 Click the “Close” button to exit the Manage Add-ons and return to the Internet Options window.
 Click the “OK” button on the Internet Options window to save the changes you’ve made and exit the Internet Explorer settings screen.
 Launch Safari web browser and click “Safari” from the top lefthand corner of the menu bar to open the browser option list.
 Select “Preferences” from the option list to open Safari’s “Preferences” window.
 Select the “Extensions” tab on the Preference window to display all the plugins installed within Safari.
 Look for any extensions named “iLivid” or anything that you may find suspicious, and remove it by clicking the “Uninstall” button displayed under the name of the extension.

