 Use a rat-tail comb to make the part nice and neat. Position the part at the crown of your head, just above your ears.Twist and clip the upper section out of the way., Split the gathered hair into three sections. Cross the left section under the middle one, then cross the right section under the middle one.A Dutch braid will give you more volume. If you want a sleeker style, do a French braid by crossing the left and right strands over the middle one.
 Gather some hair from your hairline and add it to the left strand. Cross the left strand under the middle one. Repeat the process for the right strand and hairline., Keep gathering hair from your hairline and adding it to the left and right strands. Keep the sections small and the stitches tight., Secure the braid with a clear hair elastic first. Next, gather all of your hair and add it to the braid, making a ponytail. Tie it off with another clear elastic.You can also use a hair tie that matches your hair color to tie off the ponytail.
 Once the ponytail is secure, you can remove the hair tie holding the regular braid from before. Use your fingers to unravel that braid so that your ponytail is nice and smooth., You can do this by gently tugging on the outer loops forming the Dutch braids.You don't be able to do this if you did a French braid, however.
 For a fancier style, gather a thin section of hair from under the ponytail, then wrap it around the hair tie to hide it. Secure the strand with a bobby pin.For something fancier, braid the thin strand before you wrap it around the ponytail.
 Use bobby pins to secure the bun. For something fancier, braid the ponytail first, then coil it into a bun. If your hair isn't very long, get a bun maker, and do the following:


Pull your ponytail through the bun maker. Push the bun maker over the hair tie.
Distribute your hair over the bun maker to hide the spongy material
Pull a hair tie over the bun, cinching the hair underneath it.
Wrap and the loose hairs around and under the base of the bun.
Secure everything with bobby pins.
 This is especially important if you did a bun. Remember to mist the upside down braid as well.