 If you have been together for a while, you probably had a few really great or memorable dates early on in your relationship. Your first date, for example, probably holds an important spot in your memories. Recreate those moments—go to the same restaurant, watch the same movie, or take a walk down the same street that you did on that memorable night. Reliving those moments with one another will remind you both of what brought and kept you together.You could also bring back things you used to do early on in the relationship. For example, if you used to call each other a certain pet name, or had an inside joke, bring those things back to keep that spark alive and feel closer to each other.
 As great as those old memories are, it’s still important to make new ones. Try new things together. Pick things that are new to both of you, so you will both be experiencing it for the first time together. For example, you might try a pottery class if neither of you has ever tried one before. It could be a fun, lighthearted way to enjoy time together and learn something new side-by-side.If classes aren’t really your thing, you could simply try a new cuisine at a new restaurant, or watch a movie neither of you has seen. Read a book together and discuss it every few chapters. Go to a concert for an artist neither of you has heard of before.
 It’s easy to get busy and feel too caught up in your own day-to-day activities to spend time with your partner. Make time each day, or at least every few days, to spend focusing on one another. This could be the time when you have important conversations, go on a date, or simply spend quiet time alone together.During this special time together, consider putting aside things like smartphones, tablets, and other electronics. Focus entirely on your partner rather than the distractions that come with the digital world., Having coffee in the morning, cooking a meal together, waking up with each other, or working on assignments for work or school with each other are all ways to be closer to each other while still going about your everyday lives. As students, full-time employees, and/or parents, those seemingly mundane activities are easily made into quality time when done with your partner.Making your partner a part of your everyday life will probably help you grow your bond and feel closer to one another, all without making significant changes to how you already do things.
 Doing interesting activities together can help to bring you and your significant other closer together by giving you a shared experience. This will also give you more to talk about. Try doing something together that you both enjoy, such as:

Taking a tour at an art museum.
Reading the same book.
Watching a documentary together.
Taking a class together.
 You don’t have to do anything especially elaborate to surprise your partner—just a simple gesture to boost their mood and show them they matter to you. For example, you might meet them at their work for lunch out of the blue, with flowers or a picnic. You could even draw them a bath to have ready when they get home, leave them a sweet note in their purse or wallet, or bring them breakfast in bed.