 As you apply to and are accepted into a nursing program, talk to anyone you come into contact with about financial aid. Look at your program’s website for financial aid info that’s specific to the program. Look for the contact info of relevant people, such as the program director or the department’s student advisors.Ask them about local scholarship opportunities, work-study programs, and how other students commonly pay for that particular program.
 Talk to your college’s financial aid counselors about securing aid and about the process of paying for nursing school. If there is federal financing available, the office will instruct you on how to apply. Federal aid is usually a loan, so you will need to repay the borrowed amount.


If you’re applying for a program in the United States, fill out a FAFSA, or Free Application for Federal Student Aid. Your school will provide you with information about deadlines. https://fafsa.ed.gov/


, Once you’re enrolled in a nursing program, don’t stop looking for scholarship and grant opportunities. Continue to make yourself a winning applicant by joining your local NSNA chapter. You’ll have access to great networking opportunities, it’ll look good on your resumé or to any opportunities you apply for, and you’ll be informed about grants and scholarships available for enrolled student nurses.Take a leadership position in your local chapter for even more networking opportunities, to learn more, and for a resumé booster.
Your nursing professors will provide you with information about how your program participates in the NSNA and other relevant organizations.
 In addition to joining your school’s NSNA, find out if your school has a local chapter of Sigma Theta Tau, which is the international honor society for student nurses. If not, find out if your college participates in another nursing student honor society, and how to get accepted into it. Keep your GPA up, and once again, take a leadership position if any are available to make yourself a more appealing enrolled applicant for scholarships and grants.