 An AM/FM hand crank radio will allow you to tune into special emergency notifications via NOAA alerts. To make sure that your radio can tune into those frequencies, check for the "Public Alert" and "NOAA NWR All Hazards" label on the packaging of your radio. A hand-crank will ensure that even if you run out of batteries, you'll still be able to tune into critical alerts and announcements.NOAA AM alerts are available in all 50 states of the U.S. on frequencies 162.400, 162.425, 162.450, 162.475, 162.500, 162.525, and 162.550.Check online to see the emergency frequency if you live outside of the U.S.
Radios typically cost anywhere from $25 to $50 USD.
 Cell phones are great devices to use to communicate during an evacuation or emergency. Make sure to bring extra batteries or boosters for your cell phones to increase the longevity of their use. Minimize use of your cell phone when you don't have access to a power source, and use it only to communicate important information to family and friends.You can also purchase a solar-powered or hand crank charger that will help keel electronic devices charged during an emergency.
 During an emergency, your GPS or phone may not be available. For this reason, it's important to keep a road map so that you know how to get to your evacuation site. Purchase a traditional paper road map from a gas station or you can print one out online and keep it in emergency storage in case of an emergency., If you need to leave in a rush and your area is devastated by a natural disaster, it may be difficult to find common hygiene products like toothpaste, toothbrushes, soap, razors, and feminine hygiene products. Make sure to put extra supplies in a zip lock bag and store it in your emergency supplies., You may not have access to your wardrobe for a long time after the emergency, so it's important to remember to pack extra sets of clothes. If you live in a place that experiences cold temperatures, bring the appropriate attire, such as, jackets, pants, shirts, and sweaters.