 Rag curlers are an easy and affordable way to get those tight, bouncy curls that you've been wanting. Take an old t-shirt or sheet and cut it into strips. Each strip should be roughly 1 inch wide and 5 inches long.


If you want extremely tight curls, you'll need to make more rag curlers (roughly 15-20). If you want looser, bouncier curls, you'll need fewer curlers (roughly 7-10).;
, Wash your hair to remove any excess oils that could potentially weigh your curls down. Your hair should be damp when you put it in rag curlers, so don't let it dry completely. If your hair tends to have problems holding curl, run a bit of gel or curl enhancing cream into your hair before you put it in curlers., It's easiest to put your hair into rag curlers when you're working on one section at a time. You should divide your hair into four sections: the top, the back, the right side, and the left side. Tie each section in place with a hair tie.


Start with the section of hair on the top of your head. Once you've finished curling the top section of your head, take the next section you'd like to work on out of it's hair tie. Proceed until each section of your hair is in rag curlers.
 Take a 1 inch piece of hair from the top section of your head. Hold your strip of fabric perpendicular to your hair, and wrap the ends of your hair around the rag 3-4 times. After wrapping the ends of your hair tightly around the rag curler, begin to roll the rag upwards towards your scalp.Once you've rolled your piece of hair all the way up to your scalp, tie a knot at the end of your rag curl. You'll only need to tie one knot, no need for a bow or double knot. Pull the ends of your fabric tight so that you curl will stay in place.
 Make sure that each knot is pulled tightly to ensure your curlers will stay in place.Leave the rag curlers in your hair overnight.
Tie a head scarf around your head to keep your hair from getting frizzy while you sleep.
 One by one, carefully unknot and unwind each piece of hair. Don't pull too hard on your curls, as you don't want to pull out any of their bounce. Start by taking down the curls by the nape of your neck and work upwards.If you're having trouble unknotting any of your rag curlers, you can cut them off with a pair of scissors. Be extremely careful if you do this, as you don't want to cut any of your hair.
 Depending on what look you're going for, you will either brush your curls out, or let them remain in spirals. If you want a smooth, flowy look, brush your hair out. If you enjoy the messy, individual curls, lightly comb through your hair with your fingers. Hairspray to hold your hair in place. 