

Eau de colognes fade within an hour, while eau de toilette last about two hours.



 


L'eau de parfum contains a higher concentration of perfume oil and last up to four hours without fading.






Perfume classics and perfume extracts contain the highest concentration and last up to six hours.





;
, If you work in a small, enclosed space, for instance, you should avoid strong, overpowering concentrations.


You can test it on a piece of paper, which is often supplied at the store, if you’re buying the perfume in person. One thing to keep in mind when testing a scent on a strip of paper is that it will not smell exactly the same way on your body as it does on paper. The key to determining if a perfume is the right match for you is to allow it to mingle with your body’s chemistry before making your final determination.






Alternatively, you can spray a small amount onto the inside of your wrist and wait ten minutes before smelling it. This allows the full range of the fragrance to emerge, giving you a better idea of whether or not the scent appeals to you.






Perfumes have three notes of fragrance: the top, middle, and base. The top note strikes the nose immediately but wears away within five minutes. The middle note develops after about ten minutes and the base takes about fifteen. The middle and base notes are the ones that last for hours, so you need to wait for those notes to develop in order to get a full understanding of the perfume’s scent.






Avoid spraying the scent onto your clothing to ensure that your garments don’t smell like a perfume before you decide if you like it. Perfume can also potentially stain or discolor certain fabrics, so be cautious when applying it when you’re dressed.
 After testing three perfumes, your sense of smell loses its sharpness, and you may not be able to get a clear idea of any fragrances you try after that.


If testing perfumes that are vastly different from one another, you may be able to test five or six before your sense of smell becomes numb.
Ask if you can sniff some coffee beans between tests. Coffee beans cleanse the nasal palate and enable you to better discern smells over longer periods of time. This approach won’t last indefinitely, however, so it’s best to test a small selection of scents at a time.
 Roughly 75 percent of perfumes contain some trace of rose and jasmine extracts, but the amount present varies in each fragrance. Moreover, perfumes usually contain thousands of other ingredients and chemicals, many of which actively alter the scent. This is why no two scents ever seem to smell exactly alike. That said, many fragrances can be divided into one of four categories: fresh greens, woody amber, floral fruity, and oriental spicy.


Fresh greens have scents reminiscent of grass, leaves, and herbs. They tend to smell "clean" and suit women with vibrant, sporty personalities. Women who like to vary their perfume by occasion might consider a fresh green scent for outdoor daytime use.
Woody amber like fragrances encompass a wide variety of warm scents. Most include traces of amber, sandalwood, cedar, and various spices. The combination of spices is what gives this scent family such versatility. Women wanting to wear a more sensual scent might wish to consider a woody amber-y fragrance, especially as an evening perfume.
Floral fruity scents evoke a sense of playful innocence and romance. Most scents developed around a specific flower or fruit fall under this category. Some weigh heavier on the fruity side, while others smell like the interior of a florist's shop. These scents are also excellent for daytime use. Women wanting a fresh, zesty fragrance would do well to seek out the former, while those going for a classy romantic scent should look for the latter.
Oriental spicy scents are similar to woodsy ambry scents but usually involve more of a floral element. Fragrances belonging to this category often use rich scents like orchid, orange flowers, vanilla, sweet spices, incense, and musk. These exotic perfumes can be used at any time, but work especially well for evening. Women wanting a warm, mysterious, and distinctly feminine scent should look into this category further.

