 You can use parts of your life raft to construct a system for making fresh water from sea water. This method is most helpful if you are stranded on a beach with no fresh water.
It was developed by stranded pilot during WWII in the Pacific.
This is a helpful method, especially if you do not know how long it will be until you can be rescued.
 Open it and fill it with sea water. Filter the sea water through a cloth so you don't get too much sand or other debris in the water.
Don't fill the bottle up too much. You will want to avoid spilling the water out the top of the bottle.
Carry the water back to an area where you can make a fire.
 Attach the hose to one end of the leak stoppers.This will provide a tube for fresh condensed water vapor to travel out of the bottle of sea water as its heated.
Make sure the hose is free of kinks or clogs.
See that the seal between the hose and leak stoppers is strong. This will help you to avoid any fresh water leaking out of the hose.
 Use the opposite end of the leak stoppers from where you've attached the hose.This will provide a way for water vapour to travel from the bottle as its heated into the hose to transport fresh water.
Make sure the seal is tight to prevent leaks.
If you have any twine or tape, you can reinforce the seal with these items.
 This will keep the hose steady as fresh water travels through it.Keep the end of the hose exposed. This is where fresh water will trickle out.
Don't bury the gas bottle or leak stoppers. You will need to have this exposed to keep watch to make sure there are no leaks.
Make sure the hose is relatively straight and free of kinks as you bury it.
Place a pan underneath the exposed end of the hose. This will collect water the fresh water.
 This will boil the salt water in the bottle. As the water boils, steam will condense in the top of the gas bottle and travel into the hose as fresh water.
As most of the water boils, the condensed steam will travel through the hose and into the pan.
The water collected in the pan will be desalinated and safe to drink.

