 If you're shy, you don't need to fling yourself headfirst into a noisy party. Maybe a quiet, small-group setting is more your speed. You aren't doing yourself any favors by trying to conquer everything right away. Instead, slowly and gently expand your comfort zone, and give yourself time to adapt. Consider...


Hanging out with close friends
Going somewhere with people you already know
Going to an autism/disability group, where people may be more accepting
Events that you know will be low-key

, Find websites related to your special interests, and social websites. The Autistic community has a notable presence on Tumblr and Twitter. You could also edit wikiHow articles on your special interests.


Meetup.com can be a good resource for some people.,


At a noisy place, where communicating can be difficult for anyone, gestures are a great way to socialize without having to shout. Use things like thumbs up, phew it's hot gestures and the okay sign just to interact with others in a small way if you usually prefer quiet places and being able to give the other person your full concentration. At parties, craft groups, social suppers, meet-ups, and all other social occasions there'll usually be a few people who are nervous unsure of themselves or plain scared. A small friendly gesture from you, could make someone's day.
 Are they attractive? Are they trendy? Are they wearing a nice piece of clothing? Do they have an interesting haircut? Have they customized their wheelchair? Are they wearing a club badge or a band T-shirt? This can be a great way to start a conversation.
 If you keep worrying about what they think of you, you won't be able to have a good conversation. Instead, focus on them. Ask questions, and help them feel interesting. If you find yourself worrying about yourself, wave away your concerns and refocus on what the other person is saying or doing.


It's normal and okay to feel awkward or uncertain at social events. The other person can probably be sympathetic if you're nervous.
 You can learn a "formula" to keep asking questions about what they are talking about, letting them do most of the talking. This may be easier than trying to carry the weight of a conversation.


Ask the person about something you know they like (something that they mentioned before, a band on their T-shirt, etc.)
Encourage them to keep talking about it. For example, "What was it like in Germany?" or "I bet you got some funny stories from that!"
Interject briefly with phrases like "I see," "And then what?" or "That's awesome/too bad/ridiculous!"Listen to their stories, and figure out other things to ask about. For instance, if they tell you a funny thing their sister did at the carnival, ask them what their sister is like.
 Receptive language problems are often present in autism, and some autistic people feel pressured to hide it. However, this won't help you have a good conversation.Instead, practice scripts like "I'm sorry, what did you say?" and "Could you repeat that?"


Feel free to ask to move to a quieter place. For example, "It's loud in here and I'm having a hard time understanding you. Do you want to go outside?"

, Dancing, if there's a dancing area and other people are dancing, can be a great way for anyone to socialize. Being part of a group who are all dancing to the same song makes everyone feel included, regardless of your ability to dance. If you want to dance, go for it!


If you are brave, you can start the dancing, but it can be difficult to decide if being the only one on the dance floor is good for you or the rest of the party. Join in dancing with a group. You can stand to the side of them and do your own thing or join their group. There might be someone else who is just waiting for the number of dancers to increase by just enough to let them join in.

