 Some orchids are easier to grow than others. Cattleya, Phalaenopsis and Paphiopedilum orchids are amongst the easiest to grow and are recommended for most beginner gardeners and orchid growers. There are, however, believed to be over 20,000 species of orchid species — that's 2 times the amount of existing bird species and 4 times the amount of existing mammalian species. There's almost literally an orchid for any type of person.


Perhaps the most common genera of orchids found for sale include Phalaenopsis, Dendrobium and Oncidium. Phalaenopsis is known as the "moth orchid" and is extremely popular among beginning growers; the genus Dendrobium contains about 1,200 species of orchids and is the classic epiphyte of orchids; Oncidiums are characterized by column wings and a callus at the lip of the flower.
Different genera of orchids have different ideal humidities, growing temperatures, watering schedules, and light requirements. Talk with your local nursery or visit the local chapter of your orchid society to find out what makes your genus of orchid grow best.;
, Some first-time orchid growers make the mistake of assuming that orchids need to be potted in soil like other blooming flowers, choosing potting soil as a conduit. That would be a grave mistake. Most orchid roots need far more air than potting soil would give them, and so benefit from a looser, more porous mix.Many people use bark chips, sphagnum moss, coconut husks, charcoal, perlite, and even styrofoam pellets as potting mix, often in combination. Experiment with porous, breathable mixes that you have on hand, or ask an expert for his or her special recipe.
 For simplicity's sake, you can make two basic kinds of potting mixes that will work for most kinds of orchids.


Make a fine potting mix, suitable for slipper orchids, most oncidiums, miltonias, and orchids with small roots that enjoy moisture more than most:
4 parts fine (grain) fir bark or fine (grain) coco husk
1 part fine (grain) charcoal
1 part perlite


Make a medium potting mix, suitable for cattleyas, phalaenopsis, and other mature orchids. If you're unsure of which mix to use, try the medium-grade potting mix before the fine-grade mix:
4 parts medium (grain) fir bark or medium (grain) coco husk
1 part medium (grain) charcoal
1 part perlite



, Many orchids are comfortable being root-bound. Choose a smaller pot to place your orchid in, making sure that there are plenty of holes in the pot itself for drainage. Remember, the enemy of orchids is often over-watering. Some orchids, such as cymbidiums, will require longer pots to accommodate very long root systems. The following types of pots offer a break from the traditional clay pot (which is perfectly acceptable):


Net pots, which have wire mesh and allow for a breathable environment. These can be hung in advantageous locations for better sunlight.
Clear plastic pots, which get better sunlight to the roots. These allow the grower to inspect the root systems without disturbing the orchid.
Wooden pots, which are constructed of rot-resistant wood. Line any wooden pots with sheet moss before adding your potting mixture.
 Make sure your hands and your environment are sterile. Scatter just a few seeds immediately beneath the surface of each pot. Add environmentally-friendly fertilizer, if necessary. Again, use the best soil available.
 Remove the orchid from its original pot, making sure to cut off any dead or rotting roots. Divide the root matter into several different sections, if needed, before placing the plant in its pot.The most mature section of growth should be positioned against the wall of the pot. Lightly add the potting mix, barely covering the root system.
 Different orchids benefit from being re-potted accordingly:


Yearly: Dendrobium, Miltonia, Paphiopedilum and Phalaenopsis (and hybrids)
Bi-annually: Cattleya, Dendrobium, Oncidium, Odontoglossum (and hybrids)
Once every three years: Vanda, Cymbidium

