 Daily practice will help you see results when you are working to improve your handwriting. You will want to examine your handwriting as you practice, evaluating your results and making any changes that you think are needed. Regular practice has been shown to be a great way to learn and maintain skills.Many worksheets are available on-line and have examples that you can practice with.
Regular and consistent practice is critical to learning and mastering a new skill.
Practice with both lined and blank paper.;
, Before you begin to practice at keeping your sentences straight without lines, you will want to use lined paper to help guide your writing. These lines will help you practice keeping your writing straight, allowing you to have straighter writing when you write without them.Letters known as “descenders” should have their body sitting on the line while their stems dip below the line. The letters g,j,p,y,q, and j are all descenders.
Letters that are classified as “ascenders” should have their body sitting on the line and their stems should extend upwards, about halfway to the line above. The letters b,d,h,t,l, and k are ascenders.
All other letters should rest directly on the line.
 If you have trouble writing straight without lines you can try adding some of your own guide lines to the blank sheet of paper. You will need a ruler or straight-edge and a pencil to draw your guide lines. These lines can help keep your writing straight and can be erased after you are done writing.


Place your ruler straight across the page where you want to write a line.
Lightly draw a guide line with your pencil.
Remove the ruler. Use this guide line to keep your writing straight.
After you are done writing, you can erase the guide line and leave your straightly formed writing.
 Taking your time when writing can help make handwriting look clean and sharp. Writing slowly can also help you to write straighter, as it gives you time to adjust the slant of your writing as you go. Always relax and take your time when writing to help you keep your sentences in a straight line.Rushing to write can cause your handwriting to slant or look untidy.
As you write slowly, focus on keeping your sentences in straight lines.
Slowing down can also help you learn better during practice sessions.

