 A savory staple of many a Midwestern American holiday meal, green bean casserole is a creamy baked side dish made with few ingredients. If there was ever a recipe that cream of mushroom made necessary, it is this.



To mix it up, mix together about 4 cups of cooked green beans, cut into bite-sized pieces, and one can of condensed cream of mushroom soup.

Stir in about a half cup of milk, a few dashes of soy sauce, to taste, and salt and pepper to taste.

Line the mixture in a greased casserole dish and bake at 350 F for about 20 minutes until it gets warmed through and bubbling. Top with about a cup of fried French onions and let them brown in the oven for about five minutes. Serve hot.
 Summer squash like yellow crookneck or zucchini have a tendency to be pretty bland on their own, but baked up with cheese and crunchy topping can take them to the next level.



Cut up about 4 cups of squash (roughly 2 medium squash) and sauté them over medium heat in some olive or coconut oil and half a chopped onion, then combine with ¾ of a cup of water, 2 beaten eggs, a cup of shredded cheddar cheese (or whatever kind of cheese you prefer), and salt and pepper to taste.

Mix the ingredients thoroughly and spread into a casserole dish. Top the mixture with crunched up cracker crumbs, or breadcrumbs if you prefer, dotted with a tablespoon of butter. Bake at 400 F for 20 minutes, or until golden and firm.

Additions or substitutions might include cherry tomatoes, fresh dill, basil, or other summer herbs, and bacon. The same recipe would also work for winter squash that had been par-baked, and would be great combined with other root vegetables like sweet potato and carrot.
 To liven up cruciferous vegetables, you can't go wrong with cheese. Thickened with a simple roux and baked under breadcrumbs, it's a delicious, if not super-healthy, way to eat your broccoli. Start by chopping a head of broccoli and about half a head of cauliflower into bite-sized pieces, or by defrosting a package of each, if you want to use the frozen variety.



Sautee half an onion over medium heat in butter, then add two tablespoons of flour to start the roux.

Stir vigorously, browning the flour, then add about two cups of milk, whisking to thicken. When it bubbles and gets thick, add a quarter-cup of parmesan cheese and a half a package (about 4 oz) of cream cheese.

Season with a teaspoon each of thyme, oregano, and dill. If you like a little kick, this works great with about a quarter teaspoon of cayenne, as well.

Toss the broccoli and cauliflower in the cheese mixture and spoon into a casserole dish. Top with breadcrumbs and a sprinkling of parmesan cheese, then bake at 350 F for about 40 minutes.
 A common complaint about vegetable casseroles is that the cheese and cream outweighs the nutritional benefits of the vegetables. While cream-of-mushroom and other varieties of cheesy casserole may taste good, there are perhaps more nutritional ways of preparing vegetables. Mixing quinoa--a perfect protein, as well as a delicious and hearty grain--with hearty roasted butternut squash fits the bill of healthy and tasty casserole.



Roast one medium-sized butternut squash at 400 F, after slicing it in half and scooping out the seeds. Drizzle a little olive oil on top of the squash and roast in a roasting pan for about 20 minutes, until soft. If you'd prefer chunks of squash, rather than mashed, you can peel the squash and chop it into bite-sized chunks before roasting.

In a hard-bottomed pot, sauté half an onion, chopped, with 2-3 cloves of minced garlic in olive oil. When the onion is translucent, add a teaspoon of dried sage, or a tablespoon of fresh chopped sage, and one cup of quinoa. Stir to coat the quinoa, then add a cup and a half of water.

Bring the quinoa to a boil, then simmer over medium-low heat, covered, for about fifteen minutes, until all the water is absorbed. Add salt and pepper to taste, then stir in a cup and a half of chopped spinach or kale, a quarter cup each of dried cranberries and chopped walnuts, and two beaten eggs.

In a greased casserole dish, combine the quinoa mixture with the roasted squash. If you want, you can add a half cup of shredded swiss cheese, on top or mixed in, or leave the cheese off entirely if you wish. Return to the oven and bake for about 40 minutes.

