 Call up your creditors and explain your situation. If you’ve lost a job, explain how much time you think it will take to get another job. Many creditors, such as credit card companies, have policies for helping people who are struggling to avoid going into bankruptcy.For example, some lenders are willing to forgive fees and to lower either your interest or monthly payment.Don’t be embarrassed to call. If you end up filing for bankruptcy, unsecured creditors (like credit card companies) probably won’t get any of their money. For this reason, they have an incentive to work with you.
Go through your budget and decide how much you can pay each month. Make sure you can actually afford the amount you say.
 Instead of negotiating on your own with your creditors, you can use a credit counselor to set up a debt management plan. Under the plan, you typically give up your credit cards but agree to pay the debt within five years.You make your payment to the credit counselor, who then distributes the money to your creditors.
A debt management plan doesn’t reduce the amount you owe, though the credit counselor might be able to get fees waived or your interest rate reduced.
The impact on your credit score should be small. A debt management plan is not debt settlement, which is much different and hurts your credit score.
 If you file for bankruptcy, you could lose your home. So if your mortgage is your largest expense, you should try to restructure or refinance it.Doing so will allow you to stay in your home and avoid bankruptcy. You should contact your lender for more information.


You can restructure a mortgage by “recasting” it. This means you make a one-time contribution to the principal on the loan and then start up the loan again. Because of the extra payment, your monthly payment going forward is lower.Alternately, you could refinance. You can stretch out the length of the mortgage (e.g., from 30 to 40 years). Or you might refinance for a lower interest rate. Either option will lower your monthly payments.
 There are many options for people drowning in student loan debt. For example, you can temporarily reduce or defer payments on student loans. This will free up money to spend on your other debts. Contact your student loan lender for more details.


You might be able to reduce the amount owed each month by switching your repayment plan. For example, you can extend the repayment period from 10 to 20 years.
You might also use an income-driven repayment plan. For example, you can pay a certain percentage of your monthly income, such as 10-15%.You might also be able to postpone your payments using forbearance or deferment. With a deferment, interest continues to accrue during the deferment period. Interest does not accrue with a forbearance. Although these are not good long-term solutions, they can provide you with temporary breathing room to tackle other debts.

