 If you need to find a company's EIN and you have done business with them, that number may appear on any invoices you've received or other records you have of your transactions with them.For example, you may need the EIN of your child's babysitter or child care facility so you can claim the child care deduction on your taxes. It is customary for child-care services to put their EIN on invoices and sometimes even on letterhead.
Nonprofit organizations also typically list their EIN on any official correspondence. If you have made a charitable contribution and need the EIN for tax purposes, the number may be located on the receipt you received from the organization.;
, If the business or organization for which you need an EIN has a website, they may list their EIN there. This is typically true of publicly traded companies as well as nonprofit organizations.On the company's website, look for an "about" or "legal information" page. That's typically where you'll find the EIN if they've published it on their website.
 Businesses typically are understanding of the fact that you might need their EIN to claim a deduction on your taxes. If you call the business and speak to someone in human resources or accounting, they should be able to give you the EIN.If the company has gone out of business, there will be someone in charge of wrapping up the business, typically an attorney or one of the owners. You can find their contact information by searching the business directory of the website of the secretary of state for the state where the company was located.
 There are official websites that maintain directories of active EINs for publicly traded companies and nonprofit organizations. You can use those directories free of charge to find a company's EIN.For a publicly traded company, use the EDGAR (Electronic Data Gathering, Analysis, and Retrieval system) maintained by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). EINs can be found on the company's 8-K, 10K, or 10-Q reports.
Melissa Data provides information about nonprofit organizations, including their EIN. Make sure you search using the corporate office's zip code rather than the zip code of a local office.
You also may be able to find a business's tax ID number using the website of the relevant tax authority of the state where the business is located., If you can't contact anyone in the company or find the EIN through other means, you may be able to find out the company's EIN from the IRS. Find contact information on the IRS's main website at irs.gov.When you talk to an IRS agent, explain your situation and the steps you've taken to attempt to find the company's federal tax ID number. The agent should be able to help you, or will at least give you some additional assistance in how to find it yourself.
 If the company has gone out of business, or if you are otherwise unable to find the EIN by any other means, you may need a professional to assist you with finding the company's EIN.Before you hire someone, consider whether the deduction or other benefit you would receive are worth paying a private investigator or attorney. Keep in mind you may be charged several hundred dollars for this service to be performed for you.
Attorneys also will have access to legal search engines, which they may be able to use to help you find the EIN of a private company.