 The “blue jean” look is classic, but it isn't the only color choice you have when you decide to pick out a jean jacket. Along with various blue jean washes, you can also select a denim jacket in a range of colors.Blue jean jackets are still the most common and the most versatile. Under most circumstances, blue jeans are considered a neutral, making a blue jean jacket a smart staple for your wardrobe.
Jean jackets are also available in a variety of other neutral colors. White jean jackets are probably the most popular option after the class blue jean. White jean jackets can add a clean, fresh air to your ensemble, especially for women.
If you feel a little bolder, you can also opt for a jean jacket in a bright color. Denim is available in many hues, ranging from tangerine orange to hot pink. For colored jean jackets, bright is the way to go. You should match these with like colors or with carefully chosen contrasting colors.
Note that colored jean jackets are more popular options for women rather than men.;
, If you do opt for the classic blue jean jacket, the next question you need to ask yourself is what wash to choose. The most versatile, classy wash is medium-dark.


Dark washes are easier to pull off than light washes in most settings. Dark wash jean jackets have a clean, well-taken-care-of appearance, and as a result, they are easier to pair with semi-nice clothes for a casual yet chic style.
Light washes tend to be harder for most people to pull off and can also look a little dated. You can opt for a light wash jean jacket if you plan on wearing it in strictly casual settings, though. You can also wear light wash denim jackets out on the town as long as you pair them with nice, well-fitting clothes.
Medium washes are for everyone in between. Medium wash jean jackets are for those who do not find either light or dark washes appealing.



A jacket without liner creates a slimmer figure. These jackets can be worn over clothes, but they can also be worn under an overcoat without looking too bulky.
Flannel liners add a little insulation for cooler nights, but the flannel will add a little bulk to your figure. These jackets also have a distinctly country-western look.
Shearling liners, also called lambskin liners, add considerable bulk but are also considerably warm. Jean jackets with shearling lining tend to look rugged.
 Most jean jackets tend to end just above the hip, but some can be cropped shorter than others.


Cut is mostly an issue concerning jean jackets for women. Jean jackets meant for men almost always extend down to the hip. As a man, you can wear a longer one, if desired, but too much length can make the jacket look oversized. Similarly, a jean jacket that is too short can make it look shrunken rather than stylish.
On the other hand, women can pull off a jean jacket that extends below the hip just as easily as they can pull off a jacket that is cropped just below the bust line. Longer jackets tend to have a classier feel, while cropped jackets create a more fashion-conscious appearance.
Women also need to be concerned with the shape. The standard, boxy jean jacket is always an option, but it rarely appears figure flattering. Consider a jean jacket with darts below the bust line. These darts hint at your curves just well enough to keep you looking feminine.
 Jean jackets can come with a variety of embellishments and other add-ons. The most classic, versatile jean jacket will be plain aside from a few pockets, though.


Distressed denim can be used for an 80s-fab or punk look. The same can be said for jean jackets that have rips or tears.
Metal studs can be worn on jackets for a rough-and-tough look.
Swirling paisley designs created with imitation rhinestones have a distinctly country-western flair.
 Some insist that denim-on-denim can never be done, but most people will agree that a denim jacket can look great with denim jeans as long as you mix and match colors and washes.


If you choose a white or colored jean jacket, your options are easy. Any pair of blue jeans will look fine.
If you choose a classic blue jean jacket, your options are a little harder to balance. Try choosing blue jeans that are a notably different shade of blue. If your jacket is fairly dark, go for lighter blue jeans, and vice versa. Alternatively, you can also wear your jean jacket with colored jeans or white jeans.
You can also wear your jean jacket over a chambray shirt as long as the two colors of denim are different., Instead of wearing your jean jacket over jeans, consider wearing it but pants or other bottoms made from other materials.


Corduroy pants and khaki cargo pants are a great option for jean jackets. The rugged look of these bottoms matches well with the semi-masculine appearance of denim, and the color choices available in corduroy and khaki also prevent your style from looking too monochromatic.
Leggings are another great choice for legwear. Wear contrasting leggings beneath a long tunic, dress, or skirt when you plan on shrugging your jean jacket on.
Shorts and skirts come in a variety of colors and patterns. As a result, many non-denim shorts and skirts are also great choices.
 By pairing your jean jacket with other classic wardrobe staples, you can create a no-fuss look that can be easily accessorized with jewelry, scarves, shoes, and bags.


For a classic casual look, wear a t-shirt and jeans with your jacket. The t-shirt can be a solid color, pattern, or a graphic tee, but it should be somewhat fitted to your body to avoid excess bulk.
Step it up a notch with a button-down shirt. Wear a collared button-down shirt in a solid color. Pair it with the darkest blue jeans you can find and throw on a medium wash or white jean jacket to create a look suitable for casual Friday., Pick one seasonable "in" item and wear it with other style staples.


Print and color trends are the easiest to work with. A jean jacket will work with nearly any print or color, regardless of whether the "in" look is tropical print, leopard print, neons, or pastels.
Be a little more discerning when pairing a denim jacket with style trends that change the shape of a garment. For instance, peplum tops, which flair out at the lower waist, may look better with cropped jackets that stop short of the flair instead of longer ones.
 The contrast between something undeniably girly and something somewhat boyish creates visual interest.


When choosing a dress or skirt, look for one that drapes well and has an airy aura to it. A knee-high skirt can work just as well as a maxi skirt.
Alternatively, you could also wear your jean jacket with a structured mini skirt. Mini skirts are usually feminine enough to hold their own against boyish denim, regardless of whether they are structured or flowing.
Wear girlish accessories with this look when possible. The balance between girly and boyish should still tilt more to the girly side, and accessories are a good way to accomplish that. Think along the lines of flirty shoes and jewelry.
 If your denim jacket is somewhat boxy, you can remedy the problem and accentuate your curves by wearing a belt or sash around your waist.


For this look, keep the jacket mostly buttoned.
Tie the belt or sash just below the bust. By wearing it there, you highlight the narrowest part of your torso. As a result, your feminine curves become more noticeable.
 A jean jacket can work with blue jeans, but you need to balance the washes carefully. You may also opt to wear the jean jacket with non-denim pants.


When wearing a jean jacket with blue jeans, make sure that the washes are different. A medium wash denim jacket can look great with a dark wash pair of jeans, but similar washes tend to bleed together, creating denim overkill.
If you like the feel of denim but not the look of jean-on-jean, you could opt for a pair of black jeans when you wear your blue jean jacket.
Consider wearing pants made from another material. Choose a rugged style, like corduroy pants or khaki cargo pants. These will work with jean jackets of nearly any style and wash.
 Moreover, wearing multiple layers on top can cut done on the monotony created when wearing a jean jacket with a pair of blue jeans.


Wear an unlined denim jacket to prevent the look from getting too bulky. Your other layers should be similarly thin.
Throw a structured, neutral jacket on over your jean jacket. Look for light materials, like a cotton-and-linen blend, and keep your look classy by choosing a muted color like tan or gray.
For an added degree of visual contrast, slip a sweater on beneath the jean jacket. A neutral color can look stylish, but if you want to introduce a small trace of color to your look, this bottom layer is a good, subtle way to do so. Make sure you stick with a lighter material, however, to prevent excess bulk.



Wear this look with a standard collared, button-down shirt and tie like you would usually wear beneath your blazer.
Opt for corduroy trousers over blue jeans to keep this look from getting a little too casual.
Keep your jean jacket partially buttoned, as you might do with a blazer. Allow the collar and tie to peek out, but keep the majority of the jacket closed.
 For a clean, casual look, pair your jean jacket with a clean sweater or t-shirt.


Your shirt should be in fairly good condition. Choosing a beat-up shirt can cause your look to veer off into grunge territory.
A cotton sweatshirt or sweater has a more classic, chic charm, but a cotton or cotton-blend t-shirt can look smart, casual, and comfortable.
Choose a shirt in a solid color for something a little more timeless. A patterned shirt or graphic tee can be used if you want to create something a little more low-key.
 Plaid and denim can be tricky to work with if you want to avoid looking too country-western, but these two classic style staples can work well together.


To create a more contemporary look, layer a button-down plaid shirt beneath a denim jacket. Leave the buttons open and wear a striped cotton t-shirt beneath the plaid. Layering is considered trendy by contemporary measures, so layering your plaid and denim in this manner can be very fashion-forward.
If country-western style is your thing, you could wear a flannel plaid shirt beneath your jean jacket and leave things at that. Wearing a lined jean jacket will make this look appear even more rugged.

