 Going to the gym during peak hours may cause you to feel more self-conscious because there will be lots of other people around. Instead, try going to the gym during off hours, such as late in the evening or early in the morning.


Ask a gym employee what the peak hours are at your gym so that you can avoid them.
If you prefer to exercise outside, then try exercising at night or early in the morning when fewer people are out., You might feel self-conscious if you don't know how to use the machines or if you are not sure what exercises to try. To deal with this type of self-consciousness, try setting up a meeting with personal trainer at your gym. A personal trainer can teach you how to use the machines properly and help you develop a set of exercises that you can do when you come to the gym.Many gyms offer a free one-on-one consultation with a trainer so that you can learn how to use the machines. Ask at your gym if they offer something like this.
 If you have just started working out, then it is normal to feel a bit self-conscious. You are doing something new and that can cause anxiety. That is why it is important to give yourself some time to adjust to the new activity before you decide that it is not for you.For example, if you have just started working out at a gym, then give yourself a few weeks to adjust to the new environment and people.
If you are just starting an outdoor exercise program, it may also take a few weeks to feel comfortable walking around your neighborhood.
 It is normal to feel self-conscious, and many people experience these feelings. Even people who seem like they are totally comfortable at the gym may be feeling self-conscious. Try to remind yourself that people are more focused on themselves than they are on you.Even when you are exercising outside, people passing by in their cars or on foot are likely thinking about their own problems and are probably not paying much attention to you.
 If you struggle with jealousy when you are at the gym, then this may be feeding your self-consciousness. To combat jealousy, try to focus on what you admire about the fit people at your gym.For example, when you are feeling jealous of someone, you might think to yourself, "Wow! I admire her ability to do so many pull-ups. She must be incredibly strong!" Or, "Amazing! He has been running on the treadmill since I arrived at the gym! I admire his endurance."

, If you feel so uncomfortable at your gym that you dread going to it, then it might not be the right gym for you. Consider looking for a different gym if you still don’t feel comfortable at your gym after a few weeks.Try looking for a gym that caters to your needs. For example, if you are a woman, then there are gyms that are for women only. Or, you could look into a gym that offers classes and help to people of all fitness levels.

