 It is illegal to possess, produce, or use counterfeit money; if a prosecutor can prove that you have intent to defraud, federal law can punish you with a fine and maximum 20 years in prison.


If it is passed to you, do not pass the counterfeit currency on to anyone other by following these instructions. Inspect bills the moment you are suspicious. Remember who gave you which bills.
If you acquire a counterfeit banknote, you must turn it into the Secret Service. Not reporting counterfeit banknotes makes you vulnerable to someone else turning you in for counterfeit banknotes.
 If possible, delay whoever passed you the counterfeit money to remember as much about that person’s appearance as possible. Take note of any accomplices or companions. Write down their license plate number if applicable.


The person who gives you counterfeit money might not be the original counterfeiter. They too might be an innocent civilian duped into using fake money.
It might be impossible to match each passer to each specific bill, so many people inspect bills the moment they are handed to them. For example, many cashiers at general stores will inspect large denomination bills before accepting them as payment. This way, the cashier in the moment can link any potential passer to any potentially counterfeit bill.
 Find your local police department or United States Secret Service field office. These numbers can be found on the inside front page of your local telephone directory or through online search.
 Carefully place it in a protective covering, such as an envelope or sandwich bag. This is so that authorities can glean as much information as possible from the banknote: fingerprints, compounds and chemicals, how it was printed, and so on. This is also so that you cannot forget which banknote was forged, and others are not mistaken.
 Write your initials and the date in the white border areas of the suspect banknote, or on the envelope/bag. The date identifies when the counterfeit was noticed, and your initials identify who noticed the counterfeit.
 When you hand in a counterfeit note, you must fill out the Department of Homeland Security’s Counterfeit Note Report. Find the form here. The URL is http://www.secretservice.gov/forms/ssf1604.pdf.


Once a note is handed in with this form, it is considered counterfeit unless proven otherwise.
Fill out 1 form for each suspected banknote.
This form is geared towards banks who catch counterfeit money, but individuals should use it as well. If you found the counterfeit bill at a bank and you are an employee of the bank, contact your manager and fill out this form regarding your employer.
 Surrender the note or coin only to a properly identified police officer or a U.S. Secret Service special agent. When asked, relay as much information as possible about the passer, accomplices, or any other information you remember about receiving the counterfeit money.


You will not be financially reimbursed for handing in counterfeit money. This is to prevent individuals from receiving money for free, just because they counterfeited money.

