 While some kids are more sociable than others, your child can become clingy when she is uneasy about a new situation. Kids can read body language and look to you for reassurance. Don’t forcibly pry your child off you but allow her to stay close for about ten minutes and slowly separate yourself.Sit close by, play with her, and talk to her but don’t hold your child. Stay in the the same room as you slowly move away. Make sure to always say goodbye to let your child know that you will be returning.
 Kids whine because they want something but don’t know how to get it. Don’t give in to your child but rather model the tone you would like your child to use. Say things like, “use your words” or “does daddy like whining? How do you ask for something?”Make sure to praise your child when he uses the correct tone and asks for something politely. Show her what you mean if she doesn’t remember how to ask.
 Kids tell on each other because they are developing their sense of right and wrong and get upset when they see a rule being broken. Tell your child that it’s your job to find out who’s breaking the rules as long as no one is getting hurt or doing something dangerous. Cut down on siblings squabbling by giving them their separate space.If you are short on space, even assigning a corner to each sibling can suffice. Let them be able to put their stuff down and and know that they are in charge of that area.
 Children are naturally picky eaters as they want familiar food to comfort them. It is also one of the only times when they can have control. Get your child involved in choosing and preparing her own food. For example, allow her to wash the potatoes or sprinkle cheese on pasta.You may also set a timer so your child doesn’t dilly dally during a meal. If your child is hungry, keep healthy snacks available on low shelves. Snacks like whole-grain cereal and granola.
 Kids avoid chores because they obviously don’t enjoy doing them. Place a large box somewhere inconvenient, like the garage, and place any toys in for a few days if your kids don’t put it away when you ask. This teaches them to not only put their toys away but also that there is a consequence for not following rules., Children enjoy cursing once they see the reaction it gets from others. They may want to get attention or may think it’s appropriate if they see adults repeating it. Don’t make a big deal of a curse word but tell your boy to go upstairs and curse all he wants in his room. Not having an audience makes it less entertaining.Let other family know that it’s not okay to laugh when your child curses. Also, let your child know that curse words can hurt people’s feelings. Find replacement words with your child so they don’t use more vulgar language.

