 Scrunch up your forehead, eyes, and mouth to find where wrinkles naturally form on the skin. Use a brown eyeliner or eyeshadow to lightly trace the lines of those wrinkle spots, then smudge the lines with your finger or a brush. Add bags under the eyes and any other aging spots you want.You can even add highlighter or eyeshadow in a lighter shade than your skin to the areas on either side of your “wrinkles” to make them look more three-dimensional.
Try another method for wrinkles using non-toxic white glue, which you apply in a thin layer to your face. Apply it while your skin is stretched out by puffing up your cheeks or stretching it with your fingers, then when your skin relaxes to its normal state the glue will create wrinkles.Do the makeup or glue treatment to your hands or any other exposed skin as well. You can add blue or green makeup to hands and forearms to simulate prominent or varicose veins.
Finish with touches like bright lipstick or drawn-on eyebrows.
 Put on a white or gray wig, or use temporary dye or baby powder to color your own hair for the look.


Tie hair back in a simple, low bun. Or try putting hair curlers in and leaving them there.
If you use baby powder to make your hair gray, try spraying over it with hairspray to help it stick and stay put., Look for large, clear-rimmed glasses with thick lenses in an outdated style. Find a chain or beaded glasses holder to wear them around your neck when they aren’t on your face.


If the glasses have prescription lenses that you can’t see out of, just pop out the lenses before wearing them.
 Carry around a cane or walker with you to use for support when getting around.


This prop can help remind you to act like an old woman too, by staying stooped or bent over and relying on the cane or walker for balance.
 Choose large, colorful, and over-the-top jewelry for a classic granny look. Put on big pearls, flashy earrings, or several metal or charm bracelets. Stick to gold metal for everything.Alternatively, try a few subtler sentimental pieces, like a tarnished wedding ring or a locket with pictures that would represent children or grandchildren.
A sparkly brooch or pin is also a good addition, to either fasten a scarf or simply pin to the front of a sweater or dress.
 For a special touch, fake a hearing aid by fashioning a piece of wax to look like the ear piece. Or use other earplugs or headphones in a light color to look like a hearing device.


The bonus of putting something in your ears to look like a hearing aid is that you truly won’t hear well when others are talking to you, making for an authentic demeanor.
 Carry a large, unstructured bag or tote and fill it with some of the following convincing items:


Prescription or vitamin bottles
An extra sweater
Fruit and other snacks
Denture case and cleaner
Lipstick or other makeup
Crossword puzzles or other word games

