 It is incredibly important to stretch before you attempt any gymnastics skill, even if you're only doing a simple somersault. To prepare for a backbend kickover, you'll need to stretch your ankles, your wrists, and your back. Here's what you should do:









Stretch your wrists. Extend one hand with your palm away from you, as if you're saying "stop," and pull back your fingers with the other hand until you feel a nice stretch in your wrist. Repeat this move with your other hand. After you're done, you can hold on to one hand below the wrist and give the wrist a couple of nice rolls before doing the same with the other hand and wrist.
Stretch your ankles. Sit down and roll each ankle just as you rolled each wrist. Hold on to the leg just above the ankle around roll it a few times in one direction, and then the other. For a more thorough, deep stretch, you can even spell out the alphabet with each foot.
Stretch your back. You can always stretch your back with just a few simple yoga poses, such as such as the camel pose, bow pose, or cobra pose.
Stretch your groin area. Go into a straddle split if you can to help ease out the tension around the area between your legs.;
, Stand with your dominant foot pointing forward a bit. Your legs should be shoulder width apart and your arms should be above your head, strong and locked. Your arms should be near your ears. Relax your body but be ready to tense your muscles as soon as you move.









If this is your first attempt at a backbend kickover, then consider getting a spotter. A spotter can help you feel steady and secure by placing a hand on the small of your back and another on your stomach, or just by being there in case you fall.
 Once you're comfortable doing a bridge, you should be ready for a backbend. It'll take a bit of practice, but you'll be able to get it done with enough determination. You can practice by moving your hands down a wall behind you until they reach the ground before doing a backbend from the standing position. Here's what you should do once you're ready:









Stand with your feet about shoulder's width apart.
Flatten your palms until they face the ceiling, with your fingers pointing behind you.
Begin to slowly bend backwards while keeping your arms locked as you approach the ground. Just keep following your arms.
Plant both hands firmly and keep your feet in place once your hands reach the ground.
Keep your hands as close to your feet as possible when you are in the bridge. This will facilitate your movements when you go to do a back kickover.
 Lift up your lead leg so it's pointing almost straight up in the air. Use the power of your other leg to help you do this. To keep your backbend steady, gaze in between your hands and keep pushing up your hips. Straighten your legs and keep your chest above your shoulders so you look like an upside down check. This will lighten the weight on your legs, making it easier to kick over. Also, it is easier to kick over when your shoulders are directly above your hands, or pushed over your hands.
 Keep your hips straight and your body tight when you are upside down. Push your shoulders past your hands when you are in the bridge and about to kick over. Use the foot that's on the ground to help your body lift up until you're essentially in the split handstand position, with your lead leg pointing forward and your other leg pointing backwards; if you don't have the handstand yet, then work on this move before you attempt the back kickover.









Remember to keep your legs straight and your feet pointed.
 Continue to move your legs forward, through the handstand, until you've landed on the ground with your lead leg. The other leg should follow. Keep your hands planted on the ground and your shoulders squared. Keep in mind it takes a lot of strength. In fact, it's actually easier when you move faster because you have more momentum.
 Plant your second foot on the ground, stand straight, and lift your hands in the air, maintaining a straight back. Your lead leg should be pointed a foot or so in front of your other leg. You should find yourself in the same position you started in. If you had fun, you can go right into another back kickover from this position! If you've done enough work for the day, have a glass of water and praise yourself for a job well done.








