 When you reapproach them to offer a second apology, start by summarizing exactly what you did wrong. This will ensure that the two of you are on the same page and will help to fully clear the air.Say something like “Gia, I apologize for yelling at you the other day. I was angry and that is no excuse. I should never have raised my voice at you; I was completely out of line.”

, After apologizing, make sure that there is nothing else that you have done that needs to be discussed. Your perception of the issue could be entirely different from theirs. For instance, you might think someone is mad because you yelled, but they really might be upset because you walked away from them afterwards when trying to speak to you.Say “Was there anything else that I did that bothered you? If so, I’d like for us to talk about it.”

, Once you have spoken, give them time to speak. Truly listen to them; do not interrupt them or plan out your responses in your head while they are speaking. Try summarizing back what they have said to you to make sure they feel heard.For instance, you might say “So, it sounds like you’re saying that I really bothered you when I cut you off in the meeting the other day because it made you feel unimportant. I’m sorry for that and I want you to know that I value all of your contributions to our team.”

, Never say things like “Well, I’m sorry for yelling BUT you made me mad.” Give your apology and leave it at that, with no exceptions or disclaimers. A half apology is no apology at all. Be open, honest, and genuine as well and don’t preplan your words, but do some self reflection beforehand so you’ll be ready., After you have both spoken at length about your own missteps, take some time to discuss any issues that you may have had with them. Do not make up and issue or bring up something that was resolved from the past in order to make yourself feel better; only bring real concerns to the table for discussion.You might say something like “I am truly sorry for what I said to you, Brian. Sometimes, though, you try to one-up me. Or you brag about how much money you have when you know I’m going through a tough time, so that makes me feel like you’re trying to make me jealous.”

