 There are many smart phone applications that work something like a telescope. You enter your location, or allow the phone to find your location, and then point your phone to the sky. The phone acts as interactive map, identifying stars and constellations for you. Some applications can also enhance visuals, allowing you to see stars more easily.


Sky Guide is an application for iPhones. The app can track your location and time. Then, you can hold your phone up to the sky and it will provide you a map. It can identify different constellations and stars.For an Android, there is an app known as Stellarium Mobile. It works the same as SkyGuide, but with a slightly higher resolution. You can better see stars and constellations through your phone when using Stellarium., Star atlases have been around for a long time. If the idea of carrying your phone around while stargazing kills the fun for you, consider buying a star atlas instead. You should also always take an atlas with you when hiking in the event your phone battery dies. A star atlas is a book that breaks down the night sky by the region and time of year. You can use the graphics and charts provided in a star atlas to locate the North Star on any given night.


Every star atlas is slightly different. There's usually a guide in back that provides information on how constellations are labeled. For example, small stars may be labeled by dots. Major stars, like the North Star, may be marked by large, red dots.A star atlas will provide a map, much like a map of a town or city, guiding you across the night sky on any given night. Select the map for your specific region and time of year and use that map as a guide. Bring a flashlight with you as you go out to stargaze so you can consult the map as needed.Practice using the star atlas before you go camping. It can take awhile to get proficient at using a star atlas. Make sure you get lots of practice so, if you need to find the North Star in a pinch, you're well-prepared to use your atlas., You can use desktop applications for your computer to know how the sky will look on a given night. These devices can help you plan ahead. You'll go outside with a rough idea of where you can expect to find the North Star.


In addition to phone applications, Stellarium also provides a desktop application you can download on your computer to locate the North Star. It's available for Linux, Mac, and Windows. Your background would be the night sky, adjusted for your region and time of year. It will show you what you can expect the night sky to resemble on a given night, locating the North Star for you. You'll know where in the sky to look when you go out.If you have a Mac, PhotoPills is a photography planning application. You can use this if you're planning on photographing the night sky. Based on your location and the time of year, PhotoPills will simulate the galactic arch for you. This will form a map you can use later to locate the North Star.