 Spread out the side piece of your top felt on a flat surface. Note that the side facing you will be the inside of your hat. You’ll be constructing much of the hat inside out in order to hide the seems. Place the interfacing on top of the felt and pin in place with a few straight pins. Then iron the interfacing onto the felt according to the manufacturer's instructions. Repeat this process with the top of the fez, as well.Make sure that the glossy side of the interfacing faces the fabric. The glossy side is usually the adhesive side.
Use a low heat and a thin press cloth when ironing the pieces together. Do not use direct heat and do not use a high heat setting since doing either action may cause the felt to burn.
Iron around the straight pins initially. Once the fabric and interfacing feel securely joined, remove the pins and iron over the spot to adhere the interfacing there.
Let cool when done.
 At this point you should have an inside and outside piece for the side of your fez. Spread out the outside piece of felt with the interfacing side flat against your working surface and the outer side facing you. Lay the inner felt on top, matching the edges precisely. Pin in place using straight sewing pins, then sew around both curved edges of the fabric with a 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance. A seam allowance is the area between the edge and the stitching line on two pieces of material being sewed together. Do not sew the two straight ends of the fabric together.
When done, pull the two pieces of felt and the interfacing through one of the open ends. The interfacing should now be hidden on the inside of the joined fabric, and the side of the fez is now right-side-out.
 Place the top piece of felt on your working surface with the interfacing lined side down. Set the inner felt material down on top, matching up the edge as closely as possible. Pin in place, then sew the pieces together, using a 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance.


Leave a small 1 inch (2.5 cm) gap in the side of the circle as you sew the pieces together. Remember, you are initially stitching these pieces together inside out to hide the seems. Leaving this small gap in the circle will allow you to pull the top piece of the felt right-side out once you’ve finished sewing it together. Do not sew the circle all the way around.
When done, turn the circle right-side-out by pulling the material through the open gap. The interfacing should now be on the inside of the piece.
Close up the hole you left to pull the piece right side out. Carefully fold the remaining open edge inside the circle. Stitch closed.
 Lay the side piece of felt on your working surface so that the outside faces you. Fold it in half, bringing the two straight ends together. Line the edges up evenly and pin in place.
 Stitch along this pinned edge with a 3/8 inch (0.9 cm) seam allowance. Remove the pins when done.
 Stand it up on the larger of the two openings, and place the top felt on the smaller of the two openings. At this point, your fez is still inside out. Pin in place, then sew the top round of felt onto the side with a 1/4 inch (0.6 cm) seam allowance.


When pinning the top felt onto the side, make sure that the inside of the top piece faces you.
This part can be tricky to sew. Keep the round top piece facing down, lying along the sewing machine, with the side of the fez extending up and into the air.
 Use sharp scissors for clean cuts. These slits prevent the fez from bulging out at the top as you wear it.


Make sure that these slits go up to the line of thread but not through it.
 Thread a needle with standard, all-purpose thread. Bring the thread up from the inside top of the fez, straight through the center. Wrap the thread through the loop of your tassel before bringing your needle back through the top of your fez. Knot the thread on the inside of the hat.


You can make this connecting thread as long or short as you want it to be based on where you want the tassel to hang.
Note that if the fez is still inside-out as you work. The knotted side of your thread should face you and the tassel should be hidden.
 Turn the hat right-side out again. Straighten out the edges and the tassel, then try your fez on. With this step, the project is now complete.


Note that the fez should stay on with no assistance. If it wants to slip off, however, you can use bobby pins to help hold it in place.

