 Your body responds to any kind of stress you experience in life, and you may experience many different emotions and feelings, along with body aches and pains when you are faced with bad news. It is important that you recognize how your mind and body are reacting to this stressful event, and provide yourself with support and attention to address these responses before they get out of hand. If you are not able to take care of yourself, you will not be able to deal with the situation well or take care of others who need you. Seek the help of a therapist if you notice you are having a negative response to stress. Some of the reactions you might experience include:


Inability to get to sleep. Or maybe you are able to go to sleep, but wake often due to racing thoughts about the bad news, or having bad dreams and nightmares. In some situations you may oversleep, out of possible increased depressive and anxious symptoms, or avoid dealing with the bad news.

Feeling tense and on edge. Maybe you are especially ‘jumpy’, as if you are waiting for something else to happen.

Experiencing internal dialogue and ongoing thoughts about bad news. Maybe you're thinking about the ‘what ifs’, the ‘should haves’, ‘would haves’, or ‘could haves’. This may ultimately make it difficult for you to concentrate on your normal daily tasks.

Experiencing increased depressive symptoms. These may include increased isolation and anhedonia (inability to enjoy your normal activities), feelings of hopelessness and helplessness, increased irritability or agitation, and mood swings where you feel angry, tearful, and somewhat normal all within a short time frame.
 Being outside helps calm you down, decreases your blood pressure, and helps you become more present by observing what’s around you.Go for a walk. You may not live among the redwoods, but you can still connect with nature by walking through a local park or forest preserve. Walking in nature helps you stop focusing on your bad news and helps you push your “reset” button.Walking outside will also help you get some exercise, which has its own mental health benefits.
 Spend some time writing down your problems in a journal. This helps your mind organize your thoughts and feelings, and provides an expressive outlet, particularly if you not able to talk to someone as often as you’d like.



Writing in a journal will also help you reduce stress., If you can, skip a day of work or school to rest, relax, and take care of yourself. If you are feeling overwhelmed and unable to concentrate because of your bad news, speak to your employer or school and let them know you need a day to rejuvenate.


You could say to your boss, “I need to take today off for personal reasons” or “I need to take a mental health day,” depending on your relationship with your boss and your workplace policy. If your boss is familiar with what you are dealing with, they may be more willing to be flexible.
You may wish to spend your day catching up on sleep, writing in a journal, exercising outside, or spending time with a good friend. While you may be tempted to spend the day on the couch, watching TV, this is not the healthiest approach., You may find your faith to be a source of support for you as you cope with your bad news. Suffering is a universal human concern, and you will find many religious teachings and texts addressing it. Focusing on your spiritual life will help you feel calmer and help you feel better equipped to handle stress.Attend religious services and connect with others in your religious community for support.
Pray. Connecting to a higher power and sharing your troubles has been found to help people feel less stressed.Meditate. Not only is meditation proven to help you decrease stress,but it can help you to connect with your spirituality and a sense of “oneness,” a feeling of being connected to the divine.
You may have other spiritual practices in your life that promote healing, like using crystals, Reiki, or tarot cards. You may wish to spend some time each day in the practice of your choice to keep yourself present and calm.

