 As you do this trick, ask the audience to copy your hand motions. Do each step slowly, and explain to the audience what you're doing. You'll actually be doing one extra step you aren't telling them about. The audience will end up with tangled hands and arms, while you will be showing them two thumbs up.
 Hold your arms out in front of you, and point both thumbs downward. Remember, tell your audience to do the same thing you do. Wait until everyone has made this hand motion before you keep going.
 Move one arm over the other, still with both thumbs pointed downward. Clasp the fingers on your left hand and right hand together. Your wrists – and the wrists of your audience members — are now twisted around each other, with your fingers interlocking.
 As your audience figures out how to copy you, keep talking to them to distract them from what you're doing. Say, "not like that, cross your arms like me. Remember, your thumbs are pointing downward and you're holding your hands together. There! Look at her, she's doing it right." Keep your arms crossed over each other, but let go of your hands so you can point at the audience member you're talking about., Quickly, while the audience is still looking where you pointed, turn over the hand you pointed with. Flip that hand over completely, so your palms are touching again, then grasp your hands together. This will look similar to the position your audience members are in, but it is much less twisted.


If you're trying to practice this and don't understand it, stop and put both hands in front of you with the thumbs facing up. Clasp your hands together, then turn them so the thumbs are pointing down. This is the position you want to end up in after this step.
Keep talking and looking at your audience while you do this, not at your hands.
 Tell your audience to copy you, so everyone will give each other thumbs up. Move your hands up toward your chest, turning your hands so your thumbs are facing up. The audience will try to copy you, but because they're in a different position, they'll end up with their hands twisted, their arms still crossed, or other tangled gestures.
 Tell them they must be doing it wrong, and repeat the trick from the beginning. You can usually do this several times, while the audience laughs and wonders why they can't get it right. Use different distraction methods each time, so the audience doesn't get suspicious:


Pull your hands apart to hold an audience member's hands, and guide them in the "right" position. Clasp your hands together again in the fake position only you know.
Wave your hands around while clasped, shout "Abracadabra" or other "magic words," then spin around while changing the position of your hand.

