 a plastic bottle. You can use any you like, but 3 liter (0.8 US gal) cider bottles would be better if you wanted a bigger biodome.;
, The heavy, black plastic bottom has groves which add strength to the bottom shape. The oval dome lid snaps tightly onto this bottom.


After enjoying the chicken, wash the container lid and bottom completely. (The big label sticker on the outside can be removed with a little Gumout or WD40). In the bottom fill the deeper grooves with coarse sand or fine, washed pea gravel.
Add real soil scooped out of your backyard with a spoon, building up about 1 inch (2.5 cm), patted down. Now, in your backyard or a city waste lot, find some small, low lying plants that are only a few inches high. Wet the area around each such wild plant with a cup of water. Then use a larger tablespoon to dig down and under the roots of the little plant you have watered, and gently lift it out.
Many common weeds that are mowed, burned over or stepped on are fine. 2 examples would be wild strawberry, ordinary grass, or plantain. Even newly emergent seedlings, if they are small enough, will work.
Taking care to keep as much of the roots and soil around them as possible when you lift them out, place them into the layer of soil you have put into the bottom. Now gather a few more such plants.
 Even shingles on a roof often have moss on them that can be carefully scraped off. So after adding some compost soil or topsoil put some moss on the top and arranged around the little plants as a top ground cover. If the plants wilt a little at first, they will be fine when you water them if you have gotten most of the fine roots into the soil. Now sprinkle water gently until the soil, moss and plants are well watered. Your bottom plastic base will let excess water, and eventually the plant roots drain down into the deeper grooves.
 Here you have to be careful no soil or plant parts are in the area you have to snap together. When you have snapped the lid. on correctly it will be tight and snug.
,, So, with a heated sewing needle (from a candle flame or match) you are now going to punch the hot needle through the upper sides of the dome roof in clusters of about 6 - 10 needle sized holes. #*Do this at each upper end, and the middle of each upper side. This will allow some moisture to escape so that the entire dome doesn't cloud or "fog" up. (The needle holes will be too small for bugs to escape.)

, Once sealed up, these little biodomes will not need more water added for many months, even most of a year.
 Cut 3 sides of the door only, so that the door can be opened and closed as needed, and use a tab of mending tape to keep the lid closed. For bugs, try to avoid earthworms. Small beetles or crickets or sowbugs are fine. Lacewings are good, and fruit flies will work too, if you can catch them.
 Remember, you can also use a larger, fancy cake tray and dome that many grocery stores sell in the deli or bakery. The main thing with a larger such deli dome, is that you need the black plastic bottom tray to have enough rigidity and grooves for the sand and excess water.
 But, what the heck - even if you have to eat the whole cake, it only weighs 3 - 4 pounds. Invite someone to help you eat it.
 Firm it down to help stop bacteria.
 Consider putting in these plants:


Fruit producing plants
Perennial plants, plants that don't need much water
Self fertile plants
Plants that produce a large amount of seeds.
,

, Then, leave the seedlings (you should have about 3 or 4 evenly spaced) until they have covered most of the compost.
, If you want to be extra sure there are no gaps, put something like superglue around the joint.


The crickets or beetles will produce carbon dioxide that the plants will take in and give off oxygen as a by-product. The crickets will breathe the oxygen and the cycle goes on. The plants will be eaten slightly by the crickets, but, making sure they are fast growing, they will give the crickets or beetles the supply they need.
Of course, the plants will take in the water you gave them, and they will respire and the water will just evaporate and condense, and will give the give the crickets something to drink and the plant something to drink. The crickets or beetles will get rid of the water one way or another, so it goes on.
The plants will get energy from the soil and light, the leaves will die off through time (replaced by new ones) and will rot into the soil, recycling nutrients and giving back the water that was retained in the leaves.

