 For a bucket trap, you'll need a large plastic bucket, something that will work as a ramp, a flat piece of wood that will work as a trigger, and a thin stick to hold the trigger. You'll also need some bait, such as bird seed. For the ramp, find something long, flat, and sturdy, like a piece of wood. Something around one to two feet long will work. For the trigger, you'll need a piece of wood no longer than the diameter of the bucket.
 Locate your trapping spot. Look for signs of chipmunk around your property. See if you can find a chipmunk hole. If you have a patio you should look on the border of it. If you have a deck, you should check under it. If you can't find any signs of chipmunks, this method works just as well on squirrels. You'll want to place your bucket in the area around the chipmunk hole, or the area where you've seen chipmunks.
 Place the stick across the top of the bucket. Then place the trigger on the bucket, with one end resting on the edge of the bucket, and the other end hanging over the stick in the middle. Then, adjust the stick and trigger so that the slightest amount of pressure on the end of the trigger will cause it to tip over.


It's okay if it's not perfectly balanced. Just use your best judgment to determine whether the weight of a chipmunk on the unsecured end of the trigger will cause the trigger to tip over.
 Take the longer piece of wood or other material you're using as a ramp and lay it so that one end rests on the bucket, near the top. It should sit on one of the outer lips of the bucket, as close to the trigger as possible without disturbing the trigger.
 Put some of your bait at the entrance of the ramp, and even more bait on the unstable end of the trigger. You may need to adjust the trigger and the stick more if the bait causes the trigger to tip over. Then all you have to do is wait for chipmunk to fall for your trap. Check it regularly throughout the day.Optionally, you can place a trail of bait up the ramp as well. Use peanut butter to make the bait stick to the ramp without sliding down.

