 First impressions will often mark the success of a relationship, even if we’re not deliberately thinking of first impressions in this way. When we meet someone new, especially a potential partner, we are evaluating whether this initial interaction is positive or negative. If it is positive, we will likely seek more information about the person. If it is negative, we may find that the relationship will be too much effort.


Similarly, we may be subconsciously looking for similarities between ourselves and this potential partner. We are more likely to pursue a relationship with people who are similar than those who are dissimilar., A guy’s interactions with friends may show you what he’s like when he’s very comfortable. If you’re just getting to know this guy, he might not yet be 100% comfortable with you yet. His friends, on the other hand, may have known him for years, and he may act more relaxed around them. Get a sense of what your potential boyfriend is like with others.


Pay attention to how he treats you in front of his friends. If he is rude or indifferent to you, this is a problem. You are, after all, one of his friends too, and you deserve just as much respect as the others., Your potential boyfriend should treat all people with respect, and if he is respectful to other women, that’s a good sign.


Observe how he interacts with other women when he’s with you. Is he overly flirtatious, or does he only have eyes for you? Does he comment about how attractive other women are? There’s a fine line between innocent behavior and behavior that signals potential cheating. If you’re bothered by his behavior, talk with him calmly about it., How a person conducts himself in public is a good indicator of how he will conduct himself with you. Is he rude to wait staff? Is he helpful when someone is looking for their dog? These interactions will help you understand the kind of person he is.
 When your boyfriend meets your family and friends, they will form certain opinions of him. These can often be valuable because you’ll see how others view him. If you trust your family’s opinions, ask them what they think of your boyfriend. Do they see the positive things you see?

