 Your facial hair will need to be about an inch or two long to sport full sideburns. If you want bushier sideburns, then you may need to grow your hair even longer. Facial hair grows at a regular, but somewhat slow rate, so it may take as much as a month or more to get your facial hair to the right length for sideburns.


Try growing your hair into a beard first to get the length and then you can shave the facial hair into sideburns later.
If you just want short, stubble length sideburns, then you might be able to get these within a few days to a week. Grow your facial hair until it reaches the length that you desire.
Keep in mind that if you are young, such as in your teens or twenties, then it might take even longer to grow your facial hair. Try to be patient while you wait.;
, Keeping your facial hair and skin moisturized as you let it grow may result in better looking sideburns. Try applying a few drops of beard oil on your facial hair while you are growing it out.


If you don’t have beard oil, then just using a facial moisturizer or a few drops of olive oil may be enough to keep your beard and skin moisturized.
 When your facial hair starts to get long, you will need to start combing it to keep it looking neat. Use a beard comb or a natural bristle brush to groom your facial hair as it grows. Try to comb or brush it once per day.
 Sideburns are distinct strips of facial hair at the sides of your face hair that connect to the hair on your head. When your facial hair has reached the length that you desire, you can shave off the hair on your chin and off most of your cheeks to create the sideburns.


To get sideburns, shave the hair off of your chin and off of the lower part of your cheek.
Then, shave around the hair that extends from the area just about your ear to create a strip. You can make this strip as thin or as thick as you like. Some people even create designs with their sideburns, but this is more advanced.
When you are finished, you should just have strips on both sides of your face that extend from the hair above your ear to about the middle of your cheek.
 Trimming your sideburns leaves plenty of room for experimentation and individual expression. Are you looking for bushy sideburns, or something modern and trimmed? Are you looking for a straight, or tapered bottom? If you have a model in mind, take a precision trimmer and cut around in the likeness of your example. You can even cater the look of your sideburns to the shape of your own face.


For long and thinner faces, bushier, jawline sideburns will help soften the angles of your face shape.
Rounder faces may benefit more from shorter sideburns.
 Once you've found a sideburn style that you really like, you will just need to maintain your look. Try to trim the areas around your sideburns at least once every three days. You can use a razor blade or use an electric razor to trim around your sideburns.You will also need to trim the length of your sideburns to prevent them from becoming too long. Many electric razors have an adjustable hair length setting for trimming facial hair without shaving it all off.
 Regular exercise may help to boost your testosterone naturally and this may lead to better facial hair growth. Try to do some cardiovascular exercise for at least 30 minutes every day and incorporate some weight lifting into your routine a couple of days per week as well.For cardio, you can run, walk, ride a bike, swim, dance, or use an exercise machine, such as an elliptical walker.
Find something that you really enjoy doing to make it easier to stick with it.
 Following a healthy diet may also help you to lose weight, which can help to boost testosterone and improve your ability to grow facial hair.


Include plenty of fruits, vegetables, whole grains, and lean proteins in your diet.
Avoid fatty, greasy, fried, and sugary foods.
Take a daily multivitamin to provide extra nutritional insurance.
 Making sure that you are well rested is important for your overall well-being, but it may also help to improve your testosterone levels.Aim for at least seven hours of sleep every night.


To sleep better, try to go to bed at the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning.
You can also try using a relaxing bedtime routine, such as taking a bath, drinking a cup of herbal tea, or listening to some relaxing music.
Avoid using your phone, watching TV, or using a computer at least one hour before bedtime. The light from these screens can interfere with your ability to fall asleep and stay asleep.
 Stress can also affect your testosterone levels, which can interfere with hair growth and even cause hair loss.Make sure that you keep your stress levels under control to ensure optimal hair growth. You can do this by including a relaxation technique in your daily routine. Some things you can do to manage stress include:



Practicing yoga.

Meditating.

Doing deep breathing exercises.

Performing progressive muscle relaxation.
 If you are concerned that your testosterone levels are too low, then you may want to see your doctor. Your doctor can perform a simple blood test to determine your testosterone levels.In some cases, slightly low testosterone levels may not cause any symptoms and it treatment may not be necessary. If your levels are low enough to cause symptoms, such as a lack of facial hair, then your doctor may recommend medication to bring up your levels.Your doctor may also recommend some lifestyle changes to boost your testosterone, such as losing weight or quitting smoking.
 If waiting for your facial hair to grow and making lifestyle changes does not seem to make a difference, then you might want to talk to your doctor about using a hair growth product such as minoxidil.This product is most often recommended for use on your head, but some people have had success growing facial hair after using minoxidil on their faces.


Keep in mind that minoxidil has some side effects and you have to use it for a long time to make it work.It can take months before you see any results.
Talk with your doctor before you decide to try minoxidil for growing facial hair.
Do not try to use minoxidil to grow facial hair if you have not yet started to get facial hair, such as if you are a teenager or in your twenties. Talk with your doctor if you are concerned about a lack of facial hair.
 For those with severely low testosterone, or for men who are making the transition from female to male, testosterone therapy may be the only way to grow facial hair.If you suspect that you have low testosterone or you know that you cannot grow facial hair, then talk with your doctor and ask about testosterone therapy.
 Getting a facial hair transplant can transform your face and allow you to grow sideburns or even a full beard. However, keep in mind that this option is quite expensive. It is also a surgical procedure, so it should be a last resort option.


Talk to your doctor if you are considering a facial hair transplant.

