 Breakfast means breaking the fast that you went through while you slept. On waking, your body needs an energy boost to function and perform your routine activities. Of course, try not to miss any meals, as this can deprive your body of the energy boost that food can give you.


However, do not overeat, as stuffing yourself can decrease your energy levels because it makes you feel lethargic.;
, Fruits and vegetables are rich sources of energy. The natural sugar content in fruit and vegetables can boost your energy levels without causing a sudden drop in energy that you can experience when eating sugary cakes or energy drinks. This is because the natural sugar in fruits and vegetables is easily absorbed by the body.Energy-boosting fruits include: Bananas, oranges, grapes, apples, papayas, lemons, cherries, watermelons, and blueberries.
Energy-boosting vegetables include: Carrots, broccoli, sweet potatoes, spinach, and cucumbers.
 Nuts have protein, which is a good source of energy. Coenzyme Q10, a nutrient present in nuts aids your cells in producing energy. Nuts are also good sources of omega-3 fatty acids, which boost your energy. Energy-boosting nuts include:


Almonds.
Cashews.
Walnuts.
Pistachios.
Hazelnuts.
 Whole grains keep you energized for longer. They have a low glycemic index, which means that they take longer to be absorbed by your body, allowing you to have energy from your meal for longer. Whole grains are also high in fiber and protein, both of which boost your metabolism and energy. Energy-boosting whole grains include:


Oats.
Brown rice.
Whole wheat.
Barley.
 Your body uses fats as a backup source of energy that can help to raise your metabolic rate. However, there are only certain kinds of fat that are good for an energy boost. Fat from junk foods should be avoided. In particular, eat:


Foods with Omega 3 fatty acids like fish, walnuts, flax seeds, and canola oil.
Monounsaturated fats like olive oil, avocados, olives, almonds, and peanut butter.
Polyunsaturated fats like soybean oil, flax seeds, soymilk, and tofu.
 Poor water intake leads to dehydration which causes fatigue. To boost your energy levels, it is essential to hydrate your body. The best way to hydrate the body is by drinking plenty of water every day. Consume at least one and half to two liters of water each day.


When you exercise, remember to sip water every 15 minutes to replenish your water stores that you lose when you exercise.
Increase the amount of water you drink when the weather gets hotter.
 Lemon juice is packed with electrolytes like magnesium and potassium, which are essential for energy production. Squeeze juice out of half a lemon and add it to 150 ml of warm water. Add a pinch of salt and drink it first thing in the morning to start your day off with an energy boost.
 Magnesium deficiency can lead to low energy levels. You can take a magnesium supplement each day, or you can eat foods that are rich in magnesium. Good sources of magnesium are:


Nuts like almonds, cashews, hazelnuts.
Bran muffins, pumpkin seeds, barley, and buckwheat flour.
Halibut.
Soybeans.
Spinach.

