 Both the lead and the follow need to maintain a firm frame. This will help you maintain the connection and stretch necessary to communicate with your partner, as well as protecting you from injury. Stand up tall with your shoulders slightly back and your elbows at your sides. Your arms will move but it's important to keep yourself standing tall with your shoulders positioned slightly back.


One way to get the correct frame is to mime taking a heavy box off a shelf which is above your head. Hold the imaginary box in front of your chest. Your shoulders should now be in position.
If you keep your frame rigid you're not going to be able to dance, but you need to keep it firm so you can maintain a connection and create 'stretch' with your partner once you connect up. This takes practice!;
, For the basic connection, the lead should stand to the left of the follow. You should also not be standing in a straight line, rather you should be slightly angled towards each other (but not facing).


Imagine there is a beach ball sitting between you and your partner. If you aren't angled towards each other enough the ball will fall, and if you try to face to much towards each other, the ball will stop you.
When you connect up with your partner in the next few steps, you need to make sure you stay at the same angle as you are now.
 Apply a light pressure on the follow's back - not so much that you're pushing them, but enough that they would notice a significant difference if you took your hand away.


You will need to adjust where you put your hand depending on who you're dancing with. your partner may be taller than you, shorter than you, and the length of your arm might sit on a different place on their back. Find a place that's comfortable and gives you a solid connection without straining you or your partner too far.
Try not to have a completely flat hand. Shape it like a cup so it's easier for the follow to feel and easier for you to manipulate .
The follow should sit back into this hand ever so slightly so it's more obvious if it moves.
 This will strengthen your connection.


Don't aim to put your hand on the lead's shoulder. If you are dancing with somebody who is taller than you you're going to get very sore very quickly. To find the position, put your arm over the lead's and let it hang down (the lead's arm should be between your arm and your body). Then bend it at the elbow to meet the corresponding point on the lead's arm.
 Even when you don't need to, it can be a good way to make sure your connection is maintained and can be a stylistic choice too. Hold your partner's hand loosely in yours, in a relaxed position near your bodies.


Make sure it's easy to let go of their hand when you're doing moves. Interlocking your fingers will make this very difficult.
It's not like many ballroom dances where you have to hold your arms straight out. Lindy Hop is a relaxed dance so you can hold it just in front of you.
 This is a slight bounce in your knees on every beat. The pulse will help you keep your connection to the music and keep your balance.


It can be tempting at first to bounce on every other beat, especially with fast music, but to stay in time you need to pulse on every single beat.

