 Aloe-vera gels and moisturizers are helpful at soothing and cooling burns. You can use the natural oil from the plant itself, or buy some aloe cream at the store.


Some moisturizers and lotions advertised as "aloe" actually contain only a small percentage of aloe-vera. Read the ingredients, and make sure you're not covering your burn with scented, aluminum-based lotions.
 Lavender essential oil is thought to have therapeutic properties for small cuts, abrasions, and minor burns that affect the outer layer of the skin. Essential oils can irritate your skin, however, so it's important to mix it with a soothing oil, like coconut, which has antimicrobial properties.Supposedly, the French scientist who pioneered the use of lavender oil as a home remedy once burned himself in the lab and plunged his hand into a vat of lavender oil, healing it quickly., Some people think that a small amount of diluted vinegar can help to control pain and heal very minor burns quickly. If you burn yourself, rinse the burn quickly with cool water, then use a wet washcloth with a few drops of vinegar on it. Use the cloth as a cold compress on the affected area., Cut potato is sometimes used in rural regions instead of bandages, specifically on burns.Potato peel is antibacterial and won't stick to the wound, which can be somewhat painful.


If you try this, make sure you clean the wound thoroughly before and after, and rinse the potato before you apply it. Don't leave potato residue on your wound., If you can't heal up a burn with cool water, over-the-counter medication, and time, you need to get medical attention. Never try to use unverified home remedies on serious burns.


Petroleum jelly or Vaseline is commonly thought to have burn-soothing benefits, but this is not true. Vaseline is a moisture barrier, which can dry out the wound. Vaseline has no actual healing properties. Putting Vaseline on a burn is not recommended.
Some people think toothpaste, butter, and other kitchen supplies should be used on burns. This is not backed up in any way. Never apply toothpaste to burns.