 When buying a GPS collar for you dog, you will need to consider both the cost of the collar itself, as well as the cost of the subscription fee. The cost of a collar can range from $100 to $800, and the subscription fee can range from $10 to $15 per month.Basic GPS collars usually range from $100 to $150 dollars.
More advanced collars that have a longer GPS range, that can measure your dog’s vitals like body temperature and heart rate, that can monitor your dog’s activities, and that have weather alerts, statistics, and history functions can range from $500 to $800 dollars.;
, Choose a collar with a pro-grade battery. Pro-grade batteries are known to last longer than regular batteries. However, the more features a collar has, the more battery power it will need to function.For example, if the collar sends regular “check-in” signals to your phone, the battery life will be shorter.
Choose a collar that has a battery life of at least 24 hours.
 Choose a collar that is waterproof and hit-resistant. You can’t keep your eye on your dog all the time. Therefore, you want a collar that will still work even if your dog suddenly decides to splash in a puddle, scratch its neck against a fence, roll in the dirt, or rough-house with other dogs., Some collars’ GPS range depends on your cellphone network coverage. This is fine if you only take your dog to the dog park, for a walk, or let it play in the backyard. However, other collars, specifically collars used for hunting dogs, have longer ranges. For example, the Garmin Astro 320 T5 collar has a nine-mile range limit.If you have a hunting dog or you frequently take your dog hunting, consider a collar with a longer range.
Also consider a collar with a longer range if you frequently bring your dog on hiking or camping trips.
 Collars that connect to your smart phone are convenient because you can instantly pull up the location of your dog in your phone's map application. However, some collars only employ a text-massaging system where the collar sends you a text with the location of your dog.Collars that work in conjunction with your phone can also have the ability to turn a light on the collar to find your dog in the dark.

