 Quickly apply cloth or paper towel to the stain. Try to blot out as much of the liquid as possible without spreading it. Fan the area until it dries. Liquid spills are a big threat to leather, so you may end up with a large, dark stain., Fill a container with warm water. Add a squeeze of a mild hand soap or liquid detergent like Dawn or Murphy Oil. Stir the soap into the water until you have a bubbly cleaner. Soap is useful for basic treatment and removing odors, such as from urine stains.Water alone should be used to treat water stains.
Store-bought leather cleaning products may also be used.
 Dip the sponge or cloth in the soapy water to get it nice and damp. Before using it on the stain, wring out the sponge. Make sure the sponge doesn’t drip at all. It shouldn’t feel soaked. You don’t want to introduce more water to the leather., Start on the stain. Move the sponge from the stain to one of the edges of the leather. Do not scrub. The sponge will leave behind less water as you move it away from the stain. Continue doing this until you’ve cleaned the entire surface of the leather.This seam to seam cleaning will prevent water stains from forming. The leather will dry uniformly, so you won’t need to worry about drying it off yourself unless you use too much water.
 You can add a couple of drops of vinegar to the soapy water you used earlier. You may also combine equal parts water and vinegar for a stronger cleaner. Dip your cloth in, wring the cloth out, and then use it to spot treat the stain. After a few swipes, check the cloth. If it appears dirty, rinse it off in water.For white and beige couches, try mixing equal parts lemon juice and cream of tartar. Let the paste rest on the stain for ten minutes before wiping it off with a damp sponge., Gently rub the stained area to remove the vinegar cleaner. This should also be done during soap treatment if you notice the leather getting too damp. Limited exposure to these cleaners will wear out the leather, but won’t damage it permanently., Find leather conditioners wherever leather or general cleaning supplies are sold. Choose a product that is suitable for your type of leather and follow the directions on the bottle. The instructions will likely have you work a small amount of conditioner into the leather. You can use a dry cloth to spread it from seam to seam over the entire area you treated earlier.