 No matter how much people ask, it is important to keep your password to yourself. If you tell someone, they could tell anyone, and everyone will soon know your password. They then can get into your account and take all your rares. The only people that should know your password are your parents or guardians.You may have a close friend that wants your password, But you should not even tell them!
, Doing this makes you a target to hackers, because they hack to get your rares. Of course you can still wear your good items, but don't brag about them., If you have an account that you never use, lock it for safety purposes. This can be done by logging in to your Parent Dashboard., If you have any reason to suspect a Jammer is a hacker, report them, block them, and spread the news. Tell all your buddies and show them solid evidence. Make sure everyone reports the hacker, so they get banned.The people you may want to tell is AJHQ, who can investigate into the problem and possibly find out who did it., Whenever there is a "hack attack", hide all your items, reset your animals (make them the original pattern), and clear and lock your den. Act like a "helpless" New Jammer. Finally, lock your accounts, and disable trading and gifting, through the parent dashboard. The most recent "hack attack" was "Wretched Jungle" and the most well known attacks were by fman122, and they would both hack., Ask your buddies and other Jammers about the current news. Look for Jammers who are telling everyone "I've been hacked!". However, you should be careful because some people may say they have been hacked to fool others so they may get rares from others!, After any suspicion, send an email to Animal Jam Headquarters, and alert all your friends. Send screenshots, and any evidence to social media, for the world to see. If you got hacked, you can ask for gifts and donations. but people may say your lying, so don't get mad at them, because they also want to protect there rares., This is important because if there is another "hack attack," you can send all of your items to the other account, so therefore when the hacker logs into your account,they have nothing to take, so the joke is on them!, It would be best to talk to there parents/guardian,and then talk to them in person. If they admit they did it, Ask for your items back. But If they don't agree, Investigate further for proof. Remember to report the jammer that hacked you!