 Never feel obligated to make yourself look different because all the 'cool' people are saying to do it. Be yourself, that's what people like.
 You don't have to have the newest designer bag to be considered popular, being considered popular does not mean having all the newest clothes and accessories. But many people (sadly) do judge by looks, so to keep up with your age of style is your best option. Knowing you are only 11 to 12 (maybe 13) years of age, don't dress in a "sexy" outfit. Also avoid graphic tees with hello kitty on them and other cartoon shows. Wear running style shorts and a tee shirt of your liking.


Ripped/laddered jeans are popular. Shorts can be popular, in cute styles with lace, and wear belts with them.;
, Long hair is popular, usually worn in ponytails. Some ways of wearing hair include:


If you have long hair, try doing this: Comb it with a hairbrush, spray it with light detangler, put a headband in, gather your hair and put it into a ponytail with a cheerleading bow.
If you have short hair: Put a headband in, and a hair bow in the side.
If you have medium hair: Put it in a little ponytail with light hairspray.
 Wearing a lot of makeup is bad for your skin at such a young age, it will clog your pores and increase acne breakouts. The only 'beauty' things you need to be doing are:


Washing your face (with any face wash, because you are still young a gentle face wash is best).
Brushing your teeth; you are now old enough to throw out the old fluoride-free toothpaste and go out to get some toothpaste with fluoride. After about 10 years old, your teeth will be needing the fluoride.Moisturize your face (your face is beautiful as it is!) Keep your skin moisturized to help avoid dry skin and peeling skin., It's a sign of friendship, and people will probably talk to you more, because they now know you're really friendly.


Only link arms with boys if they're your boyfriend, and make it look cute, like your head comfortably nestled into his shoulder. You'll be the "toast" of the school, especially if he's the most popular boy in school!

, In movies, they may do it to "climb" the social ladder; in real life it's the opposite. It will give you a bad reputation and your friends will not tend to be too happy to see you bullying others.
 Consider such activities as cheerleading, dancing, singing, gymnastics, etc. Don't change anything you already love doing!

