 To create a paper mache style mask, you'll need a balloon, newspaper, flour, a brush, red paint, gold paint, and cardboard scraps.
 The first step to many paper mache projects begins with the mold of a balloon. The balloon acts as a mold for the paper mache to be constructed around. Once you’ve inflated and tied it shut, tape the opening flap down to a table or solid work surface.


Taping the balloon will make it easier to work with., In a bowl, mix two cups of flour with two cups of water. Mix the mixture until it is creamy and smooth.You can also add salt to prevent mold growth.
 If you want, you could substitute newspaper for paper towels. Position your newspaper horizontally and cut three inch strips. Use scissors for a clean finish.
 Dip each strip in the flour mixture before placing onto the balloon. You could alternatively use a brush to apply your adhesive. Position a few strips then apply your glue with a brush.Cover the balloons entirety with the paper mache. The more strips you use to overlap the balloon, the stronger your mask will be.


If any clumps are leftover, evenly disperse it.
Make a mess and don't feel weird getting your hands dirty., Now you can go out and fix yourself a sandwich while the paper mache dries. Place a fan by the balloon for a faster drying time. This can take between 2 to 5 hours. Plan ahead of time. The paper mache needs to be completely dried before you can continue., Create a large hole on the bottom of the balloon to create an opening for the helmet. This is where you’ll put your head through, so make sure it is large enough to fit., To create a realistic looking Iron Man mask, you’ll need to remove the sides where your ears are. After cutting out the sides, cover the holes completely with masking tape. Don’t cover the opening for your head.This removes the wide curves of the balloon, and simulates a better looking mask shape.
 It might help having a photo of Iron Man’s mask at this point. You’ll need to cut out eye slits to see out of. You can also cut details out of the forehead like the real Iron Man mask. Go as detailed as you want. Make sure you detail everything before painting.You can also add sleek circles for ears. If you look at the mask, you’ll understand this detail.
 The easiest way to paint the mask is by using standard paint. Look at a familiar of Iron Man to understand the color combination. Spray paint will also work, but it'll take longer.
 Wait until the mask is completely dried from the paint job. Wearing a mask with wet paint could expose you to toxic chemicals. Once it is dried, you’re ready to showcase your mask to the world!

