 If your dispute concerns conditions of your rental unit that may violate state or local regulations, your local housing board can assist you in resolving the problem.The housing code typically falls under city or county jurisdiction. You can do an online search for "housing code enforcement" followed by the name of your city or county to find the department that you should contact.
You typically can file a complaint or request an inspection of your unit. The board will review your request and send you notice of the scheduled inspection date.
When making your complaint, you typically must provide your name and contact information, as well as the name and contact information for your landlord.
 Your state's attorney general's office has a consumer protection division, although these offices typically play a limited role in landlord-tenant disputes.Consumer protection divisions typically get involved in cases where your landlord is operating unfairly or deceptively.
However, depending on your state, the office may be able to assist you in asserting your rights under state law.
 Many areas, especially large cities, have tenant associations that can assist you in settling a dispute with your landlord out of court.To find a tenants' rights group in your area, you can start by searching on the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development's website. A list of HUD-approved housing counseling agencies in each state is available at http://www.hud.gov/offices/hsg/sfh/hcc/hcs.cfm.
The federal agency also has a list of tenants' rights groups in each state at http://portal.hud.gov/hudportal/HUD?src=/topics/rental_assistance/tenantrights. Just click on your state for links to groups and other agencies.
County bar associations also may have resources for resolving landlord-tenant disputes.
In some situations you need the government to step in and assist you with the situation, rather than trying to resolve it yourself.
For example, if your landlord is discriminating against you for an illegal reason such as race or sex, you should file a fair housing complaint rather than attempting to negotiate with him or her.

