 Learn about the different types of mental illnesses and their symptoms before you try to explain them to your teen. There are many books, articles, and videos available that will teach you about the different facets of mental health.Make sure you are getting your information about mental health from a reliable source. Information that comes from well-known doctors, universities, or the government is generally reliable. Start with reliable sources like the National Institute of Mental Health or the American Psychological Association., Teens may not know how mental illnesses differ from each other, or they may have misunderstandings of mental health problems based on common stereotypes. Give them a fact-based overview of how different illnesses affect people and how these illnesses are treated.It's often helpful to include statistics of how many people experience mental illness and at what ages they start to show symptoms. This can help the teen understand that they are not alone, "crazy," or strange.
Discuss mental illnesses in a neutral, non-judgmental way, like you would talk about physical illnesses. For instance, you might say, "A person with anxiety might worry a lot, while a person with depression might feel indifferent and have trouble worrying about anything."

, Find examples of mental health problems in books, movies, and real life, and discuss them with your teen. Talk about how mental illness can affect people’s lives and why it’s important to seek treatment.It might be nice to sit down and watch a movie together, such as Inside Out or Silver Linings Playbook, depending on your teen's maturity level., Let your teen know that, with the right treatment, a person can improve with a mental illness. Provide them with examples from books, blogs, and movies of other people who were able to live full, healthy lives after learning to manage their mental illness.Talk about the different types of treatment such as medication, individual therapy, and group therapy.
A great place to start is HealthyPlace.com, which features blogs written by people living with mental illness., Don’t lecture your teen about how mental illness is “bad.” Instead, give them space to express their own ideas. Ask questions, and listen carefully to the answers. Encourage them to ask questions as well.If you aren’t quick to lecture or judge, your teen will feel more comfortable talking to you, and your conversations will be more productive.
For instance, you could ask your teen what they think of popular media depictions of mental illness.

