 An education and the right amount of money are not all the ingredients of a successful property manager. You should get a feel for the everyday life of a property manager by working as one for someone else. This will also expand your network of colleagues in the industry. The more you prepare for your career, the smaller the learning curve later on.
 Once you have built up some experience and income, find a good time to invest in properties. You will need a considerable amount of money, which will likely have to come from elsewhere. The two best ways to raise this money are by either finding investors or taking a loan.


Take a loan. Banks are a good place to look for a loan to buy houses. Some banks even specialize in funding real estate ventures. Gather your credit information and meet with a few banks to see what they are looking for, and what they expect from you.
Find investors. Using the connections you made, ask around to see if anyone is interested in investing in a new property manager. When making pitches to potential investors, make sure you name the specifics: what exactly they are investing in, who is involved, exact financial numbers, why you make a good manager., Beyond the financial limitations of a new property manager, you don’t want to stretch yourself too thin while you are still getting off the training wheels. Look into buying 1 or 2 properties and expanding from there when you feel comfortable. Properties are listed in various places such as the internet, newspapers, or even with your realtors’ association.
 Based on the properties you own, some listing methods may be better for finding renters than others. Renters in college towns generally look on the internet first, while families or professionals may check with realtors. Make sure you evaluate their ability to pay rent on time, cleanliness, and credit history before agreeing to rent them the property.
 Now that you don’t have a boss to report to, all benefits and drawbacks of property management fall on your shoulders. There are many reasons to keep track of your finances, and they are all incredibly important to the well-being of your business. Establish a system and a routine for keeping these records, and stick to it.Tax purposes. Avoid any surprises in future audits by keeping track of your numbers and reporting them accurately to the government.
Approaching investors. Knowing specific financial numbers will make it easier for you to give precise presentations to investors, which will impress them.
Making wise investments. Only by knowing the success of current and previous properties can you make better investments in the future.
Operating costs and expenditures. A large part of your job is maintaining your properties. Keeping track of your finances will help you determine the profit margin for each property.
 You are now solely responsible for making sure that your properties meet the government’s codes and regulations. You will likely have learned many of these in previous years, but keep a copy of the codes and regulations handy and make yourself aware of new developments. Not only will this help you keep your properties safe and livable for your tenants, but help you avoid lawsuits and failed inspections.
 The best property manager is one that prevents future problems with regular maintenance. You should also be responsive to your tenants’ maintenance requests. Being prompt and courteous is a great way to keep quality renters in your properties. Keeping your properties maintained will also enable you to find quality renters when someone moves out.

