 Unlike the Dark Knight's suit, the Batman of the Detective Comics days is a lot simpler. Here's how to make one.


Start with full-body pant suit or unitard. It should be neutral or slightly bluish-gray, with long sleeves. Unless you're already ripped, it should fitted loosely so that you can pad. You can find them at stores that sell ballet clothing, or if you will be spending time outside when the weather is colder, you can go for neoprene body suit like those that divers, surfers, and paddlers use.
Don't worry about getting a unitard if you can't find one—the utility belt will make the suit look continuous. Do make sure your pants are not loose at the bottom—they need to tuck into your boots.
 Not boxers. Batman is an outsider, he has no problem wearing his underwear on the outside of his gray suit. So find a pair that has nothing written on them. Dark blue will also work, depending on the bat-era you are trying to emulate.
 Use shoulder pads that you can get from a fabric store to add muscles to your body to fill out the suit, or use balloons partially inflated.
 It will need to cover the center of your chest. The look of the crest has been interpreted two different ways: A yellow sideways oval with all black "bat" symbol on the inside OR an all-black "bat" symbol without anything around it.
 The gloves should be elbow length, should match the color of your Bat-briefs, and should have three fins attached to the sides. These fins should be stiff and angling backwards towards Batman.
 This is the iconic yellow belt with a large gold Batman symbol on the front and small square yellow pockets that house Batman's gadgets. You can probably find a vinyl yellow belt at Goodwill or Salvation Army. Barring that, there's always the costume store, which may have a yellow Bat Utility Belt.
 Go the extra mile and try adding utilities such as a Bat-monitor (walkie-talkie), Bat-cuffs, a Bat-lasso, a Bat-Tracer (anything with a blinking LED), Batarangs (anywhere that sells novelty boomerangs, painted black or yellow), etc.
 You should have a floor length black cape with jagged edges and blue lining. The edges should be reminiscent of bat wings.
 These should come up just below the knee. There shouldn't be any sort of lace or strap on the boots. Batman doesn't have time to deal with that. Try all black rain boots.
 Create a black fabric mask with pointed ears that extend from top sides of your head. You should have a pointy (pyramid-like) nose. The mouth and chin should be completely exposed and the eyes should have almond shaped holes for visibility purposes.

