 Choose whether to start your garden from seeds or sprouted seedlings. Purchase from a catalog or nursery. You will also need to determine which garden tools to buy. Gardening can be done by hand with simple tools, but a very large garden may require a tilling machine to loosen the soil.Here's what you'll need:


Seeds or seedlings. Nurseries have good selections of seeds and seedlings and staff who can help you decide which varieties to buy.
Fertilizer. A good natural fertilizer will boost your vegetable plants. Work bone meal, blood meal or fertilizer into the soil. Compost works well.
Mulch and topsoil. Vegetable plants need to be protected from wind and heavy rain when first planted. Use mulch or simply a fine layer of topsoil. You could cover the soil with loose hay to protect sprouting plants.
 This machine loosens dirt, allowing you to add fertilizer and dig holes for the vegetable plants. For a small garden, simply use a hoe, but for large gardens more than 10 square feet, you may want to buy or rent a soil tiller.


A shovel, a spade, and a garden rake. Use these essential gardening tools to dig holes and to move plants and soil.
A ruler or measuring tape. Vegetable plants need to be planted at different depths, so it's useful to measure the holes you make with a ruler.
A hose with an adjustable watering feature. The ability to change the water pressure comes in handy.
Fencing supplies. Rabbits, squirrels, deer and other animals like to nibble on vegetables, so you may want to construct a fence around your garden.
 Mark the corners of the garden area with rocks. Clear the area within the borders free of roots, rocks, sticks, weeds, and other large debris. Use the soil tiller, hoe or rake to break up the soil into small pieces, working it to a depth of about 12 inches (30.5 cm), depending on how deep your vegetables need to be planted.


Work fertilizer into the soil with a garden rake. Be sure to distribute it evenly.
Be sure to take the time to remove large rocks buried in the dirt. They'll get in the way of your plants' roots, and it's worth taking the time to clear the area.
If you're concerned about the quality of the dirt in your yard, buy a soil testing kit to find out how many nutrients and organic matter it contains, as well as its pH level. All of these factors affect the nutrition and growth rate of your vegetables. After you've tested the soil, you can add whatever it might be missing.

