 Each state has an Alcoholic Beverage Control (ABC) board. You will have to work with your board to get approved for a liquor license. Many states also have local ABC boards, which also must give you approval before you can operate in the locality.To find your state’s board, search online. Type “your state” and “beverage control” into your favorite search engine. Your state board should have a website.
The state board may also have links to each county or local ABC board.
 States offer a variety of licenses. For example, Texas alone offers over 70 permits or licenses. You should visit your state’s ABC website to find out what license you want. For example, you might want one of the following in order to sell to restaurants:


Distributor’s license. You can sell alcoholic beverages in the unbroken original packages to retailers and private clubs.Salesperson permit. This permit allows you to take orders from wholesalers and retailers.Wholesaler’s permit. Allows you to import alcohol and then sell it to retailers and wholesalers., You might be confused and not know which license to get. In that case, you should meet with ABC staff to discuss your options. Look for a phone number or an email address and contact the ABC board with any questions that you have.
 Each state sets its own requirements for obtaining a license. The requirements could be extensive, depending on the license. For example, in Florida, you must have the following in order to get a distributor’s license:You must have a warehouse to store your alcoholic beverage, and you must store a certain amount of your beverage in the warehouse.
You need to keep an inventory of all alcoholic beverages and have a certain amount in storage.
You must sell to licensed vendors generally instead of only to a few.
 You can get a paper application from your state or local ABC board. You might also be able to download the application from the ABC board’s website. If so, you can enter your information directly into the PDF forms, which makes for a neat presentation.


In some states, such as Massachusetts, you can apply for all licenses and permits online., You will have to submit supporting documents along with your application. The exact documents you need will depend on the type of license you want and your state. For example, if you apply for a salesperson license in Massachusetts, you will need to supply the following documents:proof of residency, such as a driver’s license or a state-issued ID card
certificate of employment

, Provide all information requested. If you don’t know how to answer a question, then contact your ABC board and ask. Enter information using a typewriter, if available. When you finish your application, make a copy for your records.


Remember to pay your fee. The amount will depend on the type of license you get. Make sure to include the check or money order with your application.
Submit the application to the address provided. In some states, you will need to submit it to your local board first for approval. In other states, you will submit it directly to your state board.
 You may need to meet with the ABC board to go over your application or to provide additional information.Be sure to take a copy of your application with you and arrive on time. ABC board staff are usually busy and overworked, so be prepared.


Generally, you can’t start acting as a distributor or salesperson until your application is approved. However, some states might let you get a temporary license so long as nothing on the face of your application disqualifies you.

