 Visit your local police station and ask to speak with someone about the landlord. Try to find out if there are excessive police calls to the building or complex, or if there has been a history of problems with the landlord individually. While the police may not be able to divulge private information about an individual, the police log of calls for a specific address is usually public record., Visit the county court or registry of deeds for your prospective apartment. County real estate records are open to the public. You should be able to use the property address to verify the ownership of the property or find out if there is any pending legal action.Verifying ownership is important to make sure that you are not being caught is some kind of scam. It is rare, but scams occasionally arise in which people pretend to be landlords, collect a month’s rent and security deposit, and then disappear.
 Go to the court and check the list of cases filed in the past few months. This is often available online, and you can search by name for either plaintiff or defendant.If you find a high number of cases filed against your landlord as defendant, you should be concerned that so many people have problems with him or her.
If you find a high number of cases filed by the landlord as plaintiff, this should raise concern that the landlord is quick to move for eviction or take other legal action.
 Most states have a real estate board or other state or local office that will accept and investigate complaints against landlords. Find out what office covers this in your area and check on your landlord or apartment building.


For example, in New York, tenants may file complaints with the New York Tenant Harassment Prevention Task Force., As a catchall, the Attorney General’s office or Secretary of State usually accept complaints from residents of the state on a wide variety of consumer affairs. This would include problems between tenants and landlords. Check with these offices to find out if the complaints are a matter of public record, or if you can search by name for your prospective landlord.


The California Attorney General’s office has a website that accepts complaints from tenants.The Minnesota Attorney General has a website that contains information about tenants’ rights and accepts complaints about landlords.