 Although the Prius navigates better in the snow and ice than some people think, upgrading to stronger snow tires is a good idea.


Make sure to have snow or ice tires on all four wheels too. If you only have them on the front of the car, the Prius might drive better, but it will still have issues with stopping in the snow and ice and with maintaining control in those conditions.
The Prius comes with low rolling resistance tires. That means they won’t have great traction, especially in snow, which is why it’s important to buy winter tires.Replace your winter tires in the summer. The dry pavement will cause them to wear more quickly because their rubber has softer composition than summer tires.;
, That will make them work at maximum efficiency. Not only is that good for your pocketbook and the environment, but it’s also better for controlling the car in the snow and ice.


Cold air will cause your tires to deflate by making air molecules contract If your tires are not properly inflated, and this will make it harder for the car to move by increasing rolling resistance.
Snow tires might cost you some fuel efficiency, but they will make the car more stable, and that’s important when driving in snow or ice. Inflating the tires can help you regain some of that fuel efficiency.
Adequate snow traction requires tires with at least 6/32 inch deep tread.Inflate your tires (this applies in all seasons) to the maximum on the side of the tire -- ignore what it says in the manual or on the driver's-door post.
 It’s important that you’re prepared for anything when it’s icy and snowy outside, especially in a smaller car like a Prius.


You should keep a snow and ice scraper, a flashlight, and flares in your car. Make sure that you’re dressed properly for the conditions, including bringing a hat, boots, and gloves.You should make sure your rear window defogger and defroster work too. You also might want to include a small shovel in the car. Top off your car’s levels. It’s really important in winter conditions to keep your car’s fluids full.
Buy premium heavy duty snow and ice windshield wipers. It’s worth the extra money to make sure that you don’t have windshield wipers so flimsy they can’t move heavy snow off your windshield.

