 Each martial artist has different strengths and a different body type, you will do better if you choose a form that suits your body type. Some forms lend themselves more towards competition than others. Competitions often look for a form that is longer and more difficult and has a greater variety of challenging moves. Ask your Sensei for advice on the best form for you.;
, Without good strong basics (kihon) your form will look sloppy. Judges will quickly dis-regard it when looking for their champions. Focus on doing the form very slowly and perfecting each stance and technique. Have your Sensei watch it on a regular basis to give you feedback and video yourself doing the form so you can break down the basics.
 Some movements should be done quickly and others should be done slowly. At some points you should pause, while at others you move quickly. Breaking down the form into parts can help you work to out the right timing.
 Karate basics are not the only important factor in a high scoring form. You need to focus on your focus. This includes your breathing, eye contact, loud Kiai's, sharp head turns and strong movements. A kata without good focus and strength will not score well.
 Often, people are very good at doing their form, but when they get into a tournament and are being judged it is never their best as they are so nervous about performing. The more often you perform for an audience or have someone watch you, the better you will be.
 Practice as much as you can, at home and at the dojo.
 Ask your instructor and your peers to watch you do your form before or after class and get feedback from them. You can also video yourself doing it for feedback.
 If you look sharp and clean the judges will see that you take the art seriously and it can help your score. Make sure you Gi is ironed and clean and that your hair is tidy and you aren't wearing jewellery or bright nail polish.
 Every time you compete you gain more experience and you will get better. It's also a chance to get more feedback from the judges and watch other great karateka, all of which will help you get better.
 Visualise yourself doing the perfect Kata every night before you go to sleep and again when you wake in the morning.
 You should watch as many tournaments as possible and analyse the winners. What makes them so good, what are they doing that you are not. Try to add it in to your form.
 Many people change their Katas too often, they don't give themselves the chance to get really good at any of them. They think if a form does not win they should try a different one. But it is not the form that wins it is the time and effort that has gone into it.

