 Understand that "Har Megiddo" may be translated "Mountain of the Gathering," (with some revealing overtones of "uncertain," if you dig further into "Har" ), and is not a place, as can be noted in the first lexicon reference, "Har-Magedon, a mountain of unc. location," where "unc" means "uncertain." Or rather, it is a place, but is given to be interpreted spiritually; it is a spiritual place, the same way that heaven is a spiritual place--or state of being--meaning that there is no "place" called heaven, which the Bible is very clear about (Luke 17:20 {et al} “The kingdom of God is not coming with something observable; 21no one will say, ‘Look here! ’ or ‘There! ’ For you see, the kingdom of God is among you.”
Now Megiddo is a real place, , so we'll include the lexicon for it, mostly because you might wish to dig into "gadad," from which Megiddo is derived, mostly because it includes some interesting overtones of self-immolation, or "you brought this upon yourself," pretty much exactly like a father responding to one of their children in the situations that we all experience. So, if you can accept that Jerusalem is the spiritual center, the lexicon informs us that Megiddo was an ancient fortress town, even before David and Solomon.
While the literal stuff of your nightmares may surely come true, to God Armageddon is just the human struggle between the spiritual center, where He balances His "foot," and the forces of the earthly king that God warned us we would be sorry about in 1 Samuel 8. The 'waters' or 'sea' in the Bible represents 'people', and 'mountain' (usually reserved for God) here represents the place that the people who have 'risen up' from the 'waters' (or those seeking God) gather; which is why it is occurring right at the edge of the spiritual center of the universe in The Revelation.
Thus, "Then they gathered the kings together to the place that in Hebrew is called Armageddon" in Rev 16:16, can easily be interpreted as "Then they (the evil spirits) gathered the kings (the people running things) together to the place that is known as the king's fortress--just north of where the 'soldiers' {of God} gather, a spiritual place, derived from the lexicon. For lack of a handier Christian metaphor, The Mahatma's famous quote, “First they ignore you, then they ridicule you, then they fight you, and then you win” may be one perfectly valid reflection of Armageddon, in the context of "The Revelation of Christ," whereas the more literal popular alternative suggests followers of Christ gathering for a violent confrontation, and killing or being killed.
Yes, the blood will flow up to a horse's bridle; signifying the blood of all who died, and likely not just those killed in one epic literal battle.;
, It is a spiritual war for the center (but as a corollary, the culturally accepted definition, or scenario, has happened in the past, at Har Megiddo {we're talking about the plains of Megiddo, now}; strange and terrible wars they would be to us, and not easily comprehended; Genesis 1:2 "The earth was formless and void" is better interpreted "the earth became void, unless we are to believe that God creates void, formlessness, and chaos.
A lexicon of this verse, at the word "was," illuminates this concept, down at "was, hayah (haw-yaw), to exist, i.e. be or become, come to pass (always emphatic, and not a mere copula or auxiliary)--where we accept "exist" or "be," while "become" or "come to pass" is surely the correct interpretation, and also by following "tohu" at the top, clicking on "8414" yields "chaos (1), confusion (1), desolation (1), emptiness (1), empty space (1), formless (2), futile (2), futile things (1), meaningless (2), meaningless arguments (1), nothing (2), waste (3), waste place (2), as well as following "vavohu, 924," so the common interpretation suggests that God made "confusion, chaos" etc, which is anathema to God of course. But the point is that there were all kinds of things, giants, etc, present at one time, that seem like fiction to us now.
The war is always at the center of a thing--you don't plot to overturn by raiding an outpost. And furthermore, there is no struggle where God or heaven is concerned. The fight is in you, for the earth. Although the fight spills into the physical plane, it is not a physical fight. There were wars even before man arrived on the scene, in other 'centers,' and not for just the earth; but they do not concern us now.
What is important now is that those "angels of death" have always been, and will always be, as long as there is 'free will'; they aren't some satanic horde, except that which is released by man. If you are even reading this, you must care somewhat about discernment; and are surely aware that satan has no power, but what we give him.The Four Horsemen is us ("4" being the cardinal Directions away from Center),as far from our center as we can get. Think Avarice, Greed, Vanity, etc., and recognize that we are all in this together, regardless of any personal desire to the contrary. In other words, it is easy to personally justify how disconnected from evil you think you are, yet still be in complete slavery to the worldly system. You use petro-dollars, right? Yet tares grow with wheat. It rains on the evil and the good.
As a connected aside, this speaks to what is meant in the Bible by "witnessing" -- you are called out of "the world" (ego, materialism), while still being an example for the world. "Witnessing" is misinterpreted by many Christians to mean that they are to ask people "Do you know Jesus Christ as your Personal Lord and Savior?". Recognize that Jesus never cornered anyone in this manner. The Bible admonishes those who would have their "ship" in a "safe harbor." Proselytizing may be viewed as a sanctimonious and self-serving way to justify fence-sitting, while keeping your ship in harbor."...let us not love in word or in tongue, but in deed and in truth." IJohn3:18
While this is usually done in innocence and caring, it is an affront; you are literally doing "satan's" work by using a false representation of Christ to chase people from the coming, new Government (Isa 9:6), especially if you believe that everyone who does not believe exactly like you do is "lost." Understand that God is about spiritual "substance", or what is "central" to you, and it is irrelevant if you call yourself an atheist even, if you then go out and manifest Christ to people. The Parable of the Two Sons reflects this spiritual principle; don't let some guy with a tie tell you it is only about Jews and Gentiles. Read and decide for yourself.
 Except possibly in a very limited sense. The Bible even says "no one knows where they go when they die." You don't know where you came, from, or where you are going, and any explanation will amount to words. If either were explained to you, you wouldn't, couldn't fully comprehend; as evidenced by the fact that you would like it explained; and you would cherish a concise explanation above everything you own, probably.
And, there is a Book for this, which can be frustrating to read, because you are looking for proof or facts, while It is full of (apparent) contradictions and questions, and Strong Men have interpreted It for the weaker in such a way that you do not accept, but cannot prove wrong, just as they can not prove that "Love your neighbor; this fulfills the law" is all one needs for salvation, the point being that no matter where you come down where Scripture is concerned, you have revealed your heart, which is all God cares about.
Of course, being that man was involved, there was a humongous battle for the Book. The battle for the Book continues to this day, and again, it is your battle to fight, to lose or to win. You have a lexicon available to you, and no new translation can obscure it.
Every possible faction that has a part in the battle for the earth, has an agenda for you in the fight; but, although the battle is for the earth, it has to be fought with the Book. This is because the Book is Truth, and Truth is your only weapon.
Note that you can overcome, and participate in the Kingdom of God without ever reading a Bible; but you are still going to use the principles in It. Truth is also clearly reflected in other books, but this just clouds the issue here. When It was completed, when part II came out, It was locked away for hundreds and hundreds of years, by men, and no one could read It (and they didn't read It, either, of course--they hated It); they would kill you if you did manage to read It, or even if you got caught owning One, these men, and others after them.
And that battle still rages today; now It is no longer kept from you physically, there is no need; It is being kept from you spiritually.
This was all done in the Name, of course, by people who were convinced that they were doing the Right Thing, the Bible calls them "strongmen."
Not being able (or, willing) to see the center of something is the same as not knowing it. You can't see the wind, or the "ether" (nothing), from where everything comes; we don't know what probably 90% of the species on the planet are, right now, or that "the earth" includes all that out there, everything that is physical. To finish, you don't even know where elephants are buried (edit: elephants no longer bury their dead; 40 years ago, this was a mystery, but we've solved it by slaughtering almost all of them); and we probably don't know what Armageddon is, either.
Even one hundred years ago, although we dimly understood the thing "vacuum", no scientist on earth could prove how a rocket firing in it would act, or react. There is a point, here, which is to show you, briefly, how much of even the physical plane we, as humans, are "unaware" of. Physicists can't find something like 95% of the matter that they know must exist. You are thus hardly compelled to accept the groupthink--or this interpretation, for that matter--where Armageddon is concerned.
 The only thing you can really be certain of is that whatever the herd thinks about a Biblical thing, that is exactly what is not going to happen, by definition. The Bible says that "even the elect would be deceived, if that were possible," and religious people ("Pharisees," then) are deemed "the blind leading the blind." There is no reason to suspect that today's religious hierarchy are anything other than today's "Pharisees."

, It displaces your center in time, toward some imaginary future date...game over! At least until another artifice is needed. Meaning that if you are all plexed up about some coming Apocalypse, you are effectively removed from manifesting Christ.
Just like in the war for the Book, the concept of Armageddon was given to you. There is a description of some of the action, sure; and "physical" battles seem to be, and will be, fought. However, Armageddon, for you, will end when you die; your battle is complete, vanquished or Victor.
God does not need to send physical armies for the battle for the earth. Because He could wipe it all off with His foot, and start over, except He can't because He gave it to us. Then we gave it away, too, and, left to our own devices, we wouldn't ever get it back, because look we can't even figure out where elephants are buried. And it's real important that we get it back, too, because the earth is where we go; it is our realm, and we have nowhere else to go.
If you were raised on the belief that you could "get saved", get "baptized" (by water), then chill 'til you die, and go to Heaven, read this, it's in there somewhere, or even in a Bible, all over the place -- the end of Pr 2, for a start; Is 9:6, all over -- the Bible states explicitly, many times, that the earth is man's realm, and that the Kingdom of God is coming here. You even say it in your prayers; "on earth as it is in Heaven."
Luckily for us, despite free will, we have a way to give God permission to act in our realm; prayer. Prayer is the way you make it ok for God to do something in our realm; otherwise, He pretty much won't. We call this "religious", but religion is another thing that we have differing definitions of; among ourselves, and between us and God -- and "religious" prayers are admonished in the Bible -- they are deemed pointless, and not listened to by God.
Religion is just another distraction. "Man's attempt to reach God" is the accepted definition. There you go. It is likely just the other side of the coin of politics, and you can't have one without the other; but don't let that convince you that God is religious, just go and read what Christ had to say about religion.
Funny thing about the Church, though, is you know exactly what it is, or you...sense it; intimate knowledge of it is inside you, you were born with it, and it cannot be removed; although it can be ignored, despised, refuted, denied. It has nothing to do with religion; It is a collection of "living stones."
Despite all your concepts about the Church, which were passed down, 'given' to you; despite the desperate attempt to portray the New Government (Is 9:6) as Religion, Usurper, Oppressor, Whore, or Thief; and despite all the war, and the battles for the Book, you know what the Church is. This is because it is your center; it is that vision, that we all had (or have); that you knew intimately when you were a small child, before what you were "given" removed it to fable.
A great description for Heaven may just be "What you thought life would be like when you were a little kid"
"I AM" is right next to you, right now, to choose, and does not require anything that you don't have with you, right now. Oh, and you can only, ever choose it right now, because that's all you'll ever have; that's why it's "I AM", and not "I will be", or "I was". "Understand I AM" means you should understand the concept of I AM, the "am" being made emphatic here, not titular, else "Am" would do fine.
 This "mark," surely not a physical mark, is placed either on one's "hand," which is what we use to do everything with; or on one's "forehead," which is where we get the idea to do those things ("forehead," specifically, is the seat of our self cognizance, but that is another monologue). And so, "...received the mark of the beast in their hand or forehead" may be interpreted "predisposed to evil in everything they think, and everything they do." And truly, cannot conduct business, or "buying and selling," without this mark; in other words, if you try to make something as well as you are able, and retail it, you are not going to be in business long--you "must" be a slave to profit in order to conduct business.

