 Try to put some effort into truly taking pleasure out of your life. One simple way to do this is to choose something to take pleasure in every day. This can be as simple as taking a moment to taste and savor your morning coffee. Or you could make it a habit to spend thirty minutes each day doing something that you truly enjoy., Try not to measure your life against someone else's. For example, if you are concerned about your finances, try to think of ways to increase your income. This is an action you can take to improve your situation as opposed to thinking about your friend who has a higher paying job and wondering why you can't make that kind of money.When you compare yourself to someone else, you often end up judging yourself unfavorably. Most people compare themselves with those we perceive as having more or being "better."They also tend to compare themselves to an idealized version of that person, ignoring the fact that the other person is human, with flaws and challenges like everyone else.Instead of measuring yourself against others, compare your past and present selves. How have you grown in the last year? What can you do today that you couldn't do before?Comparing yourself to another person is like comparing apples to oranges. It is an inaccurate and irrelevant measurement, since everyone is unique.It's as illogical as comparing your swimming ability to a dolphin's.
 Research tells us that fresh air can have a positive impact on your health, both mental and physical.Try to take some time each day (or week) to spend some time outdoors. You can visit your neighborhood park, or go on a weekend adventure to a nearby state park., Focus on your positive traits. If you are overly critical of yourself, it can be hard to find pleasure in your life. Instead, take some time each day to focus on your strengths. Make it a habit to compliment yourself. Try taping a sticky note to your bathroom mirror that reminds you that you are a great person., Embracing your inner child can help you feel like you are living life to the fullest. Try doing something silly, like skipping or turning a cartwheel. Don't be afraid to laugh. You can also make it a habit to joke around with your your friends and family. Your playfulness will likely rub of on them.