 Your trainer is the person that knows your riding best, and if anyone can find you the right horse, she can. Most trainers charge what is called a "commission fee", which is usually 10-20% of the horse's price, that you pay to your trainer, for helping you look. When you have decided you're looking, decide what kind of horse you want; breed (that is really optional to most), temperament, what type of riding they are best for, etc. After that decide what you're using the horse for; if for children, showing, or pleasure. Think and think and think until you have worked out all the kinks and unknowns, like how far you are willing to travel, your price range, etc. Then you can start shopping.;
, There are a few main ways. Try the Internet, websites like www.dreamhorse.com, www.bigeq.com, www.equine.com are all fantastic sites where horses are for sale. But don't limit to search engines. Look for the websites of barns in your area, and check out their sales' pages. You can also call other trainers, some don't have webpages, and see what they have.Go to horse shows and look for ads posted by the rings, or on the Porta Potties, or anywhere. Always keep an eye out. Don't be afraid to suggest a horse to your trainer--they might tell you that's a great horse, or they'll point out something that makes them think it might not be all too good for you, and that's okay. You'll learn more about what they think is right.
 It is also good to have your trainer ride, but that is your decision. Make sure a trainer, or someone who knows riding well can come with you to this visit! Keep in mind that just because you've tried a horse doesn't mean to stop looking. There is no guarantee that horse is right. Honestly, the more horses you try the better. It is a good idea to take a camera/camcorder and photograph or video yourself riding the horse. This way you can look at it later and compare multiple horses you've seen.
 This way, you can ride it at your home stable, and see how he/her is for more than one ride. Sometimes a horse goes on trial from anywhere to a week to a month, although two or three weeks is a common time period.
 He will do a number of tests, to see if the horse is lame or has underlying problems. There are many different things you can have done, so talk to your vet. Keep in mind that people still buy horses that fail their vet checks, and a smaller number of horses actually pass. If the horse you vetted failed, and you still like it but don't want to make the investment yet, think about proposing a lease for a few months. This way, you can see if the horse will go lame.
 Horse are very expensive animals, and they often go up for sale for a lot of money. Sometimes you can negotiate with the owner to try to lower the price to something more affordable for you. Even if you can easily afford it, try to negotiate, it is very possible you could save some money.

