 You want remove your crabs first, so they don't get in the way while you're cleaning. Place the crabs in a container with high walls so they cannot escape. Something like a large Tupperware container could work.Be careful when picking up your crabs so you won't get pinched. Pick your crabs up using your thumb and index finger and grasping them underneath the armpits.;
, Before you clean out the cage, you need to remove any decorations or toys. This includes things like hiding boxes and shells. Remove these items and set them aside. You will be cleaning them later., The substrate is the sand at the bottom of the cage. It should be replaced completely about three times a year. Twice a week, you should scoop out any feces or other debris from the substrate.You can use a cat litter scooper to scoop out any shedded exoskeletons, feces, or scattered food from the cage.
Some hermit crabs have a tendency to spill their water. You may have to scoop out wet sand near the water bowl.
 You can buy a bleach solution at a local pet store or department store. Add some solution to a wet cloth or paper towel. Gently wipe down the sides of the tank using the solution., You need to rinse the tank thoroughly for the safety of your hermit crab. Wipe down the sides of the tank with a cloth or paper towel saturated in clean water. Keep wiping down the tank until the smell of bleach is completely gone., Clean off any toys your hermit crab uses, as well as any hiding boxes you provide in the tank. Make sure to use dechlorinated water to wipe down toys, as chlorine can be harmful to hermit crabs.If the toys are very dirty, wipe them down with a 3% bleach solution as well.
 You should also wipe away any dirt or grime from a hermit crab's dishes. Make sure to use dechlorinated water here as well. Then, place them in a pot of boiling water for a few minutes. This will remove any bacteria from the dishes.Make sure the water you use is dechlorinated.
Set the dishes aside to cool and dry. Wait until they're cool to the touch before returning them to the tank.
 You want to make sure you rinse anything you've cleaned thoroughly. Once again, use dechlorinated water.If you used bleach solution on the toys, make sure to rinse them until they no longer smell like bleach., Use a clean rag or paper towel. Run it along the sides of the tank until they're completely dry. You should not re-add anything to the tank until you have it completely dry., Food and water bowls should also be dried off before returning them to the tank. Use a clean rag or paper towel to gently rub toys and supplies until they are completely dry. Then, return the supplies to the tank., You will want to replace the substrate that was scooped out. Pour a fresh layer of substrate over the old substrate.If it's been a few months since you last changed the substrate, make sure to change it completely instead of just adding a fresh layer.
 You can now safely return your crabs to the tank. Remember to grip them underneath the armpits using your thumb and index finger. This will prevent the crabs from biting or pinching.