 One of the most important parts of getting a boyfriend is to meet someone that you'd like to date. Before you head out looking for guys, take a few minutes to think about what you want. List the priorities that you're looking for in a potential boyfriend.Maybe common interests is your top priority. For instance, do you love to ride your bike? Make it a priority to find someone who also enjoys that activity.
You can also list important personality traits: honesty, compassion, and a great sense of humor are all good examples.
 Your friends and family can be a great resource in your hunt for someone to date. In fact, most people report that they met their partners through friends and family. Let your network of friends know that you are open to meeting new people.You can say, "Hey, Stacy. I'm interested in meeting someone. Do you know any eligible guys that I might be interested in?"
You might try, "Ellen, that guy that sits next to you in English seems nice. Can you mention my name to him and see if he sounds interested?"
Accept invitations to gatherings. You never know who will be at Aunt Maureen's BBQ!
If you are working on building a positive body image, it might feel more comfortable to meet people through your circle. After all, it's unlikely that your best friend would set you up with a jerk who makes negative comments about your appearance.
 These days, a large percentage of relationships begin online. Forget about the old stigmas! Use technology to your advantage and put yourself out there to meet the man of your dreams. Or even just someone fun to hang out with!Online dating might be a great way to go if you are feeling insecure about your appearance. You will usually have to post a picture. This is helpful, because anyone who approaches you already knows (and accepts) what you look like.
Always be honest in your profile. For example, don't post a picture of yourself from 10 years ago.
Use caution when meeting someone online. Don't give out personal information, such as your home address or where you work.
Reputable dating sites likely won't allow teens to use them. That's ok. You can still use technology to your advantage.
Come up with a clever Instagram post and tag your crush. You could also make a cute Snapchat and sent it to a group of friends--including the guy you like. You're sure to get his attention!

, When you meet someone, try to focus on the conversation. This will help you put aside any nagging concerns you might have about your weight. Instead, work on your people skills and make an effort to chat up that cute guy you see at the party.Be upbeat. Try not to discuss any depressing or controversial topics when you first meet someone.
Don't be afraid to make the first move. Casually walk up to someone at a party and say, "I don't think we've met. Are you a friend of Katie's?"

, It's great to have a plan and work your network, but you really can meet a guy anywhere. Keeping your eyes open in everyday situations can allow you to see new possibilities everywhere you go. Don't be afraid to strike up a conversation at any of the following places:The grocery store. "I love hummus. Is that kind good?"
In an airport lounge. "Are you traveling for business or pleasure?"
At your local coffee shop. "I haven't seen you here before. You must not have quite the caffeine addiction that I do."
School is a great place to meet people. Join several different activities, such as the school paper, so that you can meet a wide variety of guys.

