 Use a brush or comb to get rid of any tangles. Make sure that the hair is completely detangled before beginning the braid. Getting your hair wet can help you with the detangling and braiding process. However, this is not necessary to complete the braid.


Use a detangling spray to help detangle knotted hair.;
, Use a fine-toothed comb to make a horizontal line from the top of one ear, across the head, to the top of the other ear. To make the braid thicker, create a part further from your forehead. To make the braid thinner, create a part closer to your forehead.
 From the part line, comb the hair forward. Use a hair clip or ponytail holder to secure the back portion of the hair. This hair will not be needed for the french braid headband. You will be braiding the hair in front of the part line., Decide which side you would like the braid to begin. It does not matter which side you begin the braid. At that end, pick up a small portion of hair and divide it into three equal sections., Using only the portion of hair in front of the part, start a regular three-strand braid. Do the first two stitches of the braid like a regular three-strand braid. Cross the right strand over the middle strand and then cross the left strand over the new middle strand., Using only the hair in front of the part line, add a small amount of hair to the front and back strands of the braid. Do not add any hair to the middle strand., Now that you have added new hair to the strands, you can continue to braid the hair by adding two more stitches to the braid. Cross the front strand over the center strand and the back strand over the new center strand., Continue to add more hair from the front and back of the part line to the front and back strands of the braid., You should start to notice a difference between the french braid and a regular three-strand braid. Since you are adding hair to the french braid as you go, the braid will lie flat and attached to the head, Once you have run out of hair to add to the french braid, the braid is almost finished. Continue the braid by adding a few more regular three-strand braid stitches to help keep the french braid secure., You can use a hair tie or clip at the end of the braid to secure it in place. Alternatively, you could secure the braid behind your ear using a bobby pin.Add hairspray to help keep the braid in place.

