 Before melting your chocolate, use a sharp knife to cut it into small chunks so it mixes quicker. Some baking chocolate comes in pre-cut segments so you can easily break the chocolate apart with your hands., Get a small glass bowl big enough to contain the chocolate. Put the chocolate and vanilla in the bowl. Then, add a small pinch of salt for added taste., Pick a sauce pan that you can place your bowl over. Your bowl should be able to sit on top of the sauce pan, covering it. Place a few inches of water on the bottom of the bowl and heat it over the stove until it produces steam., Take your bowl and place it over the sauce pan. Make sure cover the sauce pan completely to trap the steam., Allow the chocolate to slowly melt over the heat. Stir the chocolate on occasion with a mixing spoon. Make sure the chocolate all melts completely through and the vanilla and salt mix into the chocolate., Cut your avocado into small chunks. Place the small chunks in a food processor and blend your avocado until it forms smooth, pudding-like texture.If you don't have a food processor, mash the avocado with a knife instead.
 Pour your avocado into your melted chocolate mixture. The mixture should be removed from the heat by now. Use a mixing spoon to stir the mixture together until all the ingredients are evenly mixed., When you're done stirring, place the mixture in your refrigerator. Refrigerate the mixture for about 20 minutes. When it's done cooling, the mixture should be slightly firm to the touch.As your mixture will only be in the fridge a short time, it's not necessary to cover the bowl.
 Take some wax paper and lay it over a cookie sheet. Use tape to secure the paper to prevent it from moving., Use a tablespoon. Scoop the chocolate avocado mixture out of the bowl. You should get about 12 chunks of the avocado mixture. Place the mixture on the parchment paper and use your hands to roll the chunks into uniform balls., Sprinkle your cocoa powder into a bowl or onto a plate. Roll the avocado balls in the cocoa powder until they're evenly coated., As soon as you're done rolling the avocado mixture into balls, you can serve your truffles. They taste best when served at room temperature.The truffles should last three to four days when stored in a cabinet or cupboard. When stored in the fridge, they should last seven to ten days.