 Straining increases pressure during bowel movements, making piles worse. Dietary changes can help decrease the need to strain by softening the consistency of stool. Eat smaller meals multiple times a day to regulate how much material passes through to your bowels.Don’t try to pass a stool unless you feel like you have to. This might seem like an obvious point, but many with piles fear trips to the toilet, so they overcompensate by going more in smaller bursts. Let nature take its course.


When you do go to the bathroom, use the proper technique. Sit with good posture on the toilet, leaning slightly forward with a straight back. Rest your forearms on your knees. Put your feet in a comfortable position and raise your heels off the ground so you’re on your toes. Keep your legs apart so they are not touching. Relax your pelvic muscles and anal sphincter as you feel your stool approaching your rectum. Don’t hold your breath. Breathe naturally with your mouth slightly open.;
, When you feel the need to defecate, you must do it as soon as possible. Your fecal matter can build up in the lower intestine, producing even more pressure. Go to the bathroom after each meal, and sit on the toilet for a while. This will quickly become routine, and the amount of stress experienced by your rectum will decrease. This, in turn, will reduce inflammation and irritation of your hemorrhoids., A sitz bath is a warm, shallow bath that very effective as a treatment for inflamed hemorrhoids.A sitz bath will ease symptoms like pain and itching. You can buy a kit that fits over your toilet or use your bathtub — but make sure the bathtub is clean first.Fill the tub with three to four inches of warm water and sit there for about twenty minutes. Don’t use cold or super hot water. This will help to relax hemorrhoids and reduce inflammation. You should use this remedy after each bowel movement and a couple of other times throughout the day.


Try adding some Epsom salts to your sitz bath to further soothe your skin, although you should check with your physician first to avoid causing any irritation and dryness.
Add 1 cup of Epsom salts to approximately each 2 quarts of water in the tub. You can soak in this bath for 10 to 20 minutes at a time and up to two to three times a day.Pat yourself dry after the bath — do not scrub.
 When you have piles, it is very important to keep the area around the anus clean. To do this, take a shower or bath everyday and make sure to cleanse the area around the anus with warm water; however, it is important to avoid soaps, as they may aggravate the irritation.


You should also avoid wipes of any kind, particularly those with perfume in them.
 Your anus will be very sensitive. To make sure that it is not irritated more than it already is, wet your toilet paper before wiping. The wet toilet paper will soothe irritation that you are experiencing while also keeping your anal area clean., Inflamed hemorrhoids can cause serious pain and swelling. To relieve this pain and reduce the swelling, as well as relieve other symptoms including itchiness or a burning sensation, apply a cold compress or ice pack to the area.


You can either purchase a "cold pack" from the pharmacy or just use ice or a pack of frozen vegetables. Whatever you use for your cold compress, cover it with a towel so you don't make direct contact with the irritated skin. Applying cold to the irritated area reduces swelling and soothes itching.
Apply the compress gently for up to 20 minutes. Remove it if you feel any discomfort from the coldness. Repeat two to three times, allowing a few minutes between each application.
 The chemicals found in perfumed and dyed products can cause irritation that worsens hemorrhoids.


Avoid using perfumed soaps when bathing, perfumed detergent when washing your clothes, and do not use perfumed toilet paper.
Look for unscented, dye-free products to replace them. Hemorrhoids are already irritating to the surrounding skin, so do what you can avoid extra, unnecessary irritation.,"Pure witch hazel is available at most drug stores, though it can come in different concentrations and application methods. For example, you can buy pads pre-soaked with witch hazel at some drugstores. Application methods and times will vary depending on the product you bought. Follow the instructions that came with your particular product and/or follow your doctor's instructions.It’s best to use pure witch hazel, but you might try a product that mixes witch hazel other substances like soothing oils and aloe. Avoid products with synthetic chemicals, which may make the hemorrhoids worse.
Draw a warm bath and pour in a few capfuls of witch hazel. Soak in the tub until the irritation has eased.
You can apply a diluted witch hazel and water mixture directly to irritated skin up to 6 times a day, or after bowel movements.