 The next hour or so of your life will be much easier if everything you need is displayed neatly in front of you. Clear the area and get all your tools in order. Anchor yourself next to the sewing machine, if you have one.


Wire frame
Fabric
Scissors
Needle and thread
Seam tape
Glue
Muslin
Lining (optional)
Trim (optional)

, You'll be surprised how easy this can be to do. If your frame bends while you're messing with it, just bend it back to its original shape, no harm done.


All paneled shades use frames, not rings. A paneled shade can be triangular, rectangular, square, hexagonal, or bell shaped. This tutorial can be used for any of these shapes.
 The spokes are the vertical wires that create the shape of the panels. If you'd like to go above and beyond, you can wrap the outside frame as well.


Use a hot glue gun and place a drop of glue at the beginning of your tape and one at the end to attach. Repeat this process for each spoke.
 Allot 1/4 of an inch (.63 cm) for seam allowances. This is important: If your frame is uniform all the way around, one panel will suffice. But if your shade is, for example, rectangular in shape, create a pattern for each size of panel.


Use chalk or a marking pen to trace the spokes that form the panel shape onto the muslin.Take pins to the frame to keep it tight.
 You'll end up with as many pieces of fabric as you have sides to your frame. Again, if there are panels of different sizes, be sure to cut out fabric of different sizes and remember that 1/4" seam allowance!


If you are also using a lining, cut that out, too, to the same shape and size.

If your fabric is heavy enough, you may forgo the lining altogether., With right sides together, sew the panels together with 1/4" (.63 cm) seams. If you have different sized panels, make sure they're sewn together in the proper order.


Do this for the lining, too, if you're using one.
 Turn the fabric right side out and stretch it over the frame. Adjust it as necessary and whipstitch (or overcast stitch) the extra fabric of the seams to the tape-wrapped spokes with a needle and thread.
 Pull your fabric taut and, using a few drops of hot glue, secure it only to the frame. Trim the excess fabric as need be.
 Pin the lining inside the lampshade with the wrong sides together. Align the seams to the spokes as you did with the fabric, and blind stitch the lining to the inside. Hand-sew invisible stitches to form a neat, finished edge.If you're not so sure whether you want to fuss with a lining or not, hold your material up to the light. If the right amount of light already passes through it, don't worry about it.
 Available at all craft supply stores, decorative trim (beads, tassles, you name it) can add the finishing touches onto your own personalized shade.


This can be done with a bit of hot glue in a matter of minutes, so why not?

