 Research suggests that attendance at cultural events significantly enhances your experience in college. Colleges provide regular opportunities to attend theater productions, go to art shows and literary readings, attend musical performances such as concerts and recitals.Your university may bring in exciting performers from around the world that you’re unlikely to have encountered before.
You may develop interests in cultural aspects of life that carry you through your lifetime.
 Many national chain stores offer discounted retail prices to people who can show a student ID. Among the kinds of items that you might find discounted include books, clothing, school supplies and computers.If you’re not sure how to find student discount, do an online search for the item you’re planning to purchase and the words “student discount”. For example, searching for a new tablet computer, you might find that Apple offers educational discounts on the ipad.
Local businesses also offer student discounts. Grocery stores, bookstores, movie theaters, and restaurants are among the businesses that offer special rates for students.
 Spending a semester studying in another part of the world is something that you may wish to take advantage of. If you’ve been studying a foreign language, going to a country filled with native speakers offers a wonderful chance to solidify your knowledge.You’ll have the fun of learning about another culture up close and in daily life.
There are things you can learn by traveling that you’ll not have the chance to learn in other ways. Going out to another country’s clubs, museums, and restaurants is an experience you’ll remember for your lifetime.
 If you’re passionate about particular subjects that aren’t offered by your college, find another way to study it. One of the perks of being in college is being able to learn anything you want to. Most universities have a way for students to design their own course of studies.This requires seeking out experts and specialists in your area of interest. These people might be at your university, or they might be working professionally in your community.
Be aware that your professor might expect you to be more self-directed in an independent study course than in a typical lecture course. Just because it's independent doesn't mean that there's less work involved.

