 A clique is a fabulous buddy-system. Basically these girls are your sisters. Think big like Sex and the City. All those grown women are friends. Your friends need to be focused on meeting each others demands. The school needs to envy your strong bond with one another.;
, You need to have your own fashion sense. Don't copy those others at school. Read Seventeen and Harper's Bazaar for ideas. Start a new trend, having the followers of your school copy you. Never repeat an outfit. Don't wear the same garment up to 2 weeks. If you do re-wear an outfit don't wear it until a month and several days have past. Have your clique show their style.
 Do not spend all day on Facebook. Your clique doesn't need a useless account on Facebook. Texting is a better form of communication. All have clean reps, you don't want to be notorious as some of the girls from Gossip Girl. IM each other on a specific day. Communicate often to stay in touch.
 You have to have a certain spot you sit in lunch. Have your signature spot, where no one will bother to take since you marked your territory. Sit outside in the sun or indoors. Have a seating order, you all should know what seat to sit in.
 Over weekends and some weekdays the group needs to know where to go. Have an annual event planned. Also when at the mall know where to shop at. The stores should be stores the whole clique can afford and likes. Have a clique member decide what the next trip is. Have the members take turns on where to go. Devote at least 2 weeks in a month to hang out in the weekend.
 Your clique should dress a specific way. Some girl cliques are Preps, which wear Hollister tanks and matching skirts with Vera Bradley knapsacks and purses. Other groups dress emo or scene and shop at Hot Topic. If your clique behaves or act in a certain way make it match with what clothes.
 It's not a hot idea to accept new girls to your cohort. One girl you add can split your clique up. If you do consider adding a new girl make sure you all know her. You have to know how she's like if you do add her.
 The clique should go to a specific house daily. Most likely the leader of the group should hold slumber parties and meeting at her house. Make sure if you are the leader you have a groomed house and room. Don't be messy, especially if you have pets. Be neat and tidy. Provide snacks and yummy refreshments. You don't want your friends starving or dehydrated.
 You want the whole school to know your name, in a good way. You have to be well-known like Oprah or Lady Gaga. You have to be on people's minds. Do amazing things like talent show. Do a hot dance number for talent show with your clique and win. Join the Drama Club and be in the plays with your clique. Apply for clubs and athletic groups. Volleyball and Cheer are popular cliques at my school.
 Have a signature thing about your clique. As in special bracelets or cutting edge fashion.
 Nothing dumb- come up with code names.

