 Many small business owners simply use their own name or the name of the city in which they are located. However, if you want to take your business to the next level, you need to choose a name that will attract the seniors with whom you want to work.You may want to lean on your market research here. Your business name should be something that will appeal to the people you think will most benefit from your products or services, and won't turn them off or intimidate them.
Since you're targeting seniors, you may want to include words like "seniors" or "retirees" somewhere in your business name.
 In-depth research is essential if you want your business to succeed. Talking to people near you who are potential customers can help you fine-tune your idea before you launch your business.Talking to seniors can be a good way to test your business name as well as how the products or services you plan to offer are received.
You can hire a marketing company to conduct this research for you, or you can create a basic quiz yourself with five or six questions for local seniors to answer. Talk to seniors attending local events, or at the meeting of a seniors' organization.
You also want to ask them about prices, so you can get a good idea of how to price your products or services and what kinds of sales or promotions would interest your target market.
 Marketing your new business to seniors will involve different concerns than if you were targeting a broader segment of the population. If you want customers, you need to ensure that your advertising will be seen by the people who need your services, and that they will understand the services you provide.For example, if you're offering in-home services to seniors, you probably don't want to run cable television commercials on MTV, nor would you want to run them at 1:00 a.m., when seniors are likely to be asleep.
If you decide to run television commercials, you're generally most likely to hit your target audience if you run them during the day on basic networks.
Just because you want to start a business working with seniors doesn't mean you should skip internet advertising. There are plenty of grandparents with social media accounts, and many seniors are highly internet savvy., Many seniors find new businesses because a close friend or family member recommends them. This is especially important if you plan to make house calls, because people typically won't invite people into their homes unless they have some reason to trust them.One standard option is to provide repeat customers with a small discount, say 10 or 15 percent, on return purchases if they recommend your products or services to at least one person.
In turn, you also can provide a small discount to the person who tries your products based on the recommendation of a prior customer.
Incentives for recommendations also may affect your marketing strategy. For example, you may target the middle-aged children of seniors to encourage them to send their parents to you, or to buy your products or services for their parents as a gift.

