 Failure is inevitable when kids try new things. Encourage them to use failure as motivation and to learn from it.


Ask them to reflect on any failures and get something positive out of it. If they did poorly on a big test, talk about how they could improve for the next test. Don't dwell on past failures, but learn from them.Talk to them about what “failure” means. Failure is not just winning or losing, but it's also part of preparation. Trying hard and not succeeding is not a failure, but not trying hard can be.
Don’t sugarcoat anything. If they did fail at something, make sure to note that, but not focus on it. Children should know that failure is a part of life. Knowing how to fail is an important skill they need to learn.
Make an improvement plan. Your child should have a clear plan about how to avoid failures in the future. Set clear goals and deadlines to plan for success.
 Make sure they know their feelings are valuable, even if they are negative feelings of hurt or anger. They should not learn that certain feelings are not acceptable. Otherwise, they may stifle their emotions and feel guilty about having them.If children are upset, let them share their feelings. Don’t try to interrupt them when they are telling you how they feel.
Use positive language to talk about children’s emotions. Don’t look at emotions as “good” or “bad”. Instead, talk about emotions as something that is natural and part of life.
After they share their feelings, point out the positive things that have happened. Share with them how any negative events can have positive outcomes., Comparing children to others around them can make them feel bad about themselves or overly competitive. Instead, encourage cooperation rather than competition with others.


Talk to children about their behavior by itself. Don’t talk about how they did “better” or “worse” than others, but instead how “well” they did. Competition with others can hurt children's self-esteem.
Tell your children to think about how their behavior affects others. They should be a “good sport” in all that they do.
Avoid competitive language. While this may be more difficult in children’s sports, talk to your child about competition being about the love of a shared activity, rather than “winning” or “losing”.
Focus on cooperation with others. Talk to your child about being a good teammate rather than being a great competitor.
 If the child has been through difficult events recently, they may have self-esteem issues. Work with them as they try to develop healthy self-esteem.Know about any recent family trauma. Family trauma, including physical or mental abuse, could severely impact a child’s self-esteem.
Pay attention to any trouble at school with bullying. Bullying, whether it’s from another child or an adult, can make kids feel less sure about themselves and less safe.
Encourage children to talk to you about things they are struggling with. They should feel comfortable talking to you if they are struggling with their self-esteem.
 Sometimes children may in danger of being too confident or becoming entitled. Try to guard against overconfidence by being realistic with children.Be warm towards children and show that you care. Caring doesn't mean praise, but rather unconditional love not based on their failures or successes.
Don’t overvalue your children as extraordinary or unique. Making children think that they are better than other kids can cause them to become arrogant.
Consider detoxing your kids from excessive praise. Work on using language that praises behavior rather than the person.