


Ladies: if you want to wear makeup, learn how and do so. Red lipstick is very sophisticated. Otherwise, just wash your face daily. When picking out your clothing for the day, know what looks good on you. It helps to be stylish, but stylish does not mean anything if the article of clothing does not look attractive on you. Avoid men's clothes because they will make you look sloppy and very unrefined.
Men: Avoid women's clothes and shirts that are too tight. Even if you want to show off your muscles, it's not sophisticated.
Both: Shower daily. Wear deodorant. When picking out your clothing for the day, know what looks good on you. It helps to be stylish, but stylish does not mean anything if the article of clothing does not look attractive on you.;
, Sophistication requires you to never be tired-looking. Hold your head up high, pull your shoulders slightly back, smile and straighten your back! You should not tire yourself out, but it is important to have good posture if you want to be sophisticated.
 If you have your ears pierced, wear earrings every day. If not, then wear other simple necklaces, rings, bracelets, that match your outfit. Keep it simple!


Men: It's best to not wear any jewelry other than a watch.
 Some adults will put on airs, others will become your best friends. Keep that in mind. With children, act interested in what is going on in their lives, such as: what sports do they play, how is school going, etc.
 Refrain from running around, screaming, waving your arms wildly if you see someone you know. A cool wave and a smile will do the trick.
 Nothing too juvenile or revealing is appropriate. For example, if the occasion is formal, dress in formal attire.
 Tidy your room often. You will no longer stress out at the last minute looking for something. Once every month, go through your room and look through the things that you don't need and throw them out. If you have a hard time with this, then every day before you go to school, make sure your floor is cleared and no clothes or anything is on there. Step by step you will get to a perfect room.
 Always arrive at your destination at least ten minutes before you are supposed to be there. Wake up early. People will not take you seriously if you are late to things. You are letting people, as well as their expectations, down.
 Learn proper dining etiquette and use your utensils properly. Learn when to begin eating when seated with a group. Also learn to host a group through proper ordering, tipping, and especially leading good conversation throughout your meal.
 People want to be around someone who is polite. You don't have to be politically correct, just polite. People want to know how you feel about things. Don't spend an hour long meal on small talk, but don't skip small talk.
 Arrogance, condescension and false superiority are turn-offs to people who might otherwise want to be your friend.
 About the hair:


Ladies: Styling your hair is a must. If your hair needs more body, buy voluminous products and become friends with your hairspray bottle. If you have wavy hair and want straight or curly, scrunch it or straighten, although many wavy hair types are pretty by themselves. Curly hair needs to be frizz-less, so buy smoothing products that enhance your curls but fight the frizz. Keep your hair no longer than the middle of the back, as longer hair than that is tacky.
Men: Keep your hair neat. If your hair is prone to cowlicks, it may be best to keep it short if you are trying to look sophisticated. Don't let your hair grow longer than shoulder length, even if you think it will look good.
Both men and women: Avoid dying your hair any unnatural color or too bright of a natural color. Pretty frequent example: If you have a dark complexion, avoid dying your hair blonde as it would look very fake. And always comb your hair.
, Carry extra money with you. If you have a cell phone, always make sure that it's fully charged. You never know when you will be stuck in a situation where you are stuck on your own. You will be very thankful that you brought your cell phone with you.
 If you absolutely have to receive a message or take a call, excuse yourself from the group and proceed privately.

