 Heat the pan to around 350 and pour in about a tablespoon of conventional cooking oil. Swirl the oil around in the bottom of the pan, then turn of the cooktop and allow it to cool. Once it’s safe to handle, use a thick wad of folded paper towels to spread the oil over the cooking surface.Conventional oils like vegetable oil, canola oil and shortening are all effective for seasoning.You can also spray the pan with liberally with a special seasoning spray. These will usually be available through the company you purchased your cookware from.
 Break out your cast iron skillet anytime you need to do some frying, searing or sautéing. The more you use your cookware, the more fats and oils it will absorb. That way, you’ll be keeping it in top shape as you cook.Greasy offerings like fried chicken, bacon and steak that would make a mess of other types of cookware are just what cast iron needs to retain its nonstick finish over time.If it’s been a long time since you last used a piece of cookware, it can be a good idea to season it before adding ingredients to it that might stick.
 Though cast iron is prized for its durability, it can be worn down with the wrong kind of treatment. Opt for synthetic sponges and brushes over harsh scrubbers like steel wool, and avoid astringent cleaning powders and high-powered dish soaps. And, of course, make sure to dry the pan thoroughly by hand each and every time you clean it.Don’t be afraid to use metal utensils with your cast iron cookware. It won’t be enough to scratch the metal’s resilient surface., Humidity and other factors can take a toll after awhile, so it’s important to keep cast iron protected and out of the way. The inside of a pantry or cabinet is a good place to house your cookware when it’s not in use. Wherever you decide to keep your cast iron, it should be far enough away from direct exposure to moisture to reduce the risk of rusting and warping.Some people also prefer to hang their pots and pans so that they’re close at hand and add charm to the look of the kitchen.If you’re forced to stack your cookware together to economize space, stick a layer of folded paper towels between each to act as a buffer.