 If you don't have the Google mobile app, you can still opt out of Google History on your mobile device as long as you have a web browser. It doesn't matter which browser you use — Chrome, Safari, Internet Explorer, Firefox, and more all work.


This method is very similar to the method you'd use if you were on a computer (see the corresponding method above for more information).
 Navigate to Google.com with your browser's address bar. Enter a search term and tap the magnifying glass icon to search. It doesn't matter what exactly you search for — you just want to get to the results page.
 Scroll down to the very bottom of the search results page and look for a small link that says "Settings." Tap this link. Tap "Search settings" from the menu that pops up.
 On the Search Settings screen, look for a heading at the top of the page that says "Search History." Tap the "Manage" link to the right of this header. It will be in the top right corner of the screen.
 On the next screen, look for a button in the top right with a gear on it. Tap this button. On the next screen, tap "Settings."

, Finally, you will be at a screen where you have the option to turn Google History on or off. Use the toggle switch to the right of the "Your searches and browsing activity" option.When the switch is to the right and is colored green, Google History is on and your searches are being recorded. Click the switch and press "Pause" in the pop-up menu to turn it off.
When the switch is to the left and is colored grey, Google History is off and your searches are not being recorded. Clicking the switch and pressing "Turn on" in the pop-up menu will turn it on.
 Just like in the computer method above, this link underneath the main history on/off switch allows you to turn various search options on and off. These options are exactly the same as what you would find on the computer. Your options include:Google can record where you go when you use Google Maps.
Google can record information like your contacts, calendars, and apps from your mobile device.
Google can record your voice searches and commands.
Google can record videos you search for and watch on YouTube.

