 There’s one set of rules for the NFL(draftkings.com/help/nfl) and another set of rules for the CFB (draftkings.com/help/cfb). Do note the contest rules as well as the additional rules. For example, DraftKings will not offer player trades or player benches for the contests since it operates its games on a weekly basis.
 You have two choices here: you can select “Play Now” to join existing contests, or you can select “Create a Contest” where you can set the fees and conditions yourself.

Start with public contests that have no entry fees if you’re new to fantasy football. This will help you gain experience and become more familiar with how things work on the DraftKings app before you put down money (or your pride) on a serious lineup.
 You can actually create a lineup in advance, but you’ll only be able to formulate a DraftKings lineup for upcoming games. This adds an element of urgency in drafting your lineup, so keep an eye out for when DraftKings opens up the option to create a team for the next games., Start by setting aside your personal preferences and look at the hard stats of players – even from teams you don’t like. Look at numbers, and you’ll already have a step up over other fantasy football fans who can’t let go of their fandom.

Review the stats you find on the DraftKings app. You have Opponent Ranking VS Position (OPRK), average Fantasy Points per Game (FPPG), and Salary. Higher FPPG ratings are a good sign, OPRK ranks that are green are also a good sign. These will be useful for coming up with an initial fantasy lineup.
Google will be your best friend. This will not only give you information about players that you’ll find useful, but may also lead you to fantasy football pundits that can give you a new perspective with their opinions.
Go for aggressive players that get a lot of stuff done in their games (e.g. gaining yards, field goals, touchdowns, interceptions, fumble recoveries, etc.) to gain large numbers of points for your fantasy league lineup.
 A high-performing athlete with a good track record may suddenly lose steam in the game if a recent injury flares up. Go for healthy athletes, and your fantasy lineup will be less likely to get burnt by a player flagging out due to an injury. Be wary of players who have also gone through multiple consecutive games, as fatigue can hurt their performance while raising the risk of injuries., Pick players going up against teams with weak defenses and/or weak offenses while shying away from selections from teams that will go up against league powerhouses. The objective of your DraftKings app lineup is not to create a lineup that will win the league but will gain as many points as possible in their weekly games., Try to lock in as late as possible to accommodate injuries, cancellations or dropouts that may occur. The deadline for forming your roster is five minutes before the game itself, so half an hour before the game itself is a good time to lock in your selection.

You’ll also be able to make late swaps for the mid-afternoon and evening games. This option if extremely useful if you want to modify your lineups based on the performance of your team during the early games. Did your picks perform surprisingly well during the first few rounds? Try swapping a few positions out for high-risk, high-reward picks for a wide lead over your opponents. Are some of your picks underperforming? Swap them out for players known to be more consistent in their plays.
 Were they aggressive and constantly getting things done, or were they passive and not scoring as many points for you as you had hoped? This will help you determine the performance of your lineup with regard to fantasy football, which in turn will help you refine your lineup in future contests.

Post-game analytical pieces backed up by hard data (yards, passes, etc.) will be useful at this phase. They’ll help you look at just how much a player did or did not didn’t do in the last match. DraftKings has a useful Playbook section where you can do research and pick up tips for strategies,although websites like FantasyPros,Scout’s FFToolBox,and FantasyFootballAnalyticsoffer great research tools as well.
Watch other games even when you’re not actively engaged in a fantasy football contest involving those games. This will help you spot sleepers – rising football stars that have yet to be widely recognized and have performed surprisingly better than their rankings. Identifying sleepers will come in handy for future weekly games when they come up on your DraftKings app.

