 Many people who are depressed start eating more or less than usual. They may also start making uncharacteristic choices about which foods to eat.


For example, if someone who usually cooks healthy meals starts living on a diet of convenience food, they may be depressed.If you don’t see what your friend or family member eats on a regular basis, pay attention to changes in their weight, which can indicate over- or undereating.;
, Someone who is depressed might sleep much more than usual or be unable to sleep. They might also feel constantly exhausted, no matter how much sleep they get.Some indirect signs of this may be that they can't get to work or school on time, or if when you have plans in the evening they often leave early because they are tired.
Depression can cause both physical and mental fatigue.
 Withdrawing from friends and family is a worrisome sign, even if the person still appears happy on the outside. If the person you’re concerned about has started spending significantly more time alone lately, it could be a red flag indicating depression.For example, a depressed person might spend an increasing amount of time locked in their bedroom, avoid going out with friends, and stop having lunch with coworkers. They may stop responding to your texts or calls and may turn you down if you try to make plans with them.
 Someone with depression may use substances or activities to numb their feelings. Keep an eye on your friend or family member and notice if any of their habits, such as drinking or shopping, are becoming excessive. This could indicate that they’re using the behavior as a coping strategy.Alcohol, drugs, comfort food, and excessive internet use are a few of the most common ways people self-medicate their pain.
Behavioral signs of drug or alcohol abuse include: neglecting responsibilities at school or work, unexplained financial issues, secretive or suspicious behavior, sudden change in friends, mood swings, sudden change in personality, lack of motivation, appearing "spaced out" or hyperactive, paranoia, anxiety.Physical signs of drug or alcohol abuse include: bloodshot eyes, change in sleeping habits, sudden weight loss or gain, deterioration of physical appearance, tremors, slurred speech, impaired coordination.