 High creatinine levels are rarely an independent problem. More often than not, this issue is a symptom of something more serious. To drop the levels permanently and improve your overall health, work with your doctor to find the underlying problem and remedy that.


Kidney damage and chronic kidney disease are the most common causes. This damage can be caused by illness, potentially fatal infections, shock, cancer, or low blood flow.
Type 2 diabetes is also linked to high creatinine levels.
Other possible causes include heart failure, dehydration, excessive blood loss leading to shock, gout, physically strenuous exercise, muscle injuries, muscle disorders, and burns.
 Some evidence suggests that cold laser or low level laser therapy can revitalize the kidneys and improve their overall functioning abilities. As a result, your kidneys become more capable of filtering out creatinine naturally.When used on the adrenal glands above the kidneys, cold lasers can also help reduce stress and improve sleep.
When used on the Vagus nerve in your neck, cold lasers may help improve the circulation of blood to various organs, including the kidneys.
 Massage therapy also will help blood circulation and reduce stress levels, which leads to pleasant sleep and relaxation.
 While somewhat uncommon, someone who has severe kidney damage and consistently high creatinine levels may wish to consider blood purification therapy, a.k.a. hemodialysis or dialysis. The therapy is a bit extreme, but it can be very effective.


During the treatment, your blood will be extracted and filtered through a machine. This machine removes creatinine and other toxins in the blood. Once cleaned, the blood is circulated back into the body., In particular, learn about Micro-Chinese Medicine Osmotherapy. This therapy is based on traditional Chinese medicine and may help reverse minor kidney damage. Medicated baths may also help and are also rooted in traditional Chinese medicine.


With Micro-Chinese Medicine Osmotherapy, traditional Chinese medicines are prescribed based on an individual patient's condition. Some of these medications are applied externally, while others are applied internally via an osmoscope.Medicated baths can improve blood circulation. This causes the body to warm up and produce sweat. Creatinine and other toxins can then be removed from the body via the sweat.
 If diet changes and medication do not lower your creatinine levels, talk to your doctor about dialysis. There are two types of dialysis, but the one used to lower creatinine levels is called hemodialysis.Hemodialysis involves using a machine to filter out waste, fluid, and salt from your blood so that your damaged kidneys do not have to.

