 Meditating can reduce stress and anxiety. You typically have up to 80,000 thoughts flow through your mind daily. Depending on your stress level, or your personal behavioral and characteristic make-up, you could have much more than that. When you meditate, you can learn how to master your own internal dialogue by eliminating what is not important, and putting more energy and focus into organizing what is needed and important. That frees your mind up to focus on the thoughts that are really important. Meditation also gives your mind a break from the constant stimuli that fills our society. You only need to meditate for 15-20 minutes per day to see benefits.You can choose to meditate at any time of day, but most people tend to do a meditation first thing in the morning or right before bed. Try different times and see what works for you.
 Develop a habit of incorporating positive affirmations into your daily life. Affirmations are positive words or statements that when incorporated into a daily meditative practice can help you to reprogram your internal dialogue. When you reframe your thoughts in this way, your mind becomes a more constructive mental environment and this allows you to focus on what is important to you rather than what is not important., Exercising releases endorphins, which elevate your mood. It also reduces the levels of the stress hormone cortisol. This dual effect means that exercise primes your brain for positivity and focus. These are the prerequisites to having logically organized thoughts.Even if you don’t enjoy the gym, you could still benefit greatly from a regular walk or run. As long as you get out and exercise, you’ll start to feel your mind handling things more effectively.
 Having someone to bounce your ideas off of is crucial. Even just speaking to another person can help you to see any fallacies in your logic and improve your thought process. The other person can also offer you feedback and help you to see any unorganized or unclear thought patterns.For example, say you have a big presentation coming up at work. Instead of going in with a jumble of notes and slides, show the presentation to a co-worker first and get some feedback. This will help you order the presentation logically.
 Large blocks of information can be broken down into smaller chunks that are easier to remember. This process is called chunking and helps to speed up your mental processes because it organizes your stored memories into logical patterns. You can use the same process to break complex ideas down into more logical pieces.An example of chunking information would be memorizing a bank routing number. The long number is broken into smaller, easier to remember groups of numbers.
 Being in a cluttered environment can make your brain feel claustrophobic. Set yourself up for logical, organized thinking by cleaning up and clearing out the space around you. You can even turn it into fun event by having a friend or family member help you decide what to keep and where to put things.You could spend a day having a cleaning party. Invite some friends over and order pizza and drinks. You could even watch a movie after the work is all done.

