 There are many blogs and websites specifically dedicated to Reiki, many of which have posts or sections on choosing classes, finding a healer, and selecting a teacher. There are also online indexes that Reiki teachers and learning institutions by location and area. Try consulting a comprehensive online index to find a Reiki teacher and healer near you.There are many reiki blogs that often reference specific classes or are run by teacher themselves. Consult many blogs to have as many options as possible.Look for websites associated with alternative healing centers. Many of these websites can also have information on how and where to find reiki teachers and classes.;
, Asking for personal recommendations will allow you to get an honest and trustworthy opinion of other teachers and healers. Ask any friends you have that see a healer or are enrolled in classes about their experience and for any advice they might have.


If you are currently seeking a Reiki healer for treatment, ask them if they offer classes or if they can recommend a teacher.
Try asking questions like “What has your experience been like with this teacher?” “Do you feel like you are increasing your understanding?” “Are you enjoying learning from this person?”

, Reiki is not often listed in the Yellow Pages, but the Yellow Pages does list many other healers who may also practice Reiki. Contacting other healers and asking if they teach Reiki, offer classes, or can provide other resources and information will put you on your way to finding a teacher.Look for other healing categories in the Yellow Pages, like massage, herbology, chiropractic care, traditional chinese medicine, or hypnotherapy., Ask your potential teacher how often they practice, if they continue to heal others, and how they see those they are healing (remote or in-person). The more comprehensive information you have about your teacher the better you will be able to gauge your teacher’s experience and commitment to their practice.Reiki takes years to master. Look for teachers who have been practicing for a long time and show a dedicated daily commitment to both teaching and healing.
Ask questions like “How long have you been practicing Reiki?” “How long have you been offering healing to others?” or “Which lineage did you learn under?”

, A Reiki teacher will be your partner throughout your journey learning how to practice and heal others. Teachers who assist your lifestyle, by leaving your decisions and lifestyle choices up to you, will give you the space and time to become your own Reiki teacher.Assistance means giving encouragement and advice while providing informative and helpful resources.
Ask about the teacher's take on spirituality. Some Reiki Masters are interested in Reiki as a spiritual path while others are not.
Avoid teachers who demonstrate controlling or interfering behaviors, like demanding lifestyle changes, isolation, or ideological worldviews. Learning Reiki should be about self-exploration, not self-exploitation.
 Many teachers become teachers through the desire to heal themselves. Self-healing can also be a sign of experienced teachers. Remember that your teacher will be your partner throughout your time learning to be a healer. A teacher that has healed themselves can often provide insight the inter- and intra-personal exploration that takes place when learning to heal.Some teachers, particularly those who are inexperienced, who have healed themselves can be emotionally triggered while teaching. Be sure to look for teachers with years of experience.
 Some teachers have taught hundreds of students and yet those they've taught would never see fit to recommend them. Others have taught but a few, yet they are excellent teachers. Looking at your potential teacher’s experience will help you select a teacher with your desired qualifications.]


Ask you teacher questions, like “How long have you been teaching?” “Do you take students regularly?” or “How many students have you taught in your career?”
Get in touch with previous students that your potential teacher has taught. Ask them about their time with this particular teacher, if there are things to be wary of, what their experience was like, and if they would recommend them to others.
 Some teachers tend to rush their students to the next level even if they are not really ready, while others seemingly wait forever. Ask your potential teacher what their policy on advancements are, how long they might take, and how these policies might align with your goals as a future teacher.


Ask about the degrees your teacher offers. Do they only offer first-degree classes or is there an opportunity for advancement?
Ask your potential teacher to put you in touch with some of their old students for recommendations.
 Taking a healing session from your teacher will help you evaluate your own personal connection to their style, lineage, and practice. Continually check-in with yourself during and after healing to see how the experience feels.


Ask yourself questions, like “Does this healer and healing session invoke gratitude and love, or frustration and repulsion?”

