 Vegetables and fruits have many properties that can help fight cardiovascular disease. If you center them in your diet, you will eat fewer items that work against heart health. Try planning meals that feature vegetables as the main attraction, such as curries, stir-fry, salads, and vegetable soups.Keep fruits and vegetables around to snack on. Put a bowl of fruit out in your kitchen so it catches your eye.
While frozen vegetables and even canned fruit can be perfectly healthy, watch out for added sugar or salt. Eat fresh produce when you can get it.;
, Whole grains help you regulate your blood pressure, making them healthier for your heart than white-flour carbohydrates. Opt for bread and bread products made with whole-wheat flour, high-fiber crackers and cereal, and whole grains like brown rice, barley, farro, buckwheat, or quinoa.Try oatmeal for breakfast, and air-popped popcorn (without butter) for a whole-grain snack.
Avoid white flour items and items with a lot of added sugar, like muffins or waffles.
 Opt for monounsaturated fats instead of solid fats. Olive oil, canola oil, and vegetable and nut oils are good options. Eat foods with polyunsaturated fats, such as fish, avocados, seeds, and nuts.Cold-water fish contain omega-3 fatty acids, which can benefit your heart health by lowering your triglycerides. Eat salmon, mackerel, and herring.
Flaxseeds and walnuts are also a great source of omega-3 fatty acids.
Avoid saturated fats and trans fats by limiting the number of solid fats in your diet. Skip butter, animal fat, margarine, and shortening.
If you're a fan of margarine, get a version that is trans-fat free or cholesterol-lowering.
Limit the amount of gravy, cream sauce, and nondairy creamer you consume.
 Legumes, such as beans, peas, and lentils, are great sources of protein and contain no cholesterol and very little fat. They can serve as excellent substitutes for meat protein, but they're also delicious with rice and vegetables.Eat lower fat dairy items, like skim milk. If you like creamy things, try yogurt instead of sour cream or butter.
Pick lean cuts of meat and skinless chicken.
Eggs are also a great source of lean protein.
 It can be hard to tell how much salt you're eating, as salt is generally hidden in your food. Avoid processed foods as much as you can, and always check the labels of canned or frozen foods to see how much salt is added. Eat fresh food when you can.Flavor food with herbs and spices instead of relying on salt.
When buying prepared meals, check the label. Opt for reduced-salt or low-sodium when you can.

