 If your girlfriend is ready to take the next step with you, it's likely that she'll be talking about sex more. She can do this in a lot of different ways, from talking about your friends who just started having sex, to casually asking your opinion on sexual topics. If the word "sex" is on the tip of her tongue, then it's obviously on her mind.If she mentions sex while you're alone together, then it's even more likely that she wants to have sex with you.
If she's suddenly very curious about which of your friends are having sex and which aren't, then she may be wondering when you two will have sex too.
 If she tells you that you have a great chest, sexy biceps, or amazing abs, then she's hinting that your body turns her on. Instead of telling you that she likes your shirt or that you have a great haircut, she's choosing to let you know that she notices your body -- and may be thinking about all of the things it can do for her.


If she gives you these compliments while you're kissing or being intimate, then it's even more likely that she may want to take the next step.
 If she comes over, pats your bed, and says it's "really comfortable," then she may be hinting that she wants to lie down on it with you. If she even does lie on the bed and talk about how great it is, then she wants you to join her as soon as possible.
 This is a pretty bold move, but yes, your lady may just tell you that she's in the mood, feeling frisky, or just wants to hook up. This doesn't necessarily mean that she wants to have sex, but if she's comfortable enough to tell you that she's in the mood for something intimate, then it's not a leap that she may want to have sex with you.
 If your girlfriend has started talking dirty to you over the phone, sending you dirty texts, talking dirty when you're making out or doing something more, or even having phone sex with you, then she may be ready to take it to the next level. Of course, this could all just be talk, but if she's comfortable enough with herself and you to go this far, then she may be ready for more.

