 If over-the-counter solutions just aren’t working and you can afford it, save yourself years of frustration by scheduling an appointment with a professional. Your dermatologist will likely prescribe some combination of the following:Birth control pills for women, which works to control acne by regulating hormones. Your dermatologist might prescribe this herself, or she might recommend that you seek a prescription from your gynecologist.
Antibiotics like doxycycline, minocycline, and tetracycline
Topical treatments like sulfur, azelaic acid, dapsone, and benzoyl peroxide
Accutane (Isotretinoin), a Vitamin-A derivative that is taken orally. Accutane is only prescribed in the most severe cases, as it requires very strict commitment and comes with many side effects and potential health risks.
 Your doctor will probably prescribe a topical corticosteroid (to control itching and irritation) first, but if that doesn’t work, there are several other options you can try. Be persistent — it can take time to find the right strategy. Less common treatments include the following:Reparative creams
Oral antibiotics
More aggressive corticosteroid treatments
Exposure to natural or artificial sunlight

, Although eczema and psoriasis are different conditions, dermatologists often treat them in similar ways. Psoriasis treatments aim to slow cell growth and remove scales, generally falling into three main categories.Topical treatments like corticosteroids, synthetic vitamin D, and retinoids.
Light therapy involving either daily exposure to small amounts of sunlight or targeted treatment of affected areas.
Drugs that reduce inflammation (like methotrexate) or control the immune system (like cyclosporine).
 While you’re at the doctor’s office, be sure to rule out any potentially serious health problems — what looks like an annoying dark spot to you might look like a potentially cancerous mole to your dermatologist.
 Another possible treatment for acne is light therapy. Exposure to blue light can kill the bacteria that causes red, swollen (inflammatory) acne, and exposure to pulsed light and heat may also help shrink oil glands.Your doctor may need to apply photosanitizers to your skin before treatment to make it more sensitive to light.
Possible side effects include redness, crusting and peeling, changes in skin tone, and pain.
 Remember that your dermatologist has expertise in many different areas. He will know what treatments are right for you and, if necessary, can refer you to a plastic surgeon.


Try a chemical peel for acne scars. These treatments work by getting rid of old skin cells, allowing new ones to take their places.Their strength varies, from light peels that you can get on your lunch break to deep peels that must be done under anesthesia and require several weeks of recovery. In all cases, make sure you consult with your doctor beforehand and follow their instructions to avoid serious side effects afterwards.
Explore laser treatments. For some, over-the-counter treatments won’t be enough. You will need to talk to a dermatologist about this. He will know whether you are a good candidate for laser treatment and, if so, what kind of laser to use. Even so, the scar will likely never disappear completely.