 This is the classic curveball grip. Grip the ball with the bottom seam between your index and middle fingers, and place your thumb along the back seam. Hold the baseball such that the curves of the seams are close to your palm, with one on top front and one on bottom rear of the ball.








The "front" of the ball refers to the part that will be traveling away from you when thrown, while "rear" refers to the part of the ball facing you after the ball is thrown.
For right-handed people, place your middle finger on the right seam on top, and your thumb on the left seam on bottom. Lefties should do the opposite.
Use your index finger to point at the target. As with the basic curve, you should be using your index finger to point at where you wish to throw the ball. This time, though, it'll also be steadying your middle finger.
 Same as with most pitches, you'll want to make sure your grip isn't visible to the other team by hiding it behind your glove until you wind up to throw the pitch. Otherwise, the hitter will be warned that you're about to throw a curveball, and you aren't likely to get the results you want.








If you have difficulty hiding your pitch before the wind up, you may want to position your ball as deeply in your mitt as possible before taking your grip on the ball.
 Put dominant foot on the rubber, in a parallel position. Lift your opposite knee and rotate your hips forward as you throw the ball. Your elbow should be level with or above your arm, and bent at a 90-degree angle. This windup is exactly the same as that you'd use when throwing a fastball.
 Keep your palm facing inward toward your body, and release the ball as you step forward with the opposite foot. As your arm comes down from the throw, snap it toward the opposite hip.









As you release the ball, rotate your thumb upward and your middle finger downward, as though you were snapping your thumb and middle finger together., If you slightly change the positioning of your fingers, you can change the way the ball breaks, confusing the hitter even more. Regular curve balls are known as 11-5 throws because the ball breaks in the angle formed by the 11 and 5 numbers on a clock. Try these variations to make your throw break differently:









A 12-6 curve ball will break downward more sharply. Place your index and middle fingers between the seams, and your thumb on the bottom of the ball. Do an abbreviated snap as you throw, or release the ball as your hand passes your head instead of following the arm motion all the way through. To account for the sharp break, throw a 12-6 a bit higher than you would a normal curve ball.
A 10-4 curve ball will start up and close to the hitter, then break low and away. Start your grip as you would for a traditional curve ball then slide your index and middle fingers downward a bit, toward your thumb. Place the majority of the pressure on your middle finger, and turn your wrist outward from your body as you throw.

