 Not all birds found on the ground are in need of rescue or care. Some bird species raise their young on the ground, including killdeer, plovers, and seabirds as well as all chicken and duck species.Furthermore, identifying whether the bird is a seed or insect eater or whether they are prone to certain diseases will be essential in caring for your bird. When identifying the bird, pay attention to different parts of their body. Juvenile birds have different markings from adult birds, but their species can usually still be determined by their shape, weight, and coloration.What is their silhouette or shape? How big are they?
What markings do they have? Where on their bodies are the markings located?
What color are they? Where do the colors appear on their bodies?
Where did you find them? The woods? A marsh? A meadow?;
, At this stage, you should also check to see if a young bird is a nestling or a fledgling. Nestlings are young chicks who are not yet moving much. They have been pushed or blown out of their nest. Most nestlings will not have developed markings or coloration yet. They will either have no feathers or fluffy downy feathers. Fledglings can flap their wings and are training to fly. They will have a thin layer of feathers and may have some slight markings. It is normal for fledgling birds to be outside of the nest, and it is harmful to capture them., Place the bird on your finger and see if they can grip. If they have a strong grip, they are a fledgling. They are in no need of rescue! If they have a weak grasp or are unable to stay upright, they are likely a nestling. Try to locate their nest before you try to rescue them., The bird may be stunned from an injury. If the bird flew into your window or is found paralyzed on the ground, there is a chance that they are in shock. Birds can recover from shock with rest.If the bird is alive but unmoving, be aware that they may be suffering from a blood clot or concussion. They require quiet rest in a dark location to recover. Handle them carefully as you remove them.
If they have a broken wing or leg, avoid touching it as you handle them. Call an avian vet immediately.
 If the bird is injured because of entanglement with a rope, line, or cord, you should hold the bird still as you cut free the bindings. Keep a hold down on the bird's wings. Otherwise, the bird may flail as you try to save it, causing injury to both yourself and the bird., Use a towel or wear gloves while handling wild birds. When rescuing an orphaned or stunned bird, you should cup your hands around them and hold them upright, so that they can breathe. Gently hold together, but do not squeeze, their wings.While small songbirds can be handled with a towel, birds of prey, such as hawks or owls, should be handled wearing thick leather gloves. Be extremely aware of their beaks and talons. If you are inexperienced with these types of birds, you may want to call animal control or a wild bird rehabilitation center to rescue the bird for you., A pet carrier can also work for these purposes. The box should be ventilated so that the bird can breathe; you can poke holes in the box to provide air. Place the box in a warm, dark place. If the bird is injured, he may simply need rest to recover from the shock. Check on the bird every half hour.


Do not bring adult birds into your house. You may keep the box outside in a safe place where dogs and cats cannot reach it. You may also want to keep the box far enough away from the noise of the house or road.
If the bird has recovered from its shock after an hour or two, you may re-release the bird back into the wild. Open the box or carrier away from your house, and let him fly away. If the bird does not recover, he may need further care. Consult a vet or a wild bird rehabilitation center., It is illegal in most areas for unlicensed individuals to care for wild birds, especially native or migratory birds. If the bird is an injured adult, you will not be able to care for the bird without the advice of a wild bird specialist. Call your local game warden or search the internet for your local wild bird sanctuary. They will be able to provide advice on injured wild birds.