 If you want to start using a device to pee, take some steps to prepare ahead of time. Choose the device that works for you and read all the directions carefully.


It's possible to make your own stand to pee device by using the lid of a coffee can, yogurt container, or something similar. You simply trim the edges until you're left with a flat disk and then roll it into a funnel. As stand-to-pee devices can be somewhat pricey, this might be a good option if you're on a budget.You can purchase stand-to-pee devices online. They range in appearance. Some are designed to resemble a penis and testicles, popular among female-to-male transgender people. Others are simply plastic funnels women may want to use on camping trips to make urinating easier. Select a device based on your personal needs.Read all the directions carefully when you purchase a stand-to-pee device. The way you insert or hold the device can affect its functionality.;
, You should practice using the device at home before taking it out in public. This is for a variety of reasons. You do not want the device to slip off in an embarrassing moment and you also want to avoid leaks or spills. Spend about a week doing practice rounds in your own bathroom before taking the device out in public., Devices are held in different ways depending on the type of device you purchased. Always follow instructions specific to the device you own. However, in general you should insert the tip of the wider end of the device near your urethra. Point the narrower end downward. Avoid tilting the device sideways, as this may result in you peeing on yourself., You may be initially unable to pee when using a stand-to-pee device. It may feel uncomfortable or unnatural to you to pee standing up. You can try increasing your urine intake to help get things moving. You can also ease into the transition by standing up slightly over the toilet up when peeing sitting down. Have patience and allow yourself the time you need to pee with the device comfortably., When you finish peeing, shake the device out. Let any extra droplets of urine shake off into the toilet or onto the ground. You do not want to leave a smell on your clothing or in a bag or purse you may use to carry the device., When using your stand-to-pee device, bring toilet paper and plastic bags in your purse or bag when you go out. After using the device, you'll want to dab it dry with toilet paper and then place it in a plastic bag. Leave in the bag until you need to pee again or are home and can clean the device., Contrary to popular belief, urine is not completely sterile. While it has less bacteria than feces, it does contain some waste material. You should also be aware that airborne germs from a bathroom can get on the device. Clean the device with mild soap and water or rubbing alcohol and rinse thoroughly after use., Some devices come with a rubber tube that needs to be replace periodically. You can usually buy replacement parts from the manufacturer where you got the device.