 Anyone who sells wine at a liquor store needs to have some knowledge of what they're selling. To gain knowledge, read the labels of the bottles, as well as wine guides. Another way to learn more is to talk to other people who are more knowledgeable in the field.It goes without saying that you should be trying as many wines as you can, so you can have firsthand knowledge of each wine's flavors.
 When a person comes in looking for wine, often they want guidance. Asking questions can help you figure out what kind of wine will be best for the customer's needs. For example, if a guest says they want a bottle of wine for a gift, ask a few questions to narrow down what kind of wine will be appropriate.You could ask questions such as, "Who's the gift for?" "Is that person knowledgeable about wines?" "Do you know what kinds of wines the person normally drinks?" or "Does the person have a sweet tooth?"
Knowing the answer to these questions can help you figure out what kind of wine will work best for the person.
 That is, make sure you present your wines in a way that makes sense to your customers. For instance, many wine stores divide wines by regions, such as Italy, France, California, and so on. Within each section, further divide it by type of wine. You could also have a section that features local wines, as well as an area that features bargain wines. Include displays of featured wines that are on sale.
 That is, if a customer feels like you are sharing a trade secret with them, they feel like they're on the inside, and they're more likely to buy. For instance, you could say that one wine is a particular deal because the company has a special relationship with the winery, and you prefer to drink it because it's a great wine at a good price.You could also try, "Everyone says the northern region has the best wine, but the truth is, if you go east a little bit, you get a great wine for a lot less. Take this wine for example..."

, With so many wines on the market, it's difficult to pick one wine over another, particularly if they are similar. One way you can sell a particular wine is to talk about its history, its maker, and the region it's made in. In other words, tell a story about the wine to get the customer intrigued.For example, you could say, "This bottle may seem expensive, but think about this: This bottle was made by monks in the Netherlands, and it has been aged over 20 years. I don't know about you, but I haven't even had a car for that long."

, Customer perks can make your customers feel like they belong to a special club. When they feel valued, they'll come back to your store and buy more wine. You could offer perks such as rewards program or a free bottle of wine for loyal customers during the holidays. Another option is writing handwritten thank you notes for customers who spend a lot at your store., Just like in a restaurant, you need to follow certain laws when selling wine in a store. Once again, each state has its own laws regarding the selling of alcohol, particularly wine, so be sure to look up the laws in your state.Have the correct license to sell. You'll need to follow state and city laws when it comes to the proper licenses. Contact your government to find out more.
Make sure to hire people of an appropriate age. Check the laws in your state to see how old someone needs to be to sell wine in a store. In some states, it's as young as 18.
Don't forget to card. The legal drinking age is 21, so you need to make sure you're selling wine to people of a legal age.
Only sell wine where you're allowed to. Some states limit where liquor stores can be, such as only within so many feet of a school or church. In addition, some states don't allow grocery stores to sell wine, so make sure to check what your state allows.

