 Place two suction cups at one end of the tank and place two suction cups with hooks on them at the other end of the crab's tank. Cut a piece cheesecloth or a fine fishnet into a rectangle. The rectangle should be a few inches less than the length and width of the tank. Cut two small holes at each end of the rectangle. The holes should line up with the suction cups. Place string through the holes and make loops. Hang the hammock by placing the loops over the hooks that are on the suction cups.You want the hammock to sag a little bit so place the suction cups 1/2 to 2 inches above where you want the hammock to be.
Make sure the holes you place in the cloth are in the right position. Hold the ends of the hammock up against the tank before you pierce the cloth.;
, Twist bio-vine into four small vines. The bottom three vines will serve as the tree legs and the other vine will be your tree trunk. Attach silk leaves to the vine by unwinding the vine and creating small openings to fit the leaves in. Place the leaves in the slits you have made. Once the leaves are in position, re-twist the vine to secure the leaves to the vine.Do not use glue to secure the leaves. Glue is toxic for your hermit crab. Twisting the vines around the leaves is enough to keep them secure.
Add as many or as few leaves as you like. The tree will look more realistic if there are more leaves.
Your crab will enjoy climbing on the tree and hiding under the leaves.
All of these items can be found at your local pet store.
Tie fishing line or cotton thread to the stems of your tree and then tie the tree to a piece of driftwood. Bury the driftwood and the bottom of the tree stem in the substrate to keep the tree upright and from floating., Your hermit crab will enjoy having some driftwood in its habitat. Only use dry driftwood in the tank. Look for pieces that have a lot of texture and enough space for your crab to climb and play.Remove the driftwood when you clean your crab's tank. Wash the driftwood with hot water and put it in the microwave to dry. Do not use soap or detergent to clean the driftwood. These chemicals can be harmful for your crab.
Dried choya wood, coral, and barnacles can also be placed in your crab's tank as well.