 There are many different jobs within and related to the field of accounting, ranging from bookkeepers and accounting clerks to financial analysts and corporate controllers. Spend some time online learning about the responsibilities and requirements of different positions.This will help you be better informed on your applications and interviews, and can also save you time in the long run as you'll be able to quickly sort out which positions you could be viable candidate for based on your education and experience.
 In any field, the Internet is quickly becoming a crucial medium for job classifieds. Post your resume on job search sites such as Career Builder and Monster, and search for accounting positions on general classifieds sites like Craigslist.


Note that there are also numerous sites online that are dedicated specifically to accounting jobs, which you should check regularly. These include accountingjobstoday.com and accountingprincipals.com.
Searching for job openings regularly and applying promptly is key when competing among the vast field of online applicants.
When searching for job openings online, you may want to consider related positions as well. For example, if you have an accounting degree but no relevant work experience, taking a position as a bookkeeper may help you to flesh out your resume enough to later land a position as an accountant.
 Contact anyone in the accounting field you may already know. A hard truth of job searching is that it is often who you know that makes the difference.If you know anyone in the accounting field--a family friend, a business contact, and of course your professors--ask them if they know of any openings.


A recommendation from an established accountant can be instrumental in opening up job opportunities.
 When you apply for a job, do a little digging to find out about the company first, and use this knowledge in your application. Caring enough to learn about the company shows interest and initiative.Start with the company's website and social media pages.After that, you can look at what other people have written about it online. If you get an interview, make sure you know the business inside and out., You might have a dream job or a dream company that you want to work for above all others, and that's great. But you should apply for jobs with lots of different companies to increase your odds of being hired.


Experts recommend applying to 15 to 25 companies to be sure of getting a job quickly.One nice thing about accounting work is that it is very portable. While accountants are needed everywhere, they are most in demand in big cities. If you are willing to relocate, apply for jobs outside of where you live. You may be able to find work more quickly this way., As you search for jobs, you may notice that many accounting jobs are temporary positions. If you can't secure permanent, full-time employment, taking one of these temp jobs may be a good option.A temp job is a good way to learn the business and get some work experience while also making some money to support yourself while you continue to seek a full time position.
In accounting, temp jobs are often a stepping stone to permanent positions.

