 This form is called a “Petition for Alien Relative.” You use this form to start the petition process for sponsoring a relative to move to the United States. You can download it from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website. The form will ask for the following information:personal information about you (name, address, place of birth, etc.)
personal information about the relative you want to sponsor
if the relative has a spouse or any children
personal information about your relative’s children and/or spouse;
, This form is called the “Application to Register Permanent Residence or Adjust Status.” The family member you want to sponsor must complete this form. He or she can get it by downloading the form from the USCIS website.You can share the link with your family member or print it out and mail it to him or her.


Your relative should use this form only if they are in the United States currently.
If they are not in the United States, then they can use “consular processing” instead of Form I-485. Under this process, you submit your I-130 form. Once it is approved, the petition is sent to the State Department’s National Visa Center. When an immigrant visa becomes available, your relative gathers required materials and schedules an interview. At the interview, a consular official will help your relative fill out an application and decide eligibility at that time., In order to sponsor a family member, you need to prove that you are a U.S. citizen. You also need to show that you are related to the applicant. You should gather these documents ahead of time since you will need to include them with your application.


To show that you are a U.S. citizen, you should provide a copy of your birth certificate, naturalization certificate, or unexpired U.S. passport.
To prove that you are related to the family member, you will need to provide other documents. See the instructions for Form I-130 for more information about acceptable documents., You must pay $420 when you submit your Form I-130, Petition for Alien Relative. Make your check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” Do not use abbreviations or initials, such “USDHS” or “DHS.”Your family member will also have to pay fees. Have them refer to the instructions for Form I-485 to calculate how much they must pay., You will mail your form to either the Chicago or Phoenix Lockbox, depending on where you live. You can check the USCIS website for information on which Lockbox to mail your application to.If you and your relative file at the same time, you can use one envelope and mail it to the USCIS Chicago Lockbox.
Once USCIS receives your petition, they will send Form I-797C to you, which will show your receipt number and the office processing the case.