 Include on the website videos of Sunday School with children talking about their great experience at Sunday School, activities done in Sunday School, a tour of classrooms, the best outdoor activities, safety and health policies, and reasons to come. Have pictures of all of the above things, too. Write a few paragraphs about your Sunday School and pictures of children's artwork. Keep it updated and attractive!
, Hand them out in public places and at church.,, Gather pictures and crafts that the children have made and ask if the mall, library, store, or other business would like it., Include different things like focusing on different ages, focusing on teachers, focusing on a big event, advertising a big event, or pictures of a very exciting activity. Update this monthly., Do something each month for teachers and volunteers.

For example:

In January: give out cards,
In February: give out candy
In March: have a breakfast
In April: give home visits
In May have them involved in church with a picnic afterwards
In June give flowers
In July have a firework party together
In August give gift certificates
In September give them a special name plate for the doorway of their classroom
In October have a hayride or bonfire together
In November give thank you baskets with items they will like
In December, have a shopping party and Sunday school thank you books with notes and pictures made.


Send cards on birthdays, anniversaries, Baptism birthdays, and times when they have a new baby or wedding.
 Include a brochure and the website name for Sunday School., This lets both ages learn about Sunday School. (You also don't have to deal with a fussy two year old or change diapers and the parents can work one on one with their child.), Train volunteers and teachers. Have a safe and clean environment. Thank children for coming to Sunday School. Send thank you cards and goodies such as a puzzle, book, little toy home when they first come., Talk about the date, time, ages, place, and have what the children have said about it. Include pictures if possible., Yet, don't call more than once and don't call during dinner times or late at night., Invite the families that have not come to Sunday School yet and thank the families that do come., Have Baptism birthday parties. Have families decorate cakes, cupcakes, or cookies. Offer time for food, games, music, devotions, and birthday recognition. Ask families to bring a sign of their baptism such as a certificate, candle, or picture., Throw candy or other goodies with invitations to Sunday School., Make sure that somebody will add to this at least every week. Do the same with Instagram and Twitter. You can even post ideas on Pinterest.