 Left alone, your mouth should heal itself in a few days to about a week.Avoid further injury during that time. Don’t eat foods that have sharp edges, like potato chips or crispy apple slices, or are hard like hard cookies. Allow hot foods and beverages to cool to a warm temperature before you enjoy them.
 Enjoy mildly seasoned foods, but stay away from spicy foods and foods flavored with citrus. These can irritate the sensitive skin in your mouth while your burn is healing., This is a home remedy that may help. Add 10 grams (0.35 oz) of dried licorice root to 100 milliliters of cold water (about 4/10 of a cup). Boil the mixture and let it sit to infuse for 15 minutes. Let it cool, then strain it. Use this as a mouthwash and gargle with it as often as you like while your burn heals. Licorice can help heal inflammation and sores, and can fight off some bacteria.Add honey to the mixture while it’s still warm to sweeten it.
Alternately, try sucking on licorice tablets.
 Eat a spoonful of honey a couple of times a day to help soothe pain and promote healing. If your burn is on your cheek or the roof of your mouth, try to press the honey to the hurt area with your tongue.Let the honey dissolve in your mouth.
 Quit smoking – at least while your burn heals.Smoking cigarettes and using other nicotine products can slow healing time or even make the burn worse. Ideally, stop smoking altogether.
 Help speed up healing – stay away from alcoholic beverages. If you can’t stop, minimize how much alcohol you drink while your burn is healing.Talk to your doctor if you feel like you can’t stop drinking alcohol.
 Maintain good oral hygiene while your burn heals.This promotes healing and helps you avoid infections. Brush your teeth twice a day as usual, in the morning and before bed. Go slowly and be careful not to scrape your burn.


If you simply can’t use a toothbrush due to pain, put the toothpaste on your finger and use your finger for a toothbrush at least for a day or so until you can tolerate the brush.
 After a few days, your mouth burn should feel better. If it hasn’t improved by that time, see your doctor. You may need medicine to help with pain and prevent infection., Mouth burns rarely cause serious health problems, but serious burns can get infected. See your doctor if you burn your mouth and then start to experience any of the following symptoms:Fever (a temperature of 100.4°F/38°C or higher)
Drooling
Difficulty swallowing
Severe mouth pain

