 If you are upset about your grade, be sure to reach out to your teacher to set up a meeting to go over the results. He or she is there to help you learn and will be able to help you understand what you can do to improve. Sometimes it is difficult to understand your mistakes, and having another perspective can help you understand what you did incorrectly. This will also demonstrate that you care about your grades and want to do all you can to do well on the next exam.Confronting and addressing your errors will ultimately help you to forget your test score.


Saying to your teacher “I would like to understand what I did wrong,” will help open a line of communication about your test score. It will help demonstrate that you are not disagreeing with the score, but that you would like to be fully informed so that you can do better in the future.
Ask your teacher, “What can I do to do better on the next examination?” He or she may provide advice on studying techniques, clarify what he or she is looking for, and help you identify areas that may need improvement.
 It may feel like a monumental task, but it is important to talk to your parents, friends, or an advisor about your test and how it has made you feel.It is natural to feel uneasy talking about your emotions, but trust that those around you will be fair, understanding, and supportive.Talking about your feelings is a great step to forgetting your worry about your test score. You’ll see that once you open up, you will begin to feel better.Begin the conversation by saying, “I trust and value your opinion, and I think talking to you will help me feel better.” Let your confidant know that you are hoping this conversation will be a positive experience that will help you sort through your emotions. Acknowledge that you are disappointed or discouraged. Tell a friend, parent or advisor “I am disappointed in myself, and wasn’t expecting this score.”

, Let your parents, guardians, or an advisor know that you discussed your grade with your teacher and that you plan to study harder next time. They will see how you are taking action to improve and will be impressed with your mature approach.Forging ahead with a new study plan will help you shift your focus away from your bad test score. Instead, you’ll be concentrating on ways you can improve in the future.

