 A little self-reflection will be very helpful when it comes to accepting who you are. After you’ve thought about why you like being at home rather than going out, you’ll likely be more confident. Some reasons may include:


You get anxious when you go out.
You miss your family or pets when you go out.
There are a lot of things you like to do at home that you can’t do other places.;
, Chances are that if you're a ‘homebody’, you may be an introvert. Introversion is typically characterized by a person’s tendency to gather strength and comfort from being alone. Introversion is not a once size fits all package. Each person is unique to how they express themselves based on where they sit on the introversion spectrum.Someone who is introverted may become easily drained and exhausted from being around other people. They need a restful, comfortable space to help them relax and recharge.
Many homebodies are introspective, and like to spend quiet restful time contemplating various interests and ideas. They can be very creative, insightful, and innovative people.
Someone with introverted tendencies usually prefers to work independently rather than in groups. However, they also have excellent communication capabilities and listening skills.
 Self-compassion is our capacity to love and have empathy for ourselves. Practice self-compassion by focusing on three elements:

Recognize that no one is perfect, including yourself. Practice affirming that it is good to feel comfortable with who you are and your life, despite those imperfections.
Practicing self-kindness. Eliminate negative thoughts and self-criticism. For every negative thought or behavior, replace it with two positive one.
Be mindful and present in the moment. Do your best to stay within each moment and maintain a non-biased awareness of all your experiences.
 While some people love going out on the town every night, others better enjoy their evenings in. After you accept that everyone is different, you'll be more comfortable being a homebody.


People who are outgoing or extroverted tend to enjoy interacting with different people all the time.
Introverted people value looking inward for guidance and often enjoy quiet reflection more than hustle-and-bustle.
You may be someone who enjoys going out sometimes but would rather stay home most of the time., Understand that being a homebody is not a negative quality, and it does not indicate antisocial behavior. Being a homebody and enjoying the time you have in your own personal space does not mean you are depressed or unhappy.Depression is sometimes associated with feelings of isolation, but that does not mean all homebodies feel depressed. In fact, when too much pressure is placed on a homebody to interact with others, there is a greater tendency for feelings of lowness, stress, and anxiety.
 One of the biggest challenges for you might be your friends who try to get you to constantly go out. Remember that it’s okay to stand your ground and decline invitations.


If a friend makes you uncomfortable or tries to pressure you into going out, be polite but clear that you aren’t interested.
Consider going out with your friends from time-to-time.
Let your friends know you love hanging out, but you’re not really the type of person who likes to go out all the time., If you have a substantial amount of anxiety associated with leaving your home, you may want to consult someone about it. A psychologist or psychiatrist will be able to assess whether you need help.

It is possible that you have a some sort of mental health condition like agoraphobia, anxiety disorder, depression, or post-traumatic stress disorder.
If you're staying home because you're afraid of the world outside, rather than as a choice, you should seek help from a mental health professional.