 Coreopsis flowers can be sown directly in the plant bed during early to mid spring, after the frost has cleared but before the weather gets hot.;
, Coreopsis flowers are native to areas with prairies and dry plains, and as a result, the plant thrives in warm, sunny locations. A south-facing spot that receives full sun often works best, but an east- or west-facing spot that receives at least partial sun will work, as well.
 Use a garden fork or tiller to dig up and loosen the soil in your plant bed. The soil in the plant bed should be turned about 12 to 15 inches (31 to 38 cm) deep.
 The compost enriches the quality of the soil, making it nutritional enough for new flowers to grow in.
 These plants do not do well if the roots are water-logged, and good draining soil is essential. If your soil is dense and heavy, you may want to mix in 2 to 4 inches (5 to 10 cm) of garden sand or peat moss, or vermiculite along with the compost.
 Do so sparingly, preventing the flowers from growing too closely together to avoid crowding them out.
 The soil you use to cover the seeds should be sandy, or otherwise loose. The seeds should not be planted too deep, but a covering of soil is necessary to protect them against the elements and against birds and other predators.
 Water the area with a watering can or garden hose every day, except for rainy days, until the seeds germinate and seedlings start to form. This should only take one or two weeks. Do not allow the soil to dry out during this time.
 By early summer, the plants should have several sets of leaves. At this point, it is best to space them apart by at least 12 inches (31 cm) to prevent the roots from tangling and competing for resources. You can thin the plants out by either snipping the stem off at soil level or by gently yanking weaker plants out of the ground.


To yank out a weaker seedling, insert a garden trowel about 5 to 6 inches (13 to 15 cm) into the ground, at a distance of about 2 to 3 inches (5 to 8 cm) away from the visible stem. Gradually ease the trowel toward the plant until the tip is about even with the center of the stem. Then, slowly and carefully lift the plant out roots out. This method works best when you can guarantee that you will not harm the roots of nearby plants or if you plan to transplant the removed flowers to another location.

