 If you’re considering making this a more serious relationship, this is an inevitable step. Especially if you’re unsure about the life your fling leads when they’re not on vacation, establish these relationships early on, to expose one another to the facts about one another's non-vacation lives, and to facilitate multiple new mediums with which the two of you can stay in touch moving forward.If your friend requests go unanswered on multiple platforms, take this as a sign that there may be something you don’t know about your fling. If you’ve kept in contact privately via phone or email, ask your fling why they haven’t been receptive through different mediums.
 Assuming you’ve kept in touch a bit, and there are not red flags about a potential unmentioned marriage or a basement torture chamber, initiate casual conversations every few days. This is the best way to gauge whether a connection between you naturally persists. If your fling is also interested in potentially continuing a romantic relationship, they will be excited to hear from you, and the romantic banter you shared while on vacation will likely continue without much effort.Don’t be too concerned if your fling doesn’t have a vibrant online personality. Not everyone does, and it doesn’t mean they aren’t interested. Still, you shouldn’t assume they are, either.
 An important step to take in establishing whether your vacation romance may turn into something more is determining whether it is realistic to hope for more. This may even require that you ask some direct questions about issues that were not addressed during your time together.


Get important questions out of the way as soon as possible. Though it may have seemed unnecessary to talk about it during the vacation, it may be time to admit your curiosity by saying something like: “I’ve been wondering if you’re involved in any other romantic relationships?”
If they don’t respond directly or their answer leaves something to be desired, don’t feel silly about checking for evidence yourself. You have a right to know about something that may affect your emotional well-being.
 Propose that you speak with one another regularly, even if distance demands the use of technology to facilitate these conversations. You already know you’re attracted to one another, and have enjoyed the time you’ve had together. In order to determine whether that might lead to a sustainable relationship, start to have the conversations that will lead to getting to know one another better.