 One of the most popular programs is XLink Kai. This program will allow you to play System-link/LAN-capable games without having to connect to Xbox Live. You will need to adjust your connection settings on your PC before you can connect.

You will need to register your XTag with the XLink servers. This is your username that other players will see when you are connected.
XLink Kai is a free program.
 You cannot use a wireless connection., You will need this in order to set up the XLink Kai connection.


Click here for instructions on finding your IP address in Windows.

Click here for instructions on finding your IP address in OS X.
 You will need this to open the configuration page. If you are using a Mac with an AirPort router, click here for instructions on opening the AirPort configuration tool.

Press ⊞ Win+R and type cmd. Press ↵ Enter

Type ipconfig and press ↵ Enter

Look for your active connection. You may have to scroll up to find it. Inactive connections will say Disconnected.
Find the Default Gateway address. This is your router's address. Write it down.
 Enter your router's address into a web browser on your computer. You will be prompted to log in with your router's administrator account.

If you don't know the administrative account, check the router's documentation or online for the default account information.
 You may have to open the Advanced section first. Port Forward may be labeled "Applications"., The process for this varies depending on your router, but generally you will be asked for the same information:

Set the External Starting and Ending ports to 30000.
Enter your computer's IP for the IP address.
Set the protocol to TCP/UDP.
Label the rule "xlink" or something similar and save it.
 Log in with your XTag account (you can create one for free on the XLink Kai website)., This is different than online multiplayer, and not all games support it., This process varies depending on the game, but generally you want to go to the local multiplayer menu and search for available games., If your console has been detected, you're good to go!, Look through the XLink game browser and find a game to play. You must have that game disc inserted and looking for local games.

Because of the way that the Xbox 360's LAN card is configured, you will not be able to connect to users with a ping higher than 35ms. This means that you will need to find games that are located close to your physical location, or you may not be able to connect to the game.