 If you are interested in suing the government for an arbitrary action, you need to make sure you file your suit within a specific time frame. If you fail to file your suit on time, you may be barred from ever bringing it at all. To determine how long you have to file your lawsuit, you need to check your state's, or the federal government's, statute of limitations for your particular action.


Because you are suing the government, you may have to bring an action quickly, sometimes even within 60 days of the harm occurring.Be sure you check the statute of limitations quickly once you learn about the arbitrary action.;
, You can sue for any government action that was arbitrary. Generally, people bring these lawsuits to challenge state or local government action in the following areas:Land use. The government will not let you use your land for a particular purpose although they have let neighbors use the land for that purpose.
Zoning. The government zones in a selective and arbitrary manner, for example by maliciously revoking a building permit.
Licensing. The government singles you out and denies you a license although you qualify.
Provisions of government services. For no good reason, the government refuses to provide you with government services even though you qualify for them.
Other. Lawsuits for arbitrary action are not limited to the above situations. Talk to an attorney about whether you can challenge the government action.
 Once you have identified the government action you want to challenge, you need to figure out who to sue. Generally, the federal government is immune from suit. However, you could sue the following:A government official, like a town manager or zoning official, in his or her “individual capacity.” You can sue whoever made the decision that you think is arbitrary. If you sue them in their individual capacity (as individuals), then you can sue for money compensation or for an “injunction,” which is a court order for the official to stop doing something.
A government official in their “official capacity.” You can only sue them for an injunction or a declaratory judgment. A declaratory judgment is a court judgment stating whether your rights have been violated or not. You cannot get money from a government official if you sue them in their official capacity.
Your municipality or local government. You can sue these governments for both money compensation and injunctions.
Your state government. In limited situations, you can sue your state government. However, you can only sue for an injunction or a declaratory judgment, not for money compensation.
 Arbitrary government action can take many forms and, depending on what form it takes, you may have multiple causes of action. A cause of action is the specific legal claim you bring against the government. It is the law you point to in your lawsuit. Under federal law, most causes of action for arbitrary government conduct will be brought under 42 U.S.C. Section 1983 or under the Administrative Procedure Act (APA).


Under Section 1983, you can bring a lawsuit against a state actor when there has been an alleged deprivation of constitutional and/or statutory rights. This might include scenarios where a government discriminates against you based on your race, sex, or employment. Under this law, for an action to be arbitrary, it must "shock the conscience." Therefore, you can not just sue for negligence or even willful acts. Different courts have defined shocking conduct in various ways.Under the APA, a court can set aside agency actions that are arbitrary. If you use this law, you will only be able to sue for actions that administrative agencies and their employees take.
 You need proof that the government official made an arbitrary decision. Look to see how other people similarly situated have been treated. If you see that you are being treated differently, then you have some evidence the government is acting in an arbitrary manner.


For example, your city might require that you give it a 30-foot easement before it will hook your house up to the waterline. However, if your neighbors only had to give the city a 15-foot easement, then you have proof of differential treatment.Talk to people and check whether you are being treated differently. Get the names of people who could testify that they were treated one way. You might need them to testify at trial.
 You can get compensated for many different kinds of injuries, depending on the government action. Try to preserve the following:Receipts. You might have been denied a government service, such as water hookup. If so, then you probably bought gallons of water to use. You can sue and be reimbursed for those expenses.
Mental and emotional distress. You might suffered considerable emotional stress because of the arbitrary action, which may have taken a toll on your health. If so, keep all medical and therapist records, as well as bills. You can be compensated for emotional and mental distress.
Economic loss. Your business might have lost money because you were arbitrarily denied a license or permit. Try to keep detailed financial records so that a judge can gauge how much money you would have made had the government not treated you in an arbitrary manner.
 This is a very complicated area of law, and you would benefit greatly if you Find a Good Attorney. At a minimum, you should schedule a consultation and get legal advice before beginning your lawsuit.


To find an attorney, contact your state or local bar association.They should have a referral program.
 Check if you can afford to hire the lawyer. At your consultation, ask how much the lawyer would charge to bring the lawsuit on your behalf. You will file your lawsuit in federal court, which is not set up for people to represent themselves. Furthermore, the government will probably have a lawyer representing them, so you will be at a disadvantage if you are representing yourself.


You can get attorney’s fees and costs (such as filing fees) if you win the lawsuit, so a lawyer might be more willing to represent you if you have a strong case.A lawyer might also represent you on “contingency.” This means that the lawyer won’t charge you fees. Instead, he or she will take a percentage of any amount awarded by the court or secured in a settlement. Typically, lawyers take around 33-40% of any amount awarded. You would still be responsible for paying the costs of the lawsuit, such as filing fees and for court reporters.
 If you are seeking to sue a federal administrative agency under the APA for an arbitrary action (e.g., suing the U.S. Department of State for denying your Visa request), you may first have to exhaust your administrative remedies. Federal courts will refuse to hear your case unless you have first tried to settle the issue directly with the agency. However, the exhaustion of remedies requirement is not absolute.


For example, your case might be exempt from this requirement if there is no statute mandating an administrative appeal. Therefore, if you believe an agency has made a decision arbitrarily in contravention of the law, check with federal and/or state statutes to see if you have to file an agency complaint. The easiest way to do this is to visit the agency's website. The website will usually tell you how to proceed if you have a complaint.
 If you are required to file an administrative complaint, you must usually do so soon after the action occurred. In some instances, you may only have 60 days to file a complaint. To file a complaint, visit the agency's website and find the complaint form or online complaint generator. From there, complete the required forms and send them to the correct contact at the agency. The complaint will usually ask for your contact information and a description of the action that led to the complaint.
 Once your complaint has been filed and investigated, it will either be allowed or denied. If your complaint is allowed to move forward, you may take part in administrative hearings and/or further investigations. Take part in every hearing and investigation possible and make sure you do not miss any steps. If you are denied relief after taking part in a hearing, ask how you can appeal the decision.


If your claim is denied, you will be notified in writing. This notice should also include information on appealing the decision. Make sure you read that information and appeal as required.
 Once you have exhausted your administrative remedies, you will be told by the applicable agency that you have a final agency action. While it will not be stated in such clear terms, you will be told there is nothing else the agency can do. The agency will tell you that there are no more appeals and that your complaint has been denied. Once you hear that there is nothing else the agency can do, you should be able to bring a lawsuit in federal court.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a complaint in court.In this document, you lay out the circumstances that gave rise to the dispute. You also tell the court what law authorizes you to sue. Finally, you make a demand for a remedy, such as money damages or an injunction.


Suing for arbitrary government action is a “class of one” Equal Protection claim brought under 42 U.S.C. section 1983 of the Civil Rights Act of 1871.This is the law you should cite in your complaint.
Your lawyer can draft the complaint for you. If you don’t have a lawyer, then you should ask the court clerk for a complaint form. There is one you can download from the United States Courts website, though your local federal district court might have its own form., You also need to fill out a “Civil Cover Sheet” and a “Summons in a Civil Action.” You can get both from the court clerk. You could also download blank forms from the U.S. Courts website., Your lawyer should handle filing, which can be done electronically. If you are trying to represent yourself without a lawyer, then you can probably file hard copies with the court clerk, though you should check ahead of time. Most federal courts would prefer that everyone file electronically. You can talk to the clerk about how to do this if you are representing yourself.


Remember to keep copies of every document you file.
You will have to pay a $400 filing fee to file a civil lawsuit in federal district court. If you can’t afford this fee, then speak to the court clerk about how to get a fee waiver. You will probably have to fill out a form and provide the court with information about your finances., You should deliver a copy of the complaint and summons on each defendant that you named in the complaint. If you sued both your city government and a government official, then each needs to get a copy of the complaint and summons. Although you have 90 days from the date you filed your complaint to serve notice, there is really no reason to wait.You cannot serve notice yourself. Instead, you can have anyone 18 or older who is not a party to the lawsuit make service.Your lawyer can arrange service. If you need to arrange service, then you should probably hire a private process server. Look in your phone book or search online. Process servers will hand deliver a copy on each defendant. They usually charge $45-75 per service., The court needs to know that you successfully served notice on each defendant. Whoever makes service will need to fill out the affidavit of service form, which can be found attached to the summons.The completed affidavit must be filed with the court. Keep a copy for your records.
 Once the defendant receives a copy of your lawsuit, they will have a limited amount of time to respond (usually around 30 days). The most common response will be an answer. Within the defendant's answer, he or she will formally respond to your lawsuit paragraph by paragraph and will assert any defenses they may have.


If the defendant does not think your action is valid, they might file a motion to dismiss or a demurrer.However, even if one of these documents is filed and the court sides with the defendant, you will usually have an opportunity to file an amended complaint in order to fix your errors.
 Once the defendant's answer has been filed, you will start a period of discovery where each party will gather documents from the other party. During discovery, you will learn about the defendant's witnesses, their defenses, their evidence, and the overall strength of their case. In order to get access to the defendant's documents and witnesses, you will use the following tools:Depositions, which are in-person interviews with parties and witnesses. These interviews are conducted under oath and answers given can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are written questions posed to parties and witnesses. The answers are written under oath and can be used in court.
Document requests, which are written requests to the defendant asking for tangible things that would not otherwise be available to you. This might include private emails, text messages, or internal memos.
Requests for admission, which are written requests asking the defendant to admit or deny certain facts. These requests help narrow down what issues need to be decided at trial.
 As soon as discovery concludes, the defendant will likely file a motion for summary judgment. To be successful, the defendant will have to convince the judge that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that he or she is entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, to be successful, the judge would have to determine that, even if all factual assumptions were made in your favor, you would still lose the lawsuit.


To defend against this motion, you will need to file affidavits and evidence with the court that tend to prove that there are factual issues that need to be resolved at trial. If you are successful, the litigation will continue., Right before trial you will attend a final pretrial conference in order to set the trial schedule and create a road map. The judge will talk with you and the defendant about what issues need to be resolved and in what order they should be presented. At the end of this conference, the judge will issue a pretrial order setting forth the trial schedule.


Be sure you bring up every single issue you want discussed at trial. If you forget to bring something up and it gets left off the pretrial order, you may not be able to discuss it at trial., Settling the lawsuit will allow you to avoid trial, which can be unpredictable and costly. It is possible you could lose at trial, in which case you won’t get any money. By settling, you guarantee yourself some compensation.However, you might not want to settle if you are hoping to establish new Constitutional law. The area of lawsuits for arbitrary government action is not well developed. After talking with your lawyer, you might decide that you want to go to court so that you can clarify this area of law for people in the future.
 The best preparation is to consider the strength of your case. Go through all of your evidence and talk with your lawyer about your chances at trial. The stronger your case, the more aggressive you can be in negotiations.


For example, you might be suing for $50,000. If you have a strong case, you might not want to settle for less than $40,000.
However, if your case is weaker, then you might be willing to settle for $25,000.
 You should let your lawyer handle most of the negotiations. However, you should always provide your input. Remember that your lawyer cannot accept or reject a settlement offer without your permission.Try not to give in too quickly. The other side expects you to drive a hard bargain, so push for the best resolution possible.Also remember that you can walk away at any time. Negotiation is voluntary. You should have a sense of the absolute minimum you are willing to settle for. If the other side can’t meet that amount, then you can break off negotiations.
 If settlement discussions fail, you will have to go to trial. As the plaintiff, you will get to choose if you want your trial heard by the judge or by a jury. This decision needs to be made in your complaint. If you chose to have a jury trial, you will take part in a process called "voire dire" in order to pick a jury. During voire dire, you will ask potential jurors questions that help you determine if they have any biases toward your client or case. If you think a bias exists, you can ask the court to excuse that juror. Once a jury has been chosen, they will be empaneled and the trial will begin., The trial will start with you making an opening statement. Your opening statement should provide a road map of the case, the facts, and why you will win. It should be short and concise. Do not introduce any evidence at this point and do not confuse the jury. All you need to do is introduce the case, your client, and your winning strategy.


The defendant will have an opportunity to make an opening statement after you. In some cases, courts will allow defendants to hold their statements until after you have presented your case.
 As the plaintiff, you will present your case to the court and/or jury first. When you present a case, you will offer evidence in the form of witness testimony and physical exhibits. Physical exhibits will be introduced through witnesses. Only evidence that conforms to the rules will be allowed. Therefore, it is very important you know and understand the court's rules of evidence before going to trial.When you introduce witness testimony, you will ask the witness questions about the facts surrounding the case. Once you are done asking questions, the defendant will have an opportunity to cross-examine your witnesses.
 After you present your case and rest, the defendant will have his or her opportunity to do the same. The defendant will offer evidence through their own witnesses. After each witness is questioned by the defendant, you will have an opportunity to cross-examine them. During cross-examination you will attempt to discredit the witness by making them look untruthful or biased. If you found inconsistencies with the witness's statements, bring those inconsistencies up.
 When the defense rests, you will have an opportunity to make one last closing statement to the court. Your closing argument should recap the important pieces of the trial and clear up any concerns you think the court might have. You should highlight the important evidence that was presented and you should clearly state why you should win. Remember, this is your last opportunity to talk about the case in open court. Make sure you use your time wisely and wow everyone in the courtroom.


After your closing argument, the defense will have an opportunity to make one as well.
 Once the trial is complete, the fact-finder (i.e., the judge or jury) will take some time to deliberate. The fact-finder will look at everything that was presented and determine who should win the case. Once a decision has been made, it will be presented in court in the form of a verdict.If you win, you will be awarded damages. The amount of damages awarded to you will be determined by the judge or jury.


If you lose, you might be able to appeal the loss to a higher court. You will only be able to appeal if you believe, in good faith, that the court made some legal error that changed the outcome of the case. If you think you might be able to appeal, you need to talk with an appellate lawyer as soon as possible.You will have to file your appeal quickly after the verdict is handed down.

