 Another way you can use downtime is to update your contacts list. Doing this can help you network more efficiently and boost your profile with important contacts on your list. You may go through your work contacts on your phone and remove any contacts that are outdated or old. You may then network with certain contacts you have not spoken to in awhile or reached out to.You could also go through contacts on your social media and your online work profiles. Organize them by company or client and remove any contacts that are no longer relevant. If there are contacts who you’d like to update, you may reach out to them so you can reconnect.
 You can also network with coworkers during downtime, especially if you do not often interact with them or have been meaning to chat with them. Get up from your desk and go chat with a coworker about a recent project you’ve been working on. Have a cup of coffee with a coworker to talk about a client or a project. Arrange a lunch with a coworker so you can connect about a work issue.Try not to disturb a coworker who does not have downtime like you and is currently working. Instead, reach out to coworkers who have open time like you and are searching for ways to network or connect with others on a business level.
 Use downtime to connect with potential business partners or clients. Use your updated contact list to do this or look through your emails for individuals you can contact. Give potential business partners a call or an email and follow up with them on an idea or a pitch. This small networking move could lead to a contract with the client or a new project for you.For example, you may write to a potential business partner, “I’m following up on your email you sent last week about a potential business opportunity” or “I’m reaching out to you about a project we talked about at the networking conference in May.”

, If your company or business has social media accounts, use this downtime to monitor them. Respond to any comments on your work’s social media to up the company’s online profile. Start a social media thread to garner some attention on social media for the company. Message individuals through social media to set up new projects or accounts.If you do not normally have access to your work’s social media, you may need to ask your boss for permission to do this.

