 While adult dentists can treat children, it is better to find a dentist that specializes in cleaning children’s teeth. Not only can they help prevent common childhood issues but they will be able to calm down and relax a crying or distressed child. The American Association of Pediatric Dentists offers a search tool on their website to help parents locate a nearby specialist.Pediatric dentists also have a fully equipped dental office specifically for kids, which includes toys, colorful dental chairs, and even cartoons on a TV screen.
 Children should have their teeth cleaned and checked every six months. It may be easier to schedule these visits in advance so that you do not forget. If you have multiple children, you might try to schedule them all at the same time.
 Many children are frightened of the dentist. Sitting beside them and holding their hand may ease their anxiety. When you first go into the dentist, follow your child back into the examination room. Introduce your child to the dentist, and have the dentist show the child all of their tools beforehand. The dentist might even explain what they are used for. This can help calm your child’s fears before the cleaning begins.In some cases, you may need to sit on the chair and hold your child in your arms.
 Sealants are coatings applied by the dentist to prevent cavities from developing on the molars. Your child’s first molars will appear around age six. At this time, you can ask your child’s dentist if they can apply sealants to these teeth. While this does not replace brushing their teeth, it can prevent some cavities from developing, especially if your child eats a lot of candies and sugars., It is more and more common for dentists to use sedation during normal cleanings to help relax the patient. Your dentist might recommend it if your child is crying or fidgeting during their cleaning. It may also be given before a major procedure. While it can be safe for children to be sedated, you should have a serious talk with the dentist first. You should ask:“Before coming to the office, what do we need to do to prepare for the sedation? Does my child need to stop eating or drinking?”
“If something goes wrong, does your staff have training in emergency resuscitation procedures? How often do they renew their training?”
“What kind of sedation are you giving my child and how will this affect him or her afterwards?”
“How should I monitor my child after the procedure?”
“Who should I call if there is a problem afterwards?”

, Going to the dentist can be stressful for children. Some dentists give children a small prize pack after they are done. You might find it helps to incentivize your child with a small toy, keychain, or sticker to praise them for handling the appointment well.