 While finches are normally active while awake, your finch may be drooping its head or remaining motionless on the bottom of the cage. The bird's posture may be bent or horizontal instead of vertical. If your bird is sleeping all day while all the other birds are flying around, something could be wrong., Like people, birds will sometimes sneeze or cough when sick. They will often shake or twist their head as they do this. These symptoms are sometimes accompanied by nasal discharge. Also look out for heavy breathing or other signs of respiratory troubles. Your bird may have a cold, or it may be a sign of more serious problems like air sac mites., Healthy house finches tend to avoid sick birds. If you have multiple finches, you may notice that they are avoiding one member of their group. If your finches have abandoned their friend, it is because they are trying to prevent getting sick themselves., Mites, conjunctivitis, and pox can make your bird itch. You may notice that the bird is attempting to scratch themselves with a foot or that they are rubbing up against their bird house, cage, or other objects.Scratching excessively can be a sign of something wrong, and it can cause even more damage to your bird’s skin.


Normal itching will last only a few seconds, and it can be relieved with gentle rubbing. If your bird is sick, he may scratch repeatedly through the day and for several minutes at a time. He may also be scratching himself more vigorously., Finches are very vocal birds, so if they stop singing, something is wrong. They may be trying to conserve energy, or they may suffer from air sac mites, which cause the bird to lose their voice. If you notice that the bird has not been chirping or singing, you may want to observe for other signs of illness., If your bird is sluggish, it may be that there is not enough light for the bird, and your finch has become depressed. Natural lighting is very important for finch health. Either provide the finch with natural light or use full-spectrum lightbulbs (also known as “daylight” or “sunlight” bulbs).If the bird does not improve, the bird may be sick instead of depressed.

