 Do pushups. Get some weights and use them during the day. Do crunches. Walk, jog, bike, or cycle. Play recreational sports.;
, If you are a technical writer, author pages for wikiHow! Learn (or improve) your programming skills. Volunteer and do a newsletter (and develop your desktop publishing skills).
 Watch the news, read the papers and have an opinion that is well-informed about things happening in your area.
, Jobs as trainers, social assistance positions, jobs in libraries or other places where knowledge, information, and life experience works in your favour. Teacher aide jobs pay nearly as well as registered beginning teachers, but do not require the qualifications, effort, or hours required of qualified teachers.
 Have you worked with people of different cultures, learned some relevant computer software, or won an athletics competition recently? Have you published an article that's available on line? Dig, dig, and dig some more.
 For example, if you are you a former computer programmer with obsolete coding skills, document the analysis (or the documentation chores) that you did in prior years, and apply for Business Analyst (or, Technical Writer) positions.
 A range of skills shows flexibility. Have you learned a language, made a film and posted it on YouTube, or take a rafting trip?

, Join a church. Talk to people at the library. Go to the gym and make friends (as well as stay fit). Stay in touch with old friends and old workmates. Volunteer. Take classes (especially in your field). Let everyone you meet know that you're between jobs!

, The experience of the interview itself, may well help you later during an interview for a job you really do want. And, you never know what might eventuate at the interview.
 You may not get that job in the first five seconds, but, you surely can lose it! Clothes in a current style. Hair cut, and dyed if needed (but, carefully, and, no comb-overs or 50's page-boys!) A firm handshake. Look them in the eye and SMILE.
 Don't brag about your grandchildren, or mention how many years it's been since you graduated from high school. Emphasize what you've been doing the last 10 or 20 years, no need to go any further back. Omit the year you graduated (unless you have a recent degree).
 It only takes one "yes" for you to have a job.
 Bypass the whole job thing and start a business instead. For example, start up a company for over sixties as workers. There is a big and growing market selling to over 60s too.


Form associations with other over sixties. Remember that in the US, the over 55s have 70 percent of the wealth. So you do have a little power.

