 Make sure the shower (or bath) is warm to open pores, which will give you a closer shave. Avoid using hot water, which can dry out your skin and increase risks of razor burn. Take your usual shower, or bath, to allow the leg hair to soften.


You want to give your legs a solid 5 minutes or so taking in the hydration. So go about your routine, shampooing, conditioning, and hit your legs last. And if your shower doesn't have a nice ledge to prop your foot on, hop out of the shower and start shaving while your legs are still wet.;
, Use a loofah and an exfoliating cream to remove dead skin cells and align your hairs. This is very important; exfoliating reduces your likelihood of getting ingrown hairs. It will help your skin be clear and your leg hairs will be as exposed as possible for a close shave.








You can use an exfoliating body wash or, if you're feeling crafty, you could make your own sugar scrub! Just scrub it on, taking your time, wherever you want to shave and rinse it off.
 Squirt a nice, plump dollop into your hand and lather up on your legs as if it were shampoo. Be sure to cover every spot, including down to the ankle. Create a light layer over your leg; too thick a layer can clog your razor.









If you don't have shaving cream, you can always use soap, conditioner, shampoo, body wash, or shower gel. However, do note that shaving cream is best -- especially the moisturizing kind with aloe or jojoba.Gels are great for reducing cuts and nicks, but lotions take the crown when it comes to hydrating.The only time you should not be using shaving cream is if it comes built-in on your razor. Otherwise you have to, have to, have to use some type of protection for your skin against the blade.
 Most run-of-the-mill razors are good for about 5 times, depending on how well you take care of them. But your best shave will be when the razor is brand spanking new.









Shave up your legs, against the grain for a close shave. For a shave that has minimal risk of bumps and burn, shave with the grain. And you're best off taking short strokes -- the razor becomes more ineffective as the strokes get longer.Rinse the razor under a stream of water after each stroke. Be sure to tackle around the ankles and knees, adding extra shaving cream as necessary on these tricky spots.
 Cool water will close the pores (keep this is mind for the hair on your head, too!). Pat your legs dry, taking care not to rub them vigorously.









Take the time now to inspect your legs. If there's a place you missed, you can go back and do it now. The worst is finding a patch when you're already out and about!

, Use a thick moisturizer, such as body butter, if you have particularly dry skin. Rub in a generous amount, concentrating on the ankles and knees once again to keep them supple. This stage should also not be skipped -- you just took a blade to your legs, for Pete's sake! Give them back some moisture by rubbing on some lotion.
 While it hurts a lot more than shaving (unless you cut yourself badly, of course), the results last much, much longer. You'll have smooth legs for weeks -- none of this one or two day crap you get with shaving.If you find shaving to be a drag, waxing may be your best bet.


And good news! Many women say it gets less and less painful each time you do it. So bite the bullet now -- it'll pay off later.
Don't want to break the bank! Make your own at-home sugar wax and do it yourself!

, Technology is getting better and better and, thankfully, depilatory creams are, too. It used to be that they reeked like roadkill in a broken refrigerator and didn't really work, anyway. Now there are creams that smell like a field of daisies and can get your legs hairless down to the root. And it's much cheaper than getting a wax at a salon!


If you have sensitive skin, this probably isn't the way to go. There are harsh chemicals that eat away at your hairs -- obviously not the best route for skin that's delicate.
 They're a little expensive and a little painful, but it's a possible alternative. Electric epilators are devices that yank out the hairs from the root in groups, like a large, super-effective pair of tweezers. And because the hair is being taken out at the root, your legs are smoother for a lot longer than they would be if you just shaved.
 If none of these options trips your trigger and you've got a wad of cash you need to get rid of, why not do laser hair removal? Sometimes it's painful and usually more than one round under the beam is necessary, but imagine never having to worry about shaving again. Bliss!


Sometimes it's not always permanent -- you may have to go back for fix-ups, kind of like taking your car to the mechanic. While this method sounds almost magical, there are definite drawbacks that need to be considered before taking action.Talk to your dermatologist beforehand.

