 As steam-distilled plant extracts, essential oils are highly potent, and should be used with attention to all warnings for potential side effects and allergic reactions. Any essential oil you are working with should be diluted in a “carrier oil,” such as olive oil, to around 1–3% for use in skin care.Certain essential oils can be disruptive to medical conditions like pregnancy, high blood pressure, or epilepsy. Ask your doctor before using any herbal remedies.While many essential oils can be combined, take care not to use too many remedies at once, as the side effects and interactions may cause skin irritation or health problems., Research has confirmed that rose geranium essential oil restricts the skin’s inflammatory responses to a significant degree. Blend 6 to 15 drops of rose geranium per ounce of “carrier oil” and apply to the affected skin in a thin layer. Repeat as needed., Chamomile oil is absorbed into the deeper layers of the skin, which is significant for its use as an anti-inflammatory agent. Although the scientific evidence is not certain yet, anecdotal evidence supports the use of chamomile for treating mildly burned and irritated skin.Add a few drops of chamomile essential oil to an ounce of jojoba oil and apply a small amount to the redness on your skin.
Make a paste of chamomile by grinding dried flowers in a clean coffee grinder or with a mortar and pestle. Add water and some whole oats until you’ve reached a paste-like consistency. Apply to the areas of redness and let rest for 15 minutes. Rinse off gently with cool water. Repeat as needed., Lavender oil has antiseptic and antifungal properties, and it improves healing for minor burns and sunburns because it promotes scar tissue formation.


A combination of lavender oil and chamomile is often used to treat eczema, another skin condition that results in inflammation and redness.Never ingest lavender oil, as it may cause serious health complications., Calendula has antioxidant properties and is often used to reduce pain and swelling, as well as the overall appearance of skin. Dilute calendula oil in a “carrier oil” or mix with a few drops into a fragrance-free cream or ointment and apply to the affected area.Don’t confuse calendula with ornamental marigolds of the Tagetes genus, which are commonly grown in vegetable gardens.
 Aloe vera, a gel that comes from the aloe vera leaf, has been used for thousands of years as a topical pain-reliever and ointment. Studies show that application of pure aloe vera gel can reduce inflammation and pain of burns and minor abrasions. Apply a small amount of the gel to redness and let it absorb into your skin.Many after-sun lotions contain aloe vera, but be sure to choose one with close to 100% aloe vera and no alcohol products.

