


The first, and best, is before the shot is taken.






The second, is during the process of the shot being taken.






Finally, if the shot cannot be prevented or stopped in progress, it must be saved after it has been taken. This is the least favorable option.





;
, The keeper should also consider the nature and conditions of the game prior to the breakaway. Who's ahead? By what margin? How much time is remaining? What are the field conditions? Who has the momentum? How skilled is the attacker with the ball? Is there a defender closing in?

, The keeper can get to the ball before the shot is taken in this case. The save that is made during the shot is a smother save. The keeper smothers the ball at the shooter's feet before the shooter can get off the shot. The final type of save requires knowing which way to dive and reloading quickly.
 The first is to look for visual cues that the attacker is providing and mirror them. If the attacker is coming at speed then the goalkeeper must respond at speed. Likewise, if the opponent is attacking with patience, then the goalkeeper should respond with patient defense. Often when patient, the ball will find its way to the keeper, because the attacker will run out of time before making a good decision.
 This can be practiced with a logical progression of intensity. The first phase of training should start with no pressure. Then the second phase should contain some, but not all, of the competition to build the keepers confidence and ensure they are using the proper technique to protect themselves, the ball, and covering the best angle. The final phase should be as close to match conditions as possible.
 Driving the hands low and through the ball, catching the ball out in front of the body, arms crooked, and arms parallel will create the barrier to protect the face behind. The mid section is protected by the top leg and knee, which is also used for momentum during the dive and to reload to a standing position. Keepers that are not confident in breakaways or the grass cutter technique will often slide in leading with their knees or feet. Not only does this expose a significant amount of the goal, reduce the likely hood of controlling the ball, it also exposes the face and often results in harsh collisions. As a keeper takes the power step to lower the body and hands during a breakaway save they are driving to and through the ball with their body weight giving the keeper the advantage in force in the event of a collision.
 React don’t anticipate. Stay up as long as possible. Force the attacker to make a good shot. The ball doesn’t lie!

