 It doesn’t hurt to restart your device to rule out other issues.iOS: Press and hold the side button, then drag the on-screen slider to the “Off” position. Press the button once more to turn the device back on.
Android: Press and hold the side button and then tap “Power Off” on the screen. Press and hold the button again to turn the device back on.;
, Tap the Tinder icon on your home screen to try again.
 Tinder may crash because it’s running out of memory due to too many apps open at once. To see a list of open apps:


iOS: Double-click the Home button to see all the running apps.
Android: Tap the square button at the bottom right corner to show all open apps.
 Closing some of the apps you’re not using can help free up memory and speed up your device.


In iOS, swipe up on each app to close it.
Android users can swipe apps to the right.
 If you’re still running into issues, keep troubleshooting.
 Tinder recommends force-closing the application in the event of crashing issues.Start by opening your device’s application manager:


iOS: Double-click the Home button to view all open apps.
Android: Launch the Settings app and select “Apps” from the menu.
 This is slightly different depending on operating system:


iOS: Swipe up on Tinder.
Android: Tap “Tinder” to open its App Info, then tap “Force Stop.” If prompted to confirm, tap “OK.” Don’t close this screen—you have one more step to complete here.
 You can skip this step if you’re using iOS. Deleting the Android app data could help if there’s data corruption. You’ll have to log in again after you do this.


Tap “Storage” on the “App Info” screen.
Tap “Clear Data” and then “OK” to confirm.
 If you’re using an Android and deleted the App data, log back in to Tinder when prompted. Try using Tinder to see if the problem is resolved. If not, keep troubleshooting.
 Tinder recommends that you use always use the latest version of the software on your device.When Tinder updates the app, they often squash the bugs that make it misbehave with other apps. Start by opening your device’s app store.
 Type “Tinder” into the search field and then select it from the search results.
 If the app needs an update, you’ll see a button that says “Update.” If you already have the latest version, the button will say “Open.”

, If the button says “Update,” tap it. Your device will download and install the update.
 Hopefully your issues are resolved now, but if not, keep troubleshooting with this method., If other fixes have not corrected your issue, the next step is to uninstall and reinstall Tinder.The process is slightly different across devices:


iOS: Tap and hold the Tinder icon until it shakes, then tap the “X” button that appears on it.
Android: Tap and hold the Tinder icon in the app drawer, and then drag it to the “Uninstall” link at the top of the screen.
 Now you’ll prepare to reinstall the app.
 Type “Tinder” into the search field, then select the app from the search results.
 Tap “Get” or “Install” to begin the installation.
 Once the app has finished installing, tap its icon on your home screen.
 You’ll need to reconnect Tinder to your Facebook account after installing. Tap “Log In with Facebook, and sign in with your username and password. Tap “OK” to re-authorize Tinder, if prompted.
 Swipe through members and view their profiles. See if the app stalls or crashes. Since it’s newly installed, it should be working fine.


If you are still running into issues after completing these troubleshooting steps, the issue is either with your hardware or your phone’s operating system.For tips on updating your device’s operating system, see How to Update iOS or How to Update an Android.
 If you’re using an Android device and have not had success with other methods, you could try to roll back to an older version of Tinder. Doing this requires changing your Android settings to allow the installation of apps from sources other than the Play Store.


It’s always recommended to use the latest version of any app—only use this method as a temporary workaround until a new update is released.
 If you’re using an older version of Android and don’t see “Security,” select “Applications” instead., You’ll see a pop-up that warns you of the dangers of installing apps from unauthorized sources. Read this message carefully, then tap “OK” to agree.
 Tap and hold the Tinder icon in the app drawer, and then drag it to the “Uninstall” link at the top of the screen.
 Uptodown is a website that allows you to download older versions of apps. When you download an app from Uptodown, it will be a file ending with “.apk.”

, You’ll see this button just below the green “Download” button. Clicking this button will bring you to a list of earlier versions of Tinder to download in the .apk format., The versions are listed in order, with the newest release at the top of the list. If Tinder only started crashing after the most recent update, try the second-newest version.


If your browser prompts you to tap “OK” to confirm the download, go ahead and do so.
 Once the download is complete, you’ll see a file called something like “tinder-6-0-0.apk” in the Downloads folder., Follow the prompts to install Tinder on your device.
 Once the installation is complete, the Tinder icon will appear in your app drawer. Tap it to launch Tinder, and then try to use it as normal. If the app was crashing because of an update, you can use this version until the issue is resolved.


You can uninstall this version of Tinder at any time just like you uninstall other apps.

