 The ones who tease you are generally nothing to worry about, because they are often the ones who feel comfortable around you and care about you a great deal. At times you may become irritated at them because you feel they are getting on your back, but is important not to lash out at them. If you must make it known that they are getting on your nerves, make sure to do so so that they understand what you are doing is important to you and without becoming defensive. Ways in which to convey this might include:


Saying, "I know that you are teasing me, but it is making me uncomfortable. Could you please stop, at least for a while? Having this diet (or lifestyle) is as important to me as (include something that they really like or care about) is to you, and I would appreciate it if you respected that as I try to respect (their thing)."
Letting it slide for the time being. This is more effective and appropriate if you don't see each other often.;
, Close family members, close friends, and intimate partners may become concerned that you will become less healthy by adopting a vegan or vegetarian diet, or that it will somehow impact your mood in a negative way. It is up to you to make sure you are well informed enough to keep yourself well-nourished, sufficiently fed so as not to get angry or spooky, and explain the basic reasons for what you are doing. Also remember that although you may have a new passion for food, your loved ones will most likely not and may be frightened, bored, or put off by constant talk of what you intend to put in your stomach.


Nutritional information: Track how much protein you're getting. Often there are foods that must be combined in order for the amino acids to be absorbed as protein (for example, rice, beans, and corn). Also, if you are a woman, you must ensure that you have sufficient iron intake.
Make sure you know the studies that support a vegan lifestyle, not just testimonials or the articles interpreting or citing the studies. Also know the ones that don't support it.
You may have to take supplements, and you may have to backtrack to eating as a vegetarian or an omnivore. Do not be intimidated by the ones who say, "See, I told you so," but don't attack them either.
 Unless the loved ones are willing to try a vegan or vegetarian lifestyle, it will be rude and counterproductive (health goes down due to stress) to force them to eat vegan or vegetarian with you at every meal. Find ways to live comfortably with each other.


You cook a vegetarian dinner. Once you're served, they can add meat to it.
They eat meat at work during lunch, and eat vegan or vegetarian meals at home sometimes.
During meals, one meat dish is prepared, along with some vegetarian dishes, and people can choose what to put on their plates.

