 You can find professional leather cleaners at your local hardware store or even at your shoe cobbler’s. Always use cleaner made specifically for leather on your leather item.You will need to use a dry clean cloth to wipe the leather with the cleaner. Most cleaners can help to remove odors, preserve the color and sheen of the leather, and protect the leather from cracking.
 You should always condition leather items after you clean them. Conditioning the leather will help to remove any odors and maintain the color and sheen of the leather. There are several options for conditioning your leather:High quality linseed oil: This is a very effective natural oil for conditioning your leather clothing and other leather items. Avoid using cheap linseed oil, as it will not be very effective. Use a cloth to massage the linseed oil into the leather so the oil is absorbed by the leather.
Shoe polish: The oldest method for conditioning leather is also one of the best. Use liquid shoe polish on leather shoes, leather jackets, and leather purses. You can also use canned shoe polish for leather boots and shoes. If you’re cleaning natural leather, buy shoe polish that contains carnauba wax and natural ingredients.
Professional leather conditioner: This product can be bought at your local household supply store. Most leather conditioners come as a spray. You spray the conditioner on the surface of the leather and the chemical seeps into the pores of the leather. It then removes odors and helps to bring out the sheen of the leather.
Avoid using saddle soap on your leather item. It will require a lot of rinsing and may give the leather a streaky look or a sticky surface., If the odor resists home remedies or an over the counter leather cleaner, it may be time to consider bringing the item to a shoe cobbler to see about getting it professionally cleaned and conditioned. Depending on the leather item and the severity of the odor, you may be able to get the odor removed from the leather for a small fee.

