 While this may sound weird, it is actually a really effective way to coat your roast in seasoning. Make sure the bag you use is sealable. Once your meat is in the bag, add two tablespoons of flour, one teaspoon kosher salt (or regular salt), one-half teaspoon of black pepper, and two teaspoons of garlic powder. Seal the bag and shake well until the meat is thoroughly coated in the seasoning.


If you are following a specific roast recipe, such as wikiHow’s recipe for cranberry pork roast, you should follow the seasoning directions listed in the recipe.
 In order to do this, place a tablespoon of olive oil in a large skillet. Bring it to a high heat, place the meat in the skillet and simply sear all sides of the meat so that they turn a golden brown color. Browning meat adds flavor to the roast.
 Slow cooker are great because they are the epitome of the ‘one-pot meal’. Simply through in your meat and vegetables and your dinner will cook itself. Place the vegetables in the cooker before the meat so that they absorb some of the meat’s delicious flavors. Traditional slower cooker roast is made with carrots, potatoes, and onions but you can really cook whatever vegetables you want. Get creative! Just make sure to cut up whatever veggies you use into small chunks so that they cook more thoroughly.


You can also cover the meat with the vegetables, or surround the meat with the veggies--it really is up to whatever you prefer.
 Many people choose to use a half cup of beef broth to slow cook their roasts in, as it adds to the natural flavor of the roast. Others use wine, cream of mushroom soup, water, or a variety of other ingredients like Worcestershire or soy sauce.
 The secret to a roast is cooking slowly, letting it absorb as much juice as possible. Use your cooker’s low setting and let it do the rest of the work. Beef roasts should generally be left in the slow cooker for 8 to 10 hours, while pork roasts will generally be done after 6 or 7 hours., It should be tender and easy to cut. If you find that your roast isn’t as moist as you want it to be when the cooking time is up, take it out of the cooker, cut it into smaller pieces, and return it to the cooker to absorb some more of the moisture. When it is done, slice it up and serve alongside the vegetables. Enjoy!

