 Many features of the process are distinctive to each county. This includes the quantity of the fee, types of payment accepted, and hours in which the application can be filed. You should contact the office to determine the answer to these questions and ask if there is anything else you should know. A list of locations is available here.


A Missouri license can be used for ceremonies throughout the state. Visit whichever office is most convenient for you.;
, Any prior marriage should have been dissolved at least 30 days prior to the application. You cannot be the first cousin of your intended spouse or a closer blood relation. The legal age to wed in Missouri is 18, but special procedures can be followed to marry at a younger age.


If you are under 18 years of age, you can marry with the consent of one parent. The parent will need to come with the you to the office of the Recorder of Deeds to verify consent.
If you are under 15 years old you will only be able to marry if you obtain an order from a circuit court.
 You will need a valid form of identification to prove your birth date. You may need to present your Social Security card, but knowing the number should be sufficient.To verify your identity the office will require one of the following: driver’s license, state ID, U.S. Passport, foreign passport, or military ID., Missouri does not allow proxy applications; both parties must be present. A parent or legal guardian must be present if you are 16 or 17 years of age.


If you have previously been married, you will need to wait at least 30 days from when the marriage ended before applying for a new license., The fee will vary depending upon county. If you have been unable to verify the fee or payment methods, bring at least $50 in cash.Some cities, including St. Louis, will take other forms of payment but charge an extra fee for anything other than a cash transaction.Applicants will be expected to provide current and former names, age, date of birth, place of birth, race, education level, current address, number of marriages, and the way as well as date that previous marriages were dissolved. You will be asked to swear to the accuracy of these facts.Have the name and phone number of the officiant on hand.
If you intend to change your name, figure out what you would like for it to be before arriving at the office of the Recorder of Deeds. You will need to take the marriage certificate to the DMV to prove the name change and make it legally binding., Unlike many states, Missouri is able to give you a license immediately upon completion of the application. However, if you don’t intend to use it immediately, you can also pick it up later, as much as six months after the completion of the application. This way you can apply early, without worrying about the license expiring before the date of the wedding., The license will expire within 30 days if a ceremony is not performed. Have the official performing the ceremony sign and return the marriage license to the recorder of deeds office within 15 days.


The officiant at the wedding can be a judge or a religious official.