 Routines can often help calm your child during a stressful situation because they will know exactly what to expect. If your child gets anxious about being left at pre-school, for example, you could ensure that each day you walk with them to their classroom, greet the teachers together, and then give a big hug before leaving. This way they will get used to the routine and it can help reduce stress and anxiety.You can also make after school routines regarding homework and bedtime routines to help alleviate the stress associated with those activities.
 If your child faces their fear then you should reward this behaviour with a hug and encouraging words. You may even want to give them a sticker or treat to help encourage brave behaviour. This will help to reinforce their actions and will hopefully lead to more brave behaviour in the future.For example, if your child gets anxiety about tests and they have a test at school you may want to give them a treat at the end of the day. This will reward them for taking the test, not the results of the test.
 If you know that a stressful event is coming up in your child’s life it is a good idea to talk with them and prepare them for the event. This can help to reduce anxiety because they will fully understand what to expect. For example, if your family is relocating to a new town this can be very stressful for a child. Make sure that you talk to your child about the move and fully explain why it is happening. You can also shift the focus to the positive aspects of the move and the new town., It is important that your child has significant uncompetitive play time. Unfortunately even activities that are supposed to be fun, like sports, can become overly competitive and add stress and anxiety to children. Make sure that your child has scheduled play time each day that is strictly about having fun. Some activities include.Arts and crafts.
Tea party.
Put on a play.
Being silly.
Reading.
Play with toys.
 If your child is overtired they may become more anxious. Introduce a strict bedtime and stick with it. You should also have a 20 to 30 minute bedtime routine that is performed daily. This will help your child shift from the activities of the day to a relaxed state for sleeping.


For example, you could give them a bath, brush their teeth, and then read a story before bed each night.
 Sometimes teaching your child a few simple relaxation techniques can help reduce anxiety levels. For example, instruct them to take deep breaths when they are feeling anxious as a way to calm down.Meditation can also help. Tell your child to visualize themselves on a beach and to concentrate on feeling the warmth and hearing the waves. They can do this on their own as a way to reduce anxiety when they feel it come on.

