 Go down to your local supermarket bakery and request a regular, unfrosted cake with no decorations or embellishments. From there, you can ice the cake with a specific person, theme or event in mind. Buying a premade base for your cake can save you the time and headache of baking it yourself, but will still allow you to have a hand in creating the finished product.If you don’t see any plain cakes on display, ask a bakery assistant if they have one you can buy.
Buying a unfrosted cake takes the most involved step, baking, out of the equation, leaving you to focus on decorating.;
, Another option is to select a cake that’s already been baked and topped with a coating of icing, but is free of any other decorative elements. That way, all you have to do is add a few extra components and you’re good to go. Just choose your preferred flavor and the type and color of the icing and get busy.Think of this as a blank canvas to incorporate whatever artistic flourishes you can dream up.
 When you’re really in a crunch for time, run to the store and grab a packaged cake as-is. Pick out one that matches the image you have in mind for the finished cake as closely as possible. Then it will just be a matter of making minor tweaks to take it from cookie-cutter to custom.Choose a cake with a theme befitting the occasion, or have the decorator write out a specific message for you.
Less is more if you plan to add your own accents later. Try not to remove existing decorations from premade cakes, or your could end up with a mess on your hands.
 Once you get the cake home, you can use simple frosting techniques to enhance its basic appearance. Pipe on words, designs or images of your choosing. Your cake might feature anything from a personalized birthday message to a colorful array of iced flowers and other embellishments.Fill a piping bag with icing, snip off the tip and use a steady hand and flowing cursive script to spell out names and messages.
To make your cake stand out, include a name, symbol or inside joke that has special significance.
Save some extra time by using premade icing as well.
 These most often take the form of little cardboard or plastic props that are ready to stick right into the top of your cake. You could also make your own out of party supplies or other materials that you have lying around your house, like party hats or noisemakers. Almost anything can be used as an improvised cake topper. You’re only limited by the scope of your imagination.For a simple yet celebratory display, hang a miniature banner between two thin wooden dowels, or blow up tiny balloons and tie them onto skewers with a little ribbon.Candles shaped like numbers and letters can be bought for cheap and are usually a big hit with partygoers. Use them to spell out slogans that are appropriate for the occasion.
 Press small toys or dolls onto the top of the cake to depict a scene. Ice and decorate the rest of the cake to match what’s going on in the tableau you’ve set up. This can give your cake a one-of-a-kind visual appeal, since you can put the dolls in any number of poses and configurations that you can think up.Fit zoo figurines onto the ends of skewers as a tribute to the animal lover in your life.Keep up with the figurines you use to make sure you don’t lose them, especially if they’re small or feature loose pieces. Don’t forget to remove the figurines before slicing and serving the cake.
 If you’d prefer to go with a tasteful, minimalistic design, purchase some dried edible flowers and sprinkle them around the top and sides of a plain frosted cake. The bright colors and subtle textures of the petals and blooms will do all of the decorative legwork. With only a few minutes of preparation, your cake will have all the stunning elegance of a fresh-cut bouquet.Flowers like lavender, hibiscus and daylilies are all edible and look wonderful when added to a plain or frosted cake.
Choose mild flowers that won’t overpower the flavor of the cake.
 The only thing better than a delicious cake is cake and candy together. Polka dot your cake with M&Ms, Smarties or another colorful treat, or seat some gummy bears in a ring around the top. Finding clever uses for candy can lend your cake more color, more sweetness and more playful imagination without the need for irritating cake decorating techniques. What’s not to love?Press fun-sized candy bars onto the outer edge of the cake, or crumble them up and spread them over the top.
Stick a lollipop into each piece as an added bonus for when the cake is all gone.
 One particularly crafty idea is to cut colored licorice twists into slices, then pull off small strips and combine them together to make candy flowers with a neat pop art look. You can use these flowers to adorn the area around the base of the cake. After you add a greeting or a bright frosted sun, you’ll have a festive confection perfect for celebrating spring and summertime events.Load up on packs of multicolored licorice. Use green sticks to make the stems, and slice yellow, orange, red or blue sticks to serve as the blossoms.
Slice the licorice thin so that it doesn’t make each bite of cake too gummy.
 Piping on details by hand eats up time, requires a steady touch and can easily turn into a disaster if you make a mistake. Take the guesswork out of it by arranging whipped meringue cookies around the top of the cake. Not only are they the spitting image of frosting, they’ll provide a delicate crunch that will make the texture of the cake more interesting.Meringue cookies typically come in pleasant pastel colors, making them perfect for birthdays, Easter celebrations, baby showers and springtime events.
 Those who are dedicated to coming up with a more elaborate fix can deconstruct the cake to its individual layers and spread on a tasty filling, such as fluffy ganache, peanut butter or fresh fruit and whipped cream. By doing this, you’ll be enhancing the flavor of the cake as well as the appearance. Layered cakes are rich, sophisticated and guaranteed to make an impression.Use fillings like preserves, custard or apple butter for a surprising twist on the classic layer cake.
Be sure to frost back over the outside of the cake after you reassemble it.

