 It doesn't have to be microscopic, just slender enough to look elegant. Use a hook size that is comfortable for your yarn or string.
, Chain one as a turning chain (first row)., Don't forget the turning chain between rows. You should now have a small square of crochet, five stitches wide by five rows high., Repeat this chain one and double crochet five more times, for a total of six sets of (ch1, dc) into the same center stitch. This leaves you with a semicircular shape. Slip stitch into the corner of the original square., Work into the center of the next side of the square. Since you are now working into the side of your work, there won't be a specific stitch. Just pick a spot in the middle and work into it.,, Pull gently on the edges until it's fairly flat and even., One easy border is a picot stitch.







Work this stitch by doing a single crochet (sc).






Chain three.






Single crochet again back into the same spot. Slip stitch or single crochet around the edge to the next place where you want a picot.






 Picots.

Work the picots in locations so that they complement the heart shape and so that they are in about the same place on both sides.
, You can fold a piece of scrap paper in half (this is the side of a junk mail envelope) to create a pattern. Size them to your crocheted heart., It will help if this heart is out of fairly stiff paper or cardstock.,, Use a push pin to poke holes where you will sew the heart to the paper. If you locate them evenly, it can help to flatten the piece and make it symmetrical., Use the same thread as you used to make the heart so the stitches are concealed.





 Leave an open space in the center.

Leave an open space in the center on the back, to give yourself a place for the glue.
Stitching at the tips of the picots will help the heart lie flat.
 Mark the locations of the points, top and bottom, lightly in pencil., You can letter on the front or the inside, or both.

If calligraphy is not your strong point, you could also use a computer printer or stamps to letter the card. Or, leave the front blank and write in your own handwriting inside.




 A fountain pen.

This is a great opportunity to use a calligraphy pen, fancy fountain pen, dip pen, brush, or other artistic tool.




 Practice on scratch paper.

Practice the lettering on a piece of scratch paper if you need to. Get the size and spacing about right for the card. It's especially important to practice if you're writing with anything you don't often use.
Draw guidelines lightly in pencil for the letters. You can even trace the letters lightly in pencil to help you get the spacing right.
Write the letters. This is a handmade card, so don't be afraid to go for a handmade look.

Wait for the ink or paint to dry thoroughly, then erase the guidelines. Repeat for the lettering on the inside.
 Align it carefully on the card and smooth it down., Score it and fold it in half.,,,

The tab makes it pop up a bit. If you'd rather it didn't, glue the two sides of the tab together or use a single thickness of cardboard for the tab. The tab helps compensate for the thickness of the string you used to sew on the heart.
,