 Think about all the life on Earth. How in the great wide galaxy did something like this come to happen? No matter if you believe in the Big Man in White, Jesus, or even Extraterrestrial Pancakes there is something special here. Maybe you should see it all, or maybe you should help someone else see what you do. It's all in your perspective!;
, So Don't! If you don't feel important or you feel inadequate, then you must make a change to live differently. Maybe you should just try something new, call up some old acquaintances, make some friends, or even start a garage band. Branch out and try something that isn't just based on your own efforts. Friends can always have an impact on each other.
 You're not alone. You have something that you can give that can change someones life. Sometimes our time is the most valuable thing we can give to each other.
 Many people find purpose by believing in a higher power. Religion is a great way to change your perspective and even if you don't believe you can always meet some new people.
 Certainly if you had a map you could circle where you're standing, but maybe you should look for something that drives you.
 We don't live in a fly or die society. There is plenty of room to sight see and blaze a different trail. The most important person to be important to is yourself.
 But little do they know, the receiver of your kind actions is probably very thankful. Like if you offered your unfinished bagel to someone in a restaurant, and paid no mind to it. They could have been having financial difficulties, and weren't able to afford food the day of their job application. Your kindness could have put them in a good mood, and allowed them to get the job. But if you weren't alive, they probably would've failed to get the job, and would still be in difficult times now. You perform countless kind actions everyday without even knowing, and your actions greatly impact others.
 In your mind, you may be just another face in the crowd. Another pair of hands, another imperfect human. But this is wrong. Your attitude defines everything about you, and all attitudes are contagious. Consider changing attitudes if yours isn't where it should be.


Have a good attitude. If you simply smile to everyone you see, they are much more likely to have a good day, and so are you. The simple act of smiling makes you happy, and your mood will spread to others.
Don't spread your bad attitudes. When you're having a bad day, and just can't seem to snap out of your funk, don't let others know. Try your hardest to show others a smile throughout your day. This will make them happier, and after smiling to so many people, you'll probably be happy too. If you frown at everyone you see, your vibe will rub off on them, and they'll all have bad days too.
 Understand that if you really try, you can accomplish anything you'd like to do. If you truly believe in something enough, and continually make an effort to stand up for your beliefs, you will make a difference in the world. Almost all famous people you've heard of have made huge differences in the world, most for the better. And many people you haven't heard of have made differences that affect your life to this day. Such as Rosalind Franklin. If it weren't for this unknown woman, we wouldn't know what DNA looks like. If she decided that she didn't make a difference in the world, we still probably wouldn't know.

