 No one should go into the app business without seriously considering the fact that they need to set up an online presence for their apps where they can let their audience know what their app(s) and what it is all about.


With your own webpage you are able to entice or grab your visitors, capture emails of potential customers who may be interested in your new apps when you release them etc. A good tool for this is to use WordPress. WordPress has a lot of tools, plugins and themes that will help you to make that eye-catching site for your apps;
, A video is an effective way of telling a story, of sharing your thoughts, or conveying your message. By making a video, your audience will be enticed to learn more about your app, and eventually be loyal users. Find a site that will allow you to promote your videos. Don’t forget to add your video to YouTube and share it on social media sites.
 App Review sites are great promotional methods for your apps and will no doubt get you a lot of traffic. Once you get a mention from these blogs, it will help generate positive publicity for your app.
 Press release is a great way of getting publicity for your app(s). Check out free press release sites at avangate.com for list of sites you can submit your app to for free

, Find blogs that write about mobile, apps, shopping etc. basically blogs that post that will be able to get your app notice and is somewhat similar to your app. For example if your app is about shopping then find shopping blogs and reach out to the admin of the blog. Bloggers are very influential and most have a large following.
 More and more people are using podcast as they enjoy the benefits that it carries. Therefore a good way to get your app notice is to create a podcast about your app and try to reach out to your market and publish it on iTunes or on your own website.
 Awards will get your app lots of publicity, if you are lucky.
 If you are releasing a paid app, make it free at launch and then try to build some publicity around this. A lot of people will rush to download your app before it becomes paid.
 Millions of people are on social media sites on a daily basis, therefore create a Facebook page about your app or app business and then try to get persons to like your page. It is very important that after you create your page that you post to it regularly. Post things that your reader might be interested in, eg post a review about the new iPhone 6, etc

, Many app review sites offer social media promotion where they will talk about your app on their Facebook and twitter page. This will generate a lot of interest about your app

, This is one proven method that many app developers don’t think about much. AppStore Optimization (ASO) looks at finding the right keywords, app icon and screenshots, amongst other things so that your app will be easy to find on the appstore.

