 Stretching is a good way to strengthen your forearm muscles and release any pain or stress. A constant stretching and strengthening routine can help to alleviate forearm Tendinitis.Your extensor muscles help you extend your wrist and are important for healthy forearm muscles.


Sit in a chair and rest your elbow on a flat table or surface.
Straighten your arm out fully. Your wrist should extend beyond the edge of the table.
Push the palm of your hand down with your opposite hand.
You should feel a stretch across the top of your forearm and bent hand. Hold the stretch for 15 seconds and repeat it two to three times on each arm.
You can also do this stretch while standing, or while doing a light jog on a treadmill or in place., These are the muscles that help you flex the wrist.


Sit in a chair with your elbow resting on a table or flat surface.
Straighten the arm out fully with your palm facing up.
Your wrist should extend beyond the edge of the table.
Push your palm downward with your opposite hand to stretch the forearm flexors. Hold the stretch for 15 seconds and repeat it two to three times on each arm.
You can also do this stretch while standing, or while doing a light jog on a treadmill or in place., Always do stretching exercises first, before you do any strengthening exercises. Use a .5 lb or 1lb weight to do these exercises. In a pinch, you can also use a soup can or a light weight hammer.


Sit in a chair with your forearm resting on a flat table or surface.
Your wrist should extend past the edge of the table.
Extend your forearm fully with your palm facing downwards.
Grasping a weight in your hand, extend your wrist upward.
Hold this position for two seconds and then release slowly. Repeat the exercise 30 to 50 times, twice a day. However, if you feel any pain while doing these exercises, lessen the amount of times you do them in a day.
 Use a .5lb or 1lb weight to do this exercise.


Sit in a chair with your forearm resting on a flat table or surface.
Your wrist should extend beyond the edge of the table.
Extend your arm fully with your palm facing up.
Grasping the weight in your hand, flex your wrist upwards.
Hold this position for two seconds, then slowly release. Repeat the exercise 30 to 50 times, twice a day. However, if you feel any pain while doing these exercises, lessen the amount of times you do them in a day.
 These are the muscles that help you move your wrist from side to side. Use a .5lb or 1b weight for this exercise.


Hold the weight in your hand with the thumb facing up.
Move your wrist up and down, much like hammering a nail.
All the motion should occur at your wrist joint, not at the elbow or shoulder joint. Repeat the exercise 30 to 50 times, twice a day. Lessen the number of reps if you feel any pain.
 These are the muscles that allow you to turn your hand over.


Hold a .5 lb or 1 lb weight in your hand with your thumb pointing up.
Turn your wrist inward as far as possible and hold for two seconds.
Turn your wrist outward as far as possible and hold for two seconds.
Repeat up to 50 repetitions. Lessen the number of reps if you feel any pain.

