 Gently massaging your head stimulates blood flow to the scalp, encouraging hair to grow faster. You can do this while shampooing your hair in the shower, or on dry hair before going to bed at night. Brushing your hair and scalp with a firm-bristled brush can also provide the same effect.


To perform the massage, start making small circles with your fingertips, working from your hairline along the arteries in the front, side, and back of the head. Do not press with your fingernails. Work your way towards the top the head, as if drawing a circle.
Aim to massage your scalp for just ten minutes a day, five in your morning shower and five before bed at night. Don't give up after a couple of days, try to make it a part of your daily routine.
 Aside from being bad for your health in general, smoking cigarettes and drinking alcohol and caffeinated drinks can have a detrimental effect on hair growth.


Smoking reduces blood flow to the scalp, causing hair to turn brittle and dull looking. The smoke from cigarettes can also turn graying hair an unwanted yellow hue, while imparting hair with an unpleasant odor.Alcohol can prevent the liver and colon from properly absorbing the nutrients you take in from food. Without certain essential nutrients, like A and B vitamins, hair becomes dull, weak, and may even begin to shed.
Caffeine is dehydrating, and when your body is dehydrated it has a negative impact on the health of skin and hair. If you need your morning coffee to get going everyday, make sure to counteract its dehydrating effects by drinking lots of water.
 Intense physical or emotional stress can cause hair growth to slow or shut down completely. In severe cases, stress can even cause hair loss. As a result, it is important to avoid stress and anxiety for the sake of your hair as well as your overall physical and emotional health.Stress affects hair growth by weakening your immune system and hindering your body's ability to produce healthy hair, skin and nails. When you are stressed, your body uses up any available energy and nutrients for essential functions like walking and talking, leaving none left over for things like healthy hair.
To minimize stress levels, make sure you are getting plenty of sleep, exercising frequently and eating healthily.
 If you want long hair for a particular event or occasion, you may want to consider getting hair extensions, especially if the event is coming up soon. Hair can take a long time to grow, so hair extensions are a good option if you want long hair but haven't got the time or patience to wait.


Hair extensions can be bonded to your own hair by a hair care professional, or you can purchase clip-in extensions that you can easily snap on or off yourself.
If you're worried about looking tacky, don't fret. Hair extensions can be extremely natural looking if you invest in a high quality set made from 100% human hair. These can be a little on the pricey side, however.
 There is no sure-fire way to make your hair grow. You cannot force your hair to grow any faster than its natural rate, all you can do is take good care of it and provide it with the optimal conditions. Except in rare circumstances, hair will grow a maximum of 6–8 inches (15.2–20.3 cm) a year when growing at its optimal rate.


For example, if your have hair that is currently chin length and want it to be below your shoulders, take a ruler and measure the space between where your hair is currently and where you want it to be. If you need 6 more inches to reach below your shoulders, plan on it taking 10-12 months for your hair to grow to your goal length.
The natural growth rate of your hair depends mainly on genetics, which is why everyone's growth rate is different. Growing your hair involves a personal commitment to taking very good care of your hair and a great deal of patience.
 In some cases, slow hair growth or hair loss can be due to an underlying medical condition or prolonged illness, certain prescription medications, substance abuse disorders, eating disorders, genetic or family history, or other serious medical situations. If you think any of these might be the problem, consult a physician immediately.


In many cases, resolving an underlying medical condition can help hair growth return to normal or speed up.
If an underlying medical condition is the problem, certain hair-growth treatments and over-the-counter or prescription medications are available. Always consult your doctor before pursuing any of these options.