 Because EDS is relatively rare, many doctors have little experience with it. Ask your general practitioner if he or she can refer you to a specialist who understands the disease well and is up on the latest treatments.You may need to travel to see a specialist, due to the rareness of this disease.
If there is not a doctor in your area experienced in treating EDS, at a minimum, seek a specialist in Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. Such a person can help you develop a rehabilitation plan to help with joint pain.Get children into physiotherapy. If your child has EDS, Classical Type, make take him or her to see a physiotherapist. This will be important for helping his or her muscles and motor skills develop as well as possible., If you or someone you care for has Classical EDS and is wounded, treat this seriously. Deep stitches will often be necessary and should be applied as soon as possible.Dermal (skin) wounds need to be closed up without stretching the skin to avoid scarringStitches must typically be left in for twice as long as would be typical with an ordinary patient.
Seek medical care for any wound in which the edges of the cut are separated from tissue underneath, or which will not stop bleeding. Likewise, see a doctor immediately about any dislocation or other injury of a joint.
 People with EDS need to see a doctor regularly to evaluate their condition. A doctor familiar with this condition can help make realistic assessments and offer advice for preventative care.


Starting from childhood, people with Classical EDS should receive cardiac echos on a regular basis.EDS, Classical Type can result in floppy heart valves, which can obstruct the passage of blood to and from the heart. This can be detected by cardiac echos.
Be especially vigilant during pregnancy. The weaknesses in body tissue that stem from Classical EDS can lead to cervical problems which may result in risks for both the mother and her child.Close monitoring of mothers with EDS is also recommended during the immediate postpartum period.
 Most people with EDS deal with ongoing pain, which can make life difficult. Doctors often recommend seeing a psychologist, psychiatrist, or other counselor to help patients learn to deal with the pain and the frustration caused by the lifestyle limitations EDS creates.People suffering from EDS often develop sleep disorders and poor mental health, which a qualified counselor can help you deal with.
Genetic counseling is also a good idea. The purpose of this counseling is to help patients understand the condition they are suffering from, how it is passed on, and the risk of passing it on to children they might have.Find other people with EDS to form a support group. You can even join an online support group.

