 Instead of asking for a hard copy, your professor may require you to submit the assignment online, allowing you to create your own “technical difficulty.” Instead of sending a functioning word document, you can send your professor a corrupted file. To start this process, open a new word document.


Professors and teachers are aware of this common trick. If you get caught, you may get a zero on the assignment and/or sent to the school's administrators. Before you consider this method, explore all of your other options.
 Since your professor won’t be able to read the document, what you type is irrelevant. In order to corrupt the document, however, it has to have text—it can’t be blank.


You can copy and paste text from the internet, your rough draft, or even use an old paper.
 Once the filler text is in place, bring up the “Save As” dialog box with the shortcut ⌘ Command+S for Mac or Ctrl+S for Windows.


Name the document as your professor requested.
Save the file to your desktop.
Click Save.
 The website ] corrupts files of all types for free. This service is available to Windows and Mac users. While Windows users may corrupt their files manually, Mac users do not have this option and therefore must use an online service. Windows users may find that the online service saves them time.


Navigate to ].
Scroll down to “Select the file to corrupt” and select one of the following options: “From Your Device”, “From Dropbox”, or “From Google Drive”. If you saved the document on your desktop, click “From Your Device”.
Locate the file and click [[button|Select}} or Open.
Click Corrupt File. Once corrupted you will receive the following message: “Your file was dutifully corrupted”.
Click on the download button (black, downward pointing arrow).
Rename the document (if desired), change the location (if desired), and click Save., Windows users may manually corrupt the file by alternating the document in Notepad. To accomplish this:


Right-click on the document’s icon, hover over “Open with” and select “Notepad”. A Notepad file will open. In addition to the filler text, you will see the document’s code (a jumble of letters, numbers, punctuation marks etc.).
Delete a portion of the code. Do not delete it all!
Press Ctrl+S and click Save., Double click on the icon. If the document was successfully corrupted, the following will appear:


Mac users will see a “Convert File” dialog box.
Windows users will see the message “The document name or path is not valid”., It may take your professor a few days to open your document. At that time he or she will email you and ask you to resubmit the file. While you wait for the email, work hard to complete the assignment.If your professor or teacher discovers you intentionally corrupted the file, you may get in serious trouble. Ask for an extension or simply submit what you have completed before you try this method.

