;
, Note the following:



Colouration: American White Parks are predominantly white with black points--nose, muzzle, eye rims, ears, hooves, teats/tip of scrotum--though it's not uncommon to find animals of this breed with red points as well. There may be some speckles on each animal, depending on each individual bovine and a herd's colour intensity.

Body type and characteristics: This breed is a beef breed, with the muscling and body characteristics similar to all other British breeds. American White Parks are a moderate-framed breed, with cows averaging around 1000 lbs and bulls around 1700 to 1800 lbs.

Head characteristics: Most American White Parks are polled, though there are 3 to 5% of cattle that can be horned in this breed. However, registered American British White Parks are not horned but are either polled or scurred.

Other characteristics: There is some debate as to where American White Parks originated from. Some think that this breed is primarily Angus in origin with some White Park genetics thrown in from some breeding pairs of White Parks that were brought to Canada in World War II. According to this theory the offspring of this original importation were sent to the Bronx Zoo, and from there they were split into two groups. One was sent to the King Ranch in Texas and formed the foundation herd of the White Park in the United States. The second groups was sent to Washington and played a part in the formation of the American White Park. Another theory states that this breed originated from British White cattle. No matter the theories, the American White Park breed association was first formed in 1975, and during that time (in which the association kept an open-herd book policy for 6 months) some British White sires were brought in to improve the breed and help introduce the bloodlines of this breed. This is where, supposedly, the polled version of the breed started and took over.

American White Parks have the same qualities of that found in British Whites: docile, great carcass qualities, great mothering, calving and milking abilities, excellent foraging ability, fertility, freedom from disease, etc.
, Take pictures of what you thought were American White Park cattle, and compare them with pictures of American White Parks on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

