 Dry air can aggravate the symptoms of a cold, making it harder for mucus to drain and triggering coughs. Using a humidifier in your bedroom or living room adds moisture to the air to help clear your sinuses and soothe your throat. With your humidifier, try to aim for the right humidity. The air should range from 30% to 55% humidity.


If the humidity is too high, mold and dust mites may thrive, both of which are common causes of allergies and coughs.
If the humidity falls too low, it may cause dry eyes, throat and sinus irritations. The simplest way to measure humidity is with a gauge called a humidistat, which can be purchased from most hardware stores.
Both portable and central humidifiers must be cleaned often and thoroughly because they tend to become contaminated with mold and bacterial growth., If you don't want an electric humidifier, consider getting a houseplant. Plants can help regulate indoor humidity due to a process called transpiration, which is where water vapor is released from the flowers, leaves, and stems. Good indoor plants include bamboo palms, aloe vera, Chinese evergreens, various species of philodendron and dracaena, and weeping figs.


Indoor plants also help clear the air of carbon dioxide and pollutants such as formaldehyde, benzene, and trichloroethylene, which may otherwise irritate your throat.Make sure you are not allergic to any plants you might bring into your home.
 In addition to humidifiers, air purifiers help clear the air of allergens that cause coughs. It has the added bonus of keeping your house smelling nice and clean. An electronic cleaner is especially good at sweeping mold and pollen particles from the air by catching them on an electrically charged plate.


Another type of cleaner, known as an ionizer, makes electrically charged ions that bond to particles in the air and causes them to cling to walls, ceilings, and drapes., Sleeping can be hard when you have a chronic cough. Getting enough sleep is important in order for your body to heal itself so you can get rid of your cough. Studies show that sleep deprivation can weaken the immune system, increase the production of stress hormones, put you at higher risk for chronic disease, and lower life expectancy.


If you have a persistent cough, try to lie on the side that is least congested to breathe comfortably and allow the mucus to drain., If you have trouble breathing while you sleep due to cough, try to prop your head up on a pillow to improve airflow and keep mucus from blocking the sinuses and throat. The pillow for your head should support the natural curve of your neck and be comfortable while also helping you breath better.


A pillow that's too high can put your neck into a position that causes throat blockage and cough, as well as muscle strain on your back, neck, and shoulders., Water helps ease cough inducing behavior such as congestion caused by colds, postnasal drip that can irritate the throat, and dry throats. It moistens throat and thins mucus, allowing for easier clearing of problematic phlegm. Aim to drink at least 8 ounces of water every two hours. 2 liters of water is the daily recommendation for the average adult. If you take caffeinated beverages, drink 1 liter of water for every cup of caffeine.


Not getting enough water can also lead to dehydration. Dehydration can cause headaches, irritability, dizziness, irregular heartbeat, and shortness of breath. Non-caffeinated, glucose-free sports drinks with electrolytes can help alleviate dehydration as well., Try to avoid intensive training if you have a cough, cold, fever, or headache. If intensive exercise is triggering your cough, along with symptoms such as wheezing, chest pain, and shortness of breath, you may have exercise-induced bronchoconstriction (EIB). This happens when the tubes that bring air into and out of your lungs narrow with exercise, causing symptoms of asthma. Some people with EIB do not otherwise have asthma, and people with allergies may also have trouble breathing during exercise.


Talk to your physician or an immunologist to help develop a personalized fitness plan for your condition. Avoid cold, dry temperatures and changes in atmospheric pressure as these can trigger EIB. , Smoking deprives the body of the necessary oxygen required to repair and build cells. This happens because of a narrowing of your blood vessels that carry blood to the leg and arm muscles and the brain. This can lead to many respiratory illnesses, chronic coughing, and even stroke. Smoking is one of the leading causes of chronic coughing and bronchitis, also known as smoker’s cough.


Try to avoid secondhand smoke and other hazardous fumes if you have a cough or sore throat. Avoid smoking especially when you have a headache or fever, as smoking can weaken the immune system and prolong the condition. Ask your doctor about ways to reduce and quit smoking.