 There are a growing number of at-home STD tests available that allow you to gather a sample from yourself and send it to the lab. At-home STD tests are available for many common STDs such as gonorrhea, chlamydia, and HIV.You can order a test for a specific STD or order a test that checks for multiple STDs at one time. Look into the types of at-home tests that the company offers. Keep in mind that at-home STD tests are not nearly as reliable as going to your doctor or an STD testing clinic.Get online testing through Planned Parenthood. If you live in California, Idaho, Minnesota or Washington state, you can get an online STI test kit that allows you to test yourself and send your results to one of the Planned Parenthood labs. The kit comes with good instructions and a pre-paid envelope.
Purchase the myLAB Box. This kit allows you to test for HIV, gonorrhea, chlamydia, trichomoniasis and other genital issues. You can order a specific test for one STD or a combo pack, which tests for multiple types of STDs. You order the test online and it comes in the mail. The company says the results are returned in two to five days. For users that test positive, myLAB Box will set up a complimentary telemedicine appointment with a local doctor for a prescription.Use STDcheck.com. This online testing site is apparently one of the only at-home methods for testing hepatitis A.
Use the OraQuick test for HIV. This test is FDA approved and allows you to get a sample from your gums and find out your results in twenty minutes. You can call a twenty-four seven hotline after receiving your results.;
, Follow the instructions on your at-home test kit carefully and remember to mail back the sample as soon as possible so you can get your results quickly. Some kits will provide a pre-paid envelope to speed up the process.You will have to gather a sample from yourself using the kit. This may involve giving a urine sample, taking a blood prick sample or a swab from your gums.


MyLab Box at home tests may involve urine samples, swabs or blood prick samples. The tests can be self-administered in five minutes. If tested positive, the company will connect you for with a local doctor a free telephone appointment and a prescription without leaving the house. If you are administering the OraQuick HIV test, you run a swab over your gums. The results come in twenty minutes.
 If you get a positive test back from your at-home test kit, you should look into the second test at a clinic to confirm the diagnosis. You should also speak to your doctor about treatment options.


At home test have a high false-positive rate.
if your test is negative, but you are experiencing abnormal symptoms, you should go see a medical practitioner.

