 When you are shopping for clothes make sure that you are conscious of how the colors and cuts are going to look on you. A shirt might be cute on the hanger but if it has a thick fabric it may make your waist look wider than it is.



Buy the right sizes. You may find a pair of jeans that are only $20, but if they don't fit right, you'll never wear them. Don't waste money on buying something just because its cheap. Only buy clothes that are not too long, loose, short, small or big for you. That means always try on clothes before you buy it.







Get clothes tailored at the dry cleaners. Fit is so crucial for dressing well. A jacket or a pair of jeans can be the best investment, but if the item is too wide or drags on the floor, it won't be. Going to a tailor to get those things to fit just right will make you look more fashionable than having the newest "it" fashion item.;
, Black and neutrals don't draw attention while bright colors and pales do. If you feel like your legs are thicker than you want, don't buy bright red jeans, no matter how fabulous they are. If you love how tiny your arms look, invest in a bright blue, long sleeve top. Remember: The best color in the whole world is the one that looks good on you


Look to magazines like Vogue, Elle, InStyle, etc. These will debut what is the color scheme of that season. Try incorporating that color in a little to stay fashion forward. Don't buy a yellow dress, for example, because you can only wear that so much. Instead try to buy yellow ballet flats or a yellow belt that you can wear way more often.
 50% of your closet should be solid colored, staple pieces. A pair of good jeans will go a long way, a watch can last forever, and a black dress is an instant classic. Investing on these items will pay of in the long run. While a red dress is fun and festive, you are unlikely to wear it a lot. So instead of looking at the price tag at face value think of it like this: cost/times worn. A dress that you wear 2 times might only cost $50, but a pair of $150 jeans that you wear once a week for three years will actually cost you less in the long run.


Staples include things like a little black dress, good fitting jeans, nude heels, a beige coat, black blazer, solid white tees, ballet flats, brown boots, a tailored pencil skirt, etc.
 These are things like red jeans, use them to add some spark to your wardrobe. If you find that the color and the fit of the jeans work for you, buy them. Having trendy pieces will make a bold fashion statement and let you have fun with fashion. But then again, trends are just that. TRENDS. Something might be in style, but if it doesn't work for your body type, its best to not waste the money.


Try buying cheaper trendy pieces like cool necklaces, a funky shirt, etc. that you won't feel bad for having spent money on when it goes out of fashion.
 Keeping color and fit in mind, star with the basics and build. Once you have that, begin to build with accessories. As Coco Chanel once said "Get yourself fully dressed and then, before walking out the front door, pause by the mirror and remove one item." Remember simplicity is best. A cute belt, cocktail ring, or pearl necklace may be all you need to pull your look together.



Put on the basics. If you are going for a bold bottom like coral jeans, chances are that you are going to want to play down the rest of your outfit with something like a flattering white tee.







Add dimension to your outfit. Throw on a blazer or a cardigan. Stick to neutrals to balance the bold bottoms, so something like a navy blazer or beige cardigan.







Find the right accessories. For a bolder look, add chunky gold jewelry. For a preppier look, add a cute headband and some pearl earrings.







Put on your shoes. Add heels for some height, boots for a more casual look, ballet flats for a feminine look.
 The first thing someone notices about you is your face and hair. If you take care of these things, and put effort into getting ready in the morning, the most casual outfit will look completely chic. Once again, you want to work on the what-flatters-you-best theory. So skip the neon pink eye shadows you saw in Vogue this month and switch to a light purple that brings the color out of your green eyes.
 It's the most important thing a woman can have. Keep a smile on your face; and always keep your chin up and look straight forward when you are walking.

