 You will need evidence if you want to bring a lawsuit for assault. One important piece of evidence is the police report, if there is one. You may have been given a copy of the police report after talking to the police. Alternately, you might need to contact the police station.See Obtain a Police Report for more information.;
, You should try to identify witnesses who observed the assault. The police report should identify any witnesses if you didn’t know anyone personally.You want to talk to them because they could serve as witnesses in your lawsuit.


Ask what they saw. Ideally, they saw the defendant make a threatening gesture towards you.
Get their names and also a written statement, if possible.
Also find personal contact information, such as a phone number or email address. You will want to stay in contact with them as the trial approaches.
 You are also an important witness to the assault. In particular, only you can testify that you felt you were in danger of being struck. As soon as possible, sit down and write down the circumstances surrounding the encounter.


Also explain if you felt startled. Technically, you don’t need to experience any particular reaction in order to sue for assault. However, your case will be stronger if you were shocked or experienced some other intense emotion, like fear.
 You can be compensated for any physical injury.If the defendant actually struck you, then you can sue for “assault and battery.” Medical records are good proof of the injury you suffered.


You should also take color photographs of any bruises, cuts, nicks, scrapes, or stitches.
 You might also be able to get compensated for emotional distress caused by the assault.You can document your emotional distress by keeping a journal in which you write down daily how you are feeling.


If you were prescribed medication to take, then you should also save those orange bottles. You can be compensated for any medicine you buy. Prescription drugs also serve as proof of injury.
 You can also get compensated for lost income if you are unable to continue working as a result of the assault.You should find the following, which will help show how much money you have lost:


paystubs
W-2 form
proof of self-employed income
tax returns

, You will probably benefit from consulting with a lawyer about your lawsuit. A lawyer can help you think through what evidence you will need to bring a successful lawsuit. A lawyer can also analyze your situation and tell you whether you have a strong case.


To Choose a Personal Injury Lawyer, start by asking your family and friends for recommendations. Lawyers rely on their clients to refer others, so this is a great way to find trustworthy lawyers.
You can get a referral to a lawyer by contacting your local or state bar association.Call up the lawyer and ask to schedule a consultation. Also ask how much the consultation will cost.
 Each state has a “statute of limitations,” which is the maximum amount of time you get to bring a lawsuit. The amount of time will differ by state. It is incredibly important to recognize the time constraints and file before the statute of limitations expires. In your situation, because you are suing a parolee, you may be cutting it really close. In some circumstances, the statute of limitations may be tolled (i.e., suspended) for a period of time.

For example, in California, the statute of limitations might be tolled when a defendant is in prison. When the offender gets out of prison, the statute of limitations will begin to run again.
Therefore, in a state like California, you may get longer than the normal two years to file your personal injury suit against the offender., Before suing, you should confirm that you actually have a legal case for assault. Assault is defined as someone intentionally creating a reasonable apprehension that you will suffer harmful or offensive contact.If someone raised their fist to strike you, then they probably have committed an assault—provided you saw them make the action and felt in immediate danger of being punched.


The defendant doesn’t need to actually touch you in order to assault you. It is the belief that you are about to be harmed that is the injury.
However, assault cannot consist of only threatening words.Someone has not assaulted you by sending a Tweet that states “I am going to punch you” or by shouting at you that they want to hurt you.
Also consider your injury. You can sue for assault, even where you haven’t suffered physical injury or emotional distress. However, you won’t recover much money, which could make the entire lawsuit a waste of time.
 In order to collect money damages in a suit against a parolee for injuries caused by them, you must have suffered some quantifiable harm. Work with your lawyer to determine how much this might be. In general, the court will award damages for economic harm and non-economic harm.

Economic damages are verifiable losses for things like medical expenses, property damages, and lost earnings. These damages can usually be determined by using receipts and bills.
Non-economic damages are more subjective losses for things like pain and suffering, inconvenience, emotional distress, and loss of enjoyment. These damages are usually calculated by multiplying your economic damages by a number between 1.5 and 5 depending on the severity of the harm., Punitive damages are meant to punish.Usually, they are awarded for intentional, highly-offensive conduct. Because assault is intentional, you might qualify for punitive damages.


Not every state allows punitive damages, so you should specifically ask your lawyer if your state does.
 You should also report the assault to the parolee’s officer, since they need to know whether the parolee has violated the law. You can find a parole officer by calling the probation department in your county.


The police should also bring the assault to the attention of the prosecutor. If not, you should report the assault to the police if you haven’t already done so.
 Restitution is a court ordered penalty requiring the offender to pay you an amount of money that begins to cover your losses stemming from a crime. Restitution will generally cover medical and dental costs, mental health counseling, funeral costs, income loss, relocation expenses, security system expenses, attorney fees, and potential future losses.

Restitution is set, by a judge, at the time the offender is sentenced., As soon as you can, contact the district attorney and ask whether restitution is available in your particular case. Chances are, if you suffered a financial harm as a direct result of the offender's assault, you will be eligible. DAs may even proactively send you restitution forms to fill out.

The DA often has a very short window to present your restitution case to the judge. Therefore, it is very important that you fill out forms and/or talk to the DA as soon as possible after the offender is charged., The DA, during sentencing, will be asked to provide evidence of your injuries so a definite restitution amount can be determined by the court. Therefore, it is important that you hand over all the evidence you have about the injuries you sustained and the financial harm it cost you. This paperwork will be the same type of paperwork that you have been collecting for your civil case. For example, you should gather and hand over the following types of documents:Bills (hospital, dental, funeral, etc.)
Receipts
Expenses
Insurance information

, Once the judge imposes restitution on the offender, your state's department of corrections, and potentially other agencies, will help you collect. While the offender is in prison, money will be taken out of their trust account as it comes in. Generally, the corrections department will be able to take up to 50% of the money offenders receive. That money will then be transferred to you.

Once the offender leaves prison, your information is automatically forwarded to your state's taxing agency. That agency will work to collect on your behalf through the use of wage garnishments, bank liens, and payment plans.
If you are not getting paid, you can file a civil lawsuit and, as a part of your larger case, ask the court to submit a court order requiring the offender to pay.
Restitution orders will never expire, even if the offender files for bankruptcy, so you can continue to collect until you have been paid in full., You can’t just sue someone anywhere. Instead, you can typically sue them in the county where they live. This may be the same county that you live in.


If the parolee lives in a distant county or in another state, then you need to consider this fact as part of your calculation as to whether you should sue. Talk about it with your lawyer.
Also think about whether you want to sue in small claims court. These courts are set up so that people can bring lawsuits without a lawyer’s help. Generally, there is a maximum amount you can sue for in small claims court.Check with the court clerk.
 You start a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. This document identifies you as the person suing (the “plaintiff”) and the person who assaulted you as the “defendant.” In many courts, there are printed, “fill in the blank” complaint forms you can use. Check the court’s website or with the clerk. Your complaint should contain the following:


A description of the factual circumstances surrounding the assault.Make sure to mention the elements of assault—that the defendant’s action was intended to create a reasonable apprehension of harmful or offensive contact.A claim that the assault injured you in some way. The apprehension of offensive or harmful contact is itself an injury, but mention all injuries, including emotional distress.
A request for money compensation, including punitive damages if they are available.
Whether you want a jury (available in some small claims courts).
Your signature.
 When you finish the complaint, make a copy for your records. Then take the completed complaint and your copies to the court clerk. Ask to file the original. Depending on your court, you may need to file copies as well.


You probably have to pay a filing fee. Ask the clerk for the amount and what methods of payment are acceptable.
If you can’t afford the filing fee, ask for a fee waiver.
 You have to give the defendant a chance to respond to your complaint. For this reason, you need to send them a copy of your complaint and a “summons,” which you can get from the court clerk.You generally can make service in one of the following ways:


Pay the sheriff or constable to make hand delivery on the defendant.
Hire a private process server to make hand delivery. You can find process servers listed in your phone book or online.
Have someone 18 or older make hand delivery, provided they are not a party to the lawsuit.
Mail the complaint certified mail, return receipt requested. You can often mail the complaint if you sue in small claims court.
 The defendant will probably file an “answer.” In this document, they will respond to each allegation that you made in your complaint.You should read the answer closely.


The defendant might file a “motion to dismiss” instead. This document is a little different from an answer. Usually, a defendant will bring a motion to dismiss if you sued in the wrong court or didn’t allege all of the elements of assault. There may be other reasons.If you receive a motion to dismiss and don’t understand it, meet quickly with your attorney.
 The defendant might not even respond to the lawsuit or might respond after the deadline. In either situation, you might be able to get a default judgment.Once you have a default judgment, you can try to get compensated for your injury.


See File a Motion for Default Judgment for additional information.
 If you receive a response from the parolee, they will likely be contesting your petition. At this stage of the action, you will take part in discovery, which allows both sides to collect and exchange information in order to prepare for trial. During discovery you will collect facts, interview witnesses, find out what the other side is going to say, and figure out how strong your case is. In order to achieve these things, you will be able to use the following tools:Depositions, which are formal, in person interviews with parties and witnesses conducted under oath. The answers given can be used in court.
Interrogatories, which are formal questions, posed in writing, that parties and witnesses are required to answer. The answers given can be used in court.
Requests for documents, which are written requests asking the other party to give you certain documents. You might ask for things like text messages, email exchanges, and pictures.
Requests for admission, which are written statements the other party is required to admit or deny. These statements help narrow the focus of litigation and determine what the true issues are.
 When discovery concludes, the defendant is likely going to try and end the litigation by filing a motion for summary judgment. If successful, the judge will stop the case and immediately rule in the defendant's favor. To succeed, the defendant will have to persuade the judge that there are no genuine issues of material fact and that they are entitled to judgment as a matter of law. In other words, the judge will rule in the defendant's favor, if, even if the judge makes every factual assumption in your favor, you would still lose.

You can defend against this motion by filing a response. Your response will include specific affidavits and pieces of evidence that tend to prove that factual disputes do exist. If you succeed, the litigation will continue., If you successfully defend yourself at the summary judgment stage, you should discuss a settlement with the defendant. Trials are incredibly expensive and time consuming and settling is a great way to avoid that. Ask the defendant to sit down with your lawyer and discuss a way to come to an agreement. If informal discussion fail, you might need to take part in some other alternative dispute resolution program.

For example, you might ask the defendant to take part in mediation. During mediation, a neutral third party will sit down with you and the defendant to discuss unique ways to settle the case. The mediator will not take sides and will not inject their own opinions.
If mediation fails, try non-binding arbitration. During arbitration, a judge-like third party will hear both sides of the case. After evidence has been presented, the arbitrator will draft a written opinion stating who they think should win, and how much they should be awarded.
 As you approach trial, you should pull your evidence together. Identify the witnesses who you want to call, if any. Also get copies of documents you want to introduce. For example, if you have medical records, then you will want to introduce those into evidence.


Your witnesses must have personal knowledge of what they are testifying about.For example, a witness who saw the defendant throw a punch at you can testify as to what they saw. However, the witness can’t testify to gossip.
You will likely have to turn over a copy of all documents you intend to use as exhibits. You can make an exhibit by attaching an exhibit sticker to a corner of the document.
 It is perfectly normal to be nervous about what will happen at trial. Ideally, you can prepare by sitting in on one. Check the court’s calendar to see when a trial is being held. Make note of where the parties sit and how they talk to witnesses and the judge.
 Right before the trial begins, you will be required to attend one final pretrial conference with the judge and defendant. During this conference, the judge will set the trial schedule, which includes what matters can be heard. It is your responsibility to tell the judge everything you plan on saying during trial. If you fail to do so, the judge may leave an important issue off of the trial schedule, which means you may not be able to bring it up., If you requested a jury, then you will pick the jury first. Then you will present your evidence to show that the defendant assaulted you. You can call your witnesses and testify on your own behalf.The defendant will get a chance to cross-examine all of your witnesses.
As you testify on cross-examination, remember to listen closely to the question asked and request clarification if necessary. Always remember to tell the truth., The defendant gets to present evidence second. Typically, you can ask every witness questions on cross-examination if you think it would be helpful.See Question Witnesses when Representing Yourself for more information.
 If you had a jury, the judge will read the jury its instructions and then let them retire to deliberate.If you don’t have a jury, then the judge should deliver a verdict from the bench.
 Your work doesn’t end with the verdict. If you win the lawsuit, you face the task of recovering monetary compensation from the defendant. Ideally, the defendant will just pay up. However, if they don’t, then you might need to take other actions.


If you lost the lawsuit, you might want to consider filing an appeal.You start the appeal process by filing a Notice of Appeal with the trial court. You typically don’t get much time—usually 30 days or less after the verdict becomes final. You should talk with a lawyer about whether it is worthwhile to take an appeal.

