 Scammers generally use common schemes over and over again because they know it gets your attention. Scammers search for homeowners in distress by looking through public foreclosure notices. These notices can usually be found in newspapers, on the internet, and at government offices. The scammer will then send you a personalized letter. In other circumstances, scammers take a broader approach and place ads around town, send mass mailings, and knock on your front door. Usually, the scam will involve one or more of the following deceptive messages:"Stop foreclosure now"
"Get a loan modification"
"Over 90% of our customers get results"
"We have special relationships that can speed up the process"
"100% money back guarantee"
"Keep your home. No problem";
, Scammers will try to gain your trust so you will follow their lead and do what they say. The best way to identify a scam is to look for red flags that should raise your suspicion. If you know what these red flags are, you can spot scams before they ever become a problem. Generally, each specific foreclosure scam will combine one or more of the following actions, which should lead you to believe it is a scam:Scammers will contact you. However, legitimate services will never seek out homeowners.
Scammers will try to collect fees before doing any work.
Scammers will tell you never to contact your lender. In reality, this should be the first person you contact and talk with.
Scammers will pressure you and make it seem like things need to be done quickly.
 The surest way to identify a scam is to check it out. Therefore, whenever you talk with someone who claims to be able to help you, ask for their personal information, a website you can check out, and a physical address you can visit. In almost every case, scammers will immediately leave you alone once you ask for this information. This is the case because they do not have any legitimate information to give you.


However, if a scammer tries to give you some of this information, take it and follow-up. Ask neighbors and friends if they have heard of the services being offered. Call your lender and ask about the program's legitimacy. Contact your local housing department and inquire.
After doing your research and checking out possible programs, you will usually be able to find out quickly which ones are scams.
 Once scammers have your attention, they will contact you and offer you various services. One of the most common schemes is fake counseling or help. In these scenarios, the scammers will ask for a fee and in return, they promise to negotiate with your lender. The scammers will claim they can reduce your mortgage payments and save your home.


When someone offers help negotiating with your lender, you will usually be able to tell if it is a scam because they will tell you not to contact your lender, lawyer, or legitimate counselor. They will make promises and urge you to pay them a fee quickly. However, as soon as you pay them, they will stop returning your calls and you will not hear from them again.Legitimate help, on the other hand, will have no problem with you contacting your lender. In fact, they will tell you that this is the first thing you should do. In addition, real help will not promise results. Instead, they will work with you to understand your case and work towards a resolution.
 In another common scheme, scammers will ask for a fee, which they say will pay for an auditor to look over your mortgage agreement. The scammers will tell you that the auditors will look for areas where your lender broke the law. In addition, the scammers will tell you that you will be able to use the auditor's report to avoid foreclosure and reduce your mortgage payments. However, in reality, as soon as the scammers get your money, you will never hear from them again.Forensic audits are never offered on a legitimate basis. In legitimate cases of help, an actual lawyer will work with you to look over your mortgage and determine if there are shortcomings. If there are, your lawyer will work with the lender to come to some settlement. If no settlement can be reached, your lawyer may file a lawsuit on your behalf.
 One of the most dangerous schemes involves individuals who ask you to sign your deed over to them. In return, the scammer will promise to let you stay in your house and lease it for a period of time until you can buy it back. In essence, the scammer will tell you that they have a better credit rating and will get a better mortgage deal than you can get.


When these scams take place, the scammer will make make buying your home back almost impossible. When you break one term in the rent-to-own contract, the scammer will keep your money and your home.
Additionally, if you give your deed to someone else, and they fail to pay the mortgage, the bank will still foreclose on your home and you will be evicted., Another common scam that people see is called a "bait-and-switch". Here, the scammer gives you a large stack of papers to sign and they will claim you need to sign them quickly in order to get a new loan and keep your house. However, buried in the stack of papers is a document that will surrender your deed to the scammer. Once you sign the documents, the scammer will take ownership of your home.Therefore, it is incredibly important to read every document you are ever handed carefully and completely. If you do not understand something, don't sign it.
 The final scam people commonly see is an offer for legal help. In this scam, someone will contact you claiming to be a lawyer or a law firm. They will claim that, if you pay them up front fees, the lawyer will represent you and help save your home. If you get contacted with this type of offer, ask the following questions that will help you determine the legitimacy of the claim:Will you be able to meet the lawyer in person? Scammers will usually not have real lawyers available.
Is the lawyer's office in your state and is the lawyer licensed to practice? If you are being asked to send documents to an office in another state, you should be concerned. Each state has different requirements for licensing lawyers and lawyers are not just able to practice wherever they like.
What services will they offer to you? Any qualified lawyer will be willing and able to send you a representation agreement that will describe the legal services they are offering. If they cannot do this, do not pay them any money.
 One of the best ways to avoid foreclosure scams is to fully understand the foreclosure process. Once you understand the foreclosure process, you will be able to navigate the system and understand common ways legitimate help can arise. For example, you can get help avoiding foreclosure by taking part in mediation and through exercising a right of redemption.


The foreclosure process starts when you fail to make a series of mortgage payments and you fall behind on your loan. At this point, your lender (i.e., the bank) will send you a letter saying you must get caught up on your payments (usually within 30 days) or they will start foreclosure proceedings.
A lot of states require lenders to take part in mediation and other programs to help you avoid the sale of your home. These programs will usually take place during the 30-day catch up period.
If you cannot catch up on your payments, the lender will take the required actions necessary to sell your home at auction. In some states, even once your home has been sold, you still have a right of redemption. If you have a right of redemption, you can keep your house, even after it has been sold at auction, if you can pay the purchaser the full price of the home plus interest and expenses., The Federal Trade Commission (FTC) "MARS Rule" gives you certain rights when it comes to people selling mortgage relief assistance services. First, you never have to pay any money until the company you hire delivers the results you expect. In essence, you cannot be charged until you receive an offer for relief from your lender and you accept that offer. Second, companies must disclose certain information in their advertisements. For example:Companies must tell you whether they are associated with the government or not
They must tell you that your lender does not have to change your loan agreement
Companies cannot tell you to stop talking to your lender

, Lawyers can be a great source of information and help. The FTC MARS Rule does allow lawyers to collect fees up front, but only if they are licensed, offering real legal services, complying with ethics requirements, and place the money in a client trust account.If you want to hire a lawyer, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After answering a few general questions, you will be put in touch with various qualified lawyers in your area.
 If you are having trouble making mortgage payments contact your lender immediately.At the end of the day, they hold your loan and they are the only ones that can modify it. Even if your lender does not modify your loan, you will need to keep in contact with them regarding deadlines and filing requirements. Scammers know this, which is why they want you to cut off contact with your lender., HUD offers counseling and help for individuals like you going through a tough time while trying to keep your home. Their services are always free and include budget counseling, help understanding and submitting documents, and help finding additional resources should they become necessary.


To get help, call 888-995-HOPE.You can also find local counselors by using the HUD website., Never give any money to someone claiming they will make your payments for you. Every mortgage payment should be made personally by you or someone in your family. This ensures the money is being allocated correctly and is going to your lender. In addition, even if you are paying for legitimate help, do not simply stop making mortgage payments., Contracts involving your home are usually not legally binding unless they are in writing. Therefore, you should never accept oral promises regarding your home and foreclosure relief. Once an agreement is in writing, do not sign it until you have read it and fully understand it. If you fail to do this, you may end up agreeing to something you didn't expect or want to agree to.


Any document you sign should be free of errors and blank spaces where things can be filled in later., If you ever feel uncomfortable or unsure with something, ask questions. Do not be afraid to say "no" until you can independently verify the validity of what people are telling you. If the help is legitimate, they will understand concerns and help you through the process.
 If you believe you have been the victim of a foreclosure scam, the first thing you need to do is keep good records. These records will be used when you file a complaint with various offices, agencies, and organizations. If you received an email, flyer, or any other paper materials from potential scammers, keep them. Do not throw them away as you will use them as evidence in your complaints.
 If you talked to potential scammers in person or over the phone, take detailed notes about those interactions. Specifically, write down what they said, what they were offering, and what they looked like. Additionally, if you sent them money, keep track of those checks and how much you sent. All of this information will help the people you report the fraud to.
 Your first point of contact should be the FTC. The FTC allows you to file a detailed complaint through their complaint assistant website. After accessing this website, select a complaint category and sub-category. In this instance, you will most likely choose the "Credit and Debt" category and the "Credit and Loans" sub-category.


Next, tell the FTC that your complaint relates to mortgages.
After this, you will be asked to tell the FTC how you were contacted, or whether you initiated the contact yourself.
You will then be given the opportunity to describe your complaint in detail by answering some general questions. For example, you will tell the FTC whether you paid the scammers, when you were contacted, and the name of the person that contacted you. If it was a business that contacted you, you can provide their information in the complaint as well.
You will finish your complaint by providing your personal information so the FTC can contact you. You will also have a chance to provide any additional comments you wish to provide. This is your opportunity to tell the FTC that you have documents and notes that may help, and you should ask if they want you to send those in., Each state's attorney general's office should give you the ability to file a consumer complaint. While the FTC complaint process helps that agency detect patterns of fraud, a complaint filed with the attorney general's office may lead to actual litigation.To start this complaint process, visit your attorney general's website. On their website, there should be a link to file a complaint. For example, in California, you can file a complaint online using their fillable forms. On the California website, you will need the following information in order to file a complaint:Your personal information
Information about the company or individual you think scammed you
Your comments about the potential scam
Copies of documents you want to show the attorney general's office (e.g., your notes, mailing, advertisements)

, In addition to filing complaints with government agencies and offices, you can also file a complaint with the BBB, which is an organization tasked with providing helpful information to consumers. By filing a scam report, you will allow consumers to look at the report so they do not fall in the same trap you did. To file a scam report, visit the BBB website and navigate to the BBB Scam Tracker page.


From there, include as much information as possible about the scammer and the scam. You will finish your report by giving the BBB information about yourself.