 To start, you'll be required to complete an online training program, Girl Scout Training 101, that takes around 45 minutes. This goes over the basics of Girl Scouts and your responsibilities as a troop leader.How you access the online training varies by state. You usually have to create an account on the national Girl Scouts website. However, some local troops may provide general access information that can be used by anyone interested in becoming a troop leader.The easiest way to figure out regulations in your state is to reach out to an active Girl Scout leader in your area. As requirements vary widely, you want to make sure you understand your state's specific requirements for completing the online training session before moving forward.
Pay close attention during the online training session. It will be a combination of video and text overviewing the basics of managing a troop. You'll want to take notes throughout the training session, as this information will be invaluable later on when you're managing your own troop.;
, All Daisy Troop leaders must undergo a criminal background check. This is to assure you do not have a criminal history and are fit to supervise young children. You can submit a form agreeing to a criminal background check online, through the national Girl Scouts website.


You will enter some basic contact information, like your name and address. You will then be brought to a screen that contains a few paragraphs. These paragraphs basically say you're agreeing to a criminal background check that will look over your legal and driving history.By submitting the form, you're authorizing investigators to perform the background check. In order to consent to the background check, you must be at least 18 years of age.There may be a small fee for the background check, usually around $15. You may be able to waive the fee by instead making a donation to the Girl Scouts organization., From here, you will need to take a Leader 101 course. This is a two hour training seminar that introduces you to the basics of managing a Girl Scout Troop. Your local branch of Girl Scouts should be able to let you know when the next Leader 101 course will be hosted in your area. Depending on your local branch of Girl Scouts, you may have to sign up online or in person.


Leader 101 will go over the basics of troop management and also talk about the values of Girl Scouts as an organization. In addition to learning basic facts, like logistics for cookie sales and how to start a bank account, you'll also learn about the values of the Girl Scouts organization.
You will also learn about how to order materials for your troop. To start a Girl Scouts troop, you'll need items like vests, badges, and so on. How you obtain these items, and the funds provided, varies by location. You should learn about the regulations of your specific location at Leader 101.
 In order to manage a troop, you must be a member of the Girl Scouts of the USA. Many troop leaders were girl scouts as kids, so there's a good chance you're already a member. If you're not, however, make sure to register online.


You simply go to the Girl Scout website and click the green "Join Us" button. From here, you'll enter basic information and may have to answer a few questions about why you're joining Girl Scouts.
You will have to pay a $15 registration fee. As long as your criminal background check goes through, you should be accepted as a member of Girl Scouts of the USA. This means you'll now be able to start your own Daisy Troop.
 Many local branches of girl scouts require you select a co-leader for your troop. The co-leader must also be a member of Girl Scouts of the USA. You can select a co-leader from people you met at training sessions. If you are a former girl scout starting a troop, you may already have a friend signed on as your co-leader. Make sure you pick someone you feel you can work with well on a semi-professional basis.
 After completing training, you should have all the knowledge you need to start your troop. You'll want to begin by recruiting members from your community. Remember, Daisies are kindergartners and first grade students.


If you or your co-leader has a daughter in Kindergarten or first grade, you can start here. Talk to your daughter's teacher and ask him or her if you can come talk to the class about Girl Scouts. You can ask girls who are interested to talk to their parents after school.
You can also create flyers to hang up around schools, daycares, and community centers. These can be advertised at both children and parents. You may be able to get flyers directly from your local branch of Girl Scouts.
When recruiting members, focus on the positive aspects of Girl Scouts. Talk about the commitment to confidence, togetherness, service, and responsibility. Talk to parents about how joining Girl Scouts can boost a young girl's self-esteem, help her make lifelong friends, and help her develop basic skills like responsibility.Let parents know who is eligible to be a girl scout. Parents of transgender children may wonder if their daughters are allowed in Girl Scouts. Reassure these parents that Girl Scouts is open to transgender girls who are recognized as female by their families and communities. You should also make it clear that Girl Scouts is open to families of any religious background., As you begin to generate interest, you will need to find a location and time to host troop meetings. Troops can meet a churches, schools, or community centers. As you're working with school-aged children, select a meeting time that's convenient for children and parents. Make sure meeting times occur after school. Keep in mind many parents work a 9 to 5 job. A meeting that runs until a little after 5 can be convenient, as parents can pick up their kids after work.Talk to your local branch of Girl Scouts while selecting a meeting location. You will need to get your troop number, assigned by the local branch, and have them approve your meeting location.
A school is probably the easiest place to host meetings, as girls can go directly from school to their girl scout meeting. Most schools will be willing to accommodate wholesome after-school activities like Girl Scouts.
 Before you can have an official Girl Scouts meeting, you'll need to have what is called a parent/guardian meeting. This is an event where you meet with parents and guardians of potential troop members. This allows you to answer any questions parents or guardians may have regarding a Daisy Troop. You can help build community support for your troop by working with parents and guardians.


To start, you'll need to inform parents and guardians about the Girl Scouts and their values. You can also recruit parents to volunteer, as you'll need assistance with supervision, clean-up, and other aspects of troop meetings.There are a variety of forms, such as the Health Examination Form, you need to have parents complete before their kids can join your troop. The parent/guardian meeting is the place to hand out these forms and answer any questions regarding them. Your local branch of Girl Scouts will keep you up-to-date on what forms are needed.Spend a lot of time planning your first parent/guardian meeting. You want to make sure parents and guardians leave the meeting excited about their girls joining a Daisy Troop. Supportive, active parents and guardians are vital to a successful Daisy Troop., Once you've hosted your first parents meeting, you can host your first troop meeting at your chosen location. You should plan a basic arts and crafts event to help your girls get to know each other and begin to bond.


You can browse the Girl Scout website for ideas on opening day craft activities. Choose a craft that promotes communication and can be used for icebreaking. For example, the girls can each draw pictures of their favorite things. They can then exchange pictures with other members and compare and contrast tastes.
You can start the meeting by getting your troops in a circle. You can have them introduce themselves. You can consider playing a game to help with introductions. Some Daisy Troop leaders play a game like "Duck, duck, goose!" but instead call it, "Daisy, daisy, petal!"
You should also strive to introduce the basics of a Daisy meeting. There will be a variety of handouts you should have received during your own training that overview a year as Girl Scout Daisy. Daisy Troops are guided by fictional characters, named Chandra, Cora, and Campbell, who appear in literature and pamphlets throughout the year. You can spend your first day learning a bit about these characters.
 All girl scout troops are required to have a bank account. This is where you'll store the funds raised through cookie sales and other troop activities. Your local branch of Girl Scouts should have their own regulations regarding establishing a bank account. You should be able to start your bank account by filling out some forms and submitting them to your local branch of Girl Scouts. The forms will vary by location, but you'll usually put down your troop number, your name, the address of your meetings, and other basic contact information. If you have any questions, you can ask other Girl Scouts troop leaders in your area. Rules regarding establishing a bank account in your area are covered during your training., The Daisy Troops follow a specific journey through a metaphorical garden in the course of the year. Meetings all build up to a project, called the "Take Action Project," designed to nurture the metaphorical garden. This project can take a variety of directions, depending on your area and the interests of your troop. Try to incorporate a variety of activities into each meeting that build towards a larger project.The idea of the "Take Action" project is to try and make an impact on the community. You can have the girls, for example, help plant a community garden. You can work up to the larger project by having small planting projects each week. One week, for example, your girls can plant a small seed in a tiny pot. They can take it home, water it, and observe its growth. This will teach them basic gardening techniques they can use later on, when working in a community garden.The Girl Scouts of the USA provides a handbook which includes a sample trajectory of a year of a Daisy Troop. You can refer to this handbook as you plan your meetings, but feel free to deviate from the rules to suit your own troop's needs., You can take your troop on a variety of trips throughout the year. They can go to an organic farm, for example, to learn about environmental sustainability. Regulations for planning trips vary between branches of Girl Scouts. You may have to complete a 20 minute online training session, "Traveling Troops," to go over regulations in your area. Make sure you plan at least a couple of trips throughout the year, all of which should relate to your "Take Action" project., The Girl Scouts have no set age limit for camping trips. As long as you feel your troop is ready for an overnight trip, you can go ahead and plan one with the support of parents. For camping, you want to have a basic safety class ahead of time to make sure your girls are prepared.You can incorporate a variety of activities into a camping trip depending on where you're staying. If you have a friend who owns a farm, for example, you can camp there and teach the girls about horseback riding, animal care, and farming in general. If you're camping near water, you can take the girls canoeing or teach them about swimming. If you are planning water activities, make sure to hire a professional lifeguard.
It's not uncommon for girls, especially girls who are in the Daisy age range, to feel nervous about camping for the first time. You can help your girls feel less nervous by going over the schedule extensively ahead of time. You can also visit the campgrounds before the overnight stay, so the girl's don't go in without any knowledge of where they're staying.
 Remember, Girl Scouts is a community. Take advantage of the community in your area. Network with other troop leaders. You can do collaborative projects with other Daisy Troops. You can also network with older Girl Scouts. Allowing your girls to see the projects and activities older Girl Scouts are engaging in may provide them with incentive to stay in Girl Scouts.

