 Water has the potential to damage leather, and if you use too much your shoe may become stiff, stained, or cracked. Optionally, you may apply a leather guard or leather protector solution to the surface you plan on treating, but this may make the shoe more resistant to water treatment.









If you do apply leather guard to your shoe, allow it to dry completely before you continue.;
, Focus on the portion of the shoe that is too large, such as the sides or toe. Use a small spray bottle full of water, or dip your fingers in water and rub the area you want to shrink. While this area should end up quite damp, avoid getting any water elsewhere, especially on the soles or the base of the shoe.
 While sunlight will likely take longer than other methods of drying, this slower process reduces the chance of heat damage to your shoe. If you are shrinking your shoes on a sunny day, place them outside or next to a sunny windowsill and check back after a few hours to see if they are dry.
 If the current sunlight levels and temperatures are inadequate for drying shoes, use a blow dryer instead. Use the lowest temperature setting and hold your blow dryer at least six inches (15 cm) from the shoe to avoid damaging or burning the shoe.
 The tumbling action of a dryer may damage your shoes, although some dryers include a stable drying rack for this type of situation. Placing your shoes in front of a fireplace or oven may cause damage to the portions that are not wet. If this is the only method available, keep the shoes at a distance that feels warm to your hand, not hot.
 The adjustments you make with this method may be small, depending on the thickness and type of your leather. If the shoes are still too large, try applying water a second or third time, then heating the same way to shrink your shoes further.









The elastic band method may also be used in conjunction with this one.
 The water and heat treatment may have made your shoes stiff or cracked. Leather conditioner should help reverse this and prevent further damage. Follow the instructions on the packaging for the most effective results. If there are no instructions, rub into the shoe with a clean cloth, then let dry without further heat treatment.









Some leather conditioners are made for certain types of leather. If you do not know which type of leather your shoe was made from, ask a shoe store employee to identify the material or try to find a general purpose leather conditioner.

