 When you fall asleep, your body temperature naturally cools. In order to facilitate this process and help you fall asleep, keep your room at a relatively cool temperature. For example, your room temperature should be between 60 and 67 degrees Fahrenheit (15-20 degrees Celsius), while sleeping. If your parents won't change the temperature of the entire house, you may want to use a fan in your room.You can also try taking a warm bath or shower before bed. This will warm up your body making your room feel cooler.;
, Remember that your sleep-wake cycle is light sensitive. As a result, you want to create a dark environment to help you get to sleep.Try using blackout shades on your windows or an eyemask to manage light pollution.In the morning, open your blinds to let in natural sunlight. This will help your body wake up.
 Loud noises can prevent you from falling asleep. In order to create a quiet atmosphere, tell other members of your family to be quiet when you go to bed. Alternatively, you may need to try earplugs. These are an excellent option if you can hear your parents talking or the TV from your room.They can also be helpful if you live in a loud neighbourhood and you can hear your neighbours or street traffic.
 You may find it easier to fall asleep if you associate your bed with sleep only. Your bed should not be the place where you complete your homework or play video games. This is because you may begin to associate your bed with the frustration that comes along with completing assignments.Set up your video game system in your living room or rec room instead of your bedroom.
 This means you will have to turn off your cellphone, tablet, TV, computer, and any video game system. The light from the screens can actually interfere with your ability to fall asleep.The light that is emitted from technological screens causes your brain to make less melatonin, a hormone that signals your body to fall asleep.This also prevents you from using social media around bedtime, which can cause stress, making it more difficult to fall asleep. For example, you may struggle to fall asleep after reading that your crush has just started dating someone.