 Research has shown that sitting too long can not only contribute to back problems, but is bad for your health in general.Don’t stay seated for long periods of time, whether at home or at a desk job. A common risk factor for back pain is a sedentary lifestyle. Take a few minutes to stretch and walk around at least once per hour. Unless your doctor prescribes a day or two of bedrest, don't stay in bed or lay down all day., Sleeping improperly significantly aggravates chronic back problems. Harmful positions include sleeping on your stomach and in the fetal position. It’s recommended to sleep on your back with a pillow under your knees or on your side with your knees pulled up slightly toward your chest, with a pillow tucked between them. It’s best not to sleep with too many pillows under your neck., Set yourself up for success with ergonomic chairs, lumbar support pillows, and by positioning your computer monitor at eye level.Pay attention to your posture, especially when you’re in one position for a while, like driving or sitting at a desk doing work. When seated, keep your knees a bit higher up than your hips, and while standing, keep your head up, stomach in, and shoulders pulled back.Physically strenuous work can lead to back pain or make back pain worse. However, psychologically strenuous work can also lead to back pain.
Back pain is a leading cause of Worker’s Compensation Claims.
 Stretching and strengthening exercises are beneficial for long-term back pain. Swimming, yoga, aerobics, and other appropriate exercise regimens that include low-impact, repetitive physical movements can improve flexibility and strengthen core muscles.Further, exercise can help you to maintain a healthy body weight or help you lose weight, which decreases stress on your back.
 Never bend over from your waist and lift heavy objects using the muscles of your back. Rather, bend your knees, squat, pull in your stomach muscles, and keep your gaze straight ahead. Hold the object as close as you can to your body. Never twist your body while you’re lifting something, and take frequent breaks when performing manual labor.