 Welcoming a new dog into the family home can be an exciting time for everyone. But buying a dog is not like buying the latest household gadget; dogs are living beings that require your love and attention. Training a new puppy can be very frustrating and caring for a dog can be very costly over their lifespan. Responsible pet ownership starts before you take your new dog home.;
, Do you live in a rented premise? If so, does your landlord allow for pets? If you live in a unit and work full time, a dog is probably not the best choice of pet for you. Consider a cat because they are independent creatures who don't rely on you for interaction. Dogs become bored very quickly and when confined to small spaces, can develop behavioural problems.
 Will someone be home to care for your new puppy? Puppies need a lot of time and attention and cannot be left unattended. Does your work require you to travel? If so, what arrangements would you make for your dog? Do you have enough time to exercise your dog and provide them opportunities to socialise in public places? Dogs crave interaction and if you don't provide this, they can become destructive and develop social disorders which are very difficult to correct.
 Do you have children? Talk to your local vet about which dogs make the best pets for small children. Base your decision on breed and temperament - not on "cuteness". Small breeds such as Pugs and Maltese Terriers make great family pets because they are patient with children and can handle a bit of rough and tumble.
 New puppies require a lot of work and attention - you can never underestimate this. Agree upfront who will be responsible for each aspect of the dog’s welfare e.g. grooming, feeding, exercising, house training etc. For example, you can teach children valuable lessons in responsibility by getting them to feed the dog. Ensure that they continue this responsibility even when the honeymoon is over!

, Can you realistically afford to pay for expensive vet bills? The price of a dog is relatively cheap compared to the medical expenses you can expect to pay over their lifetime. Certain dogs are predisposed to certain conditions, so ensure that you research the breed from a medical perspective before you make your purchase. As a rule of thumb, large dogs generate higher bills not just at the vet, but also in terms of their food and accessories such as collars and leads. Consider Pet Insurance to safeguard you against hefty medical bills.

