 If they're having problems or are upset, show them that you care. Just listening to someone's concerns is often enough to assure them that you care. You don't need to fix all of your loved one's problems, you just need to be there for the bad times as well as the good.
 When you're in love with someone, spending time with them is not a chore or stress. You'll want to be with them, so making time to do activities together is no problem. Find things you love doing together and make time to do them -- the people you love should be a naturally high priority on your schedule.Spend time talking together, not just doing activities. You need to be able to listen and share your thoughts in order to maintain love and trust.
 You are not always right, and neither is your loved one. Being in love is about remembering how important you are together, not always trying to end up on top. While you should stay true to yourself, being in love means taking their point of view into account as well as yours.


What is there side of the story? Is there something you didn't realize?
Are you mad because of something that happened, or because you got too caught up in the argument?
Do you still love and respect them? This is more important than a "winner" of any argument., Loving someone requires a degree of vulnerability. You have to be willing to open up about yourself, sharing the good times and asking for support during the bad. This, though difficult at first, is crucial to having a happy, loving relationship. Trusting each other deepens your bond together and allows you to grow and evolve, and your love will evolve accordingly. You need to know what your partner wants and needs, and they need to know you, in order to keep your love alive.

Trust is not just about talking, it is about listening carefully.
Be open and honest about your schedule and life. Hiding things often leads to painful reveals later on.
 You need, above all, to take care of yourself in order to take care of someone else. Try not to "lose" yourself by neglecting your friends or old hobbies once you fall in love. Remember, being in love does not mean you do everything together, it means you respect each other for who you are. Some healthy ideas include:


Take some occasional time apart-- if you are in love, it will not be destroyed by a few weeks alone.
Hang out with your friends, especially friends from before the relationship began. These friendships are not unimportant now that you're in love.
Develop personal hobbies or interests that you can eventually share, or use to have "me" time when you need a moment to relax., Just because you've been together for a while does not mean that a hug, a kiss, or a nice letter sent to each other can't keep the bonds of love strong. Remember that love takes effort to maintain, but it shouldn't be hard. Show your love and affection from time to time to keep the love alive., Predictability is the bane of many relationships, as you fall into a groove and feel "trapped" or upset. A degree of surprise is essential to keep your love going strong, but that doesn't mean you need to shake everything up every few months. A few surprises here and there shows that you care enough about each other to spice things up and think about each other.


Take a vacation, even if just for a long weekend.
Make time to see each other once a week, but make it somewhere new each time.
Go to a class or seminar together to pick up a new hobby.
Make new friends by inviting other couples over for drinks or dinner.
Start a project together, like a book, garden, painting, etc., It is natural and acceptable to feel jealous at times. However, when one loves another, jealousy doesn't take up too much space in the heart. If the other finds a new romantic partner, gets their dream job, or is a better cook than you, you should take pride in their happiness. Feelings of anger or jealousy are natural, but they should not overshadow your relationship. A part of you should be genuinely happy for the other one's life successes.


Jealousy is actually healthy in small amounts -- it becomes dangerous, however, when it morphs into suspicion.