 While doing the regular temple pose, you can add a cycle of side bends that will give an additional stretch to your sides and core, as well as lengthening your spine and giving your glutes and quads a little extra workout.Keeping your spine straight and long, extend through the top of your head and lean to your right, placing your right forearm on your right thigh and reaching over your head and to the right with your left arm.
With your left arm extended over your head, elbow slightly bent, turn and face your left arm.
Hold for a full inhale and exhale, breathing into the pose and feeling the stretch in your sides. Then return to center and repeat the same motion on your left side.
Repeat the entire sequence ten times, or five times on each side.
 To incorporate the fan pose at the end of your temple pose, when you lower your hands you will clasp them behind your back rather than bringing them to the prayer position in front of your chest.Stand firmly with your legs straight, and rotate your feet so your feet and knees are facing forward rather than outward as they were.
On exhale, hinge forward at your hips into fan pose. Firm up your legs and pull backward with your arms to keep your balance stable. If you simply lean forward you may feel as though you're going to topple forward, but keep your back flat.
If you're comfortable and are flexible enough to do so, you can continue to bend all the way forward, folding your upper body toward and in between your legs. Otherwise just stay with a flat back.
As you inhale, return to stand, bend your knees, and go back into temple pose.
 Temple pose, along with many of these other poses and variations, may put stress on your joints, specifically your knees and shoulders. If you're recovering from a recent injury, don't move or open those joints beyond your current range of motion.If a shoulder injury prevents you from moving your arms in temple pose, simply keep your hands in prayer position in front of your chest.
You should only go as low into temple pose as you can comfortably go and keep your knees pointed outward in the same direction as your feet. Raise up slightly if your knees start to buckle or turn inward.
Remember that yoga is not supposed to be painful. If you start feeling strain, or are having difficulty maintaining the pose, raise up and return to mountain pose and rest.

