 Boxed hair dyes have evolved in recent years and the traditional liquid formulas are no longer your only options. Now there are foam, mousse and crème formulas, too. If your goal is to cover grays, a crème formula is the best option. Mousse formulas are best for touch-ups and foam formulas are ideal for those who want all-over color, but don’t dye their hair often. The traditional liquid formulas work well for everyone.A mousse formula is a great option for someone with sensitive skin. It doesn’t drip as much as liquid formulas do.
If you have very thick and/or curly hair, opt for a liquid formula.;
, Use the hair color chart provided on the box of dye to determine what level and shade your current hair color is. Then choose a box of color that is within two levels of that – either two levels lighter or two levels darker. Anything more drastic is best left to a professional. Keep your skin tone in mind, as well, and choose a color that flatters it.


Cool skin tones look best in neutral shades.
Warm skin tones should choose tones like golden, honey and chestnut.
If you are a blonde or brunette with cool tones, choose an “ash” shade., Unwashed hair will have plenty of natural oils in it, and these oils can protect your scalp and roots from irritation.Even better, the dye will be able to penetrate the hair shaft better if it’s a little dirty. Unwashed hair is easier to work with when it comes to sectioning it before the actual dyeing takes place, as well., Properly sectioning your hair before you begin will help you get the most even coverage.Divide your hair into four even sections. Use a hair clip to pin up each of these sections.Keep several additional hair clips nearby, especially if you have very thick hair. You may need a little extra reinforcement once the dye is applied and your hair becomes heavier.









Unless your dye brand instructed otherwise, your hair should be dry when you dye it.
 Before you start mixing up the dye, go over the instructions. Every brand will have slightly different directions and processing times, so it’s important to review this information before you get started.Put on the provided gloves and follow the instructions for mixing and developing the dye.









Secure an old towel around your shoulders to protect your skin.
Apply a layer of petroleum jelly or coconut oil around your hairline to protect the dye from staining your face., Unclip one of the four sections of hair. Use an applicator brush to apply the dye to the first section. Paint the dye onto your hair and make sure you saturate it from root to tip. Use a hand mirror to help you see the roots at the back of your head. Once you’ve completed the first section, carefully clip the hair back into place.









Unclip the next section and repeat the same process. Continue in this manner until you’ve finished all four sections.Try to work quickly but make sure you're not leaving anything out.
 As soon as you’ve completed the application process, set a timer for the manufacturer’s recommended processing time.Keep a towel around your shoulders as you wait to protect your skin from drips. This is a good time to clean up and dispose of your dyeing materials. If you’ve dripped any dye on your counter or floor, clean it up now to prevent permanent staining.
 Keep rinsing until the water runs clear. Most boxed dyes will come with a tube of conditioner meant to be used after the rinse-out. Apply the conditioner generously to your hair from root to tip. Run a wide-toothed comb through your hair to ensure even distribution of the conditioner. Give the conditioner at least two minutes to really penetrate your hair, then rinse.









For future washings, make sure you use a color-safe shampoo and conditioner.

