 Your complexion is the shade of your skin and can change from sun exposure or skin conditions. You always want to try a foundation on to make sure it matches your complexion. Standing in natural light, swipe potential foundations across your cheek or near your jawline. The right foundation will disappear, blending perfectly with your skin.If you can't find a foundation that matches, try choosing the shades that are closest (one slightly darker, one slightly lighter), and mixing them to make a perfect match.You can also buy the lighter foundation and add a bronzing powder later to warm it up.;
, Just as important as matching your complexion, your foundation needs to work with the undertones of your skin. Generally categorized as warm, neutral, or cool, your skin undertone always remains the same (unlike your complexion, which can change with exposure to the sun). Buying a foundation for the wrong undertone will make your foundation look off, even if it perfectly matches your complexion.Find your undertone by looking at the veins on your inner wrist. If they are green, your undertones are warm (yellow). If they are purple or blue, your undertones are cool (blue or pink). If you can't tell if the veins are purple or green, your undertone is neutral (a mix of yellow, gold, pink, or blue).Look for foundations that are specifically made for your undertone and labeled for a warm, cool, or neutral skin tone.
If the foundation brand doesn't mention undertone, try to find one that matches your undertone. Look for yellow or gold for warm; pink, red or blue for cool; neutrals can experiment with foundations with undertones from both ends of the cool/warm spectrum., Your type of skin can influence which foundation is right for you. Stick foundations may be made for all skin types (check the labeling), but for the most part they're best for oily or combination skin. If you don't know whether your skin is dry, oily, normal, or combination, wash your face with a gentle cleanser and notice how your skin feels after 15-20 minutes.If your face feels moist or oily, your skin is oily.If your skin feels tight, tingly, or dry, you have dry skin.If your skin feels soft and clean, you have normal skin.If your skin feels oily in your T-zone (your forehead and nose), then you have combination skin., Before applying makeup it is especially important to wash your face with a gentle cleanser formulated for your skin type. Removing dirt and oil from your face will help keep your pores clear and lessen the likelihood of blackheads.


Make sure your hands are washed and cleaned as well, as you will be touching your face quite a lot and you don't want to transfer dirt or bacteria.
 The moisturizer will keep the foundation from drying out your skin. A little moisturizer can also make it easier for you to spread the foundation over your skin since the stick is solid and more difficult to smooth evenly over your face than liquid foundations.Avoid moisturizers that are too rich. A day cream or heavy moisturizer that makes your skin oily can cause your foundation to oxidize and turn darker or even orange., Primer is an optional step, but most beauty experts think it's worth it. The primer gives the foundation something to cling to so it will stay put all day. Plus, it smooths your skin so your foundation won't settle into wrinkles or dry spots.Choose a foundation that is right for your skin type (oily, normal, dry).
Use primer if you live in a humid climate or plan to visit one. The primer will keep your makeup from smudging and "melting" off your face.Some foundation sticks come with primer already added.
 You don't want the foundation stick to come out as far as a lipstick would. The farther out you twist the foundation, the easier it will be for it to snap off or break during application.


If you are worried about bacteria on the end of the foundation stick, wipe the top with a cotton pad dipped in alcohol or a makeup cleansing wipe.
 Swipe it once across your forehead, on the bridge of your nose, under both eyes, your chin, and cheeks. You may want to add a little near your jawline as well so you can blend the foundation down to your neck.The foundation is not meant to be a mask--it is supposed to even out your complexion. Applying the foundation to these specific spots will give you enough product to cover your face and still look natural.
Dotting the foundation, as opposed to swiping, will put less product on your face and give you a lighter layer. If you're not sure how much foundation you need, try dotting it on first. It's easier to add more later than to take it off.
If you don't want to put the foundation directly on your face, you can use your fingertips to apply it to your skin. The heat from your fingers will warm up the foundation and may make it even easier to apply.
Try not to apply foundation with a makeup sponge, as this absorbs a lot of foundation and is a waste of product., You don't want to rub the foundation into your skin as you blend, rather, you want to sweep and pat the makeup. The center of your face usually has the most discoloration, so make sure you have ample coverage there.Always blend the foundation outward, toward the edges of your face.


Blend, blend, then blend some more. This step is key to getting a natural-looking application of foundation. Check your hairline and neck to make sure you don't have an obvious line where your makeup ends.
Use your ring fingers to blend the foundation--it is the weakest finger and will ensure you don't pull on your skin too much.
You can use a makeup sponge or brush to help blend your makeup if you would prefer not to use your fingers.
If you have any blemishes or dark circles under your eyes and want a little more coverage, simply dab a little more foundation in these areas and blend gently.
 Some foundation sticks are mattes, which should stay in place on their own.Otherwise, a dusting of translucent powder will set the foundation and absorb excess oil, which can cause your foundation to oxidize and turn dark or orange.