 You can create permanent pockets that will hold the underarm shields if you don't want to attach new guards every few days. This is a good idea if you have a limited wardrobe and will likely be wearing the same outfit often, like a uniform or a suit.Pockets will also hold other odor fresheners, like baking soda or powder deodorant, that you can use in addition to your underarm pad.
It will take a little longer than installing a new set of underarm pads each time, but the pockets will last a long time.
 Take a t-shirt from your wardrobe to get a measurement for the pocket. A starter measurement you can use is 2”x3”. You can also take a piece of fabric, pen, and measure the dimension in front of a mirror. Use your armpit as the basis for the size of your pockets.
 Determine what type of material you want the pockets to be. You can create the pockets out of socks or use mesh fabric. Socks are more comfortable in cooler months, while mesh pockets are more comfortable when it's hot outside.


If you use socks, it is best to use baby socks. Baby socks don’t require any alterations and are already the right size.
Mesh fabric works well, but you have to measure, cut, and sew the pockets together. Cut out a long strip and fold the fabric together. When you sew or glue the fabric leave the top open. This will allow you to insert disposable guards with ease., Attach the pockets directly to the underarm area of your clothes using buttons, safety pins, or Velcro. You can attach them permanently by sewing but this could make cleaning them difficult. If you wear the same shirts repeatedly, it won't be too much work to sew buttonholes or glue/sew Velcro onto each garment.


The pockets alone should absorb sweat and odors, but you can fill each bag or sock with baking soda if you have a serious amount of sweat.
This technique will work best with relatively tight shirts or dresses that will hold the pockets to your underarms and absorb the sweat before it travels.
 Try on the shirt and look in the mirror. Are the pockets visible? If the pocket appear to be bulging out, consider reducing the amount you place in the pocket. Make adjustments to the underarm pad or reduce the amount of powder deodorant.


The pockets will probably not be comfortable at first. You might need to wear the pockets for a week to determine if you can stand having them attached to your clothes.
If you are constantly becoming annoyed by the pockets, then remove them from your clothes and use a pad.

