 There a lots of big events in the summer which require a lot of casual workers. Look around your local area for festivals and events and contact the organisers. You could even get work at a music festival or sports event that you love.The sort of work you can do at these festival includes handing out promotional flyers, punching tickets, and a host of other things.


If you have particular skills, such as first aid, you will be more attractive to the event organizers.
 Washing cars can be a good way to earn some extra cash, especially if you can team up with some friends and drum up a lot of business. Word of mouth works, so be sure to do a good job and people will recommend you to others.
 Housesitting is a really great and pretty easy way to earn money over the summer. You may find yourself being paid to water plants, feed the pets and just keep an eye on the house while the residents are away on holiday.Ask around people you know to see if anyone is looking for a house sitter, as you are more likely to get a job from someone you know who trusts you.


Leaving your keys with someone is quite big deal, so although the actual work may be easy, you need to take it seriously and respect the house.
 If you like kids, this can be a way to make cash over the summer and have a lot of fun at the same time. This isn’t just for women either! Looking after children is a very serious job, so be prepared to put in a lot of work and be exhausted at the end of the day, but playing in the park with some good kids is probably more fun than washing cars.


If you have particular skills, such as being able to tutor in the kids in a foreign language, or teach them arts and crafts, then parents may offer you more money.If you have a good relationship with parents and their kids, there can be lots of work here for you that can continue beyond the summer.
 Feeding pets is a nice way to earn a bit of extra cash, especially if you can build up a good number of pets nearby to feed. Feeding one cat, once a day will probably not earn you all that much. You can compliment this by taking on some dog walking too, in order to increase the time you are working and the amount you get paid.You can ask around your neighbourhood for those who are going on vacation and need someone to feed their pets.
You could also put an advert in your local paper, or drop some flyers through mailboxes.
 Yard work is a good way to earn some money while enjoying the weather, getting a suntan, and some exercise. Summer yard work covers things like mowing lawns, basic gardening and more serious landscaping work. This will most often be casual work, so you will have to work hard to get your customers in the first place, but once you build up a good list you can start to see the money flow in.Keep an open mind about the kind of yard work you can do, and work out your rates early on.
 Summer house painting is another classic way to earn extra money in the summer. You can do this on your own, or with a group of friends. Put some adverts up and knock on some doors to let people know about your business. Like yard work, this can be a great way to earn money while still enjoying the weather and seeing a tangible result of your work.


Consider completing a training course before you start to advertise yourself, as this could make you stand out from your competitors, as well as improve your brushwork.