 Cut a piece of fabric measuring about 15 inches (38 cm) long and 1-1/2 inches (4 cm) wide.


To save some time, you could use 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) wide double-fold bias tape instead of regular fabric. Cut it to a length of 15 inches (38 cm). Skip the folding step of the process, and proceed directly to the stitching step.
 Fold the long edges of the fabric toward the center until the meet along the lengthwise middle. Fold the strip again along this lengthwise center, hiding the raw edges inside.


The first folds should be made with the wrong sides together and the right sides facing out.
Use an iron to press and crease each fold after making it. This is important; if you don't press the material, it won't lie flat around your cat's neck.
 Using a sewing machine, top stitch along the open length of the strip. A standard straight stitch should suffice.


Place the line of stitching as close to the open edge as possible.
You can stitch down both the open and folded sides of the length for the sake of uniformity, if desired, but doing so is not necessary to hold the collar together.
 Weave one end of the fabric strip around the bar of an adjuster ring. Pull about 1 inch (2.5 cm) of material through the ring, and sew it to itself on the opposite side.


Essentially, you're folding the end of the strip over by 1 inch (2.5 cm) and positioning the adjuster bar inside the fold.
Fold the raw edge in between the overlapping layers of material by about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm), then stitch the overlap in place at the open end.
If any raw edges are still visible from beneath the fold, dab a small spot of seam sealant over them to prevent the edges from fraying.
 With the "wrong" side of the collar facing up, slide the hooked end of the breakaway clasp through the opposite end of the fabric strip.


Weave the end up through the portion of the clasp closest to the teeth, over the bar, and back down through the opposite side.
Pull the clasp along the length of the fabric strip until it is 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) away from the adjuster ring.
 Pull the free, unattached end of the fabric strip through the adjuster ring.


The strip should come up from beneath the ring, over the bar and the attached material, and back down through the other open end.
Slide the fabric strip through the adjuster ring until only 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10 cm) of material remain. This remaining material will overlap the material attached to the adjuster ring bar. Note that the threaded half of the breakaway clasp should sit at the center of this doubled material.
 Slip a metal D-ring down 3 inches (7.6 cm) of the open strip end. Thread the opposite end of the breakaway clasp 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) above it at the same end. Sew that end in place.


The rounded portion of the ring should face toward the "right" side of the fabric.
Fold the strap "wrong" sides together so that the end overlaps around the bar of the clasp. Fold 1/4 inch (6 mm) of the raw edge between the two layers, then stitch the layers down.
Use seam sealant to secure any visible raw edge that remains, if applicable.
 The collar is finished, and you should be able to snap it around your cat's neck. Adjust the length to size by pulling material through the adjuster ring.


You should be able to slip two fingers between the collar and your cat's neck when the collar is sized correctly.

