 Some of the gods to use are, Drunken God with internal strength, The drunkard with the sudden waist attack, the Drunken God with the powerful throat lock, Drunken God with the double kicks, Drunken God holding large keg, Drunken God with long flute, and Drunken Goddess Mrs. Ho "flaunting her body". All these techniques are effective in their own way and it always matters upon the situation.
 Using this style inquires you to stumble a lot. Remember, while using this style, you must have one leg tense, (not all the time). Combining the coiling, stumbling, and the use of the tense leg, you can develop many great openings, which gives a right moment to strike.
 Why? Because there's never a moment when you rest. While using this style, you must always be aware of what you're hitting, where you're hitting, and hitting your opponent frequently. This drunkard style always hits his opponent in a small circle in front of the user. This style is considered very popular, since it involves using a lot of movement, a lot of hitting, and a lot of circular attacks. It is very effective, but also very tiring. So this style could be considered, as one of your last options.
 Just by it's name, it represents using throat locks. While using this style, you must have very powerful wrists and fingers. This style is very powerful, and great for defense, However, this style involves doing forward flips with your hands behind you (on your back) and flipping forward, but without jumping (like a slinky). Using this style inquires a lot of finger use. Therefore, your fingers must be incredibly strong.
 Like it's name, using double kicks keeps your opponent confused, (if he moves back) and if he doesn't move back, then it basically damages your opponent. This drunkard style has many Ariel kicks involved, so in order to make good use of this style, you must have strong legs, and a great base. Which means a neutral stance before attacking. It also inquires of extensive use of flexibility and balance. Balance is very important while using this style. If you lack balance, strong legs and a strong base, than this style will be hard for you.
 With this style it is important to use this as a last resort since this has many openings.
 This is one of the most effective styles in Drunken Fist styles. It is important to keep your arms in a circle in front of you during this.
 Its attacks are the most powerful and use the most stumbling.
 The moves may seem feminine, but they are very powerful since they use moves that resemble a woman fighting. Since people are often confused or think less of this style, it is more effective.
 one such style is Ba Ying Quan (Eight Shadow Fist) this style uses a different system but has similarities to the drunken god forms.

