 Federal law allows employers to monitor employee phone conversations. However, this is only true for business-related calls, like those with customers or suppliers. An employer is generally not permitted to monitor personal calls, and must stop recording and monitoring the call when they realize it is personal. The only exception to this is if personal phone calls are explicitly prohibited by workplace policy.


The recording and monitoring of voice mails should be done only with justification, like a documented suspicion of misconduct.Phone conversations may be recorded using phone taps or an electronic recording system. In some cases, this can be tied in with your other monitoring software.
 Businesses typically use video surveillance to discourage customers from stealing products. However, some businesses also use video surveillance to make sure that employees are being productive and not violating the business's policies. Monitoring employees this way can provide you with unbiased evidence of employee misconduct and can also motivate them to work more diligently. However, the constant feeling of being watched might make employees uncomfortable and lead to a decline in morale. For these reasons, carefully consider the pros and cons before using video surveillance.


In many states, video surveillance is also carefully regulated by state law. Check with your state laws before implementing this type of monitoring.
Videotaping employees doing certain activities, like using the restroom or changing, is always illegal and can result in criminal penalties., Certain apps, like Xora and TSheets, allow employers to track employee movement through their smartphones. This is typically used for clocking in or out and is legal if the employee gives consent. However, some employees are tracked 24/7 using the software, which could give them legal grounds to sue their employers for breach of privacy. If you implement this type of policy, consult with a lawyer to make sure you are doing so legally.


Shipping or driving-based businesses may also use trackers in vehicles to ensure that drivers stay on route. This is a common practice and is generally acceptable.