 Everyone wants to know that they are loved and appreciated. Encourage your friends to follow their dreams, especially if no one else will. Find a way to tell them how much they mean to you, even if you have to do it casually or inconspicuously. Be caring and compassionate in all your dealings. Just being there for your friends, whether they’re having a major life struggle or just ranting about their work situation, can be the best thing you can do to make them happier.


Another way to be emotionally supportive is to let your friends know when they’re being self-destructive. If they’re in a bad relationship, making poor life choices, or squandering their talents, find a gentle way to discuss it with them. Whether or not they listen is up to them, but at least you took the time to be honest.;
, Smile at them and, if you have a warm relationship with the person, hug them. Do something fun like building a blanket fort, hosting a sleepover, or making silly putty — especially if you’re “too old” for such things. Put together a little collection of adorable pictures, videos, and gifts and dare the person not to feel better after taking a look.


Of course, being silly won’t make a person happier in every situation, but it’s worth a shot. Your friend will appreciate that you’re really willing to put in hard work to make him smile.
If your friend is really sad, then sometimes the best way to cheer him up is just to be there for him, as a shoulder to cry on. Don’t put too much pressure on yourself to come up with a ridiculous activity to make your friend feel better, if the mood isn’t right.
Sometimes, even after lots of talking and hugs and cuddles, the person still will be in a bad mood. With certain types people it actually helps to get sad about them being sad. If they're the empathetic kind, it'll drive them crazy to see you sad and they'll try to fix it. And usually when they do, their mood will improve as well, and sometimes more than what you yourself are capable of.
 One easy way to make somebody feel appreciated and validated is to simply hear them out. Try to understand their thoughts and be in their shoes. Ask thoughtful questions, don’t interrupt, and if you don’t understand something, say something instead of playing along. You may have a friend who feels like he doesn’t get enough attention and who really needs a kind ear, and you can make that person happier by being there and making an effort to really listen.


To truly listen to your friend, turn your body toward him, make eye contact, and don’t give unsolicited advice. Make your friend see that you’re fully focused and are there to help make your friend’s life better, not to pass judgment.
Put your phone away when your friend is talking to show that you are giving your friend the attention he deserves.
 Take the time out to pick out a special gift that is suitable for the person. The more thought you put into the gift, the better it is from the point of being an expression of positive energy and consideration. Get your friend something that he or she would really like or need instead of getting something random; it could be a rare album that your friend would love, or a first edition of your friend’s favorite novel. Making an effort to find something truly unique for your friend will make your friend feel instantly happy.


Though giving your friend a meaningful gift on her birthday or during the holidays can make a positive impression, sometimes nothing can make a person happier than a random gift given without a special occasion.
 One way to make a friend happy is to call him or her just to say hi. This small gesture can make a big difference and can show your friend that you really care about him or her and want to know what’s going on in his or her life. Call when you have a few minutes and ask about how your friend’s day is going and what he’s been up to at work, in school, or with his friends. Take some time to take an interest in your friend without wanting anything in return, and you’ll be lighting up your friend’s day.People don’t call each other just to chat nearly as often as they used to. Make your friend happy by calling without wanting a single thing.
If you know your friend just had a big week, such as starting a new job, then calling just to see how it’s going can make your friend even happier.
 Another way to make a friend happy is to offer some help. This doesn’t mean you have to do anything super intense, or to help out only during dark times either. If your friend is having a busy day, pick up lunch for him or her or offer to walk his dog that morning. You can give your friend a ride to work if you know his car is in the shop, or help him put together that IKEA table that’s been leaning against his wall for weeks. Even making an effort to help out with the small things can bring a smile to your friend’s face.


Some of your friends may be resistant to asking for help even when they need it. Work on making them see that you genuinely do want to help them, and they’ll be more eager to accept.
Be observant. Watch your friend and see what he or she needs the most. Maybe your friend would love a cup of iced coffee but is too shy to ask for it.
 Your friend will instantly be happier if you send him a thank you card that shows how much you appreciate something he’s done for you. You may think that thank you cards are only for teachers or older people, but sending one to a friend can be a meaningful and unique way to say thank you and to make your friend feel happier. You don’t have to thank the friend for a specific thing, but you can be more general and thank him for being an amazing friend or a great listener.


Leave the note on your friend’s doorstep, in your friend’s mailbox, or even sneak it inside a book your friend is reading. The element of surprise can make your friend even happier.
 Another way to make your friend happy is to praise him to other friends when he’s not around. Instead of gossiping and being mean, spread the positivity and say something nice about one of your friends, whether you’re praising his fashion sense or his amazing guitar skills, so that your friend will feel happy when it gets back to him. Rest assured that, just like negative gossip, your friend will hear about it if you say something kind about him behind his back.Plus, if you say something nice about a friend behind his or her back, this will inspire your friend to say something about you when you’re not around; this will continue to spread positive energy around.
 Baking something is a way to make your friends happy that will never grow stale. Taking the time to bake chocolate chip cookies, banana bread, apple pie, or another favorite treat of your friend’s will definitely make your friend happy and will make him or her appreciate the effort you’re putting in to lighting up your friend’s day. You can even leave the baked treats on your friend’s desk or on her front porch for an extra surprise treat.


If you don’t know what dessert is that person’s favorite, see if you can cleverly ask around so your baked goods are an extra treat.
Baking your friend something for his or her birthday can make your friend even more happy.

