 Increasingly the biggest problem for those who would rather keep their work and private lives separate is the proliferation of social media. People record all aspects of their lives and sometimes don't fully comprehend how accessible all of this information is to anybody who cares to look for it. The first step to tackling this problem is simply being aware of it and thinking about how your social media activity could reveal parts of your private life you'd rather keep out of the office.


If you want to maintain a professional image online and don't want to invite questions about your private life, avoid posting anything openly that could threaten this.This includes text and comments as well as photos. If you want to keep the two elements of your life separate you need to do this outside of the office as well as inside it.
Don't tweet or comment about your job or your colleagues in your social media accounts.
You might consider setting up multiple social media accounts to keep the two areas of your life separate.Consider connecting with work colleagues on professional sites such as LinkedIn, and reserve things like Facebook for personal friends and family. This will help you keep these arenas separate.
 It is possible to be active on social media without blocking your colleagues' friends requests, if you just want to use your online profile to keep in touch with friends. Think about how you can adjust your privacy settings so that you limit the amount of material you share with your colleagues.


You can control the amount of information about you that goes online and you can, to some extent, control who has access to it.
But be aware that once something is on the internet it is not likely to disappear quickly., So much communication in our working lives and our lives outside work is conducted through email, that it can be easy for your work email and personal email to blend into one. You should be conscious of this and take steps to make sure you keep the two separate. Always use your work email for work and your personal email for everything else.


Set a time when you will stop looking at your work email in the evening and stick to it.
Keeping these email boundaries will help you to avoid carrying your work around with you.
Depending on your place of work you will have to develop a strategy for cutting off work communications that fits in with your job.In most cases, you do not have a right to privacy in your work email. Your boss is usually legally able to read anything sent or received in work email accounts. Keep your personal matters in your personal email to avoid any sharing of information you want to keep private.