 When the temperature rises above 60℉, female chiggers lay their eggs in clusters. Newly hatched chiggers do not stray far from each other, but remain congregated in damp, dark areas, such as high grass, brush piles, and shady areas. As a result, large numbers of chigger larvae may be present in one area, but not another. Instead of treating your entire property for chiggers, you may wish to spot treat. There are two methods of identifying chigger hot spots on your property:


Place pieces of black cardboard vertically in your yard. If mites are present in the area, they will climb to the top of the cardboard. Examine the cardboard for chigger larvae with a magnifying glass.
Retrieve a white sheet and a piece of dry ice. Spread out the sheet and set the dry ice in the center. The carbon dioxide from the dry ice will attract any nearby mites. Examine the dry ice for chigger larvae with a magnifying glass.
When you closely examine the cardboard or dry ice, your risk of getting chigger bites will increase. Also, these methods will attract all nearby mites, not just chiggers., In order to eliminate chiggers from your outdoor environment, you must eliminate their prefered habitats: dark, damp locations that offer them protection from the elements.


Mow your yard frequently to keep your grass short and free of weeds—chigger larvae hide in tall grassy areas.Prune your trees and bushes to reduce shade cover in your yard—chigger larvae cannot survive in direct sunlight.Remove briars, wood piles, and brush piles from your property., To reduce or eliminate the chigger population on your property, treat your yard with insecticides. You may either use natural or chemical products:


Diatomaceous earth, the fossilized remains of diatoms, is a natural chigger repellant.Spread bits and pieces of this sedimentary rock around your yard to ward off chiggers naturally.Treat your yard with carbaryl, an insecticide spray approved for use by non-licensed pest-controllers.
 When natural or commercial-grade insecticides fail to eliminate your chigger infestation, call a certified pest controller. Licensed pest controllers can use stronger chemicals, such as propoxur or cyfluthrin, to treat your lawn, trees, and shrubbery. If your chigger problem persists, request a second treatment within two to three weeks of the first application of insecticide.

