 Warm up the muscles you'll be using to do a front flip, paying special attention to your ankles, hamstrings, calves, back, quadriceps, neck, and wrists. You can also use a wobble board to stretch out your ankles. Here are some great stretches that will help you warm up to do a front flip:


Stretch your wrists. Hold your hand out in front of you, like you're saying "stop," and gently pull your fingers back toward you.
Stretch your ankles. Sit down and cross the ankle of one leg over the knee of the other and roll the ankle of the crossed leg. Switch and roll the other ankle. You can even spell out the alphabet with the foot of the rolled ankle if you like.
Stretch your hamstrings. Stand up and fold one of your legs up until your ankle reaches your butt. Hold on to your ankle and pull your foot back until you feel the stretch.
Stretch your neck and shoulders. Roll your shoulders forward and back and roll your head clockwise and then counter-clockwise in a circular motion.;
, This move will help you gain vertical momentum. Focus on the force of your jump upward, not down to the ground. Practice taking a few running steps, then bending your knees slightly and jumping straight up with your hands high in the air, with your elbows by your ears.










Practice your landing too. You'll land with knees bent, at about a foot lower than your regular standing position, with your arms up straight in front of you.
After you land with your feet on the ground, you can straighten your body and lift your arms in the air for a graceful finish.
Once you've finished practicing the basic "punch jump," you can repeat the "punch jump" while tucking your knees up toward your chest instead of keeping them straight as you jump.
Once you get the jump down, you can move on to practice the rotation.
 Start with the "punch jump" and then tuck your knees as you rotate forward, landing with your knees bent before you straighten up. Do this on a trampoline or into a pit until you feel comfortable enough to do it on the floor. You'll be adding a rotation to the "punch jump" to execute the flip on the trampoline.










Have a knowledgeable spotter stand by you as you practice the flip. The spotter should keep his hand on or near your stomach so he can help you rotate forward.
 Practice the same front flip skills while standing on a gymnastics block that faces a soft and durable mat. This will help get you even more comfortable than trying to do this on a trampoline. This will be harder because you won't have the extra upward bounce that the trampoline gave you, so you'll have to work on gathering your own momentum.










Work on going up more instead of leaning forward. Though you may think that leaning forward will help you land on your feet, you'll actually be making it harder for yourself to complete the rotation because you won't be gaining as much height.
 Once you've mastered the trampoline and gymnastics blocks and are comfortable doing a front flip without a spotter, it's time to find a sturdy and bouncy gymnastics mat that will help you do the flip. Though you'll be doing this on the floor, the gymnastics mat has more bounce that a regular floor, so it will help give you upward momentum. To do a front flip, just string together all of the steps that you've mastered while practicing while adding a rotation.










Start with the punch jump, tuck your knees, and rotate forward while keeping your hands around or near your shins.
Land with your knees bent and your arms in front of you, and then straighten your body and raise your arms straight up for your finish.

