 You can make it easy for customers to leave reviews by creating a profile on relevant review sites. The sites you use will depend on the industry you are in. However, you can begin by searching for reviews of your competitors and noting the review sites they appear on.


Popular review sites include Angie’s List, Yahoo Local, Google Local, LinkedIn, Yelp, and CitySearch.;
, Some websites will gather your reviews. For example, Reevoo or BazaarVoice will host reviews.These services make getting reviews easy, especially if you work in an industry which isn’t reviewed frequently on Yelp or other established sites.
 Put the information on the back so that it is easy for customers to find.You can write, “Send feedback to” and then include a list of links.
 The most effective way to get reviews is to ask your customers for one.And the most effective way to ask is face-to-face. While you are still with the customer, you can say, “If you were satisfied with our service, please let other people know.”Asking is particularly effective when staff has spent some time with the customer. For example, a sales associate who helps a person pick out a bed has built a small bond with the customer. It is less effective for a cashier who has seen someone for thirty seconds to ask for a review.
Asking face-to-face also allows you to prescreen whether the customer had a good experience. If they didn’t, you don’t need to ask for a review.
 Sometimes an email request is the best way to solicit reviews. Try to find out if the person had a good experience before asking for the review.For example, you can ask them to complete a short survey. If the customer is positive about the experience, you ask them for a review.


Try to have the email come from a person the customer knows, and make sure to include the customer’s name in the subject line.
Put links to review sites in the email. You can also use a “Find us on Yelp” banner., Few people leave reviews unless they have had a negative experience. For this reason, you might need to create incentives. For example, you could offer a coupon for future services or a small gift.Remember that the offer should be for leaving a review, not leaving a positive one. You can’t buy positive reviews.Realize that Yelp doesn’t allow you to offer incentives in exchange for reviews.If you work in an industry that is heavily covered by Yelp, then you might want to forego incentives for customers. Alternately, you could send the coupon or other gift after the customer writes the review., You’ll get more reviews if all employees understand their importance. Create a bonus program for employees to make sure that they encourage customers to leave reviews. For example, you could give a $50 bonus for each review a customer leaves.Be careful, however. Make sure your employees understand not to hound customers into giving reviews. For this reason, you might want to offer non-cash rewards, such as a free lunch for the employee who generates the most reviews in a week.
You’ll also need upper-level management to be on board.Accordingly, talk to the company president about the importance of reviews.
 Some reviews sites allow businesses to thank customers for their reviews. Make it a habit of thanking everyone who leaves a positive review. Also remember to mention something specific from the review, which shows you read the review closely.For example, you can say, “Thanks for the review and complimenting our wine list, Hunter! We strive to offer the best variety around.”
You can also ask the customer to return, or recommend what else they can try at your business. For example, you can write, “Next time, ask about our specialty brews. We know you won’t be disappointed!”

, Getting a positive review on Yelp or Angie’s List is great. However, you should maximize their effectiveness. For example, ask customers if you can post their positive comments on your website.Also consider asking a repeat customer to star in a short video in which they talk about their experience.You can post it on your website.
 If you run a business with employees, decide who will find reviews and how long they will have to respond to them (such as within 24 hours). Make sure to train this person on how to respond appropriately. If you’re the one assigned to respond, then ask a supervisor if you don’t know what to say.
 These responses usually sound insincere, which may only make the customer angrier. When responding, remember to address the customer by name, and focus on the substance of the review.For example, if the customer complained about the wait time, respond with something like, "Megan, we apologize about the long wait."

, No one likes a negative review. Often, negative reviews are one-sided or not entirely accurate. Nevertheless, it’s important not to blast the customer. Avoid using profanity or belittling the reviewer.


Instead, begin by saying, “I’m sorry for your experience.”
Remember that many people are not expecting you to be perfect. However, they do want you to engage with them in a constructive way.For example, they might be fishing for a refund.
 A good strategy for replying is to decide what you want to highlight about your business. Construct your response around your strengths.


For example, if you have a lot of experience, you can reply with something like, “We’re sorry you were unhappy with your massage. We’ve been in business for 12 years and served thousands of customers. It’s rare for someone to be unhappy, so please contact us about a refund.” This response emphasizes your experience in the industry.
 People reading the review have no idea what really happened. Accordingly, you don’t benefit by denying every accusation. However, you also don’t need to admit to something that didn’t happen. A better strategy is to review with your staff whether the customer’s complaint is legitimate. If it is, then apologize.
 For example, your business might have a policy that you don’t accept walk-ins after 7:00 pm. If the person blasting you on Yelp showed up at 7:15, you should point that out. You don’t need to be rude. However, you should supply the missing context.


For example, you can write, “Sorry about the negative experience, Chris. Unfortunately, we enforce a strict 7:00 pm deadline for walk-ins, which we advertise on the door and also on our website. Our restaurant is too packed after 7:00, so reservations are required.”

, Whoever is tasked with responding to reviews should include their name, title, email address, and direct phone number.Including this information makes it easy for customers to contact you.
 Sometimes, you can resolve an issue with a customer. For example, they might have received a defective product, which you offered to replace. Or you offered to reimburse the customer for their bad experience. Once the customer is happy, ask them to remove their review.Be polite in your request. Many customers might still be angry at you and be unwilling to remove or modify the negative review. If so, don’t press.
Another strategy is to swamp all negative reviews with positive ones by encouraging satisfied customers to leave reviews.

