 Part of being an effective journalist or writer is being curious about other people's stories and finding a way to create a story from every day occurrences. Start a list of possible story ideas to pitch to a local publication or an online publication you are familiar with. Generate story ideas by using certain tactics, such as:Using a writing prompt, such as "That One Time I..." or a "Day in the Life" of someone you find interesting. You may also consider using every day events at school as jumping off points for possible ideas for an article.
Brainstorming different angles on a current topic or subject. For example, police brutality against African American men. Write the current topic or subject in the center of a piece of a paper. Then, write down other related words or terms around the central idea. Continue adding words or terms until you feel you have written down enough. Read over the terms and circle or highlight any terms that seem useful or that could lead to a possible angle or slant on the topic.;
, Maybe you always look at a certain publication every morning or tend to go to the same websites for pop culture or national news. Consider if your writing might work in the online publications you frequent or if these sites could serve as places you may want to see your work in one day.Check the sites for open submissions, or calls for submissions. Some websites, especially online magazines, have themed issues with open calls for work around a certain theme or idea.
One of the big pet peeves for editors is receiving submissions from writers who have never read the publication before and are submitting blind. Avoid this by taking the time to read several articles on the site, and get a feel for the voice and tone of the articles.
 For print publications, the best place to start is local publications in your area, town, or city. Most areas have free weekly publications that showcase the local happenings. Look through several issues to get a sense of the type of work is being published.Check out each section of the publication, such as Arts & Lifestyle, Music, or Local News, to see what type of writing you might want to pitch to the publication. If you’re interested in music reviews, look at the byline (which states who the article is written by) to find the music editor of the publication.
Contact the editor with a brief email expressing your interests in writing music reviews for the publication. Avoid contacting the editor-in-chief of the publication directly. Always go for the editor of the section you would like to write for.
 One of the best ways to get into a daily writing habit and brush up on your article writing skills is to start a professional blog. Choose a topic you are interested in writing about or feel you have a certain level of expertise in. Focus on posting quality 500 word posts on the topic once a day or several times a week.Use your blog as a way to share your opinions on a topic or to delve into deeper research and investigation on the topic. You may then be able to use posts from your blog to pitch story ideas to publications.
 Most publications will ask you for two to three clips, which are choice articles you have completed recently and published, when you solicit them for an article. Your clips should be within the last two years and showcase your writing voice.Many writers have online portfolios. They will then link to their portfolio in their pitch letter or in their initial email to an editor. There are many tools you can use to create an online portfolio with basic computer skills. Platforms like WordPress and Pressfolio are popular and easy to use. You can create a basic site to collect your clips so you look professional to editors and other writers.