


Is this product/service something I would consider using/owning? This is very important because if you do not stand behind your product, you will not be comfortable in sharing your business with others.
Is the product a good value? It is easy to keep a customer with a quality products; however, if you have an overpriced or substandard product you will be constantly trying to develop new customers.
Will I be required to "stock" product? Some companies require a minimum amount of product you must keep on-hand for your customers and/or require an "auto-ship". An auto-ship is where the company will send you a certain level of stock monthly regardless of your sales. Both ways usually end up with the rep having unused product sitting around their home.
Does the product limit your customer base? If your product is geared to a specific gender, race or age group you will be eliminating a certain group from your list of potential customers. For example, if your product targets only women you will not be able to market your product to 50% of the people you know; thus, limiting your income.;
,


What is the company's Better Business Bureau rating? This can be checked at www.bbb.org. The company should be listed and graded. Anything less than a "B" letter grade should be highly scrutinized.
Can you easily find out the leadership of the company? If a company is hiding the leadership, question why they are not forthcoming with this information. A legitimate company will acknowledge who is making the decisions.
Does the company make a contribution to the community? Integrity of a company can be determined by how it helps the community- locally, nationally and globally.
Are there geographic territories? If so, be careful. You may have friends and family you are unable to approach because that "area" belongs to someone else.



What is the investment cost? Normally, there is a fee to become a representative of a home-based business. Insure the fee is small. Do not be pressured into paying a large amount, this is usually a tacit used by "pyramid" schemes. These type of companies are illegal and the recruiter gets paid by recruiting other people, not by selling product/services.
Does the company have it's policies in writing? Be sure you know exactly what you are getting into. Legitimate companies will be more than willing to put the offer in writing.
Do you have to pay for a website, samples or catalogs to start showing your company to customers? If the answer is yes, this should be considered part of your start up investment.



How will I earn money? The comp plan should be explained to your satisfaction. If the plan is sketchy usually the business is also.
Does it seem to good to be true? If the answer is yes, it usually is. The plan should be structured and offer good income possibilities. All legitimate companies will offer you an income disclosure statement to insure you are well informed. A home-based business is like a gym membership, it is an opportunity and will take some work on your part.



Does the company offer any type of training? In order to be successful in your home-based business, you will need to have training available to you. A company should offer a variety of training such as one-one/classroom, written, audio, video, websites, webinars and telephone calls. Some business ship you a box and very little instruction on how to develop you business. Basically, call you friends and beg.

This type of company is not committed to your success.


What type of tools are available to you? Tools should be in place for you to easily implement into your lifestyle.
Can you call any person for help? Some companies require you to go through a chain of command in order for you to get answers. If the person above you does not know the answer to your question you will have to wait until they contact the person above them. When someone does know the answer to the question, you will have to wait until the answer is filtered down to you. A great company will allow you to call other members, leaders and the home office.



Does company offer health insurance? One of the ties binding people to their jobs is health insurance. Some great home-based business are offering health care. The health care plan should be comparable in price and quality to ones available in the workplace. With this benefit it allows you to have the flexibility to do you home-based business full or part-time.
What type of perks can I receive? Just as in the corporate world, some home-based business offer perks. They can range from free education, travel, cars etc.
Does the company have bonuses? Just as the word applies bonuses are additional product or income. Usually, you will need to reach certain level. Be sure to check out when bonuses can be available to you. Some companies lure reps in with these bonuses only to find out the bonus are virtually unobtainable.

