 Use an old basket or go to an arts and crafts store to find a small wooden box. Make sure whatever you choose is big enough to hold some goodies. Add embellishments to the box that reflect your daughter’s personality and favorite colors.You can go for a quirky tone or something more elegant, depending on your daughter’s personality. Your daughter might be the type to make a joke about her first period, or you could have a girl who’s going to want a memorable keepsake to get teary over.;
, In addition to a gift box, your daughter is going to want something to keep her essentials in when she’s at school. The kit should be something small that she can fit in her backpack, such as a pencil case. It should also be large enough to fit several pads and other essentials.Don’t put the word “period” on it or buy something red. While you might find this cute or funny, your daughter probably won’t.
 The purpose of the box and kit is to make your daughter feel ready to handle any situation related to her period. Include all the obvious essentials. If there’s room, add other items that you feel are appropriate for your daughter’s unique needs.All kits and boxes should have pads, wet wipes or tissues, hand sanitizer, and a cute pair of replacement underwear.
Most girls won’t start out using tampons. If your daughter is a swimmer, she’s an exception.
You might also want to add a little booklet of tips to the gift box. For example, you could write a note telling your daughter to keep an extra sweatshirt in her locker just in case she has a leakage emergency.
 Enough with the serious stuff. This is supposed to be a celebration! Put some chocolate or your daughter’s favorite sweet snack in the gift box. Write a card telling her you love her, and that you’re always there for her.Go for a sappy card if you’re creating an elegant keepsake. If you’re striving for a quirkier tone, keep the card light and cute.
 You can buy pre-made period kits online for your daughter. While these are great for getting ideas, it’ll mean more to your daughter if she knows you made her a box and kit all on your own., Once you’ve given your daughter her gifts, ask her what she thinks. There may be specific items she wants in the kit to prepare herself at school. Take her to your local pharmacy to finish making the kit together.