 Get nice, oceanic friendly attire. Get a few beach dresses, tank tops, long skirts, bikinis or one-pieces, (whichever you're more comfortable in), flip-flops, ripped jeans, big sunglasses, denim shorts, shell necklaces and earrings, hemp bracelets, etc. Also, get some fun beach towels. Bright patterns are always fun, but whatever you like, get it. Stick to these general rules, but get what you want to wear. If you want, you can also check out some popular brands such as Rip Curl, Roxy, Billabong, Rusty and Quicksilver. They can be found in Pacsun, or sometimes T. J. Maxx or Marshalls for lower prices. These can be expensive, but you can often buy them cheaper on Ebay.;
, You want your feet to look good in flip-flops so make sure your feet are soft, smooth, and free of cracks and calluses. Use a coarse scrub, pumice stone, a thick moisturizing cream, and thin cotton socks to cover them with before going to bed. Take off the socks in the morning. Bare nails should be clean, trimmed, and neatly filed. Always wear a shade of nail polish in a nice color such as pink, peach, coral, or red. Always reapply if they become chipped.
 It doesn't have to be very noticeable, but a little color looks good on everybody. A self tanner is the safest way to achieve that sexy sun-kissed glow without putting yourself at risk for wrinkles and skin cancer. Its also a great way to instantly cover up skin imperfections like scars and stretch marks. Whether you're at the beach or pool, always wear a sunscreen with a SPF level of 20 or higher when spending time outside, even if you do not burn. Your skin will thank you for it in the long-run.
 If you do, work on it a lot, never hesitate to take advice or learn a different stroke.
 Curls and waves look cute on the beach. So do fishtail braids and messy up-do's. The key is to look natural so stay away from heat stylers. Although blonde is the ultimate beach hair colour, any color can look sun-kissed when you put a few highlights in it.
 If you don't like using razors, pick up some Nair or a similar product to remove the hair. Never leave the house with hairy arms, legs, bikini lines, and armpits if you wouldn't do so in a swimsuit.
 You don't even have to wear any makeup at all! But if you do, wear a light amount and keep it simple. All a natural beach beauty really needs is two coats of waterproof mascara, a hint of light shimmery eyeshadow at the inner corners of the eyes, a touch of peachy blush or bronzer, and a slick of sheer, nude or pink lipgloss. Save the eyeliner for a night out and other special occasions.
 Swim, surf, or do something else. Have fun too!

, It will only look fake. Natural is key!!

