 The patterns for this homemade diaper can be found here: http://www.adventuresinfluff.com/2011/08/how-to-sew-your-own-recycled-t-shirt.html. You can either print out the scaled pattern or the measurements pattern. Use scissors to cut the pattern out.


The measurement pattern is just a reference for you to be able to draw your own pattern based on the size you want. Each line is labeled and each label has a corresponding length for each size. For example, if you want a diaper for a newborn, you'd draw the shape shown with the "C" line being 2.5".
The scaled pattern should be printed out on standard printer paper. You need to do so with a printer that prints in color. Then you cut out the pattern of the desired size. For example, for a small diaper, you'd cut along the green lines. Then you line up pattern A and pattern B using the black dots as guides. Then you mirror the patterns across the appropriate dashed line for the size you're using. Then you tape the pattern together.
 Lay your t-shirt out. Make the t-shirt inside out. Then lay it on a flat surface so that the sleeves are at the top. Lay the pattern on the middle of the t-shirt. Hold it in place with pins or weights. Use a marker or sharpie to trace around the pattern.


Smooth out the t-shirt so it's free of wrinkles. Iron it first if necessary.
 Remove the pattern. Then pin the t-shirt all the way around the marked cutting lines, on the inside of the lines. Make sure you pin both layers of the shirt together.
 Use scissors to cut through both layers of the t-shirt, and cut out the shape.
 Use an old towel and cut out a rectangle to be used as a soaker for the diaper. Cut it out using the following size guide:


Newborns: 8" by 12".
Small: 9" by 14.5".
Medium: 9" by 16.5".
Large: 10" by 19".
 First, fold the soaker in half by the short side so that the long side is still the same length and the short side is half the length. Then lay the soaker on the diaper shape so that it runs through the center with the wings on either side. Pin it at the top and bottom.
 Sew all the way around the diaper shape except for the bottom where the soaker is. The soaker should be sewn to the diaper shape at the top where the wings are but not at the bottom.


Make the stitch line about 1/4" from the edge.
 Pull the entire inside of the diaper out through the hole where the bottom of the soaker is. Straighten the whole thing out so that it looks how it did before being turned inside out. Straighten out the soaker so that it runs down the middle of the diaper again.
 Pin the soaker in place at the bottom of the diaper. Sew along the bottom of the diaper so the opening is closed.
 Sew along each side of the middle of the diaper so that the soaker stays in place on the inside of the diaper. The stitch lines should run vertically up and down the diaper and should be near the wings.
 Fold the long edges in toward each other so that only the wings stick out. Sit your baby in the center of the diaper. Fold the bottom of the diaper up the front of the baby. Pull the wings around the waist of the baby and pin it all together in the front.