 You can do this using paper, felt, or if you’re comfortable sewing, you can use fabric. You’ll need a quarter-circle for the top and a circle with a hole in the middle for the brim.


If you’re short on time, you can buy plain black ready-made witch hats from the dollar store or anywhere else that sells Halloween costumes, and then decorate those.
Once you have your hat, decorate it with artificial gems, glitter, stickers, felt pieces, ribbon, sequins, or whatever else tickles your fancy.
You can even make a witch-hat collage by pasting various items onto a paper witch hat or a piece of cardboard that has been cut into the shape of a witch’s hat.
You can use the decorated hat as a centerpiece on your table or on other surfaces around your house.
You can also hang the hat from the ceiling — just make sure it’s low enough that people can see your decorations, but out of the way so that no one will accidentally bonk into it and knock it down.
 Use decorated witch hats or paper cut-outs of witch hats in varying sizes around your house. You can use small witch hats for bunting or garland, for instance, alternating the hats with cut-outs of black cats, brooms, and candy corn.


You could even make a witch hat in a candy corn theme by sewing or pasting together fabric that has orange at the base, yellow in the middle, and white at the tip.
 There are lots of ways to turn the silhouette of a witch into decorations, including witch garlands, streamers, collages, cards, signs, and cut-outs.


Witch silhouettes are especially effective decorations when placed against a window or white surface.
With the witch come some other traditional symbols that can be added into your artwork, including the black cat, the moon, and the broomstick.
 If you’ll be putting the legs outside, avoid filling them with paper products or anything else that is easily damaged by water.


Draw and cut out witchy-looking boots on a fabric of your choosing (black is recommended). Draw each boot on 2 pieces of fabric (or 1 piece folded in half), and make it extra large as it will shrink when sewn and stuffed.
Cut, sew, and stuff the boots, and attach them to the ends of the stockings.
Put some wire in the legs to make them bendy, then stick them in a prop cauldron to make it look like the witch fell in her own brew. You can also have the legs coming out from under a flower pot or anywhere else for that matter.
If you’re a film buff you could make it look like your house fell on a witch (like in The Wizard of Oz) by stuffing a pair of black and white striped stockings and putting sparkly red shoes on them, then fastening them to the ground near the foundation of your house.
 Once that’s done, make the witch a skirt:


Cut 20-inch-long strips of black tulle or another crunchy fabric that will mimic a fluffy crinoline.
Cut the handle off a cheap umbrella (be careful that you don’t hurt yourself doing this), then tuck and tie the legs and crinoline up into the spokes of the umbrella.
The crinoline should hide all of the metal in the umbrella so that it just looks like a large skirt with a witch’s legs sticking out. Fasten it to your ceiling (you can cut a hole int the top of the umbrella and pull the stockings through to use as a hanging device) and Voila!

,


Use the brown felt pen to color in the lollipop sticks brown. You can also use black or dark brown if you think this would look better.
Cut a bunch of squares in your tissue paper, all of the same size. Four inches by four inches is recommended.
Gently put the lollipop stick through the middle of the tissue square and then pull the tissue down until it rests on top of the lollipop.
Pull the tissue around the lollipop candy, and then scrunch the rest of the tissue up before tying it with twine to hold it in place. You may need to trim the edges of the tissue so that the broom can stand upright.
These can double as place settings at the dinner table as well as party favors. If you want to use them as place settings, tie a name tag around the section of the broom that’s tied with twine.

