 Many people handle their hair roughly in the shower, scrubbing it from the roots to the tips. Then they towel it dry vigorously and brush out the tangles. This routine is terrible for hair, which is more fragile and breakable when it's wet. Don’t scrub it, rub it, wring it out or brush it. Being gentle with your hair will prevent breakage.


Don't brush your hair, since this can cause it to break, especially when it's wet. After your shower, use a wide-tooth comb to gently comb out the tangles, working from the tips upward instead of the roots downward.
Gently pat your hair with a towel to absorb the excess moisture, then let it finish air drying.
 Aiming hot air at your hair is a sure way to damage it. Heat has the power to make hair look smooth and sleek, but unfortunately it comes at a high price, especially if you blow your hair dry every day. Save your blowouts for special occasions, and plan to let it air dry on an everyday basis.
 If you're going to prom, a wedding or a cocktail party, you might want to straighten or curl your hair. Otherwise, keep your heating tools in the cabinet. Using them every day is sure to cause your hair to get dried out, leading to breakage and frayed ends.


Straighteners and flat irons, curling irons and curlers should all be used only sparingly.
When you do use heat on your hair, smooth in a heat protectant product to mitigate the damage as much as possible.
 Just because you shouldn't use heat on your hair doesn't mean you have to go without beautiful tresses. There are other ways to achieve your favorite looks; you just have to get creative. Your hair may not be as bone straight and shiny as it would be if you used a flat iron, but it'll sure look better than it would if you allowed it to break and fray from too much heat exposure.



T-shirt curls look beautiful and require zero heat.

Straightening with a fan instead of a hair dryer takes patience, but it works.
 Every time you use them, you break a few strands. Try wearing your hair down more often instead of pulling it back into tighter styles. If you love updos, there are great alternatives to your typical drugstore elastics. Choose elastics and headbands made of soft cloth like silk or satin. They won't dent or damage your hair.

