 There is no incorrect reply. Your response may be silence, a shrug, or “I don’t know.” You may reply with a vague, hazy answer or a toned-down version of what it is that you really want. Sit with the answer, mull it over for awhile. Consider why you don’t know. Identify the glimpses of your honest response in your hazy reply. Capture the essence of your toned-down answer.If your answer is silence, a shrug, or “I don’t know,” overcome the fear that you may never find happiness or that you don’t deserve to feel content. Respond again with a fresh perspective!Let go of any guilt and recognize that your hopes and dreams have evolved. What used to make you happy no longer satisfies you and that is perfectly normal! Your happiness does not need to be defined by what your friends, family, or coworkers think brings you joy., Elevate your response by expanding upon those glimpses of honesty in your hazy answer or extrapolating the essence of your toned-down reply. For example, if your original reply was “I want to be happier with my career” you would elevate your answer by identifying people, places, or things that make you feel happy. Continue to push your answer further until it is specific enough to be attained. For example, if animals make you happy, consider pursuing a career as a vet or volunteering at a shelter in your spare time. If working with kids brings you joy, consider becoming an elementary school teacher. If helping others creates feelings of fulfillment, search for a job in the service industry.This process may take awhile. Remain patient, allow yourself to feel frustrated, but never dwell on the impossibility of your answer.
 Allow your answer to guide you to happiness. Don’t worry about the when, where, or why. You can’t control those factors. You can only control how you pursue your happiness. Make an effort to pursue your happiness every day. This will require you to step outside of your comfort zone. The risks, however, will force you to grow into a brazen, driven, and happy individual.