 To make homemade soap scum cleaner, you’ll need equal parts of white vinegar and dish soap. You can make as little or as much of the cleaner as you’d like, so adjust the amounts accordingly to have 1 part of each.If you want to make enough of the cleaner to use repeatedly, it’s best to measure between 1 and 2 cups (237 to 473 ml) of both the vinegar and dish detergent.
 Once you’ve measured out the vinegar and dish soap, transfer the vinegar to a microwave-safe bowl. Heat it in the microwave for 30 seconds to 1 minute or until it is hot but not boiling.Heating the vinegar makes it easier to blend it with the thick dish soap.
 After you’ve heated the vinegar, pour it into a spray bottle. Add an equal amount of the dish soap, and secure the lid on the bottle. Shake it well to mix the two.Test the spray after you’ve mixed it. If it’s too thick to spray, you can mix in a little bit of warm, distilled water to thin it out.
 When you’re ready to use the cleaner, spray a generous amount over the affected tile. Allow the spray to sit on the tile for at least 30 minutes so it has time to cut through the soap scum.If the tile has a particularly thick layer of soap scum, you may want to leave the spray on the surface for an hour or longer.
 After you’ve let the cleaner sit on the tile for a half hour or longer, use a damp sponge to wipe the soap scum and residue away. Next, spray the area with warm water to rinse it completely clean.If the soap scum isn’t wiping away on the sponge, you can use a soft scrub brush to work on the stubborn areas. Scrub lightly, though, to avoid scratching the tile.
If you don’t have a spray bottle to rinse the tile, wet a clean cloth or rag with warm water to rinse it.
 Once the tile is rinsed clean, use a clean towel or rag to wipe down the surface so it is completely dry. Keep the bottle of cleanser with the rest of your cleaning supplies, and use anytime that you notice soap scum buildup.The homemade soap scum cleaner should stay effective for 6 months to 1 year.

