 There are many forms of karate, but they all focus on the basics of blocks, punches, and kicks, combining them into fluid form and application. Karate is a solid introduction to martial arts for inexperienced adults and young children, as well as experienced self-defense practitioners.
 Many fighters consider mixed martial arts a fluid, ideal discipline to start with. As its name suggests, MMA is a combination of different styles and disciplines. Variations of judo, jiu-jitsu, and Muay Thai are fighting styles often employed in MMA, but you don’t have to stick to just one of these styles. A combination can be effective, and your opponent’s mode of attack might dictate your own method of defense.


MMA is one of America's fastest growing sports, and can be found at local gyms and clubs in most cities and towns., If you're heavy and stocky, study judo, a widespread style, and Olympic sport. Judo is known for its throws and takedowns of opponents. Judo technique can be very effective at neutralizing an opponent and gaining the upper hand. Throws and other forms of close-quarters combat are crucial in many fighting situations, especially self-defense.
 This is a great option for stockier or smaller fighters, but all can benefit. Jiu-jitsu is very popular in MMA today and is often employed in a ground or defensive fighting. Some form of grappling or wrestling should be incorporated into any self-defense regimen, and jiu-jitsu can provide the fundamental framework.
 Muay Thai looks similar to kickboxing and, at times, jiu-jitsu, but it is different from both. Muay Thai primarily focuses on strikes from fists, elbows, knees, and feet, and it involves a type of grappling known as the clinch that is meant to set up these strikes., Krav Maga, Hebrew for “contact combat,” is currently very popular, particularly in military and self-defense training. The primary purpose of Krav Maga is to defend oneself and end a confrontation quickly and definitively. Its focus is on swift counterattacks, and it accounts heavily for defense against weapons., Ninjutsu is the feudal Japanese guerrilla fighting style of the ninja or shinobi.In Ninjutsu, you’ll study pressure points and surprising moves, while training for fitness and agility. Historically, Ninjutsu training is secretive, and teachings vary by instructor.


Ninjutsu is a very complex, nuanced fighting form that takes decades to learn. That said, the basics of it will benefit any fighter., The basics of boxing can come in handy in almost any fighting situation. Boxing teaches speed, striking with accuracy, dodging punches, footwork, and how to read your opponent’s punches. These are all valuable skills. Plus, boxing is good for a cardiovascular workout and to build core strength, upper body strength, and stamina.
 If you’re quick and fast, consider Kung Fu. Kung Fu is also a good way to stay fit in general or for training in any other type of fighting style. Kung Fu training involves both “Iron Body” and “Light Body” conditioning. The former is meant to strengthen the body into a weapon. The latter, much like Parkour, teaches speed and agility through exercises like running up walls., Taekwondo is known for its discipline, self-control, and conditioning. It uses isometric and dynamic tension exercises to tone and to put strength in muscles.Training in taekwondo helps hone reflexes and coordination as well as self-esteem.

