 It's always important to set the time and date correctly so that you can enjoy events and happenings at the right time.;
, The residents are the animals that wander around your town and are sometimes located in their homes. You'll find out that they never visit shops nor your home unless you have agreed to it through chatting. Visiting your home can't be agreed upon in letters.
 They might be asking you a question. Sometimes, you may get a gift if you fulfill their request. Answer any question sensibly; if you make them happy, they may give you a present, such as clothes or furniture. Your answer will also may make them wander around town singing with joy and glee in a happy mood.
 Don't just talk to the residents you like best. Otherwise, the ones you don't talk to will feel rejected and will probably move to another town. However, there is a way to stop them moving. See 'tips' for more information on this.
 Boondox is a poor town far west that you can never visit, but donating bells will help them.
 Plant flowers and trees, but don't overdo it. Make sure that there is an equal ratio between the two. You might want to plant them around resident's houses or your own, in a pattern or something.
 Try talking to Sable (the hedgehog in Able Sisters by the sewing machine in the left corner) everyday, and soon you will build up a friendship with her.
 Soon, Brewster will like you and talk to you about extracts of his life and offer special blends in your coffee. But you must drink it hot and don't say "It's got to cool", otherwise he will be angry with you and there is no way to answer. It is unknown why he does this.
 If it is flashing, stand in front of it and press the A button (or tap it) to check your mail. You may need to toss out some old mail to do so.
 The town's residents are your friends - and you'll build up a better relationship with them if you send them letters! You can right down whatever you want, but don't put swear words in your letters. It will block it, but some of them don't block, so just remember to say kind things. But there is a limited amount to what you can write, anyway. If you attach presents to your letters - you'll get a present back! Maybe some non-native fruit, or some furniture of clothing!

, You will need to do whatever you need to to keep the town beautiful.
 Weeds make your town look ugly. Pick them everyday, or choose one day out of the week and pick them all then!

, Eventually, you will end up with a mansion house, with loads of rooms!

, You cannot decorate your bedroom.
