 Remove the skin if necessary and any bones that remain. Place the fillet lengthwise on a clean, flat cutting surface with the wide end (head) on the left, the narrower end (tail) on the right, and the skin side facing down.


Use a cleaver or a chef's knife to cut the fillet into 4 even portions. Hold the knife at a slight angle with the cutting edge of the blade facing away from you when making the cuts. You should have 4 relatively even portions of fish weighing approximately 8 oz. (225 g) each.





;
, Crack the egg in your hand and let the egg whites, but not the yolk, slide through the spaces between your fingers into the mixing bowl. Discard the whites and reserve the yolks in a separate container.


Beat the egg yolks. Using a wire whisk, whip the egg whites in a mixing bowl for 1 to 2 minutes or until light and foamy. Squeeze in the juice from 1 lemon. Whip slightly to mix the juice and the yolks, and set aside.
 In a small mixing bowl, combine 1/4 cup (55 g) of almonds, sliced and chopped; 1/4 cup (55 g) of panko; 1 tbsp. (15 g) of dill; 2 tbsp. (30 g) of parsley; 1/2 tsp. (5 g) of sea salt; 1/4 tsp. (2.5 g) of white pepper; and 1/4 cup (55 g) of flour. Mix the ingredients using a small fork or spoon, and set aside.


Place the egg wash and the container with the mixture of chopped nuts, herbs, panko, flour and seasonings side-by-side on a clean, flat surface. Place a portion of salmon into the egg wash, making sure it is well coated on all sides.






Place the salmon into the breading mixture, making sure that the portion of fish is well coated and set aside. Repeat this process until each portion of fish has been evenly breaded on each side.
 Place a large skillet or frying pan on medium heat and add 1 tbsp. (15 g) of olive oil. Wait a few moments for the oil to heat up and place the breaded salmon fillets in the skillet. Turn the salmon once the almond crust has turned a deep, golden brown.


Reduce the heat to low and continue cooking until the salmon is only slightly translucent in the center of the portion. The salmon will continue cooking during plate-up and will be finished by the time it is served. This will ensure that the salmon is not over cooked and dried out.
