 Nori should have a rough side and a smooth side. Place the nori so that the rough side is facing up.
 It should evenly cover from the near edge to about an inch from the far edge of the sheet. Remove the nori and rice from the mat temporarily.


Start by placing the ball in the middle of the sheet of nori, and spread it out evenly.
Use your fingers to spread the rice onto the nori. Keep your hands wet with a mixture of water and rice vinegar.
 Lay it out on a flat surface and moisten it with a damp cloth.
, Rest one hand on top of the plastic film and use your other hand to grab and flip the sushi mat from one edge. The stack should then rest on your palm. Lay the sushi mat back on your work surface and lay down the stack on top of it with the plastic side down.
 Place the ingredients in a line, directly onto the bare nori starting at the nearest edge of the sheet. Each ingredient should be in its own line, with each row placed a small space from the one before. Some common California roll ingredient combinations:


Classic California roll: cucumber, crab stick, avocado.
Philadelphia roll: salmon or smoked salmon, cream cheese, cucumber.Butterfly roll: eel, crab stick, cucumber, topped with avocado.
Sushi is a very visual food. Try experimenting with different colored ingredients to make a finished sushi that is as pleasing to look at as it is to eat.
 Hold the edge of the mat with your thumbs. Start with the edge that has your first ingredient next to it. Lift the plastic film and fold it over the first ingredient. Make sure to keep the ingredients in place. Fold until the rice has folded over and stuck to the nori.
 Once the rice has stuck, gently pull the plastic out of the roll. Keep pulling the plastic out as you continue to fold the roll over.


Keep tightening the roll as you fold it. This will keep the inside ingredients in place.
 Depending on your recipe, you may want to top your roll. You can use avocado, sesame seeds, fish, tobiko (fish eggs) or anything else you can think of.
 The thickness of the slices is determined by the number of ingredients. If you have more ingredients in the roll, the slices should be thinner.
