 You may think that her skin is naturally clear and perfect, but she actually admits that this takes some hard work. On her latest makeup tutorial, she gives some awesome tips for how to get a clear-looking face before you apply your make-up. Here's what she says you should do:


After you shower, use Q-tips to take off any old make-up.
Dab Revlon photo-ready concealer on any problem spots on your face.
Then gently apply Almay CC cream all over your face, blending it evenly over your nose, cheeks, forehead, etc, to give your skin an even-looking glow.
Brush Revlon Nearly Naked powder on your face. Use a thick makeup brush to cover your face so it looks clear and has a natural look.;
, Once you've gotten a nice, clear face, you can go ahead and apply the makeup that will give you the Acacia look. Her look is simple, cute, and effective. Here's what you should do:


Curl your eyelashes.
Put on thick mascara.
Put on eyeshadow. Just get your Revlon eyeshadow and apply a darker orange-tinted mascara to your eyelids and then apply a lighter, peachier color to the outer parts of your lids.
Put on eyeliner. Just pull down your eyelid and apply black eyeliner to the outer edges of each top lid.
Put on some dramatic lipstick. Acacia loves the bright pink lipstick and it looks great on her face.
 Acacia usually dyes her hair once in a while, and loves to experiment with her look. You can try dying your hair a natural dark brown, or a dark blonde, and try growing it out to rock the wavy look, or straightening it and letting it fall to your shoulders, or dyeing it ombre purple, or bleaching it blonde, or getting extensions, or cutting it into a bob. You can also try bangs and then grow them out so they fall to the sides of your face. Here are some other Acacia tricks that you can try:


Use an Instyler to get fashionable straight hair.
Add some bouncy curls to your look.
 If you want to get the Acacia look, then you should wear shorts and crop tops for the summer. For winter, rock some skinny jeans, oversized sweaters, and Uggs. Even add the occasional cute accessory, like panda mittens, to your style. You can keep it casual, too. You can often find Acacia in a cute white t-shirt, fitted jeans, and ordinary shoes. Here are some ways you can rock one of her looks:


Wear a simple white tank-top.
Wear a belly shirt with jean shorts during the summer.
Wear oversized purple sunglasses or thick-framed black glasses.
Wear a long gold necklace.
Put a few chunky bracelets on your left wrist.
Rock a D.A.R.E. t-shirt. Acacia likes the color and thinks these shirts send a powerful message.
 Acacia has a weirdly unoriginal, and awkward personality. If you want to be like Acacia, there are a number of things you can do. Don't be afraid to be a goofball. Acacia isn't too cool to make fun of herself, to talk in a funny accent, or to dance around like a goofball.


So, don't be so obsessed with being cool that you forget to laugh. She'll also stop and make a silly face at the camera by bugging out her eyes and pursing her lips.
 Being an Internet celebrity isn't all about fun and games. Be prepared to acknowledge the dark side of being a Tumblr girl. Acacia isn't always a fun-loving free spirit.
 Acacia's friend Lizzie is her best friend and you can find her in a number of her videos. Acacia loves shouting out to her close friends.
 Acacia loves to take selfies, no matter where she is! In some of her photos, she looks cute or sexy, while in others, she's pouting at the camera and just having fun and being silly. Take a mix of pictures that show all of your different expressions while rocking different styles.


Acacia likes to use the "Valencia" filter on Instagram. Next time you take a photo, do the same.
 If you want to become a person like Acacia, then you can check out her many online contributions to see how she does it. But remember that part of being famous means being yourself; you can try to act like Acacia, but if you want to stand out, then you have to put your own spin on it. Still, you can check her out at all of these networking sites:


InstagramTwitterGifboom: @babybrinley
Vine: Acacia Brinley
Keek: @acaciabrinley
Ask.fm @acaciabrinlyboo

, If you don't have an account at all of these sites, it's time to get started. Even if you only have a few followers at first, the more networks you use, the more likely you are to get famous. YouTube is your best friend. Make as many cool videos as you can. You can make make-up tutorials, hair tutorials, videos about friendship, or completely silly videos that will make people laugh. Find whatever works for you and continue to promote, promote, promote yourself.
 As you see in her videos on YouTube, Acacia shows a lot of appreciation and dedication to her fans and followers on Twitter, Facebook, Instagram, Tumblr, and so forth. She even takes the time to make vlogs for her https://www.wikihow.com/Special:Importvideo/Be-Like-Acacia-Brinley-Clark"kitties," which is what she calls her fans.


Keep everyone up to date . She always lets people know what she's doing most of the time.

