 Try to drink plenty of pure water to replace the fluids you're losing. You can also drink herbal teas (like chamomile, fenugreek, or ginger) which can help with nausea or flat or non-carbonated ginger ale. There are several beverages you can avoid since they'll irritate your stomach and bowels, making diarrhea worse. Avoid:Coffee
Black tea
Caffeinated beverages
Sodas
Alcohol, which will make your dehydration worse;
, To treat diarrhea, include foods like brown rice, barley, whole grains, or fresh vegetable juices (like carrot or celery). The fiber from these foods can help your body absorb water and make your stools firmer which can slow down the diarrhea.Avoid eating fatty, oily or spicy foods, acidic foods (like orange juice, tomatoes, pickles), chocolate, ice cream and eggs.


For a light meal with fiber, try cooking grains in a light chicken or miso broth. Use at least twice as much liquid as grains. For example, cook 1/2 cup barley in 1 to 2 cups of chicken broth.
 Purchase probiotic supplements and take them according to the manufacturer's or your doctor's instructions. These can improve the balance of bacteria in your gut. If you take probiotics while having diarrhea, they can compete with the disease-causing bacteria.Good sources or types of probiotics include:


Yogurt containing active cultures
Yeast (Saccharomyces boulardii),, If you don't feel like eating much, snack on salted crackers to calm any nausea or vomiting. When you do feel ready to eat something, choose food from the BRAT diet. Bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast (whole grain) can bulk up your stool and replace lost nutrients.Avoid eating dairy which can make diarrhea worse by stimulating bowel movements.
If you're vomiting often, avoid eating any solid foods and call your doctor.
 Ginger or herbal tea can calm your stomach and intestines. Some also contain antibacterial and antiviral properties. Always choose a ginger tea or ginger ale that contains real ginger and isn't carbonated. Ginger is safe for pregnant women, nursing women, and children over two years of age.Consider drinking teas made from blackberry leaf, raspberry leaf, bilberry, or carob. But, avoid drinking bilberry if you're on blood thinners or have diabetes.
Try drinking chamomile (for children or adults) or fenugreek tea (for adults). Steep one teaspoon of chamomile or fenugreek in 1 cup of hot water. Drink 5 to 6 cups of tea a day.