 Anxiety is the primary condition for which pheromones are recommended;however, pheromones can also be helpful in treating dogs that are overly aggressive.While aggression is fairly straightforward, anxiety can be a bit more difficult to diagnose in animals. Your dog may be anxious if they exhibit any of the following symptoms:


Frequent barking and/or whining
Extreme vigilance and hyper-alert behavior
Lack of appetite
Trembling or shaking
Pacing or restlessness
Inappropriate elimination indoorsAttempts at escaping the home
Destructive tendencies
Self-mutilation;
, Pheromones will not magically cure behavioral problems, but they may be able to help reduce them in your pet.Pheromone products are most effective at treating behavioral problems, including the following:


Separation anxiety — characterized by barking, howling, pacing, escaping, destroying the surrounding environment, and urinating or defecating whenever left alone.Noise phobia — characterized by panting, drooling, pacing, trembling, urinating or defecating, trying to escape from loud noises (like thunder or fireworks), and hiding from loud noises.Anxiety caused by a new or stressful environment — typically characterized by a fear around or avoidance of certain people or places.Aggression towards other dogs or humans — characterized by barking, growling, and biting., Your vet may want to rule out other medical or behavioral problems that may be causing your dog's anxiety symptoms or aggression. These may include medically-induced incontinence, side effects from medications, excitement urination, boredom, or incomplete training.Your vet may ask about your dog's history, including any training you may have enrolled your dog in. Your vet will also review your dog's medical history and may take blood or urine samples to run lab tests.
Tell your vet about any medications your dog is taking, including any over-the-counter medicine and/or supplements you may give your pet.
 Many companies advertise their products as pheromones without actually including any animal pheromones.These products may contain calming agents like lavender and chamomile, but true dog pheromone products will contain dog-appeasing pheromone (DAP), a synthetic chemical derived from a naturally-secreted pheromone produced by the sebaceous gland in dogs.Check the ingredients in every product before choosing one for your dog.
It's okay if the product contains herbal ingredients in addition to the synthetic pheromone, but it should not contain only herbal ingredients.If the ingredients list does not include dog-appeasing pheromone, opt for a different product.
 Once you've chosen a pheromone product, you'll need to decide on an application method. They are all effective at treating behavioral problems, and which one you choose will depend largely on your preferences.Common application methods for dog pheromones include the following:


Sprays
Diffusers
Wipes
Collars

, Dog pheromone products can be purchased without a prescription; however, you should always consult your veterinarian before administering any pharmacological treatment to your dog to rule out any possible health problems or other behavioral issues.You can purchase dog pheromone products from your local pet store or through an online retailer.
 Like many other medications, pheromone therapy will not yield immediate results. It can take some time for the pheromones to have a noticeable effect on your dog. Some experts report that it takes an average of 14 days for the pheromones to really calm anxious or aggressive dogs, so it's important to plan ahead.If you have a potentially stressful event coming up that you want to prepare your dog for, start pheromone treatment at least two weeks in advance. You may want to allow for even more time, just in case it takes longer.
Make accommodations for your dog while you wait for the pheromones to begin working. For example, if you usually leave your dog with a sitter, plan to keep doing so for at least the first 14 days until the pheromones begin to work.
 Regardless of which application method you choose, you will need to periodically reapply the pheromones to your dog or your dog's environment. How frequently this happens will depend on the application method and the specific brand you choose.Sprays generally last up to four hours and can be applied directly to an article in the dog's environment (like a bandana it wears or the dog's bed) or sprayed throughout a room.
Some sprays last up to 24 hours when dispersed in a room. This will vary considerably by product and application method.
Collars and diffusers typically last up to one month.
You can set an alarm on your phone to remind you to respray the dog's bandana, bed, or the room.
For collars and diffusers, you can mark your calendar so you remember to reapply the pheromones each month.
The collars need to sit against the skin, so be sure to part the hair in long coated breeds, and make sure the collar fits snuggly (but not too tight).
 Your vet may prescribe an anti-anxiety medicine for your dog.This can be used in combination with pheromone products to calm your dog without sedating it.Ask your vet if an anti-anxiety medication like Alprazolam (Xanax) could be used with pheromone products to calm your dog.
Different dogs may react to medication in different ways. If your vet recommends an anti-anxiety medication for your dog, ask for specific instructions on how to administer it and how often.
 Exercise may not completely solve your dog's emotional or behavioral problems, but it can help. Exercise reduces your dog's anxiety levels, burns off extra energy, and leaves your dog tuckered out afterward.Your dog should get at least 30 minutes of aerobic activity each day. This can include running, a fast-paced walk, swimming, or just playing catch in the yard.
Try to time your dog's exercise so that it coincides with your departure. Giving your dog a good workout right before you leave will keep them tired throughout the day.
 One way to help ease your dog's separation anxiety is to make it less stressful when you leave the house. If your dog sees you leaving as a big deal, it will only increase your dog's behavioral problems (and the subsequent destruction that may follow).Make your daily departures and arrivals less dramatic by resisting the urge to rush to your dog when you come home or fawn over them every time you leave.
Leave food-based puzzle toys for your dog. These may include a hollow ball or cone stuffed with tasty treats like peanut butter or cheese.Try hiding pieces of scattered kibble or treats around the house before you leave. This hunt for food will keep your dog busy and reduce the chances of them feeling anxious.
 Your dog probably feels comfortably "at home" already in your dwelling, but your dog may not feel safe from harm or abandonment. You can help reduce your dog's separation anxiety by making your pet feel comfortable, safe, and secure, even when you're not there.Leave dirty laundry that smells like you lying on the floor so your dog can still smell your scent.
Give your dog a designated area where they can feel safe. This may be a room with windows, or a crate (if and only if your dog responds well to crate training).
Crates may not work for all dogs, but if your pet feels that their crate is a safe space, it may reduce your dog's anxiety to be in the crate when you're not home.
Be aware that a dog that does not feel safe in a crate will still exhibit anxiety symptoms, though it will occur in the crate. This can lead to injury if the dog attempts to escape, and it may cause discomfort if the dog goes to the bathroom inside the crate.
 If your dog's separation anxiety is severe, you may want to consider leaving your dog under someone else's watch. Some dogs experience less anxiety if they're left with another person, even if their owner isn't around.You can try having a friend dog sit for you, either at your home or at theirs. You can also take your dog to a doggie daycare facility where your pet can socialize with other animals.
You can find dog sitting and day care services near you by searching online or checking your local phone book. Ask your vet for recommendations.
 If you decide to work with a trainer or behaviorist, you will have many options. You can choose between group classes or one-on-one sessions. You will also need to decide what type of certification you want your dog's professional to have.This decision will largely depend on your dog's needs. For anxiety or aggression issues, you'll probably want a specialist with both academic and hands-on experience. Knowing about the various certifications and titles can help you make a more informed decision.


Trainers sometimes use titles like behavior counselor, pet psychologist, or pet therapist, but the education and experience within this group vary considerably and may not be consistent.
Certified Professional Dog Trainers (CPDTs) are certified only after working a minimum number of hours as a trainer and passing a test. CPDTs must also engage in continuing education classes to maintain their title.
Applied Animal Behaviorists (AABs) may have a master's degree or Ph.D., while Certified Applied Animal Behaviorists (CAABs) have a doctoral degree.
Associate Certified Applied Animal Behaviorists (ACAABs) have a master's degree and received supervised training in animal behavior and biology.

