 Keep it as a rhythm for everyone in the household, so it does not overflow into a different section of the house or another table meant for other things. Kitchen counters may be the ideal spot, but try to keep it clean and organized for only meals and food related.;
, These holders or boxes are very similar to an open filing cabinet, as the manilla folders can be inserted in the main folders with hanging hooks attached to them. They can easily be found in any office supply store, commonly found in the folders section. Label manilla folders with different organizational or category names.


Bills folder: Anything that you need to pay, such as electricity, cable, water, etc.
Shred folder: Many of us want to keep personal information private, such as addresses, bank statements, or phone numbers. Anything in this folder should be used in a shredder before tossing.
Magazines and catalogs: Store these in the back without a folder if you want. Depending on the bulkiness of the material, you may end up stretching a folder, especially during the holiday season when most companies tend to distribute them out.
File folder: If you have a job and cashed or deposited your paycheck, you may want to put any pay stubs in this folder when you get home to file later. This can also be useful if you have any receipts to keep you more organized.
School folder: Have your kids use this folder to insert anything that needs parent signatures, such as field trip forms. You can also have two school folders labeled "School: Drop Off/For Home" and "School: To Return". Kids can put permission slips in the "Drop Off" folder for you to sign, and can look into the "To Return" folder to return the signed form(s) to school in the morning.
 It does not need to be elegant nor professional looking, but a simple container with separators is perfect. These can hold a variety of things, including a stapler, paper clips, pens, and a pad of sticky notes. Use these office supplies to your advantage and as a key to organization.
 It doesn't have to be a kitchen or office sized one, but merely something to toss any junk mail as you walk in, so it doesn't become a burden later on. Unsubscribing to catalogs or other subscriptions that you have no interest to or didn't sign up with in the beginning should be a "do now" than later.


Purchase a paper shredder. Some to many paper shredders have the ability to latch onto the rim of trash cans, so all the paper flows right into the trash bag.
 Make it a motivation chore for yourself. If the folder(s) aren't kept up, you may miss a bill or an important notice.
 Never throw things away; always recycle. Kids tend to have projects where they have to make magazine collages, so if the magazine is old or you don't care for it any more, allow them to cut their pictures out from there.

