 This doesn't exclude desktops from this but its much more unlikely its built-in and its probably an add-in. If you don't have one, you can still buy a wireless adapter at many stores such as Walmart and Best Buy.;
, The Xbox 360 automatically does a cross-over process so you don't need a special cable. Plug one end directly to your Xbox 360 and plug the other into the PC. Almost every PC has one of these. If you have both your PC and Xbox 360 on, you will see a green light on the PC connector and possibly an orange (data) flashing light. This means the connection is working.
 Look for the Local Area Connection. Right-click and go to Properties. Scroll down the list of things in the box down to "Internet Protocol (TCP/IP)" and click it and click properties. Click the Use the following IP address button and the boxes will become enabled. In the first box, type "192.168.0.1". The next box should default to "255.255.255.0". That is normal. The other boxes should be left empty. You're not quite done yet. Click OK on both option boxes to go back to the network connections window. Right click the wireless connection and go to its properties window. Click the Advanced tab and go to the "Internet Connection Sharing" section. Check the top box, uncheck the bottom box. Then click ok. We have finished setting up the PC.
 Go to edit settings and go to section for IP addresses set it to manual. Input "192.168.0.2" as the IP address. Type in as the subnet mask 255.255.255.0. Then "192.168.0.1" in the Gateway Address box. Don't test the settings yet. For each DNS, type "192.168.0.1". Now test the settings. Everything should pass if set up correctly. The PC should say that it found a local area connection. Your Internet on your PC should also work. If none of these work, something was probably not set up right. Go back and double check your settings and steps and keep retrying until it works.
, This will automatically route the connections without the need to set your IP address on Windows XP.
