 When you are feeling lonely, it can be tempting to withdraw. You might feel like wallowing in your sadness. However, you can help fight loneliness if you try going out and about.Head outside for a walk. The fresh air will help boost your mood. You'll also see other people, which can help you feel less isolated.
Run some errands. Sometimes just basic human contact can make you feel more connected to people.
Try going to the grocery store. You'll be productive and fight your sadness at the same time.
 Maybe you're going through a period where you are on your own a lot. Maybe you're working on building new friendships, or maybe it just seems like everyone is busy. Make good use of the free time that you have.Take some time to explore the things that interest you. For example, maybe you have always been interested in cooking. Try taking a class to hone your skills.
Are you an animal lover? Use your free time to volunteer at a shelter.
Learn to play a musical instrument. This can feel productive and soothing at the same time.
 Physical activity is an excellent mood booster. Group sports are also an excellent way to meet new people. Join a local team to help yourself feel better.Look for a fun recreational league. Many cities offer sports such as basketball, volleyball, and softball.
You can also join a non-competitive team. Look for a league that offers sports such as kickball or dodge ball.
Ask a friend or co-worker to join you. You'll get some quality time in with someone you know, and you'll also meet new people.
 Reading is a great way to combat loneliness. If you are reading fiction, you can lose yourself in the story. An engaging read can help you feel more connected to the characters.Treat yourself to a new book. Pick up the latest thriller and dive in.
Talking about books is also a great way to connect with people. Try joining a book club.
Reading can spark your imagination. The book you read might give you ideas on fun new things to do.
 Maybe you have moved and haven't met many people in your new town. Or maybe you're in a transition period, and just looking for a new group. Whatever your situation is, you can take steps to meet some new people.School is a great place to make new friends. Ask one of your classmates if they want to form a study group with you.
Work is also a good place to make connections. Organize a happy hour to get to know your new co-workers.
Start saying hi to your neighbors. Ask the person across the hall if they are interested in taking a walk around the neighborhood on a nice day.

