 Then take two cards and set them aside. Then deal two more cards to each person, and set an additional two cards aside with the previous two. Those four cards are referred to as the kitty.;
, People bid depending on how many points they believe they will make. Valid bids include five, ten, fifteen, twenty, twenty-five, thirty, thirty-for-sixty (in which, if a person takes every trick, they gain 60 points, but if they fail to take even one trick, they lose 30 points) and sixty-for-one-twenty (in which, if a person takes every trick, they gain 120 points, but if they fail to take even one trick, they lose 60 points.)

, Since the person who holds the bid chooses the trump suit, they would look for several good cards of the same suit. The values of the cards are as follows: Five of trump, jack of trump, ace of hearts, ace of trump, king of trump, queen of trump. Afterwards, the value of the cards is dependent on the colour of the trump suit. If the trump suit is red, then the highest remaining cards are worth the highest. For black trumps, the reverse is true.
 Instead, the dealer must hold a bid if he wishes to match it. By holding, he bids the same amount as the last bid entered. Someone must bid at least five points more in order to surpass the dealers bid. Bidding is also optional. If a person wishes not to bid, they say "Pass." They are not permitted to bid again for that hand.
 This is usually the suit that they believe will allow them to take the most tricks. Optionally, a person can choose to go on the kitty. By doing this, they discard their entire hand and decide which suit is the trump based on the cards in the kitty.
 The only exception to this rule is the ace of hearts. (See above.) The person who chose the trump suit then picks up the kitty (if this hasn't already been done) and takes all of the trump suit cards out of it. They discard what is left. If more than five cards remain, then the person who chose the trump suit must discard the lowest card(s) until their hand has no more than five cards in it.
 Whoever plays the highest card gets the trick and then leads for the next trick. All players must follow the suit of the originally played card when possible. Trump cards may be played at any time regardless of which suit lead.
 Each trick is worth five points. If a person has the highest card played during that hand in their tricks, they receive an additional five points.
 Negative scores are allowed in the game.
,