 How did you feel before starting? What were you expecting? After your mediation ends, write down how your meditation experience went. Describe your thoughts and feelings. Did your power animal help you?


Use your recorded meditation experiences to track your progress over time.;
, Meditation is simply the process of reflecting on your situation, centering yourself, and becoming more aware of yourself and your surroundings. There are many varieties of meditation. For instance, you might:Try a walking meditation. In this meditation, you walk through a forest or other relaxing natural setting. Move slowly and deliberately through the forest. Pay close attention to each movement of your feet. Make yourself aware of how your foot feels in your shoe, the feeling of your heel rising from the earth, and the feel of your leg swinging forward with each step. This is not only a great meditation, but a relaxing form of exercise.
Try a gratitude mediation. If you’re not interested in walking meditation, you could try a simple gratitude mediation. Simply envision the face of someone for whom you’re thankful, and say “Thank you for…” and then one or several reasons why you’re thankful for that person. You can say this either quietly to yourself or out loud. This is best performed at the end or beginning of each day.
Try a mantra mediation. If neither a walking meditation or a gratitude meditation interest you, a mantra meditation might. As its name suggests, the mantra meditation utilizes a mantra -- either a single word like “Om” or a short, positive phrase like “I will achieve victory” -- to clear the mind and bring a sense of calm. Sit in a comfortable, quiet place. You can adopt a cross-legged position and sit on a mat or thin pillow if you wish. Speak, sing, or whisper the mantra aloud., This will allow your body and mind to get used to the rhythms of meditation, and can help you slip more easily into a meditative state over time. If you have a spirit animal that is nocturnal like the aardvark, owl, or badger, you might find it beneficial to meditate at night.
 Wherever you are, your meditation space must remain quiet and at a comfortable temperature. The area should be free of debris, clutter, and garbage.
 State aloud, “I am going to meet my power animal. Together, we will attain peace of mind. Together, we will become one.”


Or, in the case of a gratitude meditation, you could say, “I am going to show gratitude. My power animal will help me. Together, we give thanks.”
If you wish to devise your own statement of intention, ensure that it is honest, brief, direct, and positive. State simply what you wish to achieve by meditating with the power animal.
 Speak each syllable slowly and deliberately. Relax into yourself. Open your mind by visualizing your power animal. Where are you? What are you and your power animal doing? Take in as many details as possible.


After 5-10 minutes, end the meditation.
 Did your power animal reveal anything to you? Do you have new insight into yourself or the world around you? Be specific.


Read the details you’ve written the next day. Think them over and look for instances where the insights might be useful.
As you continue to meditate with your power animal, consider bringing concerns and problems into the meditation sessions. Use the meditation to relax and leave behind worries.

