 You can do certain yoga poses to help treat your SI pain, such as forward folds with knees bent. Doing forward folding poses on a mat sitting down can help to unlock the SI joint and release any stress or discomfort in this area. If you are new to yoga, you may watch videos online that will demonstrate certain poses before you try them or take a class that focuses on addressing lower back issues, including SI joint pain., Bridge pose can help to strengthen your inner thigh muscles and your abdominal muscles, which can help to reduce the tension and stress in your SI joints. You can do bridge pose with both legs on the ground and hold the pose for a stretch in your lower back. Or you can raise one leg off the ground to strengthen your lower back and inner thigh muscles.To do a bridge pose, lay on a yoga mat or exercise mat flat on your back. Bend your legs so they are two feet away from you, or so you can feel the back of your heels with your hands. Inhale as you slowly lift your pelvis towards the ceiling, putting weight into your feet. Pretend you are squeezing a ball between your thighs as you raise your pelvis.
Hold this pose for five breaths and then slowly lower back down onto the mat, lowering your pelvis first, followed by your upper back.
For a more challenging bridge pose, you may try raising one leg in the air when you are in bridge, keeping your hips level as you do so. Then, exhale as you release the leg and place it on the mat. Inhale again as you raise the other leg into the air. This can help strengthen your abdominal muscles and your inner thigh muscles.
 Plank pose can help to strengthen the muscles that help to keep your SI joints from becoming irritated or strained. It can also be a good way to maintain strong SI joints and prevent your SI pain from getting worse. You may do plank pose on an exercise mat, using your hands or your forearms to hold you up.To do a plank pose, place your hands on the mat in front of you, in line with your shoulders. Then, place your legs straight behind you with your hips level. Put weight into your hands and into your feet, keeping your legs straight and strong. Hold the plank pose for five breaths at a time.
You may do a series of plank poses to strengthen your lower back and your SI joints. If this pose aggravates your shoulder muscles, you may try doing it on your forearms instead of your hands.
 You may find doing exercises on an exercise mat can be too stressful on your SI joint, especially if the pain is severe. To reduce the risk of putting too much torque on your SI joint, you may try doing water aerobics. Doing exercises in the water will increase the buoyancy of your muscles and reduce the tension in your SI joint.You may sign up for a water aerobics class at your local community center or at your gym, if it has a pool.

