 Do not leave development of a plan of action until the moment that you are faced with a cougar. Every family and group member needs to know what should happen in the event of an encounter. Make time for a family or group sit-down with white board, to demonstrate both visually and orally what the plan is - it also helps to show children pictures of cougars so that they are knowledgeable about the animal.;
, A good plan should consist of how you will avoid cougar encounters in the first place and how you will react should an encounter occur. As part of this plan, you will all need to know what each person should or should not do and who is responsible for what. In this case, all persons over the age of 18 should be responsible for any children in the group and all persons who are teenage years and older should be ready to respond if children are attacked.
 This is your first line of defense. There are important things you can to do lessen the chances of meeting a cougar:


Be noisy as you hike or walk through cougar country and always hike in pairs at a minimum.
Camp in areas that do not have suitable hiding places for a cougar, if possible. A flat area well away from overhanging rocks is likely to be easier to patrol and notice problems than a campsite tucked under a rocky outcrop. When walking, however, avoiding such a place will be difficult.
Be aware of where children under 10 are at all times; older children with small stature should also be carefully watched for. Cougars do what any predator does - they wait for the stray to leave the group.
Make sure that your children understand not to wander off in cougar country at any time. Even bathroom trips during camping should be taken in groups.
Walk children to and from school if there are cougar sightings in your area.
Teach children to recognize the paw prints of cougars and to report any such sightings to you.
Do not touch or stay around fresh kill that has been buried - it is likely to be a cougar kill.
 The way in which you respond to an encounter with a cougar is important and each family and group member should know these things to avoid panic. Here are key things to consider:


Don't run. Flight can trigger the carnivore desire to chase and attack.
Stand up. Every person should be at their fullest height.
Face the cougar. A cougar should be faced full on and do not ever turn your back to it.
Pick children up and place them on your shoulders. This immediately puts the child out of the lower line of sight of the cougar and makes you and the child appear bigger. If you cannot lift the child that high, hold them in your arms. At the very least, have children grab your leg or torso and hold on, crowding around you.
Avoid having a child move if the child is closest to the cougar. The adult should do all of the moving to get the child. When moving, move slowly and without any jerking. Sudden movements can trigger the pouncing instinct.
 Do all of the things mentioned above but get more aggressive.


Wave clothing around
Throw sticks and stones
Yell, growl and bellow
Toss your arms around
Grin and bare your teeth
Move to a safe location if at all possible without running or crossing the cougar's path - for example, a car or a cabin; don't go for the tent - this will provide no safety and will only prevent you from seeing its next move

, If the worst possible thing happens and the cougar pounces and attacks a child, this is not a time for restraint. Attack the cougar with anything to hand, including your bare hands. Cougars rarely turn on other aggressors as they are focused on their prey. Hit the cougar with tree branches, cameras, walking sticks, cooking equipment, anything you have to hand and aim for its face in particular. It is important to know that many people have survived fighting a cougar attack by fighting back.
 A wounded, bleeding child is not safe after an attack. Immediately remove the child from the area and seek help. Adults can return later to collect belongings if needs be.
 Cougar attacks are rare in the greater scheme of things: "For some reason, humans worry much more about rare dangers than about common dangers. For example, in California, from 1986 through 1998, exactly two people died from mountain lion attacks, whereas in one year alone, over 4,000 people died in traffic accidents, including 800 pedestrians."Cougars are beautiful animals and being paralyzed by unnecessary fear and hounding an animal just because of the off-chance that it might attack are unhealthy perspectives to hold. Being prepared is one thing; being paranoid is quite another. Provided you take the appropriate precautions, know how to react in the rare chance something might happen and you keep a level and reasoned head about chance encounters with cougars, things should work out fine.

