 A Totem Pokémon is a larger-than-normal Pokémon that has boosted stats and can call ally Pokémon into battle to help them. You'll know them by the aura that surrounds them during the battle. Totem Pokémon and their allies cannot be caught.;
, They are as follows:


Totem Gumshoos/Totem Alolan Raticate (You face Gumshoos in Sun and Raticate in Moon)
Totem Wishiwashi (in its School form)
Totem Salazzle
Totem Lurantis
Totem Vikavolt
Totem Mimikyu
Totem Kommo-o

, Totem Pokémon will have powerful movesets and ally Pokémon that have movesets which help the Totem Pokémon. For example, Totem Lurantis has Trumbeak and Castform as its allies. Trumbeak has Rock Blast to cover Lurantis' weaknesses, while Castform has Sunny Day so that Lurantis' Solar Blade doesn't have to take a turn to charge (Lurantis also has a Power Herb which causes Solar Blade to skip the recharge turn even without Sunny Day), and its Synthesis heals more of its health.



Totem Gumshoos and Totem Raticate are both weak to Fighting, while Raticate is also weak to Bug and Fairy.
Totem Wishiwashi is weak to Electric and Grass.
Totem Salazzle is weak to Water, Ground, Rock, and Psychic.
Totem Lurantis is weak to Fire, Ice, Flying, Bug, and Poison.
Totem Vikavolt is weak to Fire and Rock.
Totem Mimikyu is weak to Ghost and Steel.
Totem Kommo-o is weak to Dragon, Fairy, Ice, Psychic, and Flying.
 You don't want to go into a Totem Pokémon battle with half or more of your team being weak to the Totem Pokémon's attacks.
 If you go into a Totem Pokémon battle underleveled, you have a higher chance of losing the battle. Their increased stats mean they can easily sweep even a six Pokémon team.
 As simple as it may sound, super effective moves can mean the difference between winning and losing. Don't be afraid to use status moves, either. Even a simple paralysis can make a battle much easier.
 Unless you're doing a no items in battle rule for your run, you'll want Potions and Revives handy.
 They'll be much different than the gym battles of years past, but if you're prepared, you should be able to beat them.

