 Make sure it does not have a stain resistant finish. If you can pre-wash your fabric, you will be sure that it is clean of any surface treatment that will keep the paint from adhering. Do not use fabric softener. For your first project, try to avoid any soft or floaty fabric that will be difficult to keep straight. The color of the fabric will affect the color of the paint so try to avoid dark colors, unless you want that "velvet Elvis" look!






;
,









To cut your own stencil from acetate, you will need a drawing or photocopy of a design, a sheet of glass and a small, sharp matte knife like an Exacto™ blade.
To make a stencil out of printer paper, simply print a simple silhouetted design from your computer and cut within the lines. This method is quick and cheap, although the stencil may not last through more than two or three uses.
To paint with a custom or purchased stencil, you will need textile paints, specifically designed to be both washable and dry cleanable. These paints will need to dry for 24 hours and be heat set. Nontoxic water-based textile paints are commonly available at crafts stores.
If you are adapting a design, make sure it will work as a stencil. Take time to plan how you will cut and try to plan only one overlay. If you have complex interlocking lines, you will need at least two stencil overlays, which will require careful pattern matching.
 Tape everything in place.
 You will probably find that it is easier to cut accurately if you pull the blade slowly towards you. Turn the glass as necessary. If you make a mistake, you can repair it with a small piece of masking tape.
 Do not thin the paint unless it is very, very thick - watery paint will bleed under your stencil edges. If you want pale colors, add white or use a very dry, transparent stenciling technique.
 Make sure your brush is evenly covered with paint but do not load it. A loaded brush will spread paint under the edges of the stencil. Your goal is a nice, even dry brush technique with color that is smooth but not thick.
 Apply the paint with a gentle pounding motion, holding the brush straight up and down. Do not use a stroking motion. Again, this will keep the paint from seeping under the edges of the stencil. If your design has delicate bits that seem to be lifting as you paint, use an awl or chopstick OR even masking tape/ sellotape to hold them down as you paint.









Make sure to complete all the painting before proceeding to lifting the stencil. Once it has been moved, it is almost impossible to replace it exactly in the same spot.
 The paint should be dry to the touch, but let it dry for 24 hours.
,