 You will need a General Educational Development (GED) certificate or a high school diploma to enter a dental hygienist program.;
, Most technical colleges, community colleges and universities require you to have completed college entrance exams. They will be used to determine whether you are accepted.


High school records and college entrance exams should show your proficiency with biology, English, math and chemistry. Other schools will require you to have at least a "C" average in your prior schooling.
 There are several courses you can take, depending upon your preference and approved entrance.


Apply to a 2-year certificate or associate's program with a technical school. Make sure that the program is accredited and helps you to pass the National Board Dental Hygiene Examination.
Apply to an applied sciences associate's degree program in dental hygiene. These programs are usually run by community colleges. They often take 2 years and include comprehensive classroom and clinical study. This is the most common path to becoming a dental hygienist.
Apply to a 4-year university. Some schools provide 4-year bachelor's degrees in dental hygiene. You will be required to take the general liberal arts prerequisites, as well as science and clinical dental studies. This is the best course of study if you want to enter into a master's degree program in the future; however, it is likely to be more expensive.
 Check that you have completed the required number of classroom and clinical hours for your state license.
 Many states require their RDH candidates to have a CPR certificate.
 This examination, provided by the American Dental Association, is required of all RDH candidates.


You will be required to submit proof of your training and letters of recommendation in order to take the exam.
 Consult your state's dental hygiene licensing board, usually available through the Secretary of State website.
 A passing score will give you a license to practice and the title of "Registered Dental Hygienist."

,


Advanced computer skills and interpersonal skills are likely to be an advantage when applying for a RDH job. Many dental offices are switching to digital records if they have not already. Interpersonal and communication skills will prove you can get along in an office environment and make patients feel at ease.
 Attend conferences and job fairs that will put you in touch with more dentists' offices in your state.
 Ask them to keep your resume on file in case of future openings. Demand may require that you move to an area with more job openings in the meantime.

