 Life can get pretty busy as a teenager, but it's important that you spend time with yourself as well.
 Find something you love and make sure you do it regularly. This will allow you to be refreshed and happy when it comes to other parts of your life. Don't be surprised if your interests change in the space of months or years; that's natural while you're still working out what you enjoy most but don't try too hard. Just follow your interests to see where they lead and remain open-minded about new possibilities too.
 Depression is a very common condition that tends to show up in your preteen or teenage years. Seek professional help if you think you may be depressed. You may or may not get family support to help you through (depending on your family circumstances) but don't let a lack of such support stop you from caring for your mental health; there is always someone who can help you sort out depressive or negative feelings and problems and the earlier you are treated, the easier it will be to recover and gain both confidence and resilience for a happier future.


Allow yourself to goof off from time to time. Always trying to be serious or focused can make you feel unhappy. Give yourself space to do fun things regularly to balance your studies, activities, and relationships.
 This can help you relax and relieve some of the stress from a busy day at school or with friends. Music is a good way of expressing yourself too – if you don't already know how to play an instrument, consider learning one now, such as the guitar, piano or keyboard. And don't forget that your voice is an instrument too!

, Learning to enjoy time spent alone is an important part of realizing that you're whole without another person. This can help to prevent the development of co-dependent relationships or to seek to make another person the source of your life's happiness. Solitude also helps you to learn more about what makes you tick as a person and what your life's values are. Some ways to find effective and enjoyable solitude include meditation, walks by yourself, writing in a journal and spending time with pets.

