 Light is particular in that he looks calm and collected, almost all the time. Choose a mellow hairstyle. Try to make your face look calm most of the time too, not angry but not particularly happy either. Also become fit and maintain a BMI (Body Mass Index) of 16.7 to 17.0. It's essential that you do not go below 16.7 or above 17.0 range, as you will not be athletically fit if you do so.;
, You'll have to be capable of constantly thinking of the most intelligent decision (that is, the decision that will get you the desired result.) Never leave anything unaccounted for, and try to always be in control (but do not show it. Bragging or revealing yourself to be a leader isn't good, it attracts attention.) If you intend to be KIRA, you'll also have to be capable of deceit. Get used to doing things that are morally wrong for the sake of "the greater good." Also, don't feel sorry about what you've done, even if it's eliminating people*. They were obstacles. You'll have to be the exact opposite, however, if you want to be just Light. Never do anything morally wrong, for any reason. Look out for anyone around you, even if you don't like them.
 Although it may be contradictory to step 2, you do still have your pride. When given the choice, go for the win. Also, don't accept losing, ever. If you lose, make sure you intend to get even. Naturally, don't show that you're flustered or angry, but feel perfectly fine with wrath. Get even later(secretly, of course, or in a way where nobody can link what you've done to you specifically (i.e. an alibi)) If you're going to be just Light though, express your pride openly (never deceive or manipulate!) and maybe even get violent when someone deals a grave hurt to your pride (just enough to get your point across, never aim to maim, just snap some sense into who you're talking to.)

, Remember how Light got perfect scores on his entrance exam to To-Oh? What about all the plans he made that went off so well? Your reasoning, knowledge and judgment must all be in peak condition, and you must be able to know yourself and anyone around you exceptionally well. Predict the actions of others and of yourself in both real and hypothetical situations. Increase your ability to do math and Try to gain more charisma. Having a wide array of abilities at your disposal is also quite good. Furthermore, also train the mind. Try to solve puzzles and chess games. (i.e. hacking, Light can hack*.)

, Light has his moments of insanity (or rather, KIRA does, but you get the point.) Learn to do an incredibly creepy smile. Also, learn to chuckle and sneer without looking stupid. Let's face it, most people with an evil laugh sound stupid when they do it, but Light doesn't. This goes in with his charisma. However, if you plan on being only Light and not KIRA, learn how to make your eyes shine. This helps with charisma too, but in a sort of a different way (and this has nothing to do with insanity, but instead persuasion. I'm putting this here so that you understand the difference between Light+KIRA and Light.)

, Light plans every move he does extensively, making sure that there are never any gaps in anything he might plan. It's always good to have a backup plan as well, just in case the first goes wrong.
 Remember the precautions Light took to find out whether anyone ever went into his room or not? Even before he found the Death Note, Light still would slip the piece of paper between the door, and place the lead on top of the door as well. And the thing he did with the handle as well? Genius. It may not seem like much, but it was. Always take these types of precautions for anything. This shows that you're always prepared, no matter what.
 Light is only dependent on someone once he's sure he's manipulated them enough to actually trust them. Everyone is human, so we all make mistakes. But Light can't afford any.
 Try to also be easygoing when around people, yet provide insightful comments. Above all, think before you speak your mind or act.

