 This "mother plant" should be relatively large, so that removing a few stems will not kill the plant. The plant should also be healthy, as any afflictions plaguing the mother plant will affect the new plant.;
, Fill a small pot or other container with either potting soil or a soil-less potting mix. Potting mix, a mixture of peat moss, perlite, and vermiculite, will generally yield better results for potted plants because of its superior drainage. In a pinch, you could also use soil from your garden outside. Regardless of your soil choice, water the mix until it is moist, but not soaked.
 When selecting a stem, you should look for young, green growth. Young stems will always root better than more mature, woodier stems. Select a piece of stem with a few leaves on it, and cut just below a node (the joint where a leaf meets the stem) with a sharp pair of scissors. As an added precaution against contamination, it is a good idea to wash the scissors beforehand with soap and water. You could also sterilize them with rubbing alcohol.
 Plants send out new roots from nodes, so by exposing some of the node's interior, you increase the chances of your new plant sending out a root from that node. Again, it is a good idea to wash or sterilize the razor blade.
 While the new plant needs leaves to provide energy through photosynthesis, too many leaves will compete with the plant's efforts to send out new roots. Leaving only 2 leaves is a good option.
 Use your fingers to work the cutting down into the soil or potting mix a bit, making sure to completely bury the exposed node. Ensure that the leaves are not buried, and that the plant is stable enough to stand upright. You can plant several cuttings in a single container if desired; you can always transplant them later.
 Place the pot with your cuttings into a large, clear plastic bag and place the bag in a sunny window. The bag will act as a greenhouse by sealing in humidity. Make sure to leave the bag partially open to allow air to flow.
 If any of them start to look unhealthy, cull them from the container. Once the cuttings have developed strong roots, you can transplant them to new containers.

