 It is better to use fresh, frozen fruit for these recipes instead of ice. The ice will only dilute the smoothie, making it less flavorful. Using frozen fruit in your smoothie will result in a smoothie that is still thick and cold, but it won't make it watery.;
, Start off by laying the strawberries on their sides. Using a sharp knife, slice the tops off. Then, set them down on the sliced side. Cut them straight down, creating two half-cones.


If the recipe calls for frozen strawberries, cut the strawberries the night before, scoop the slices into a plastic, re-sealable bag, and toss them into the freezer.
 Cut the banana into ½ to 1 inch (1.27 to 2.54 centimeters) thick slices.


If the recipe calls for frozen bananas, cut the banana the night before, place the slices into a plastic, re-sealable bag, and toss them into the freezer.
 Using raw, oatmeal in your smoothie will not harm you, but cooked oatmeal will give your smoothie a more creamy texture. Cook it the night before so that it has time to cool down before you add it to the smoothie.
 You won't be pouring your milk in all at once. Instead, you will be pouring in half of your milk first, then adding the rest of your ingredients. The rest of the milk will go into the blender at the very end. This helps blend things more evenly in your smoothie., Strawberries and bananas are healthy enough themselves, but you can give your smoothie an additional boost by adding other ingredients, such as cacao powder, chia seeds, and wheat grass. Refer to the section in this article on customizing your smoothie with extra ingredients for more suggestions.
 If you do not have a blender, you can use a food processor instead.
 Save the rest of your milk for the very end.
 If the recipe you are using calls for dry ingredients, such as flax seed and oatmeal, pour them in now. If you cooked your oatmeal the night before, you can add it in at this point as well.
 If you wish to add a little protein to your smoothie, you can add in one tablespoon of peanut butter.


If you do not like peanut butter or are allergic to it, but still want a sweet-tasting smoothie, opt for 1 tablespoon of honey instead.
 Do not worry if the fruit is not evenly-sliced. It will get all blended together. The frozen fruit will not only help thicken your smoothie, but keep it cool as well.
 Take the remaining milk, and pour it over the fruit.
 Put the lid onto the blender, and turn the blender on. Start at a low speed, then progress to a higher speed.


If the ingredients are clumping up on the sides of the blender, they probably aren't blending properly. Simply stop the blender and open the lid. Stir the ingredients inside with a spatula, making sure to knock any clumps of fruit off the sides of the mixing container. Replace the lid and turn the blender back on.
 Once everything has blended, stop the blender, take off the lid, and pour everything into a tall glass. You can use a spatula to help guide everything into the cup. Be sure to scrape any smoothie off the sides of the mixing container so that nothing goes to waste.
 There are certain items you can add to your smoothie to make it even healthier. This section will give you are few tips and ideas.
 It is full of antioxidants, which help you stay healthy and prevent you from getting sick. It is also rich in magnesium, iron, and potassium. , Chia seeds not only help thicken up a smoothie, but they also have plenty of protein and trace minerals., If you want to water down your smoothie without sacrificing flavor, add a splash of coconut water. Not only will it give you a tropical twist, but it is also good for hydration. It also contains potassium and electrolytes., Flax seed is a fiber, which is good for digestive health and helping relieve constipation. It can also help reduce heart disease by lowering blood cholesterol., A pinch of raw, grated ginger will help ease digestive issues, such as stomachaches and heartburn. It will also help ease the pain associated with menstrual cramps., If your smoothie isn't sweet enough for you, pass the sugar and reach for the honey instead. It is just as sweet, but has the antioxidants that sugar does not!

, Add 1 to 2 cups (75 to 150 grams)of kale to your smoothie for additional health benefits. Packed with vitamins and antioxidants, kale is great for fighting off disease and boosting the immune system.It also helps prevent cancer and diabetes. (It will also turn your smoothie an exciting green color!)

, Oatmeal is good for making you feel filler with fewer calories. They also have plenty of fiber and protein. Lastly, they also have the ability to absorb excess fat.
 Baking spices, such as cardamom and cinnamon will add some extra flavor and sweetness to your smoothie, but they won't load on the calories like sugar will.
 Wheat grass is filled with amino acids, antioxidants, fiber, minerals, and vitamins. It gives you energy, boosts your immune system, and helps detoxify the body.