 If your station is dedicated to music, prepare music specials. If your station is about science, create some interesting programs related to science. Consider if you want the length of your programs to be 30 minutes or an hour. You could also plan to do a quick 10 minutes of talking every hour of a music show.


Plan for a week of broadcasting and choose certain programs for individual days. Consistency is important for programs to develop a following.
The key to planning programs is that each show is exciting in some way. When in doubt, throw on a catchy playlist.
 Before going live, you should ensure that everything is plugged in and properly connected together. Follow each cable in your system and double check each end to be sure everything is in the proper place. Do a quick test of your broadcast and check the levels on your audio mixer or computer.
 Power your transmitter on and tune to the radio frequency, you choose, that isn't occupied by another station. If you haven’t found a station yet, go through the FM stations using a normal radio. Take note of the channels that don’t have any broadcasting., Have a friend listen to the station in a separate room. You can’t have the radio tuned to your broadcasting station in the room with you. When the microphones are turned on, it can create feedback that will be audible over the radio.


When the microphone is turned off, you can listen to the radio in the same room.
 Build your station up to fit your own means, and eventually you can build it into a legitimate station. It is good to begin broadcasting with a Part 15 transmitter to learn all the mechanics of radio and audio. If you develop a fan base, you can contact local businesses for advertising slots. If you’re a successful station, you can announce an advertisement opening on a popular time slot.The FCC rarely opens applications for licenses for low powered FM stations. If they do anytime soon, you can take the steps to become licensed and upgrade your transmitter to a more powerful device.
Once you begin broadcasting your show, you can also stream your show in a podcast form or even as an internet radio show.

