 If you are only expecting 20 or 30 people for an audition, even your garage may do. If you need a larger space, try renting out hotels or venues function rooms. These often are quite cheap to rent during the day, which is the most likely time to hold your auditions.;
,


If you're auditioning people to become members of a band, you may need to supply amps, leads, microphones etc. If you need a drummer for a band, you will most certainly need to have a drum kit available. Not many drummers will cart their expensive kits to an audition. Other instruments won't be necessary as most people will only play their own instruments
If you're auditioning an actor or singer for a musical, you may need microphones also, and a stereo or PA to play music through. But more importantly you may need someone to play out parts with them. This should not be too difficult to organise if you are in charge of hiring people!

,


Open Auditions are where you have a start time for auditions and anyone can turn up. This is done on a first come first serve basis.
Set Auditions are where you do not list the time or location of your auditions on your advertisements. You just put a contact number up, and when people ring you, you give them more information and a specific time and date for their audition. Though this sounds more complicated, this is often easier and seems better organised. Also, you know how many people are going to show up before they arrive.
Posters should follow this guide:
AUDITIONS
What type(s) of performer is required
Age and sex requirements
Time and Date (optional)
Length of audition
Contact number, website and email



, If you're not artistic/confident enough to make your own get them professionally done. Posters put up in venues, music shops, colleges and schools, drama clubs etc. are often the most effective. But there's no harm in placing advertisements in local papers. Another way to guarantee auditions is to ring Talent Agencies and Agents which can be found in your Yellow Pages. Only good performers are picked up by these businesses. Make sure to be safe about where you decide to put up your advertisements.
,, Also ask them to bring passport style, photos so when you're debating which to accept afterwards you will remember every person. This form should have:




Name
Phone Number
Address
Email Address
Age



, Often the most talented are the busiest! So try to accommodate them in a separate/private audition.
 The panel should always consist of at least two people, at least one man and one woman, unless you are running an all male or all female band. This looks more professional and one on one auditions can be disconcerting.
,, Don't give away your decision either and tell every person auditioning that you'll get back to them.
