 Shapewear is a type of clothing which goes under your street clothes. It is made using a lot of carefully shaped, strong elastic which helps mold your body into one streamlined shape. While cheap versions will have a marginal effect, a really good pair are worth investing in because the difference will be noticeable.


The most common brand name of shapewear is Spanx. Generally you can purchase shapewear in any large department store.
When you have a streamlined shape, even if it doesn't remove many inches from your waist it will still make you look thinner. This is because people generally perceive rolls as indicating that a person is "fat". The lack of them will do just the opposite.
 Much like you want to smooth rolls with shapewear, you also want to make sure that you aren't creating any rolls (whether you're wearing shapewear or not). The best way to do this is by wearing clothes that fit. They should be neither to big nor too small, instead fitting your body as well as possible. You should have room for movement but most items should not be so loose that they drape.
 Using colors and patterns can help you to create the illusion of a more slender shape, even if you don't have one.


Black classically makes you look thinner, by keeping the eye from seeing shadows which help us perceive depth.
You can also use bright colors contrasted with neutral colors to draw attention to a different part of your body, like your calves or feet.
Vertical stripes will also make you look taller and thinner, wile horizontal stripes should generally be avoided for making you look shorter and wider.
 Play around with how different outfits make you look to find the right lines and shapes for your body. Everyone will look different in different clothing combinations.


Use a cinched waist and full skirt, for example, make your waist look super small.
 You can also use accessories to direct the eye and make yourself look thinner. Use bold hats or shoes to draw the eye to naturally small parts of your body. Also, much like with horizontal stripes, you can use long thin pieces (like scarves and necklaces) to make you look taller and thinner.

