 Do 5 chain stitches, then make a slip stitch into the first chain to close the ring. Use a size H/8 or 5.0mm crochet hook and medium worsted weight yarn for this., Start with 2 chain stitches. This will count as your first double crochet stitch. Next, do 11 more double crochets, pulling each one through the center of the circle. Close the round off with a slip stitch into the top of your first stitch (the double chain stitch). This completes round 1.Do not turn your project.
Mark the beginning and end of your round with a stitch marker. If you can't find one, you can use a piece of yarn in a contrasting color or a safety pin.
 Start 2 chain stitches. Next, do 2 double crochets in each stitch for the rest of the round. Close with a slip stitch into the top of your first stitch. This completes round 2., Start with 2 chain stitches and 1 double crochet in the first stitch. Do 2 double crochet stitches in the second stitch. Next, do 1 double crochet stitch for the next 2 stitches. Repeat the last 4 stitches (2 double crochet in the same stitch, 1 double crochet for the next 2 stitches) until you reach the end of the round. Close the round with a slip stitch. This completes your third round., Start each round with 2 chain stitches; this will count as your first "double crochet." Do 1 double crochet in the first stitch, and 2 double crochets in the second stitch. Next, do x-number of double crochets over x-number of stitches. Repeat the last few stitches (2 double crochets in 1 stitch, x-number of double crochets), until you reach the end of the round. Close each round with a slip stitch. The number "x" will increase with each round. For example:Round 4: After 2 chain stitches and 1 double crochet, repeat 2 double crochets in the same stitch, then 1 double crochet over the next 3 stitches.
Round 5: After 2 chain stitches and 1 double crochet, repeat 2 double crochets in the same stitch, then 1 double crochet over the next 4 stitches.
Round 6: After 2 chain stitches and 1 double crochet, repeat 2 double crochets in the same stitch, then 1 double crochet over the next 5 stitches.
Round 7: After 2 chain stitches and 1 double crochet, repeat 2 double crochets in the same stitch, then 1 double crochet over the next 6 stitches.
Round 8: After 2 chain stitches and 1 double crochet, repeat 2 double crochets in the same stitch, then 1 double crochet over the next 7 stitches.
 On your 9th round, chain stitch 2, then do 1 double crochet in each stitch for the rest of the round. Close with a slip stitch. Keep doing this for the next 18 rounds or so (until round 28).If this is for a child, consider doing 10 rounds.
 Begin with 1 chain stitch, then do single crochets for the rest of the round. Close the round off with a slip stitch., Start with 1 chain stitch. Next, do 1 single crochet for the next 5 stitches. Do 1 single crochet decrease over your 6th stitch. Continue doing 5 single crochets, 1 single crochet decrease, for the rest of the round. Close the round with a slip stitch. Here are some extra sizing tips:If this is for a child, do 5 single crochets, then 2 single crochet decreases.
If this is for a larger head, do 10 single crochet stitches, then 1 single crochet decrease.
If this is for an extra large head, don't do any decreases. Simply work more single crochets into the round.
 Start with 1 chain stitch, then do a single crochet into each stitch for the rest of the round. Close the round off with a slip stitch., Your slouchy hat is now complete! You can leave it as is, or add some embroidery into the brim using contrasting yarn and a yarn needle. You can also sew a large, decorative button, bow, or flower into the band instead.