 It can seem difficult to avoid being drawn into a debate. When faced with a very argumentative person, it is important to remind yourself that your antagonist does not likely want to hear your opinion.Nothing you say will be convincing enough to settle the argument, and an argumentative person will likely not admit it even if they are wrong. Save yourself a headache and just say you're not going to debate the topic.;
, When talking to an argumentative person, it's best to keep the conversation as trivial as possible. If a topic comes up that often causes disagreements or that many people debate, like gun control or abortion, say that you do not want to talk about it or that topic doesn't interest you.


Change the subject. If you sense an argument coming, instead of disagreeing try to steer the conversation in a different direction.
 Don't let yourself get riled up. Letting an argumentative person see that the argument is getting your emotions going will likely give him the sense of victory or superiority he secretly craves and urge him to keep arguing. If you appear to be unaffected by the disagreement, the other person will feel unsatisfied with the results. Eventually he may even give up arguing with you and seek out a more excitable target.


Keep your voice quiet. When one person raises their voice, the other feels compelled to be louder. Speaking quietly may even make you seem wiser, which will annoy your opponent.
 Check your watch or the messages on your phone. Let him know you have more important things to do and excuse yourself. Disputes give argumentative people a sense of superiority. By displaying your lack of interest in discussing the topic you will seem superior yourself.
 Say something like, "You're probably right, but I like my way." Once you have done this there is nothing left to argue about. You can also nod your head without agreeing. Let him state his opinion and then move the conversation onward as though an agreement was made.


Make noises of agreement without agreeing.This helps to slow down his statements and keep the conversation low-key.

