 This is the last time you will use shampoo. As shampoo contains sulfates, it will get rid of the non-water soluble ingredients (silicones) and will allow the conditioner to cleanse the hair from here on.;
, You will need 2 types of conditioners for this. The first one will be for cleansing and the second will be for moisturising. Both, however, should not contain any silicones (any ingredient that ends in -cone, -conol or -xane). Any old cheap one will do for the 1st conditioner which should be light so that it doesn't weigh the hair down though the second conditioner should be heavier and richer with more botanical ingredients but not necessarily expensive.
 Use a brush in the shower working your way from the ends up and making sure to press firmly on the scalp. A brush should never be used at any other time(except for straightening).the brush will untangle the hair and loosen the dirt so that with the help of the water and conditioner, will wash it away.
 Part your hair in the middle at the back. squirt a dollop of conditioner onto the hand. it doesn't matter how much you squirt. Dip your fingers in the conditioner and apply it to the part-line you just created using up and down motions- use another dip of conditioner if necessary. Repeat all over the head making parts at the back of the head first and the moving to the front/top. If you have extra, then create a horizontal part/ line at the crown of head and apply there using the same motion. Then get another dollop of conditioner- the size of an average glue-stick lid (about 2cm)and emulsify it between the palms of your hands ( emulsify means to rub your hand against each other until the conditioner is warm). Then use circular motions on your front hairline and gradually move towards the back hair continuing the same motion using the pads of your fingers(fingertips- never your nails).Re-emulsify and do an overall massage using expanding and contracting motions with your fingers over all of your head. massage for about a minute. Then using the whole length of your fingers, use brisk and fast back and forth motions over your head for another minute. finally step under the shower(the water should be warm- not burning hot or cold)and use circular motions again to wash away the impurities and conditioner., use more on the ends if needed. do not use this conditioner on your roots. let it in your heads for about 5-10 minutes to give your hair the opportunity to absorb what it needs. you can go on and clean the rest of your body while your waiting.
 Use a wide-tooth comb for this. Then rinse ALL of the conditioner out with cool water. the cool water will shut down the cuticle of your hair and make it shinier and less frizzy.
 This helping will protect the hair from the environment(pollution) and frizziness. If your is fine and thin-use the light conditioner for this and use the rich conditioner if you have thick and coarse hair.Apply it as you did in step 6 but use your fingers as a wide tooth comb. Forget about the "leave in for 5-10mins" bit in this step and DO NOT RINSE OUT.
 it may take about 3 weeks for your hair to adjust. in the adjustment period, you might be tempted to give up bu take heart- the frizziness will never come back after that.
 They are made FOR YOU and they will look best on you. Love them and take care of them!

