 Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Hold dumbbells in either hand at your sides, with your arms fully extended and your palms turned in. Curl the dumbbells to your chest.









Do between 6 and 8 reps and 2 sets. Increase to 3 sets after a week or two. After that, you can increase the weight of the dumbbells.
If you don't have dumbbells, you can also use kettlebells or barbells.;
, Sit on a workout chair at a 45-degree incline. Place your feet on the floor and hold the dumbbells at your sides with your arms fully extended. Alternate your hands and curl one dumbbell at a time. Curl until the dumbbell is level with your shoulder and your elbow is totally bent, then slowly lower the dumbbell back to the starting position.









Do between 6 and 8 reps and 2 sets. Increase to 3 sets after a week or two, then add more weight as you get stronger.
You may find that you'll have to use a lower weight for this exercise than you use for regular dumbbell curls. That's not an issue; the inclined position makes it more difficult to lift, so your biceps are still getting a great workout.
 Sit on an exercise seat with your feet flat on the ground shoulder-width apart. Lean forward so that your right elbow is touching the inside of your right knee, and your arm is fully extended. Curl the dumbbell toward your chest, keeping your elbow in the same spot.


You can place your opposite hand on your opposite knee for stability.
Do between 6 and 8 reps and 2 sets, then repeat with your left arm.
 This exercise may be difficult at first, but it's an excellent way to increase the size of your biceps. Grip a bar with your hands placed shoulder-width apart and your palms facing you. Cross your feet and lift your body until your chin is higher than your hands. Slowly lower your body back to the starting position.









Do between 6 and 8 reps and 2 sets. Increase to 8 - 12 reps and 3 sets once you have gained strength.
To increase the intensity of this exercise, wear a weighted belt. Add more weight as you get stronger over time.
 This exercise works out your pectoral muscles as well as your biceps, and helps you create a strong foundation for a safe, success bicep workout. Incorporate pectoral fly exercises into either your bicep workout or additional strength training workouts on days you rest your biceps.Lie down on a bench so that your head, torso, and rear end are all supported, but your legs are off the bench. Bend your knees so that your feet sit flat on the floor off the end of the bench. Bend your elbows so that your dumbbells are resting near your chest to begin.
Start by pushing the dumbbells straight up from the chest. Slowly lower the arms out to the sides only as far as you feel sure you can bring the dumbbells back up. Make sure you have a spotter nearby for safety
Exhale, and carefully bring the dumbbells back together over the center of your chest in an arch motion. Once the dumbbells come together, repeat the motion by lowering the dumbbells back out to the sides. Repeat this motion for your specific number of reps.
 Push-ups help build strength in the shoulders, chest and triceps, all of which work in conjunction with the biceps. Incorporate push-ups in your regular work out routine as a body-weight exercise to help build up your supporting muscle groups.Set yourself on a mat stomach-down, and place your hands at shoulder level and slightly wider than shoulder width apart. Set your feet up so that your legs are straight back behind you and the tips of your shoes are touching the ground. Look down while keeping your head, neck, and spine in a straight line.
Push up on your arms to bring your body to an elevated position at the full extension of your arms. Your body should stay in a straight line. Brace your abs as you push up.
Once you reach the full extent of your arms, carefully lower yourself until your elbows are at a 90 degree angle. Do not let your chest or head drop to the ground.
Repeat the exercise for the recommended amount of reps, or until your body gets tired.
 Stretching is important to help your muscles loosen up and kickstart the recovery process. Consider adding a stretching routine such as yoga to your workout schedule to make sure that your biceps and supporting muscle groups are all getting the attention they deserve.

You can perform muscle-specific static stretches, but whole-body stretching exercises such as yoga provide a more inclusive, comprehensive stretch for all muscles worked, including smaller supporting ones., You might think that working out every day will lead to bigger biceps, but your muscles actually get stronger during the resting period in between workouts, when they have time to recover. Over time they get larger in order to be capable of lifting more and more weight.


Train your biceps no more than twice a week for the best results.
Work out other parts of your body on the days you aren't doing exercises to enhance your biceps.
 Training for too long during any given session can strain your biceps and cause an injury, setting back your progress. Fifteen to thirty minute training sessions are sufficient for building strength and preventing injury when you are focusing specifically on your biceps.
 After a few months of biceps training, building muscle memory and strengthening the biceps, you can safely go all in. Make each training session count by working out as hard as you can during that short period of time. Lift the heaviest weights you can lift for six or more reps to make your sessions as high-intensity as possible. Bodybuilders call this method "training to failure," because you should be training with weights heavy enough that you eventually can't complete another rep.









Find your "train to failure" weight by choosing a weight you can curl no more than 6 - 8 times before experiencing too much muscle fatigue to keep lifting. If you're able to complete several sets without breaking a sweat or "failing," you need to increase the weight. If you can't lift it even one or two times without stopping, decrease the weight.
Your train to failure weight will gradually increase as you gain muscle strength. Add weight in one to two pound increments every week or so, using the same standard to determine whether you're lifting too much weight or too little.
 Your train to failure weight should also be a weight you can lift while using the proper form. Using the right form keeps your biceps from getting injured and promotes the right kind of muscle-building.









Don't use momentum to lift the weights; use controlled movements. Lower them slowly rather than letting them drop quickly.
If you find that you can't complete more than a few reps without losing your good form, you're lifting too much weight. Start with a lighter weight and build up your strength.
Take one to two minute breaks between sets to let your muscles rest.
 When you're training a lot, you need to make sure you get plenty of calories for energy, but eating too much can create a layer of fat on your body that will obscure the muscles you're working so hard to build.


Choose vegetables, fruits, and whole grains.
Drink plenty of water to keep your body hydrated and ease your hunger pangs after working out.
 Protein helps build muscles, so it's recommended that you eat 0.8 g of protein per pound of body weight while you're training.


Eat poultry, fish, beef, pork, eggs, nuts, seeds, Greek yogurt, cottage cheese, milk, and other sources of protein to build your muscles.
Beans, leafy greens, tofu, and other vegetarian sources of protein are also good choices.
 Creatine is an amino acid naturally produced by the body to build big, strong muscles. Many bodybuilders take creatine supplements to help them achieve their training goals. Although it isn't approved by the FDA, creatine is considered to be safe when taken in 5 gram doses.


Choose a powdered creatine supplement that can be mixed with water and ingested several times a day.
After an initial "loading" period during which you drink high amounts of creatine to build it up in your body, taper off to a maintenance dosage.

