 If you have an opinion about something, don’t sink back and keep it to yourself. Speak up! State your opinion, and contribute to the conversation. A woman who can hold her own stands out above the rest.When giving your opinion, it helps to be well-informed. If you aren’t familiar with the topic being discussed, try to listen instead of speaking. When a topic you know comes up, offer your opinions.
 A lot of girls feel like they are not allowed to assert their needs--not in a relationship, not in their family, not in the workplace, and not in the classroom. Do you want to be different from most girls? Assert yourself!Some people might not like you asserting yourself, but not being afraid to demand respect and consideration is nothing to be ashamed of.
Assertion doesn’t have to be mean. To assert yourself, you can ask your teacher a question if you don’t understand an assignment, tell your friends you are too tired to go out, or let your significant other know that they hurt your feelings.
 Most girls will deny a compliment, shake their head, or at least make a face to suggest displeasure. Don’t do that. Instead, smile, and say a simple, “Thank you.”Not all compliments are created equal. Objectifying you and complimenting you are two very different things. If a compliment makes you uncomfortable, don’t be afraid to shut it down.
 Rounded shoulders and downcast eyes suggest you are uncomfortable in your skin. Instead, stand up straight, look straight ahead, and keep your chin parallel to the ground.Work on your posture at all times. If you slouch when you’re alone, you will slouch when you are out, too.
 Whether you are listening or speaking, be sure you make eye contact. If you cannot hold eye contact indefinitely (and this can make people feel as though you are staring them down, anyway), try to hold it for 20 seconds at a time with a 10-second break in between during conversations with others.Eye contact demonstrates confidence quietly, rather than loud or brash statements.
If you feel too awkward practicing eye contact with others, you can practice meeting your own eyes in a mirror or practice with your family members.
 Ultimately, the only way to get respect from others is to have respect for yourself. Respect your time, your energy, and your limitations. You can show yourself respect by treating yourself with care and consideration, such as making time for rest, feeding your body healthy foods, and listening to your intuition.If you do not have time for a commitment, say so.
Be honest about what you need from a relationship or position. Respecting yourself means being up front about your needs.

