 You should find it in your local nursery. They are psyllid resistant and have great cultivars such as ‘Hot Flush’, ‘Allyn Magic’, Hedgemaster’, ‘Minipilly’ and ‘Dusky’.;
,, Design your garden so you have plants that flower at different times of the year and not only during spring. There are now better ways to beat the winter doldrums than to see a patch of colour on a cold day – try Croweas or Correas.
 They can be grown in harsh conditions such as on: rocks and logs, above ground, in dappled light to full sun and are tough near drought tolerant plants (water only every two to three weeks) and they flower great in spring., Two that have been found to flower for nearly a month are: P. ’Poorinda Ballerina’ and P. phylicifolia. The later also grows and flowers well in shade. Both recommended as they are hardy and only grow to a meter tall.
 If yours are just sitting there looking unhappy and not flowering they need a lot of water in winter (especially the taller flowering forms that flower in spring only) as this is what they receive in their original habitat - the Southwest corner of Western Australia. For the smaller flowering Bush series that flower all year round, it is best to give them less winter watering than their taller cousins., Lillypillies are a name adopted for Acmena and Syzygium and a few other related plants. They are generally hardy and pest free. However when grown in dappled light or shady areas some of them are particularly prone to being attacked by Psyllids – a small insect that gets into the leaf and produces tiny “bubbles” on the surface and it can create quite bad distortion of new growth and looks unsightly. Acmenas and Syzygium luehmannii and most Syzygium australe cultivars are resistant to it.
 There are far too many new and exciting plants to try, so dig out the under performers and consign them to the bin., A local to Sydney, it starts to flower in August then rests with the odd spot flowers and then starts flowering again more heavily in November/December. The showy 2.5 centimeter (1.0 in) five petal white flowers stand out well against the attractive green linear leaves. For me this plant is very hardy and is about 1.8 metres tall and is in a well drained position protected from the western sun.

