 As soon as you have 3 logs, bring up your inventory screen and craft them into wooden planks. 4 planks should be used for crafting table, 2 for stick.;
, Mine the crafting table with the axe so you can store it back into your inventory again. From there, continue collecting wood with the newly crafted axe you made.
 You should still have enough sticks laying around for one more tool, so use those to make a wooden pickaxe. Get at least enough cobblestone for a furnace and some stone tools (If you happen to rarely see coal somewhere, mine it with the pickaxe if possible). Decide where you are going to carve your small temporary home into for the night. The three recommended options are underground, mountain, or a tiny island.
 Place your crafting table somewhere inside your home and make a furnace. If you have not got any coal as of yet, you may want to make charcoal. Luckily you still had not used that one other log you collected. Smelt the log with wood planks or sticks, and when it's finished, grab the charcoal from the furnace and make torches. Place it all around your shelter, block up the entrance with dirt, stone, or whatever. Now you're set for the night (No wooden doors for the entrance, since zombies can break them easily).
 You may also slay animals for meat and cook it in the furnace. You could also make a chest to store unnecessary items. Do all of this until nighttime has arrived.
 Next, you're going to want to craft a stone sword and have torches, cooked food, and other stone tools. You may encounter creepers, spiders, and endermen, so get your stone sword ready to slay them (Zombies and Skeletons won't be burned by sunlight if hiding under a tree or in the water).
 This is important especially when all the animals in your area are no longer there. Find an ocean or a lake, use a stone hoe to turn dirt or grass into farm land around water. This way, the soil will become hydrated by the water flowing into it to make wheat plants grow faster. Place seeds into the farm land and a few torches (If you do not have any, then this would be a good time to get plenty of them). It may take a while for the wheat to grow, but keep on planting and planting so it makes much more of an impact when it's fully grown.
 You need their wool to make a bed, so slay three of them. Sleep in the bed when it's nighttime, skipping to daytime without monsters spawning would make hardcore a whole lot easier.
 Plant it anywhere where there's dirt, room, and light. Add one torch or so to make it grow even when the sun isn't out. You probably don't need to do this now, but maybe later when your running out of trees.
 The only thing left to do is to expand on your little home or make a even better one, from there you would start mining for iron and coal underground. Smelt iron in the furnace to make iron ingot to create better tools and armor. Iron pickaxe can be used to mine gold, diamond, and redstone. You're going to need armor to survive caves full of monsters. With all of this completed, you now know how to survive and thrive in hardcore mode.

