 Pull together the documents you will need and other information before you start the application. You will need the following information or documents:Earnings
Rent or mortgage
Utility bills
Child support (that you pay or receive)
Day care expenses
Medical bills
SSI, social security, or VA payments you receive;
, This is a program that will ask for your family and income information and will give you an indication of whether you will be eligible for food stamps through the SNAP program.Follow these steps:


Go to https://access.arkansas.gov/Welcome.aspx to check your qualifications.
Click on the "Am I Eligible" link.
Scroll to the bottom of the next page (on the way down, read as much of the information there as you wish) and click on the "Continue" button to begin the questionnaire.
Provide the information about your household as required. As you are answering each question, if you need more information you can click on the question mark at the right of each line. Don’t be confused if you notice a lot of questions that don’t seem related to the issue of food stamps. This questionnaire is used for several different state programs.
When you have completed the questionnaire, click on the "Determine Potential Eligibility" button at the bottom of the screen.
On the next page, read the information about your potential eligibility for a variety of state programs. Look for the paragraph about SNAP and you will read if you are likely to be eligible.
 As an alternative, this is another pre-screening tool that is streamlined just for the SNAP program. Each state administers the SNAP program for its own residents, but the program is established nationally by the USDA.Your eligibility results are likely to be similar.


You can find it at http://www.snap-step1.usda.gov/fns/.
Click on the "Start Tool" button to access the questionnaire. Then you will be prompted to select the state where you live and are applying for assistance.
Complete the eligibility test. Work you way through the program and answer each question as accurately and completely as possible. This program is only designed to give you an estimate of your eligibility for food stamps. Officials at the state level in the DHS will make the actual decision later.
Interpret the results of the eligibility test. The final screen of the eligibility test will tell you if you appear to be eligible for food stamp assistance. It will provide a preliminary estimate and will let you know if you appear to be eligible for “expedited service.” Expedited service will allow you to get into the system within about seven days.
 Before you can apply for an application online, you need to register for an account at https://access.arkansas.gov/Login.aspx. This is a secure governmental website that will take the information you need to apply.Note: This step is only required if you wish to apply online. You may also apply by mail or in person. (These steps are outlined below.)

, The pre-screening was only to give you an idea of whether you should apply for benefits. If you wish to proceed, you need to get an application and complete it in one of several ways:Online. After creating an online account, visit the Access Arkansas website at https://access.arkansas.gov/Welcome.aspx. Follow the prompts to Log-In and Apply for SNAP. When you finish submitting your information, it will be relayed to an agent who will review it and then contact you soon.
In person. You can visit a DHS office, speak to a DHS representative to see if you qualify for the program, and fill out an application. To find the nearest DHS office is in your county, visit http://humanservices.arkansas.gov/Pages/DHSCountyOffices.aspx to view a list of DHS office locations and phone numbers. You can either apply while you’re there, or pick up an application and take it home to complete.
By mail. You can pick up an application from a DHS office, call to ask them to mail you one, or print one yourself. The link to print the application is http://humanservices.arkansas.gov/dco/dco_docs/DCO215.pdf. Complete the application and then return it by mail to your nearest DHS office., The DHS will review your application and notify you of their decision regarding your eligibility. If your family has extremely little or no income and limited resources, you may receive an expedited service which will bump the waiting period to within 7 days. After your application is processed, you will be given or mailed an appointment time for an interview with a DHS representative., At some time soon after submitting your application, you will be informed of a date and time to participate in an interview. In some cases, you may have the option for a telephone interview. (If you apply online, you will see a link that automatically offers a telephone interview.) , At the interview, you may need to refer to the documents that you used when you applied. Pull them together and take copies with you. Contact your DHS office if you have questions about how to prepare for your interview. In general, you will need to show the paperwork to support the following:Proof of income
Current proof of rent or mortgage expenses
Proof of child care expenses
Social security numbers
Proof of child support payments that you pay

, The interview portion of the application process is designed to verify the information that you reported in your application. The case worker will ask you questions designed to see the examine your financial situation. While you may feel like you are being examined (you are), you are also being supported. The interview is to filter out people who may be trying to cheat the system, but if you are honest and need the support, that will show., At the end of the interview, the case worker will probably be able to tell you when you can expect to receive official notice of the decision. By law, you must be notified within 30 days after the date of your initial application. The applicants with the most need will be identified for "expedited service" and will receive award notification within seven days., The government provides food assistance benefits using a system called Electronic Benefits Transfer, or EBT. You will receive a card, much like a credit card, which you can use to buy food at participating markets and food stores. Your award notice will inform you of the amount of your award, and the schedule for refreshing your EBT account., You will be notified of your EBT account number and the way to access an account online to supervise your account. You can go online to review your overall account, the money that you have spent, and the money that you have left available. By monitoring this account, you will be able to use your money wisely and make it last until the next award payment.If you have questions, you can call 800-997-9999 for help with your EBT account.

