 Sometimes, while riding, the chain will slip off of its intended path, but not break. Because, in this case, the chain is still routed through both the front and rear derailleurs, no special maintenance is needed - all you'll usually need to do is slip the chain back onto its sprocket. When you experience a slippage, get off the bike and look for the slippage. Usually, the chain falls off of the front sprocket, but stays threaded through both derailleurs.


Look for places where the chain has become jammed against the frame - these jams must be addressed before the bike can be ridden again.;
, Sometimes, in the event of a slippage, the chain gets jammed between the rear sprocket and the frame. In this case, it's a good idea to loosen the quick release on the rear wheel and undo the wheel nut to loosen the rear wheel from the chain. When you've loosened the rear wheel enough, simply pull the chain out.


Open the quick release by first pulling the small lever at the center of the rear wheel. Then, loosen the wheel nut on the other side to loosen the "hold" the rear wheel has on the frame. Once loosened, the chain should come out easily.
Don't forget to re-tighten the quick release before riding away. You should be able to close it completely - it should be tight, but not too tight to push all the way down. If it feels too tight, loosen the wheel nut and try again. Likewise, if it's too loose, then tighten the wheel nut.
 For bikes with rear derailleurs, simply slacken the chain and thread it around the front sprocket. On most bikes, the rear derailleur is spring loaded so that it keeps the chain tight while riding. Take advantage of this fact by pushing the arm of the rear derailleur forward to introduce slack in the chain. Then, use this slack to thread the other end of the chain around the smallest of the front sprockets. Release the arm of the rear derailleur and ensure the chain is tight.


From here, you can usually simply ride away! Your bike may shift somewhat erratically until the chain shifts into the gear it was in when the slippage occurred.
 For bikes without a derailleur, catch the chain on the sprocket by pedaling. Many bikes (like "fixies") don't have derailleurs. The easiest way to repair a loose chain in this case is to hook the chain onto the rear sprocket, hook as much of the chain as you can on the bottom of the front sprocket, and carefully turn the pedal backwards. The chain should "catch" and begin to turn around the front sprocket. When the "caught" portion gets to the top of the front sprocket, the chain should begin running through the bike's gears as normal.


Turning the pedals is easier if you elevate the bike's rear wheel. To do so, you can put the bike on a stand or prop up the rear of the frame with any materials on hand. Alternatively, you may get a helper to hold the rear wheel off the ground as you put the chain back on or turn the entire bike upside down.
 Get on your bike and pedal forward at a slow speed. If your bike has gears, your chain may "jump" back into the gear it was in when the slippage occurred. Otherwise, keep changing gear until the chain pedals smoothly.


Note - on fixed-gear bikes, chain slippage can be particularly dangerous and problematic and is often the symptom of a chain that's too loose. Consider adjusting the tension in your chain before riding again.
 Before you resume normal riding, make sure you are in a comfortable gear. If your bike has them, change gears on both the rear and front derailleurs until your chain turns smoothly without producing any noise.

