 If the book is no longer subject to copyright protection, anyone can publish or distribute it without needing to get permission.


Copyright doesn't last forever. After the copyright expires, a book falls into the public domain and anyone can publish it. As a general rule, anything published in the United States before 1923 is in the public domain.However, keep in mind that later editions of a book that is in the public domain may not themselves be in the public domain. For example, although Shakespeare is clearly in the public domain, if you want the digital rights for an illustrated edition of Romeo and Juliet published in 1995, that edition is not in the public domain.If a work was created between 1923 and 1978, the author or copyright holder was required to renew copyright protection after 28 years. Many works created during that time have fallen into the public domain because the copyright was not renewed, but it will take some research to find out if that's the case.A 1992 federal law made renewal automatic for works published between 1964 and 1978, so those works along with works created from January 1, 1978 to the present typically will be covered by copyright.In the United States, books have copyright protection for the life of the author plus 70 years.If the book was written outside the United States, you must find out in which countries (if any) the book was published, and research the copyright laws of those countries to determine whether you can publish it in the U.S. and who you would need to contact to secure permission.
Note that copyright protection was triggered by publishing for earlier works, while later works (those created on or after January 1, 1978) have copyright protection from the moment they are created.Older works that remained unpublished, such as personal diaries, are treated the same as works created after 1978. This means that if the author of the work died 70 years ago, the work is now in the public domain.You can start your search by looking at the copyright notice of the book, if it has one. The date on the copyright notice typically is the date the work was published.;
, Since copyright protection begins the moment a work is created, if the book is unpublished in any form the copyright may not be registered.


Registration is not a requirement for copyright protection of books created on or after January 1, 1978.You can search records created from 1978 to the present on the Copyright Office's website. The search includes copyright registration as well as any other recorded documents such as licenses or transfers of copyright ownership.The online system gives you the option of searching by title, name, or registration or document number. You also can do a keyword search. You should only do a title search if you know the exact title – otherwise, do a keyword search.You also have the option of limiting your search in various ways, such as by the year of registration or by the type of item registered.Since you're looking for a book, it makes sense to limit your search to recorded documents and text so other items such as music, motion pictures, and sound recordings will be eliminated from your search results.
 If the book is protected by copyright, you must get permission from the rights holder – typically either the author or the publisher – to publish or distribute the book in digital format.


If the book has a copyright notice, the name on the copyright notice typically is the name of the author.
When you searched Copyright Office records, the copyright registration certificate also had the name and contact information of the owner of the copyright.If the book has not been published, you must find contact information for the author of the book. For example, if you want the digital rights to an unpublished manuscript, the author's name probably is on the manuscript – but his or her address or phone number may not be. In this situation, you would need to do a bit of basic detective work to find the contact information for the author (assuming he or she is still alive).
 Building a preliminary plan for how you would use the digital rights can help you determine how much you should spend on the license.


In addition to deciding how much you're willing to pay for digital rights, this exercise will give you an understanding of the expenses of your project. If you're planning on advertising the e-book you create, you also might want to get general figures of those costs.
Keep in mind that typically royalty rates or amounts are not decreased by costs for advertising, marketing, or promotions.Your costs also help you figure out how long you need your license to last. For example, if you anticipate it will cost you $100,000 to produce and market the e-book, and you plan to sell the e-book for $10 with a 50 percent royalty rate, you'll have to sell 20,000 copies before you break even. How long it will take to sell 20,000 copies will depend generally on how well you market the book and the demand for the book or the author.
 Before you speak with the rights holder, you should have a good idea of the maximum amount you're willing to spend to purchase the digital rights to the book.


Typically you're going to provide a certain royalty rate on sales, but the author or publisher also may expect a lump-sum advance. In addition, if you're planning on distributing the e-book for free, you'll have to work out a purchase price since royalties won't be applicable.
Create a range that's realistic. The minimum you're willing to spend may be zero, but asking the author or publisher to give you digital rights to the book for free is probably not going to fly. However, this depends on your situation and the use to which you want to put those rights.
For example, if you work with a non-profit organization that provides support for the families of children with cancer, and you want the digital rights to a memoir written by the mother of a child with cancer to distribute to the families, you might stand a chance of getting those digital rights for little to no money.
 Once you've settled your negotiating range and strategy, write the rights holder and express your interest in purchasing the digital rights to the book.


Introduce yourself and identify the book for which you want digital rights. Explain what you intend to do with the book and how you're going to handle distribution.
If you already have ballpark figures for royalty rates and terms, you might include those in the letter as well as starting points for negotiation. However, keep in mind that the author or publisher has not yet accepted your offer to negotiate. They may be unwilling to license these rights, so you may want to keep the details to yourself until you at least know that they're open to discussion.
Provide contact information for yourself and give them a preferred time frame to get back to you – but be polite about it. This isn't a deadline. You want to do business with them, and it's important to start on collegial footing. Simply say something like "I'd love to hear back from you within the next month," or "if I don't hear from you in two weeks, I'll assume you're not interested."

, The rights holder should have a full understanding of the work for which you want digital rights and how you intend to use those rights.


Digital rights can be rather broad. The value of those rights may change depending on whether you plan on publishing an e-book that essentially is just like a print book, or whether you want to create a so-called enhanced e-book with videos, photos, and links.
Additionally, there are different types of e-books and digital rights. An e-book must be formatted separately for different platforms. For example, you would have to create two versions using entirely different code and formatting rules if you wanted to publish the book for Amazon's Kindle and Apple's iBook. These are separate digital rights that can be parceled out by the rights holder accordingly. Just because you have the rights to publish an e-book for Kindle does not necessarily mean you have the rights to publish the e-book on any other platform.Also, keep in mind that internet rights are one subset of digital rights. Selling an e-book through internet retailers does not require internet rights; however, if you plan to have the book's text itself available to read on a website, you specifically need internet rights.Make sure you and the rights holder are on the same page regarding what you intend to do with the digital rights to the book once you get them, which will enable you to draw up a more specific agreement. It's doubtful that an author or publisher would agree to grant a license for something as broad as "digital rights" without a detailed description of what you're permitted to do.
 You and the rights holder will need to come to an agreement on how, when, and where you will be able to publish or distribute the book under the license.


Keep in mind that for the author or publisher, the goal is to make the most money through a limited license for a short period of time.The more expansive the rights you want, the more expensive the license will be.
You also must come to an agreement on whether your rights will be exclusive or non-exclusive.If you get non-exclusive digital rights, this means others can publish the book digitally as well, even on the same platform and in the same geographic area as you do. Non-exclusive rights may be preferred if, for example, you want to publish the e-book solely for distribution to members of a non-profit organization. However, if you plan on marketing the e-book commercially, you probably want exclusive rights.
If you're planning on selling the e-book on the internet using retailers such as Amazon, you probably want to negotiate for worldwide rights. This enables the e-book to be sold in other countries, not just on the U.S. versions of those retailers' websites.
 How payments are structured may depend on whether you're negotiating with the author or with a publishing company.


Publishing companies typically have their own schedules, and will expect you to follow those schedules and their accounting procedures as well.
You also may consider having an accelerating royalty rate, in which the rate increases after a certain number of books are sold. The idea is that the author gets a lower rate while you're still trying to recoup your costs, but after you break even, the author gets a higher rate.
The National Writer's Union recommends a royalty rate of 35 percent of the list price for e-books. If you're tying the rate to net proceeds rather than list price, consider a royalty rate somewhere between 50 and 70 percent.Make sure you have the correct information for the rights holder for the method of payment upon which you've both decided. For example, if you plan to pay royalties through direct deposit to the author's checking account, you need to have the bank name, account number and routing number for their account, as well as their name as listed on that account.
 Typically the rights will revert to the author after a certain period of time.


The author or publisher will argue for a short duration, but you need the license to last long enough for you to recoup your costs in producing the e-book and make a profit.
Rather than have the license end on a certain date, you might tie the term of the license to the number of books sold – with an ultimate end date some point well into the future in the event the sales aren't made. This strategy ensures you'll make a profit since the rate of sales is somewhat uncertain. For example, if you've determined you'll have to sell 20,000 copies to recoup your costs, you might argue for the rights to revert after 100,000 copies are sold, or 20 years from the date the license goes into effect.
You also might have sales of a certain amount of copies trigger a renegotiation of the license, rather than having the rights automatically revert to the author or publisher.
 Issues such as how the license can be revoked, what happens in the event of a breach of the contract, and the rights and responsibilities of both parties should be worked out in advance.


For example, if copyright of the book is not yet registered, you probably want to include copyright registration in the agreement. Typically it would be the author's responsibility to complete registration.
Choice of law and forum may be particularly important, particularly if the author is a citizen of another country. Assuming you are a U.S. citizen, you want to make sure the license is governed by U.S. law and any lawsuits arising from breach of contract will be litigated in a court that's convenient for you.
 You may be able to find contracts written to transfer digital rights in other books that you can use to help.


Since there's no particular format or wording requiredunder federal copyright lawfor licensing the digital rights to a book, you may have difficulty finding a sample you can use as a straight template.
However, you may be able to find similar documents that licensed the digital rights of other books that you can use as guides to make sure your language is correct.Writer's unions and organizations may have sample agreements on their websites. However, keep in mind these agreements naturally will be skewed in favor of the writer. Read the clauses carefully and eliminate anything that puts you at a disadvantage or that wasn't specifically negotiated.
 Even if you draft the license agreement yourself, you might have an attorney look over the finished product and make sure you didn't miss anything and that all the language is clear.


If you're concerned about the cost of hiring an attorney, you can shop around. Look for an attorney experienced in publishing contracts or copyright license agreements. Make sure you find someone with experience in books. A highly experienced copyright attorney with tremendous respect who works primarily in the music industry may not know much about the publishing industry. Each type of work subject to copyright has its own rules, and the industry surrounding it has its own standards.
Keep in mind that if the contract is breached in some way and you end up in court, litigation will be longer and more expensive if you also have to haggle over differing interpretations of certain clauses in the agreement.
 Your agreement should begin by providing a date and the full legal name of both you and the rights holder and identifying the roles of each of you relative to the agreement.


Include addresses for each party. You also may want to include a brief name to refer to each party throughout the rest of the agreement. For example, if you are entering into an agreement with the author of the book, you might write "hereinafter 'Author'" after his or her name.Many licensing agreements include a preamble,but this is not strictly necessary. The preamble simply tells a story about the agreement, essentially stating that since one party owns the rights to the book and the other party wants to publish the book, you are entering into this legally binding contract to make that happen. However, the use of "whereas" and "therefore" clauses can make the agreement feel more formal.
 List the book specifically by title and include the copyright registration number if the work's copyright has been registered.


If you're planning on recording the agreement with the Copyright Office, the registration number must be included.As with the names of the parties, you may want to include a brief name to refer to the book throughout the rest of the agreement so you don't have to keep repeating the full title. Additionally, continuing to use the full title could get confusing – especially if, for example, the title has punctuation within it such as commas or a semi-colon.
You can refer to the book simply as "Book" throughout the agreement, although you may want to use something based on the title itself.
 Your agreement should make clear what you're allowed to do pursuant to the license.


Be as specific as possible, using the terms to which you and the author or publisher agreed during your negotiations. For example, if you only discussed publishing an e-book for Kindle, you should list that rather than using a general term such as "digital rights" that could be read as giving you more rights than you actually bargained for.
You'll want to note whether the license is exclusive or non-exclusive, and the territory within which the use will be exercised. If you're leaving open the option to sell the book internationally, for example, you would need worldwide rights. However, if you only have permission to distribute the book in the United States, your territory should be limited accordingly.
 Your agreement must include the date it begins and the date it ends.If the end date is conditional on sales or other factors, state these specifically. You also may need to include details on how those sales will be calculated and how often figures will be reviewed.
The start of the agreement also may be conditional. For example, if copyright has not yet been registered, the license may not begin until registration is complete. If you're licensing an unpublished manuscript, you may not want the license to begin until the author has delivered the manuscript to you.
 This section should include details regarding how those royalties are calculated, how often those calculations will be made, and the terms and conditions under which the author or publisher can request an audit of your records.


Specify what the royalty rate is based on, whether gross proceeds, net proceeds, or list price. Basing your royalty rate on the list price makes the accounting simpler and is more transparent for the author, since he or she has no way of knowing what your costs are or how many copies of the book have sold.
You may wish to include a minimum payment. For example, the agreement may state that payments are to be made on the 20th of every month, but if $100 has not accrued, the amount will be rolled over to the next month rather than paid., Add clauses as necessary to cover all responsibilities you discussed as well as rules in the event the contract is breached.


For example, you'll want to include a warranty from the author that he or she is the owner of the copyright and the work does not infringe anyone else's copyright.Describe the ways the agreement can be terminated, and what constitutes breach of the agreement. You'll also want to lay out where lawsuits regarding the contract can be filed, what court has jurisdiction over the agreement, and what law governs it., Once you've finished the substantive paragraphs of your agreement, you're ready to clean it up and make it official.


Create signature blocks at the end of the agreement that include the full legal names of both parties. If you're dealing with a publisher, you should include the publisher's name and the full legal name of the individual signing the agreement on the publisher's behalf.
No particular formatting is required for a license, but you may want to use certain styles to organize the document and make it easier to read and understand. For example, you may want to provide a title for each section of the agreement and bold those titles.You also should consider numbering your paragraphs, as this makes it easier to reference the document later.
After you've finished drafting the agreement, proofread it carefully and then give the final draft to the author or publisher so they can read through it.
You may have another round of negotiations if the author or publisher doesn't like a particular clause you've included, or doesn't agree with how you've worded certain terms.
 Your license will not be legally binding until it has been signed by both parties.


You may wish to sign the agreement in front of a notary public. This will add a little more formality to your signing, as well as provide verification for the signatures in the even they're questioned.
After the agreement is signed, make several copies so both you and the author or publisher have copies for your records.
If you're planning on recording the agreement with the Copyright Office, you may want to sign two copies so that you have two originals.
 Although recordation of copyright licenses isn't mandatory, it establishes a public record of the transfer and can prevent conflict later.If you want to record your agreement with the copyright office, it generally must contain original signatures rather than being a copy. The document also must be legible and complete on its own terms.When you file the agreement to be recorded, you'll have to pay a filing fee. The basic fee to have a document recorded is $105 provided the document references a single transaction involving a single title.You can record your agreement by mailing it, along with a check or money order for the fee, to Library of Congress, U.S. Copyright Office-DOC, 101 Independence Avenue SE, Washington, DC 20559.

