 Treatment is the best course of action if you want to lead a satisfying life. People with untreated bipolar disorder may suffer from diminished work performance, so treating your symptoms should be top priority. Psychologists recommend a combined treatment approach of psychotherapy and medication to effectively tackle bipolar disorder symptoms.

Types of therapy shown to help with bipolar include cognitive behavioral therapy in individual and group formats, family therapy, and interpersonal and social rhythms therapy. These approaches are designed to help defeat common bipolar symptoms and help you function better in daily life.;
, Pharmacological intervention is usually the standard for treating bipolar disorder. You may be prescribed a mood stabilizer like lithium, anticonvulsants like valproic acid, and antipsychotics to relieve symptoms. If you are taking medications, continue taking them even when symptoms are not present. You should also take them even if you experience undesirable side effects. Discuss any negative effects with your doctor, as they may be able to prescribe a different medication.

Be aware of any side effects you experience with your bipolar meds. Arrange to take them at a time that best fits your work needs. Also, if the medication recommends taking with food, you should do so for best results., Seeking the insights and support of others who are managing bipolar can be valuable in your recovery. Ask your psychiatrist or therapist about local support groups in your area. You can also find support groups by researching those sponsored by nationally recognized organizations like the Depression and Bipolar Support Alliance and the National Alliance on Mental Illness., Once you have been diagnosed with bipolar disorder, you may choose to modify your given career path. You may find that you switch jobs more frequently than those without bipolar or have trouble finding the right working conditions. Reach out to either government or private vocational rehabilitation counselors to help you make positive career decisions.

Vocational counseling might involve taking career assessments to determine your ideal work environment and passion. The counselor might also help you learn skills to be a more effective worker such as time-management or conflict resolution.
You may ask for a referral from your doctor or therapist. If you live in the United States, you can check out the specific vocational services offered by your state. Also, if you are in college or graduate school, you can get assistance in the career counseling department at your school.