 Many health professionals, especially registered dietitians, recommend that you take at least 20 to 30 minutes to eat your entire meal. This helps support many of the other mindful eating practices.


The basis of this rule is that it takes 20 or 30 minutes for your stomach and digestive track to begin digesting and absorbing the food from your meal or snack. It takes at least 20 minutes for your GI system to signal your brain that it's had enough food.When you eat faster than 20 minutes, you're more likely to overeat because you haven't received a signal from your brain that you've eaten enough.
Many times, when you're eating rapidly, the first signal of "fullness" you feel is coming from your stomach. Stretch receptors are activated when your stomach is full of food and you've eaten too much.
If you're out with a group, it may be easier to take your time. If you have a notoriously slow eater in your group, try to mimic their eating speed. Or, engage in conversation to slow you down.;
, To help slow your eating pace down and for you to use up that 20 or 30 minutes, aim to take smaller bites and chew each bite more thoroughly.


Studies have shown that people who take smaller bites may eat up to 30% less compared to those who took normal or larger bites of foods.In addition, even if those people who were taking smaller bites were distracted, they still consumed less food.
In addition to taking small bites, studies have also shown that if you chew that bite of food 15 – 30 times you may end up eating less and losing more weight.Chewing your food more will naturally slow you down and help signal satiation cues in your brain.
Focus on cutting your food into much smaller pieces and only spearing a small amount (aim for 1/2 the amount of your normal bite) on your fork or spoon. Then, count 15 or 30 chews per bite.
 It can be difficult to practice eating slowly and waiting for your brain's cues to tell you that you're satisfied. To aid in that process, drink a glass of water (or two) while you're eating.


Drinking water while you eat can help your mindful eating practice by slowing you down. Set your fork down, take a sip and swallow before you pick up your fork again for another bite.
The water consumed during your meal can also help speed satiation signals to your brain and make you feel more satisfied with less food.
You may also want to drink a glass immediately prior to your meal. This can help your stomach feel artificially full and make it easier for you to concentrate on mindful eating practices during your meal.Another benefit of drinking water during your meals is that it aids your stomach in digesting foods and helps your body absorb all the important nutrients contained in your meals.When you're in a group, try drinking as others talk. This will help you listen more carefully, but also slow you down and help you consume more water.
 Whether it's lunch with your co-workers or dinner with your family, try to engage in conversation with those who are eating with you. Talking can help you to slow down and be more mindful while you eat.


When you're alone and eating, it can be difficult to concentrate on anything other than the food in front of you. Although this is great for mindful eating practice, it may be easier to start when you are dining with friends or family.
Between each bite of food, set your fork down and ask someone a question, bring up a topic or answer a question. This can help you prolong your meal significantly.
 Forks and spoons can act as little shovels when you're eating. They make eating too easy if you're working on slowing down. If you make eating your meals physically harder to eat, you'll slow down.


Make eating your meals more difficult. This can help naturally slow you down so you're forced to take your time and pay attention to what and how you're eating.
Eat with your non-dominant hand. If you are right-handed, put your fork or spoon in your left hand when eating (or vice versa if your left-handed). This will be somewhat awkward and you'll find it difficult to eat and your pace will naturally slow down.Another way to slow your eating pace down is to use chopsticks to eat instead of a fork or spoon. Chopsticks are difficult to use and they do not allow you to take a large bite.
 One of the biggest reasons people do not eat mindfully on a more regular basis is that they are distracted during mealtimes and are paying attention to other things.


Studies show that those people who eat when they're distracted tend to eat more and weigh more as well.The reasoning behind this is thought to be that while distracted, you're eating much faster and you're not creating the memory of having eaten. Both of these can cause an increased intake of food.
Try to remove all distractions while you're having meals or snacks. Turn off the TV, avoid talking on the cell phone and stay away from your email or the internet. You may even need to let others know, like co-workers, to give you 20 minutes to yourself while you're eating instead of coming in with questions or things to do.
If you're eating with a group - like your family - also remove distractions. This can help your whole group focus on each other and conversation rather than watching the TV or texting on their phones.
 A mindful eating practice should start prior to your actual meal. Taking a moment or two before you start eating a meal can help put you on track to be more mindful and present while eating.After serving yourself your meal or snack, sit down at a table with your food in front of you. Take a few moments to think about how you're feeling, what you're in the mood for and what you're planning on eating.
You can start this little mini meditation by taking a few deep breaths and just looking at your meal and concentrating on the food in front of you.
Take the time to review how you're going to eat mindfully (for example, by eating slowly and taking smaller bites) and the benefits that mindful eating brings you.
If you feel yourself eating too fast or taking big bites or even getting distracted, feel free to stop eating and return to a few moments of breathing to refocus your mind.
If you're with a group, you can comment on how good your meal looks or how great the menu looks and take those moments for yourself to get your mindset straight.
 Prior to starting your meal, also consider your hunger level. Understanding how hungry you truly are can help you work more effectively on controlling how you eat during your meal.Listen to your body's hunger signals. Is your stomach growling? Do you have an empty feeling in your stomach? Do you feel lightheaded or nauseous due to hunger?
Try to rate your hunger on a scale from one to 10 with one being absolutely starving and 10 being so full you're sick to your stomach.
If you're rating your hunger as a one, two, or three, you may have the desire to eat very fast, take large bites or eat more than you need.
Understanding that a low hunger scale rating can make mindful eating more difficult may help you show more control and more restraint during your meal so you avoid those mistakes.
Try to aim for a three to four prior to a meal. This means you're hungry and experiencing symptoms of hunger, but can control yourself more easily during your meal. This makes practicing mindful eating much easier.
If you're with a group, maybe vocally saying how hungry you are can help you rate your hunger.
 One very important part of mindful eating is starting to and learning to listen to your body and it's satiation signals. Your body will provide you with a lot of information regarding whether or not you should eat, continue to eat or even stop eating.


When you take the 20 or 30 minutes to eat a meal, you'll give your body enough time to communicate with your brain regarding your level of satiation or fullness. You'll need to pay attention closely to be able to "hear" and figure out these signals.
It's important to listen to your body's "satisfied" signals. When you're satisfied, you've eaten just the right amount of food for your body. If you eat too much and feel full, you've overdone it. If you continually overeat, you may end up gaining some weight.
Satisfied feels like a lack of physical hunger (no more growling stomach or empty feeling). There is no sensation of fullness or stretching in your stomach whatsoever. In fact, you may have wanted to finish the last few bites on your plate, but specifically chose to leave them.
Although there are varying levels of fullness, you want to avoid any feelings like: a stretching in your stomach, a slight discomfort, a thought of "I could have left those last few bites", a sick feeling or a hurting stomach.
 Another trick that can help support your practice of mindful eating is by serving yourself a portion of food and leaving the leftovers away from where you'll be eating.


When you serve yourself, you're taking control of what you're putting on your plate and how much. Others may give you too much or too little.
Also don't put big plates or bowls of food on the table. Leave them in the kitchen so you're not tempted to go back for seconds at the table.
Sitting and eating at the table is a great practice for mindful eating. It forces you to focus and get in the mindset of mindful eating.This theory also goes for snack foods. It's never wise to sit down with a box of crackers or a bag of chips. You cannot tell how much you're eating. Serve yourself an appropriate portion size and then put the container away., Not every eating session will be a full on meal eaten at the dinner table or even at your desk at work. If you eat a small snack every so often, you’ll be able to be more mindful about your next meals nutritious quality, compared to eating anything you can grab quickly. Make sure you stay mindful during these quick bites or snacks as well.


Some people can get into trouble when they snack mindlessly. If you find yourself zoning out in front of the TV with a bag of chips, this can lead to overeating and consuming too many calories.
To avoid eating mindlessly through snacks, always pre-measure or pre-portion your food. Don't ever sit down with an entire box, bag or container.
Also try to assess your hunger level and time until your next meal. Don't just grab any snack at the slight feeling of hunger. If you're feeling hungry and your next meal is in 30 minutes, you should wait to eat.
 A registered dietitian is a nutrition expert that can help guide you with your mindful eating practice. Consider making a consultation with a local dietitian to help you with mindful eating.


Look online or get a referral from your primary care for a dietitian in your area. Set up an appointment and ask them to help teach you and guide you on how to eat more mindfully.
Make sure you share with your dietitian the reasoning behind wanting to eat more mindfully. Are you interested in weight loss? Do you want to improve the quality of your diet?
Your dietitian can also help you set up goals with your mindful eating. You can meet once to set up goals or see them regularly to adjust and help you stay accountable.
 Another tool that can help you practice mindful eating is a food journal. This can teach you a lot about your eating habits and give you hints about where you should focus your mindful eating practice.To start a food journal, either purchase a paper journal or download a journaling app. A paper journal may be better, because you may want to take notes on other things outside of your actual food intake.
Start journaling the types of foods you eat on a daily basis. Also incorporate information about how hungry you were, how you felt while you ate and how you felt after you ate.
After starting your mindful eating practice, note how that has changed your eating habits. What parts were easy? What parts were more difficult and need more practice?

, Whenever you're trying to change your diet or the way you eat, its a good idea to set goals for yourself. Goals can help guide you and motivate you to actually make your desired changes.Mindful eating can be difficult and it generally takes a lot of practice and patience. Start by setting some small goals. These should be short-term goals that you can meet every few weeks. Aim for the short-term goal of 0.5 – 2 pounds lost each week.
For example, you might start with eating dinner at the table every night or turning off all distractions during your lunch break.
Also consider setting some longer term goals. These may be bigger or take more practice to get used to. For example, you might set a long-term goal of losing 15 pounds by eating smaller portions and eating more slowly.
 There are many reasons why people want to eat more mindfully; however, many revolve around weight, managing food cravings or binges or eating a more nutritious diet.


Getting support for your mindful eating and other goals is a great idea. A support group can help encourage and motivate you in addition to helping you through any slip ups.
Consider asking your family to help you with mindful eating. Get everyone on board with removing distractions during meals, eating at the table and eating slowly.
You may also want to ask friends or co-workers for support as well. Ask co-workers to give you a set time for your lunch where you're not interrupted and can focus on your meal.

