 Finding new activities to participate in is a great way to build a more active social life. You could try finding a new intellectual pursuit. This will help you to sharpen your mind at the same time that you are meeting new people.For example, you could join a local book club. Check with your neighborhood bookstore or local library to find out what sorts of groups they offer. You'll get exposed to a new array of literature, and hopefully, have fun discussing what you've read.
Look for a lecture series. Many community centers and libraries have regular events where a local author or public figure delivers a talk. These events are a great way to interact with other people and be part of your community. Colleges and universities also regularly offer these types of events.
 This is a great time to try finding a new place to explore. You could take a bus trip up to a winery and enjoy a wine tasting. You could join a nature group and go on easy hiking excursions. Chances are, there are places nearby that you've yet to explore. Check out local groups for these types of excursions--you can often find inexpensive day trips.


Birdwatching is an excellent way to explore the habitat around you. You could find a class at your local community college and meet others who would like to explore nature with you.
 Participating in a hobby can be a fun thing to do with friends. Look for a common interest that you and a friend (or relative) share and devote some time to pursuing that activity. Finding a new hobby can be a great way to help you keep your social connections strong.Maybe you have always wanted to pursue photography. This would be an excellent new skill to learn. You could also use it as a social activity by using your friends and family as test subjects.
Try taking a dance class. Your new dance partner might become a new friend. Dancing is also a great way to stay physically active.
 Sometimes it can be intimidating to try new activities. If you're a little bit shy, try bringing a friend, neighbor, or relative with you on an outing. Having company can help give you the confidence that you need to take the leap and try something new.Try setting up a regular activity. Being the organizer allows you to invite a variety of people, and set up things that you like. For example, you could organize a weekly coffee club or a monthly dinner party.
 Volunteering is a great way to help others, and to find a productive way to fill your time. Spending time volunteering is also a great way to meet other people who share your interests and ideals. Make sure to find a volunteer opportunity that fits both your skills and interests.Try to find a way to volunteer that utilizes your skills or passions. For example, if you love animals, try contacting your local shelter to see if they need dog walkers.
If you are a former teacher, you could volunteer helping under-privelaged youth learn to read. Your local library is a great place to learn about volunteer opportunities in your area.

