 Expectorant herbs help make it easier to cough up phlegm. Depending on the way you choose to use them, you can use essential oils or dried herbs. These essential oils or dried herbs have antibacterial, antifungal, or antiseptic properties in addition to the expectorant properties, meaning they can kill bacteria and other microorganisms that can infect the sinuses. Expectorant herbs include:Eucalyptus
Elecampane (Inula)
Slippery Elm
Fennel seed
Camphor
Garlic
Hyssop
Lobelia
Mullein
Thyme
Spearmint and Peppermint
Ginger
Cayenne pepper and black pepper
Mustard seed

, Tea is a great way to ingest expectorant herbs to reduce your cough. Measure out one teaspoon of your dried herb of choice or three teaspoons of fresh herb. Steep the herb in one cup of boiled water. Let it steep for five to ten minutes.Drink four to six cups a day.
Add honey and lemon to taste. They both have antiviral and antibacterial properties that can also help soothe your cough. Do not give honey to children under one year old.
Cayenne pepper, black pepper, garlic, onions, and mustard seed tend to be strong and can be irritating. If you make teas with these herbs, drink them slowly.
If you are giving these teas to a child, cut the amount of herb by ½ or increase to two cups of water.
 Inhaling steam helps get the dried herbs into the lungs. It also helps open up the nasal passages and thin out the mucus. You can use either the dried herbs or the essential oils of many of these herbs. Both can be effective and depend on your preferences and what you have available.Add one to two drops of any essential oils made from expectorant herbs or one to two teaspoons of the dried herb to boiling water. Start with one drop per one quart of water. Once you add the herbs, boil for another minute, turn off the heat and move the pot to a comfortable area.
Drape a cotton towel over your head and hold your head over the steaming pot. Keep your face at least 12 inches away from the water to avoid scalding yourself. Close your eyes, and breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for five counts, and then in and out through your mouth for two counts. Repeat for 10 minutes or as long as the water is still steaming.
You can do this every two hours.
To any herbal steam treatment listed, you can add a tiny pinch of cayenne pepper or black pepper. Make sure to only add a very small amount because they may be too irritating for your respiratory system.

