 Gain more confidence in your own judgments by constantly debating them. Reject the idea that something is “right” just because you happen to think so. Explore the merits and pitfalls of your moral beliefs. Reaffirm those that you still consider to be true after review. Reconsider those that now seem to have been founded more on impulse than sound reason., Never assume that you or anyone else knows EVERYTHING. If someone suggests a way of thinking that strikes you or your friends as too incredible to believe, give them the benefit of the doubt at first. Embrace new ideas or ways of life as a challenge for you to either accept or discount. Correct people when they are definitely wrong about something, but be sure to consider their argument from all angles before passing any judgment.The one exception would be when you are confronted by willful ignorance. Forgive people for simply being uninformed, but do not tolerate their refusal to accept what is undeniably true even after they have been presented with all the facts.
 Ravenclaws may be captivated by the unknown, but they sure hate being unprepared for it. When presented with a new situation, don’t just charge in like those Gryffindors. Consider all of your options before taking any action. Consider the possible consequences of each one and write pros-and-cons lists for them all. Then come up with a Plan A as well as a Plan B (and a Plan C, D, E …) to reduce the risk of having to act impulsively should the unforeseen happen.This aversion to leaping straight into action can sometimes lead to inaction or even cowardice if the chance of success appears especially slim, as best exemplified by Gilderoy Lockhart, who would rather hypothesize about all the heroic things that he would do in the face of danger, instead of actually doing them.
 Be an individual.Form your own opinions and theories. As long as they haven’t been outright disproven, be confident in your convictions. Rest assured that anyone who has thought about and cross-examined their own beliefs as much as a Ravenclaw does clearly doesn’t adopt opinions lightly, no matter how “crazy” other people might find them. Believe in UFOs, the Bermuda Triangle, Atlantis, telepathy, or whatever else is within the realm of possibility.


Luna Lovegood is a perfect example of a Ravenclaw who does what she likes and thinks what she thinks without letting anyone else dictate her beliefs.
Remember, though: Ravenclaws detest ignorance, so if something you believe in has been utterly disproven, accept it!

, Socialize when the mood strikes you, but value time spent apart from other people as well. Appreciate solitude as a chance to read, create, or contemplate without interruption. Content yourself with your inner life and achievements rather than put too much emphasis on surrounding yourself with others at all times.