 Measure your lard or oil to get 1 1/2 cups (335 g) and place it in a large sauce pot. Turn the heat to medium and stir the fat a little until it melts. Take care to scrape the bottom of the pan so you incorporate any of the browned bits. This will also keep them from burning as the fat melts., Measure out 1 1/2 cups (187 g) of all-purpose flour. Slowly add a little of the flour at a time while you whisk the melted fat. This will prevent lumps from forming in the roux.Don't worry if the melted fat sizzles up a little as you add the flour. Continue to carefully whisk the roux.
 Turn the heat down to low. Keep cooking and stirring the roux so none of it sticks to the bottom of the pot. You'll need to cook and stir the roux for 30 to 45 minutes so it becomes dark in color. The roux should become a dark mahogany color. You can cool the roux and use it in your gumbo recipe.Don't worry if the roux looks thinner than traditional roux used for thickening. Roux for gumbo is meant to be thinner and more flavorful.
If you don't want to use the roux right away, you can store it in an airtight container in the refrigerator for up to one week.
 Pour 4 tablespoons (55 g) of vegetable oil into a large pot and turn the heat on to medium-high. Get out 4 bone-in, skin-on chicken thighs and 2 bone-in, skin-on chicken breasts. Place the chicken in the hot oil so the skin-sides are down. Cook the chicken for 3 to 4 minutes. Use tongs to carefully turn them over and brown the other side for 3 to 4 minutes. Transfer the chicken to a platter.The chicken won't be completely cooked at this point; it will finish cooking as the gumbo simmers. Browning the chicken just adds flavor.
 Dice enough yellow onions, green bell peppers, and celery to equal 2 cups of each (300 g of onions, 350 g of green bell pepper, and 450 g of celery). Put the diced vegetables into the pot that the chicken browned in and turn the heat on to medium-high. Stir and cook the vegetables for about 5 minutes.The vegetables will soften and the onion should become clear.
 Mince 2 tablespoons of garlic and chop ½ cup (15 g) of flat-leaf parsley. Add these to the vegetables along with 2 cups (276 g) of chopped smoked andouille or pork sausage. Saute the mixture until the sausage is golden brown., Place the browned pieces of chicken back into the pot with the vegetable mixture. Pour in 1 cup (240 ml) of the chicken stock and stir it well. Scrape up the bottom so any browned bits are mixed in. Pour in the remaining 11 cups (2.6 liters) of chicken stock.The chicken pieces should be completely covered with the stock at this point. If you don't have enough stock, you could use some water.
 Stir 1 tablespoon of cayenne pepper and 1 1/2 cups (354 ml) of gumbo roux into the pot. Bring the gumbo to a boil. Turn the heat down to medium-low so the gumbo simmers. Put the lid on the pot and cook the gumbo for 1 hour., Carefully lift out the pieces of chicken and set them aside. Use a spoon to skim away any excess oil floating on top of the gumbo. Season the gumbo with salt and pepper and put the lid back on. Simmer the gumbo for 30 more minutes.If you want your gumbo thinner, you may need to stir in more stock or water.
 Take the lid off the pot and skim off any excess oil from the gumbo. Put the chicken pieces back in the pot and put the lid back on. Simmer the gumbo for 20 more minutes.If you prefer, you can remove the chicken meat from the bones and put the shredded chicken in the gumbo.
 Taste the gumbo and adjust the seasonings according to your taste. For example, you may want to add Cajun seasoning and hot sauce. Scoop some cooked, white rice into a serving bowl and spoon the gumbo over it. Garnish the gumbo with diced green onions and filé powder.You can store leftover gumbo in an airtight container in the refrigerator for several days. The flavor might actually improve over time as the flavors blend.

