 If you are worrying or stressing about things at work, take your mind off of it by making your work tasks into games. This will make your day to day tasks more pleasant and will help keep your mind off your worries.For example, if you have a ton of budget reports to get through, give yourself a treat of some sort for every three you complete. You can also give yourself points for how quickly but efficiently you do your job.
 Many people think going home and relaxing is the best way to fight dealing with work related worry. However, this can lead to more worry while you are at home. Instead, spend time doing fun things with friends or family.


This will help replace your work related worries with happy memories., A great way to release your worries, reduce anxiety, and improve your mood is to exercise. Exercise releases endorphins into your body, which act a natural mood lifters. You can try to get in some exercise before work to help you start your day off right or go after work to relieve stress from your day.


This can be a walk, a run, yoga, a dance class, or any other physical activity that you prefer.
You can also go for a quick workout during lunch if you are having a hard day.
This has the added benefit of helping to improve your health., Another way to relieve your worries is to make them into a game. Make bingo cards with all of your worries and stresses on them. This will help you detach from your worries a little and help you focus on something else.


For example, have a block for a reward to a less hard working coworker, criticism from your boss, or a rude customer. Whenever your worries and stresses come up, cover up that space. When you completed a whole line, give yourself an award., If you have a particularly worry heavy day, don’t just go home and dwell on it. Instead, write a story about the worrisome situation. This way, you can work out your inner anxieties about the situation and express your creativity at the same time.


Try making the story much more over the top and extreme than it actually was. This way, the next time a similar situation comes up, you can think about the more awful or extreme version to help get you through the moment. Plus, you now know that your situation could be a lot worse.