 In the home screen, swipe down from the status bar to expand the notification drawer. You will see a gear icon in the top right corner of the notification drawer; tap it to open the Settings menu.


The gear icon can also be found on your home screen or app drawer.
 Once at the settings menu, you will see the settings options listed under headers. Scroll down until you see the “Personalization” header, and tap “Lockscreen and Security” under it.
 Under the Lockscreen and Security menu, tap the “Screen Lock Type” button, and then the “Fingerprints” button in the next screen. You will be shown a Disclaimer before going to the Fingerprint Registration Wizard. Tap “CONFIRM” on the disclaimer after reading it.
 The key to improving fingerprint scanner reliability is in registering your fingerprint. You will then be instructed to put your chosen finger on the home key and lift it up when the phone vibrates. You will also be shown a live representation of the fingerprint in the middle of the screen as well as the percentage of completion.


Make sure that you will have scanned the whole area of your finger. Do not use the same spot over and over. The phone will also prompt you to shift your finger at every attempt in order to get a complete reading.
At some point (along 70–80%) of the registration, the phone will prompt you to scan the tip of the finger you are registering. Continue scanning just the tip of your finger until the percentage reaches 100%.
 After the finger is registered, you will be prompted to set a backup password. The password must be at least 6 characters, and must include at least one letter and one number. Press the “Continue” button below the password field to proceed. You will be requested to repeat the password to confirm, and press “OK.”

, You will be able to register up to four fingerprints with the new Finger scanner. To add another print, tap the “Fingerprints” button under the “Screen Lock Type” screen, and use your previously registered finger to access the menu. Tap the “Add Fingerprint” button below Fingerprint 1 to register another finger.
 Under “Fingerprints” in the “Screen Lock Type” screen, you can tap on the toggle buttons opposite the “Web Sign-in” and “Verify Samsung Account” options to enable the use of registered fingerprints to log into those services.