 Depending the species, you can tell the sex of adult frogs in various ways. Ideally, you should have a group of frogs that contains more males than females.


Male red-eyed tree frogs are larger than females, and only the males vocalize.By contrast, female tiger-leg monkey frogs are larger than the males., In the wild, frogs breed seasonally, to give tadpoles and baby frogs the summer to grow and develop. You will need to use light and temperature manipulation to simulate seasonal changes to your frogs.


When breeding red-eyed tree frogs, cut down on the frequency of misting the terrarium. Lower the temperature by about five degrees Fahrenheit. Your frogs may need to eat less during this time, but monitor their health. After a month, return the temperatures to normal, mist heavily, and feed plenty of food., Learn how to recognize the signs of breeding readiness in your species of frog. You will need to design an environment that mimics the situation in which frogs breed in the wild.


Female red-eyed tree frogs will swell with eggs, and males will begin to vocalize frequently. They will need to be moved into a “rain chamber” designed to mimic a rainy forest setting. An overhead hose should provide falling water, and there must be large leaves for depositing eggs., Allow eggs to develop into tadpoles, making sure that newly hatched tadpoles can immediately enter warm water.


Red-eyed tree frog tadpoles require a water temperature of about 75 degrees Fahrenheit., Maintain water quality by changing occasionally, using an aerator, and not allowing old food to linger in the water.


Make sure that tadpoles have a way to climb out to air when they become baby frogs.
Cover the terrarium with a screen to prevent tadpoles from climbing out.
 Keep baby frogs moist. Baby frogs may die if they become dried out. Maintain adequate temperatures and simulate day and night using a light source., Do not continually breed from the same small population of frogs. This decreases genetic variation and may lead to the development of inherited diseases.