 The most important part of dressing up for soccer is to give yourself freedom of movement so that you can play without having to think about your clothes too much. Since recreational play doesn't tend to involve uniform requirements, you don't have to worry about the same limitations you might for official or league play.;
, If you are just playing with your friends, you can wear whatever you want as long as it is comfortable. So, if it is hot outside, go with something cool, while if it is cold, pick something a little bit warmer (but keep in mind that you will get hot when you start running around).
 If it is warm outside, you should probably choose shorts and a t-shirt or soccer jersey. If it is colder, you can choose sweatpants and a long-sleeve shirt. You may or may not need to wear shin-guards. If you do, wear short socks underneath the shin-guards and long socks over them to keep them in place.


Layer if necessary. If it is cold to start out, make sure that you wear shorts under your sweatpants so that you can take them off if you get too hot. You can also wear a t-shirt underneath your long-sleeve or sweatshirt for the same purpose.
 Again, the most important things are comfort and functionality. If you own cleats, you can wear those. However, many recreational soccer games can be played in tennis shoes or running shoes, or with no shoes at all. Check with your fellow players to decide what kind of shoe is appropriate for that particular game. Because Soccer requires kicking a ball, you should wear tennis shoes or cleats, you can damage and hurt your feet by wearing sandals or going barefoot.
 You can spice up your outfit by purchasing the jersey or shorts of a favorite player or team. It can also be fun to wear headbands or other accessories to make you feel like the famous players you see on TV, as well as keep your hair out the way.
 When playing for a team or in a league, be aware that there may be stricter dress requirements than for recreational games. Know the rules so you can stay within policy.
,,


Turf shoes are acceptable only when on playing on turf.
Cleats cannot have metal spikes, front toe spikes, or anything that may hurt another player.



This makes it easier to see in the game.
You can use skinny and soft headbands to hold your hair from falling in your face.



Jackets and warm-up shirts cannot be worn over your team shirt because it hides what team you are on, and is considered cheating.
Zipper-less jackets, sweatshirts (with hood down) can be worn under your shirt.
All types and colours of under shirts are considered acceptable as long as it is worn under your shirt.



Leggings to go under your shorts are acceptable.
Goalies are allowed to wear pants.



This is particularly encouraged if you have braces or any other condition with your teeth.
Gel ones are great.



You are going to need a good pair of gloves.
Wear a different color shirt.

