 Ultraviolet rays are strongest and most intense between the hours of 10:00 am and 3:00 pm. If at all possible, try to avoid going out into the sun during those peak hours. If you must go out during that time, make sure you take preventative measures to protect your skin from UV radiation., Sunscreen protects you from the sun's radiation, but not all sunscreen is the same. Many sunscreen products only protect against one type of radiation, but your skin can be damaged by both UVA and UVB radiation. Health experts recommend that you use broad-spectrum sunscreen, which guards your skin against both types of radiation.Choose sunscreen with a sun-protection factor (SPF) of 30 or higher.
Sunscreen doesn't necessarily work instantaneously. Make sure you apply sunscreen about 15 to 30 minutes before you plan on being out in the sun.
Reapply sunscreen at least every two hours. If you go swimming or sweat a lot, you should reapply sunscreen more frequently.
When you are around water, the reflection from the water can increase the strength of the sun's rays, increasing the chance of sun damage.
Use sunscreen even when the day is gloomy or overcast. Applying sunscreen can also help prevent existing sunspots from becoming darker.
 In addition to wearing broad-spectrum sunscreen whenever you're in the sun, you should also wear protective clothing to limit your skin's exposure to UV radiation. Reducing exposure and protecting your skin is the only proven way to lower the chances of sunspots developing.Brimmed hats, long-sleeved shirts, long skirts/pants, and sunglasses can all help protect your skin from the sun.Choose tightly-knit fabrics, which are better at guarding your skin.
You can also buy clothing that is designed to protect against UV radiation. Some articles of clothing can provide ultraviolet protection factors of 50 or higher.
 Smoking (and secondhand exposure to tobacco smoke) has been linked to premature aging of the skin.Because of this, some experts advise that you should avoid smoking if you want to prevent sunspots and other skin conditions associated with aging.