 Carefully consider why you are sending out the release. Journalists, bloggers, and other media outlets often receive several press releases daily. To make sure that yours stands out from the crowd and is compelling, be sure it contains actual news.


Is your band embarking on a new tour or releasing a new album? Those are genuinely newsworthy topics. If you are just merely trying to publicize your band’s existence, that is not considered newsworthy.
Other reasons to write a press release are when the band starts to record new material or decides to collaborate with another musician or musical group.You should also consider writing a press release when the band chooses an album title, finalizes album art, or releases a video.
If you send out a press release that is not newsworthy, the recipients will disregard that one and possibly future ones you send to them.;
, If you are new to writing press releases, it is a good idea to find some examples to help you understand how they typically are written and appear.


You can find numerous examples of well-written press releases on distribution sites like PR Newswire or PRWeb.There are also distribution sites specifically for music industry press releases. These can also be helpful to read to see how others in the industry are crafting their releases., After you spend the time crafting a well-written, attention-grabbing press release, you need to be sure it lands in the right hands. Otherwise, all of your efforts will have been wasted.


It is easiest to start with local news and media outlets. Identify local journalists or bloggers who write about musicians and events.You can call your city’s newspaper and radio stations and ask who covers music or entertainment.Work to develop other contacts in the press or in the music industry. If those writers feel a connection to you or are familiar with your band, they will be more receptive to the news you send them.It is useful to keep a database or contact list for sending out your press releases. You can always add to this list, but having the information in one central location will save you time as you send out more releases in the future.
In addition to newspaper and television or radio stations, consider adding to your contact list magazines that cater to your style of music or to those in the industry; arts, lifestyle, and entertainment sections of newspapers; Web sites; bloggers; and others active in social media., In years past, most press releases were faxed or mailed to media outlets. Today, however, most press releases are distributed via e-mail or on your band’s Web site.


Ask your contacts how they prefer to receive press releases.
If you e-mail your release, include your press release in the body of the message, since many journalists may be wary of opening attachments.
Press releases distributed electronically or on a Web site can include links to a clip of a recent concert or some brief audio downloads.
If you personally know the journalist you are contacting, make the subject line of your e-mail personal. That will increase the odds of your press release actually being read.
Follow up e-mailed press releases with a phone call to your recipients. This personal touch can help you ensure that your press release did not end up in their junk folder.
Your e-mail text can also include an offer to send a copy of an album for review or a press pass for an upcoming show.
 You want to be sure that you give the recipients time to act on and use your press release. Don’t send out a press release an hour before your performance, for example.


For print media or bloggers, send out your press releases in the morning. For television and radio stations, a good time to send them a release is late morning or early afternoon., There is no need to reinvent the wheel when crafting your press release. Every strong press release follows a basic structure that is easy to read and quick to the point.


A typical press release is one page long on standard 8½” x 11” paper.
At the top of your press release, put “For Immediate Release,” or, if you want the information held, write “Hold for Release Until…”.The headline should follow, centered and written in bold letters or initial caps.
Include a dateline with your location information and the date of the press release. Many publications will only feature bands from specific areas.The press release should contain a strong first paragraph that features the most critical information, followed by a few paragraphs of body text that add more detail.
Include your contact information at the bottom of the press release.
Type the word “end” at the end of your press release.
 Your headline is the most important part of your press release; it will help the reader decide whether to spend the time reading the rest of the release.A strong headline may be, “Band X Opens New Tour Next Thursday,” or “Band X Covers Hair Metal Classics on New Album.”

, Many people don’t even read past the first paragraph, so make your important points up front.The first paragraph should be no more than three sentences; cut extraneous information and stick to the main point.
Write your first paragraph in the style of a newspaper reporter, being sure to clearly answer the essential news questions of who, what, where, when, how, and why.Include full city and state descriptions (like Portland, Oregon, instead of just Portland) and also include full dates (month, day, and year).Use third person, like “the band” or “they” instead of first person (like “we” or “us”).
A first paragraph concerning an album release would include information like the title of the album, when it will be released, and where it can be purchased.
Likewise, for a tour announcement, your first paragraph should include the name of the tour, the dates it begins and ends, the city where it will start, and ticket information.
 Following your initial paragraph, you should include two or three more paragraphs to offer more context about the tour or album. You can also include a band bio.


If you have any, include quotes in your body text.A quote could be from a club manager where you previously performed or from another popular musician who enjoys your work.
The last paragraph of your press release usually contains boilerplate information, like when your band was founded, the names and instruments of all members, any major tour or album information not already covered, influences, style, etc.
 Your press release is more likely to be successful in gaining favorable media attention if you include high resolution photo of the band.Good band photos usually are against a plain background, black or white, to place the focus on the band (rather than the setting).Performance shots, even from a practice, also are good for band photos. They show your members concentrating on their craft rather than staring into the camera.It is useful to include both a landscape- and a portrait-oriented photo so that the editor or writer will have more options to use it.Print media usually utilizes black and white photos, so it’s best to send that style to newspaper and magazine writers., A poorly written, disorganized press release filled with grammar or spelling errors will quickly find its way to the recycle bin. You must deliver an error-free product to be taken seriously.Have your other band members read over your copy to ensure it includes everything necessary and has no grammar or spelling errors.
If your bandmates are not strong writers, enlist the help of a friend or relative who is a strong writer or editor.
Double-check all dates and addresses listed in your press release. It is easy to make a simple mistake like Thursday, June 4, instead of Thursday, June 5.
 If your press release is successful, your recipients will want to follow up with you to get more information.


Include all relevant information, including phone numbers, URL for the band’s Web site, and an e-mail address.
Be sure to check your e-mail often and reply quickly. Similarly, if you include a phone number, check your voice mail and return calls promptly.

