 Click on the Photoshop icon on your desktop, or search for the program to open it.


If you don't have Adobe Photoshop, you can purchase and download it here.;
, Go to the File menu at the top left of your screen, and select "New."


Alternatively, you can create a new document by using the keyboard shortcut Ctrl+N on PC, or ⌘ Command+N on Mac.
 Type in your desired dimensions in the "Width" and "Height" fields.
 You can type in whatever resolution you like in the resolution field.


250-300 pixels/inch is recommended for professional image results.,, Open the image you want to alter in another window.
 You can copy the image by right-clicking on it and selecting "Copy" on PC, or "Copy Image" on Mac.


Alternatively, you can use the keyboard shortcut Crtl+A (PC), or ⌘ Command+A (Mac) to select the entire image. Then press Ctrl+C (PC), or ⌘ Command+C (Mac) to copy the image.
 Click on your Photoshop document, then right click on the blank document, and hit "Paste."


Note the Layers window on the right side of the screen. Photoshop has created a new layer for your image called "Layer 1."
Alternatively, you can paste by pressing Ctrl+V (PC), or by pressing ⌘ Command+V (Mac).
 It's likely that your image won't fit perfectly inside your new document. You can resize it or move it around to get it just right. Go to the "Edit" menu at the top of your screen, and select "Free Transform." This will bring up little square handles around your image.


Alternatively, you can use the command Ctrl+0 (PC), or ⌘ Command+0 (Mac) to pull up "Free Transform."
If you can't see all of the handles (there should be one on each corner, and one in the middle on both the top and bottom edges of your image), select the "View" menu at the top of your screen, then choose, "Fit on Screen."

, Continue to click and drag while holding shift until your image fits just right inside the document.


Holding down ⇧ Shift maintains your image's aspect ratio so as not to distort it.
You can move the image around by clicking and dragging on your image anywhere inside the "Free Transform" confines.
 Your resize and re-position changes will be accepted, and you will exit from the "Free Transform" command.

