 You will need about 1-quart (.25 liters) of fertilizer for every 20-square feet of soil. Your measurements do not need to be exact, so estimate your needs based on the size of your garden.You can adjust the ratio of the fertilizer recipe to make the quantity of fertilizer that you need.;
, Cottonseed meal is commonly used in fertilizer because it contains 7% nitrogen, which is what nourishes the plants. Cottonseed meal also has a high protein content. Seed meal is the byproduct of vegetable oils and is often used as animal feed. For the best results, get a certified organic bag to protect you and your plants. While fertilizer is normally measured in nitrogen, potassium, and phosphorus levels, seed meal is measured in protein since it is usually livestock food.


Seed meal is cheapest in large quantities, and can be stored in an airtight container for years., When buying lime you have three options -- agricultural lime, gypsum, and dolomite (or dolomitic lime). All three of them will boost plant health and productivity the best, but if you're on a budget you can cut the recipe to just one of the three options.


If you do only buy one form of lime, use dolomite whenever possible, as it contains essential magnesium., Mix in 1 cup (237 milliliters) bone meal, phosphate rock, or bat guano to increase the phosphorus levels. While the two ingredients above, seed meal and lime, are the most essential, a good fertilizer usually supplies phosphorus. If budget is an issue, you can skip this step, but bone meal is easy to find at garden stores and will make a big difference for your plants.


Like the rest of the ingredients, bone meal can be bought cheaply in bulk and stored in an airtight container for several years.
 Mix in 1 cup (237 milliliters) kelp meal or dried seaweed to provide essential trace minerals. Again, this step isn't necessary if you're on a budget, by kelp meal helps plants resist stress from heat, cold, drought, and a multitude of other issues. Your best option for cheap kelp meal is usually online.


A similar but less expensive alternative is basalt dust., Spread roughly 1 quart of fertilizer over the earth before planting anything, mixing gently into the soil. For nutrient heavy vegetables like cabbage, spinach, brussels sprouts, asparagus, or leeks, you can also sprinkle some fertilizer around the roots every 3-4 weeks. If you feel like your soil isn't very rich (for example, there is a lot of clay), you can add another half quart per 20 square feet.


If your plants are already in the ground but want some fertilizer, use your hands or a trowel to lightly mix the fertilizer into the top layer of soil. Lightly water the plants both before and after applying.

