 Inspiration is often derived from your specific goals and passions. Therefore, one way to re-energize yourself is by getting back to your “why.” If you haven’t already clarified your personal values, do so. Then, use these to clearly define your purpose.Be patient and give yourself some extra time if this does not come easily.
Once you’ve identified your values and purpose, write it down. Post it somewhere you can see it often like on your vision board, in your car’s sun visor, or on your bathroom mirror.;
, By directing your thoughts to positive qualities about yourself and life, you may get inspired to reach your goals. An excellent way to do this is by reciting positive affirmations.Find a few statements that make you feel empowered and enthusiastic. Then, repeat aloud them regularly, such as when you first wake up each morning and on short work breaks.
Make sure these statements are realistic and focus on your potential.
Examples might include “Everyone was once a beginner,” “I can face whatever challenges come my way,” or simply “I can do this.”

, Often, you feel uninspired because you are sitting around waiting for something to inspire you. Inspire yourself by getting started in even the smallest way. If you have clearly defined goals, break one down. Identify at least one small action you can take to get you closer to that goal and do it.For instance, perhaps you are starting a business and feeling overwhelmed about your business plan. It can help to get started defining your mission and your business’s philosophy. Doing this small action may inspire you to get the rest done.
 Evaluation is necessary to achieve any goal. However, you may not realize the inspirational value in reviewing your progress and measuring your present accomplishments up against where you were a week ago or a month ago. Carve out time for daily or weekly reflection periods to review your progress.In these reflection periods, spend a few minutes thinking about what milestones you have surpassed, what obstacles you have faced, and any achievements you have claimed.
 The same ho-hum routine can drain the enthusiasm out of anyone. To feel inspired, switch it up. You don’t have to enact a major overhaul. Just slight tweaks to your daily or weekly schedule can make a difference.For instance, if you tend to eat breakfast on the go, sit down and enjoy your meal mindfully. Pick a day to get off early and treat yourself. Change your workouts from evenings to mornings. Any of these slight changes might offer a burst of inspiration.

