 Food is one of the biggest issues post-surgery as we all need to eat, and oftentimes cooking and even shopping are difficult in the wake of an operation. Be prepared to help your friend with meals during their recovery.


Offer to get groceries. If you're able to go grocery shopping for your friend, do so. Check in with them if you're planning a shopping trip for yourself and see if there's anything they need.
Bring over dishes. If your friend is uncomfortable with someone else doing their shopping, cook for them. Great options for meals are dishes that are re-heatable and keep for long periods. Aim for casseroles, soups, lasagnas, and salads.
Be aware of any diet restrictions your friend might have. Oftentimes, certain foods are forbidden after an operation. Ask your friend about any kinds of food the doctor has advised against before preparing them a dish. Also, if your friend had any diet restrictions before the surgery - such as being gluten-free or a vegetarian - make sure you are aware of this.
 Don't tell them to call you if they need anything. They will probably not want to bother you. Offer specific help, like, "I have some free time this afternoon, do you need help with anything?" Household chores are a burden after surgery and your friend will really appreciate a helping hand.


Do laundry, dishes, dusting, and any other cleaning. Your friend is probably laid up, so don't let them fall behind. If you have an extra hour, donate it to your friend in need.
If they have pets, help with that. Clean the cat's litter box, walk the dog, make sure the animals have food or water. All of this will be appreciated.
If needed, provide free childcare. Whether your friend is a single parent or has a spouse who's busy with work, chances are they will need help with the kids after surgery. Free childcare is much appreciated., While cooking and cleaning are tangible means to help a friend in need, sometimes recovery gets boring and all a person wants is good conversation and a little entertainment. Spend a weekend night with your friend and keep them engaged in conversation and activity.


Share what's going on in your life, but keep it positive and upbeat. There's no need to mention that you were just laid off or had a big fight with your spouse. You're there to be a source of positive energy.
Watch a movie or television show your friend likes. Ask them beforehand if there's anything in particular they've been itching to watch, and pick up a DVD on the way over or rent from an online outlet.
Board games and cards are a great way to break the monotony. If you can get a group of people together, stop by your friends house for a round of poker or a game of Clue.
While alcohol is great for many social situations, it's unlikely your friend can drink with their post-surgery medication. Be polite. Do not engage in social drinking when your friend cannot.
 After a surgery, there will be a number of doctor's appointments in the following weeks. Such appointments can be stressful, and having a support system is a wonderful asset for someone recovering from surgery.


Let your friend know you can drive them to the doctor's office. Oftentimes, medication interferes with the ability to drive and public transportation can be a hassle following surgery. Offering a mode of transportation is invaluable.
Entertain your friend in the waiting room. Bring playing cards, books of crossword puzzles, magazines, and books or just make casual, funny conversation while waiting for the doctor.
Plan something fun after the visit, even something as simple as stopping for milkshakes or having lunch. Something to look forward to can make trips to the doctor more bearable.

