 Most of the gels and creams for vaginal yeast infections that you can get over-the-counter are almost as effective as anti-fungal medications. Examples include Monistat and Gyne-Lotrimin. Use as directed. If you have recurrent infections, use for seven days., If you keep getting vaginal infections, or your infection won't go away, make an appointment to see your doctor. Recurrent yeast infections can be a sign of a more serious underlying disorder such as diabetes, cancer or HIV-AIDs.If your symptoms don't clear up after three days, talk with your doctor about taking medication. You should also see your doctor if your symptoms return or worsen.
Your doctor may prescribe an anti-fungal medication to suppress the infection. You will likely need to take this medication every week or month for six months to a year., Treatment will depend on the type of infection, how extensive or severe it is and how long you have had the infection. Antibiotics are prescribed for BV and for trichomoniasis, but they are not effective on yeast infections.


BV is generally treated with either metronidazole or clindamycin. These are considered safe if you are pregnant.

Male partners usually don’t need treatment, but female partners should be informed and tested.Trichomoniasis is usually treated with a single dose of either metronidazole or tinidazole. These are considered safe if you are pregnant.Trichomoniasis is a sexually transmitted infection, so make sure your sexual partner(s) are treated as well and wait for seven days after treatment to have sex., Vaginal yeast infections can be treated with anti-fungal creams, ointments and vaginal suppositories.


Examples of these treatments are butoconazole (Gynazole-1), clotrimazole (Gyne-Lotrimin), miconazole (Monistat 3) and terconazole (Terazol 3). Your doctor can prescribe them or they are available (in weaker doses) over-the-counter at your pharmacy.
 Vaginal yeast infections can also be treated with a single oral dose of fluconazole (Diflucan). Recurrent or more complicated yeast infections may be treated with higher doses of the medications or you may be asked to take them for a longer period of time.


Most often, your partner won’t need treatment. However, this may change if you experience recurrent infections., Pregnant women can experience yeast infections, which should be cleared up before the baby is due. If you still have a yeast infection when the baby is born, it can pass to the baby, causing thrush.Check with your doctor about treating vaginal infections during this time.

