 Going Greek is a great way to meet new people and be part of a community of like-minded individuals. These organizations often hold philanthropic events and host parties. Colleges often hold recruitment parties to help you get started in the processes of joining a group. Keep an eye out on flyers on campus or your college website for more information.
 To start a conversation with someone new, consider the following:


Sit next to a person you want to talk to.
Consider body language. If a person is open and willing to talk, s/he generally will make eye contact with you and smile. If a person does not want to talk, s/he may seem closed off and avoid eye contact.
Greet them an appropriate time, such as before or after class. Consider saying something like: “Hi, I’m Emily. It’s nice to meet you!”
Start a conversation about something you have in common. For example, in class, you might say: “Man, last week’s test was hard, wasn’t it?” or “Did you understand last night’s reading? I found it difficult.”

, Do not wait around and wait for invitations to fall into your lap. Take the initiative and invite people out to do something.


One way to do this is invite people from your class to join a study group. Once you get to know them, suggest doing something social. , If you are staying on campus in dorms, you may be forced to room with someone you do not know. Use this to your advantage and get to know him/her. They might be feeling as lonely, nervous, or awkward as you might be feeling. Start by introducing yourself. Say something like: "Hi, I'm Chad! I'm majoring in Sports Psychology."
Set clear expectations on your habits as to not annoy your roommate. Say things like: "I get up at 6:00am to go to the gym. I will try not to wake you up." or "I shower in the evenings, is that okay or do you want to set a schedule?"
Share your hobby or interests and be open to learn about their interests/hobbies. For example, "Oh, you play ice hockey? That's cool. I've never been. Do you think you could show me sometime?"
Having a good relationship with your roommate goes beyond just enjoying college. It makes living together much easier!

