 Take advantage of these moments. They don’t cost anything, and you can increase employee performance by doing so.


All you need to say is something like, “I need to give a shout-out to Melissa’s excellent work on the Kingsley Account. I heard back from Arthur Kingsley himself, who told me Melissa had answers to all of his questions.”
However, you must be timely. Preferably, you should recognize someone within a week of the event that warrants the praise.
Spread around some of the love. If you only compliment the same one or two people, then the other staff will become resentful. However, don’t feel obligated to praise someone if they don’t deserve it.
 Instead of praising someone directly, you can praise them by sending an email to their direct supervisor. Make sure to copy the employee on the email.For example, you can write something like, “Tom, I just wanted to give you a heads up on what a great speech Chris gave to the company’s shareholders yesterday. She’s a credit to your unit and I’m sure she’ll go far.”

, Shut down an hour early (if possible) and gather the entire staff in a conference room for cake and other treats.


You can also recognize employees for “business birthdays,” i.e., milestones such as 20 years with the company. However, you still need to follow the advice in this article—make sure the recognition is tailored to the employee and mentions specific things they have done for the company. Simply sending a plastic keychain won’t cut it.
 Walk into any grocery store and you’ll probably see people’s pictures on a wall as employees of the month. Do something similar in your office. If you don’t want to put up people’s pictures, then give them a plaque or other gift.Also post your recognition to your website, if there’s space to recognize accomplishments.Feel free to skip a month if you don’t think an employee has done anything to warrant recognition. You don’t want employees to think all they need do is “wait their turn” to be given recognition.
 True recognition must be tailored to the employee. If someone doesn’t want public recognition, the worst thing you can do is to ask them to stand up in front of their co-workers as you talk about them.


Be alert to how your employees handle public recognition. Do they blush when having to speak in front of others? They might be shy.
If you sense an employee hates being publicly praised, then choose some of the other options discussed in this article. A thank-you note might be better.
 Some larger businesses have monthly or annual recognition ceremonies. Unfortunately, these ceremonies usually hold little meaning for employees because they are not individualized. Instead, an employee is given a plaque by someone who they don’t really know, and the praise is general.A better approach is to make sure that the person giving the award knows the value of each employee’s contribution. Accordingly, don’t have someone from Human Resources give the award. Instead, a direct supervisor should.
The supervisor should also write down in detail how the employee has contributed to the company. Be specific. For example, “Michael’s first five years with the company has seen a 120% growth in revenue, most of it in his department alone” is much better than “Michael is such a great member of the team.”

