 If you want to fight, you'll need to be in the fighting stance. To do this, just spread your legs about shoulder's width apart and bend your knees slightly so you're not standing completely upright. You need to stay balanced so you don't get thrown to the ground. Stay loose. Bounce slightly as you adjust your position by taking small steps, and keep your hands up to shield your face.


Clenching your teeth will make you less likely to get a broken jaw if you're punched.
 The first thing you have to do is make your fist the right way. To make an effective fist, fold your four fingers downward into your hand and place your thumb on the outside of your fingers -- not on the inside, unless you want to break your thumb. Punch your opponent in his nose or stomach to cause some serious damage. The simple straight punch is best for untrained fighters. Here's how you do it:


Keep your elbow bent at a 30-45 degree angle in front of your face, and keep your hands up at all times.
Extend the fist along with your elbow and shoulder, straightening your arm.
Push your weight through your shoulder and into your arm, connecting the punch at the peak of your extension to get the most force for your hit.
 Once you've gained your footing, don't hesitate. Throwing the first punch is much more likely to throw off your opponent and will give you the dominant position in the fight. Don't spend too much time stepping around your opponent or trying to get in the perfect position. Instead, punch him once you have a clear shot.
 Use the beginning of the fight to get an idea for how your opponent performs. Base your own fighting objectives on your strengths and his or her weaknesses:


If you're taller, try to keep your opponent at a distance. Your longer limbs will allow you to strike over a distance that your opponent can't cover.
If you're shorter, hurry up and get close. They'll try to keep you at a distance to use their height to their advantage.
If you're faster, get in fast, strike fast, and get out fast. Do your fighting in effective bursts.
If you're slower, keep it simple. Make the opponent come to you, as opposed to chasing them.
Know your strengths, and use them at the right time. One calculated move far outweighs a dozen uncalculated ones.
 This is a position you want to get out of as quickly as possible, before your opponent gets you on the ground and dominates you. So, here are some moves to try to incapacitate him and turn back around in the right direction:


Stomp on his instep. Land your heel as hard as you can on the instep of your opponent's foot and wait for him to yelp in pain.
Do the backwards headbutt. Fling back your skull until you hit your opponent's nose. He'll let go of you after you've done the damage.
Wring his fingers. Instead of grabbing his wrists, put your hands around all of his fingers and wring them until he gives up.
 Concentrate your energy in your moves, and don't make so many moves that you tired yourself out halfway through the fight. Some opponents will try to make you "dance" so that they can attack once you're exhausted. Be prepared to practice 'Aikido'. Taking a few punches whilst protecting yourself can exhaust and mentally defeat your opponent.
 Never ever look away from your opponent. Sometimes your opponent will do nothing if you look away but more experienced fighters will use that situation and may knock you out.
 Every time you attack, you become vulnerable. If you punch, for example, that arm is no longer available for defense, and the opponent might block the punch and go for your now vulnerable spot with the other hand. If you fake an attack, however, your opponent will respond with a counterattack and become vulnerable. The key is to convince the person that you will make a certain move, and to anticipate how they will respond.


You can mix fake attacks with real attacks so that the opponent becomes confused and can't predict whether you'll follow through with your moves.

