 Cheilitis is an inflammation of the lips that results in dryness, itchiness, pain, and blistering in the corners of your mouth.There are numerous causes of cheilitis, such as allergies, but contact cheilitis is caused by exposure to an irritating chemical.Contact cheilitis is usually caused by an ingredient in toothpaste, lip products, cosmetic products, artificial flavoring, and certain soaps.
If you believe you may be experiencing contact cheilitis, discontinue using any products that might be causing your symptoms. You should also avoid any possible irritants like chewing gum, candy, tobacco products, and acidic foods/juices.;
, Perioral eczema and contact leukoderma are two types of painful reactions that present similar symptoms on and around the mouth. In some people, these reactions develop after using certain toothpastes.Perioral eczema is an inflammation of the mouth and lips which turns them an intense red color.
Perioral leukoderma is a whitening of the skin surrounding the mouth.
Both conditions have been linked in some studies to contact with cinnamic aldehyde, a toothpaste additive.
 Canker sores are a common ailment. They are usually caused by a persistent irritation, either from something inside the mouth or from an additive in certain dental products.Canker sores occur inside the mouth, but never over bone (like the roof of your mouth). They typically only occur on the tongue, on the insides of your cheeks and lips, on the floor of your mouth, and around your throat.Sodium Lauryl Sulfate (SLS), a foaming agent and detergent commonly added to toothpastes, is known to cause irritation/pain and increase canker sore outbreaks.
Use a small dental mirror to check your inner cheeks. If SLS is causing the problem, you should be able to see cheek cells sloughing off in stringy bunches on the inside of your mouth.
 Toothpaste allergies are surprisingly common. Most people experience symptoms caused by one or more components in toothpaste, usually flavorings or additives. Common signs of a toothpaste allergy include:A sudden onset of tooth and gum sensitivity
Swelling of the tongue
Sores or red, irritated skin inside your mouth
Inflammation on the corners of your mouth
Chapped lips
Hives or rashes, including on other parts of your body
Painful swelling in the body (angioedema)
Anaphylactic shock (in very severe cases)

