 Use social media and your networking contacts to locate a new job in the industry you're passionate about. Ask around and see if friends know of any job openings for entry level positions in your desired industry.


Go through your list of friends on your Facebook or LinkedIn and determine who is working in your dream career. Reach out to them through direct messages and ask them if they know of anyone hiring for entry level positions.
If you notice that someone has been posting pictures revolving around career that you love, call them and ask them how they got started in it.
You can say something like, "I don't have much experience, but I realized that doing this is my passion. I just need an opportunity to gain some experience. Do you know of any companies that are hiring?"

, Just because you love doing something doesn't mean that you'll love doing it professionally. A great way to determine whether you'll like your new profession is by interning part-time. Search online for any fellowship or intern programs being offered by companies that you'd want to work for.


Some interests and hobbies like graphic design, art, or writing, may have many different operations in a professional environment opposed to doing it casually.
 If you have a job, use any downtime to start applying for jobs in the industry that you love. You can wake up early, fill out applications during your lunch break, or search for jobs after work. If you are unemployed, try applying to jobs every day until you get callbacks and requests for interviews. Treat looking for a new job like a job itself, and keep strict hours for applying to different positions.


Use websites like Indeed, Monster, CareerBuilder, and Craigslist to find job openings.
 If you feel unhappy in the career you are currently in then you should consider getting out of your current job. Do not let fear of change paralyze you into not looking for another career.Always leave on good terms, give at least two weeks notice, and get references before you leave.


If you can't overcome your fear of change, visualize yourself in your current position for the next five years and think of how unhappy you'll be.
It may be hard to leave your current job because of how comfortable you feel, but don't let this get in the way of your dreams.
 While doing something that you love is enjoyable, it's important to remember that you'll still need to take care of your responsibilities. Make a list of all your expenses per month and calculate how much you'll need to be paid in your new job.


If you are concerned with switching careers because of financial reasons, start looking for new jobs while working at your old one.
 Doing a job that you love requires dedication and passion. If you aren't already established in the industry that you are looking to excel in, it may be hard to build up experience at first. Put in the work and don't give up just because it gets hard. Passion will generate good results and employers will see your hard work.


Be ready to put in overtime and serious effort to become good at your new job.
If someone criticizes you, don't take it personally. Try to look at their advice from an objective view and use it to improve your skills.
You may have a hard time obtaining an interview at first. Keep applying for jobs and look for positions that don't require a lot of experience.
If you feel like you aren't moving towards your goals, take a step back and reevaluate. Consider going back to school or getting an additional certificate to improve your chances.

