 Before applying any chemical solvent to a caulk stain on marble or any other hard surface, rinse the area with mineral water or distilled water to remove any residue.
 Choose a chemical solvent noted for effectiveness against silicone caulk. Dampen the stained area using a clean rag.


Note that you only need to use heavy solvents on silicone caulk stains. Other types of caulk stains, like acrylic and non-acrylic caulks, are less stubborn and can usually be removed with nothing but water and physical scraping.
Common, effective chemicals include Methylene Chloride, Dichloromethane, Methylene Bichloride, and Methylene Dichloride.
 Combine additional solvent with enough white absorbent material to form a thick paste.


Possible absorbent material options include molding plaster, untreated white flour, white tissue, white paper towels, powdered chalk, talc, fullers earth, or laundry whiting.
Note that you'll need about 1 lb (450 g) of paste for every square foot (30.5 square cm).
 Layer the paste on the caulk stain using a plastic or wooden spatula. Make sure that the paste is 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) thick or less.


This paste should cover the entire stain and extend a bit past the edges. If you do not let the paste extend past the stain, the stain could end up being forced onto clean patches of stone.
After applying the paste, make sure that the coating is free of any air pockets.
 Cover the paste with plastic sheeting and seal the edges off with masking tape. Let it set for 48 hours undisturbed.


If using a solvent with other instructions, however, follow the instructions provided on the solvent label.
 Doing so softens the hardened paste enough to help lift it off.
 Use a wooden or plastic spatula to gently scrape away the paste and the loosened caulk.


Do not use anything harder since many hard surfaces, like marble, can get scratched up as a result.
 Rinse the area once more with mineral water or distilled water to remove any residue. Blot dry with clean paper towels.


You might need to apply this treatment multiple times before all the caulk comes up. You can do so once the surface is completely dry.

