 A crisp should only take about 45 minutes to cook and usually fits into a 2-quart baking dish, which is typically deeper than a pie pan. Use a touch of butter your favorite cooking spray to ensure nothing sticks as it cooks., Not all apples are created equally, and not all apples are suitable for baking. What you want is a firm-textured apple, one that will hold up under heat. In addition, the best apples for baking have a nice balance between sweetness and tartness, leading to a better-balanced dish.If you're in doubt, check the labels at your supermarket, which often point out good "baking" apples. Some great examples (not including those in the ingredients list) include:


Must
Pink Lady
Granny Smith
Cortland
Empire
Jonathan and Jonagold, Wash the apples and then peel them first, as most people don't like the skins in their crisp. If you have an apple corer, use it to punch out the center and then cut the apple into whatever thickness you desire, though they should be a 1/4" or less in order to fully cook. If you don't have an apple corer, the best way to cut apples with a knife is:


Wash and peel the apple. Remove the stem.
Cut the apple in half lengthwise, from the stem down
Cut the apple halves lengthwise into quarters
Lay each quarter on one side, peel side up, and diagonally slice out the core.
Cut remaining apple into slices., Add the lemon juice first, tossing to coat all of the apples the light acid, which keeps them semi-crisp and enhances their flavor. Then add the sugar and flour slowly, making sure all of the apples are adequately covered.


If you want a little extra sweetness, toss in 2 tablespoons (29.6 ml) of maple syrup with the lemon juice and coat the apples before adding sugar and flour.
 The apples go in nice, even layer on the bottom and the streusel goes in a nice, even layer on the top. With the apples, take care to prevent large air holes that might form from askew apples. While they don't have to be meticulously layered, you don't want it to cook unevenly.
 The longer the dish cooks, the softer the apples will get. However, too long and the topping will burn. 30-40 minutes should be right on the money.If the topping is getting too dark but the apples need more time, cover the whole thing with aluminum foil. This will protect the topping while trapping heat to cook the apples.