 Patents are available to protect the rights of inventors who create useful items or processes that are distinct and significant developments.If you've invented something, you may have difficulty finding a manufacturer who is willing to sign a non-disclosure agreement before he sees your invention. Filing a provisional patent application protects your invention so you don't have to worry about someone stealing your invention.Provisional patents are not examined and don't require you to disclose any potentially similar patents already in existence. The provisional patent is designed in part to give you a 12-month period to evaluate the viability of your invention and whether it can be patented., The USPTO issues three types of patents, with utility patents being the most common.Utility patents include machines or tools as well as processes or methods such as computer applications or assembly methods. You can get a provisional patent for a utility patent, which allows you to use the phrase "patent pending" in connection to your invention., Although you aren't required to disclose similar patented inventions on a provisional application, a preliminary search can help you determine whether filing a provisional application is justified.


A provisional patent gives you an earlier filing date, which may be important later on if someone else has an invention similar to yours. If your patent was filed first, you have rights to the patent over anyone who comes later.However, if someone else has already filed a patent similar to yours, you may not be entitled to patent protection for your invention.
Provisional patent applications are not examined, so any conflicting patents in existence would only come into play if and when you filed your full patent., Your provisional application must include a written description of your invention along with the names of all the inventors.


Your application must include text and drawings that describe and depict your invention. Unlike a full patent application, the provisional application can be written in plain English.While typically you must use an attorney or registered patent agent to assist you in completing a full patent application, you should be able to file a provisional patent application on your own.Your application also must include a cover sheet that lists the name and place of residence of the inventor, the title of the invention, and contact information., Once you've completed your application, you can use the electronic filing system to submit your application to the USPTO.


Provisional patents have a lower filing fee than non-provisional patents. While non-provisional patents may cost thousands of dollars, you can get a provisional patent for under a hundred dollars.If you prefer to file your application by mail, you can send your paper application along with the filing fee to Commissioner for Patents, P.O. Box 1450, Alexandria, VA 22313-1450., The USPTO recommends you use a registered patent attorney to complete your non-provisional application.


Your provisional application establishes your effective filing date for your non-provisional patent – however, you lose this date if you don't file a non-provisional application within 12 months.Essentially, the provisional patent buys you time so you can evaluate whether you want to file a non-provisional patent. If you decide to go for full patent protection, the application will be time-consuming and expensive to create.

