 You should already be signed in if you navigate to YouTube's homepage. If not, click the Sign In button in the top right, then enter your Google Account information.;
, In the top left of the YouTube screen, directly next to the YouTube logo, there should be an icon that looks like three horizontal grey bars and an arrow. Click this to open up a list of links on the left of the screen, if it isn't already there.



Or visit your history directly by navigating to youtube.com/feed/history, then skip ahead to the "delete all" step below.
 On the options on the left hand side, near the top of your list, click "History."

, You should see a list of all the videos you've watched, with the most recent ones at the top. If you want to delete your entire watch history, click the "Clear all watch history" button at the top of the page.
 To remove one video at a time from your history, mouse over the video, and look for three gray dots that appear on the far right of the screen. Click them, and select "Remove from Watch History."


If you do not see the three dots, try a different browser, such as the latest Firefox.
 If you don't want any videos to be stored in your history in the future, click Pause watch history. To start adding future videos to your history again, return to this page and click the Resume watch history button in the same location.
 Look for the "Search history" link near the top of the page, to the right of "Watch history." Click it to be taken to a list of the searches you've made on YouTube. This list works exactly the same as the "watch history" list:



Clear all search history permanently removes all searches.
Mousing over an individual search will reveal an icon to the right with three grey dots (only available on certain browsers, such as the latest Firefox). Click this to remove that single item from the search.
Select Pause search history to prevent future searches from entering your history.
 You've now cleared any undesirable information from the YouTube site, but your browser (such as Internet Explorer or Chrome) will still remember which videos you've seen. Delete your browsing history, or navigate to "History" –> "Show All History" (or similar) in the top menu, and remove the YouTube videos individually.

