 If, for some reason, you cannot burn a flag, you may choose to bury it. Contrary to popular belief, burning is not the only way that a flag can be disposed of. The United States Flag code dictates that burning is only the preferred method of disposal - as long you retire the flag with respect and dignity, an alternate method is acceptable. To bury the flag, begin by finding a dignified wooden box - it should be of good quality and construction, as this box will serve as the flag's vessel as it is interred in the ground. Fold the flag respectfully and place it in the box. Bury the flag in the earth. You may choose to mark the burial location of the flag with a small, respectful wooden or stone marker.


Before burying the flag, you may also shred the flag. Shredding an American flag may at first seem violent or undignified. However, if burning the flag isn't possible, the US Army's Heraldry institute recommends shredding as an acceptable disposal method, provided it is done with reverence.Use scissors to slowly and methodically separate the thirteen stripes, leaving the blue star-spangled field intact. After the flag is completely cut into pieces, place it in a respectful receptacle and bury it OR ceremoniously burn the pieces one by one, starting with the stripes and ending with the blue field.
You may even consider giving a short "funeral" for the flag. Give a short, reverent speech on the importance of the flag as it sits in its "coffin." Stand at attention as the flag is lowered into the ground. Observe a moment of silence as the flag is buried.
 When the Flag Code was written, almost all flags were made of cloth or other natural fabrics. Today, however, many flags are made from nylon, polyester, or other artificial materials. These modern materials, when burnt, can produce toxic fumes which are harmful to the environment (and any bystanders). Private organizations and non-profits have been formed to recycle vinyl flags - contact a group like American Flag Recyclingfor more information.


Among organizations that provide criteria for properly disposing of American flags, opinions vary as to whether it's disrespectful to recycle the flag. The Boy Scouts of America advocates for recycling synthetic flags,while the American Legion recommends against it.Search for arguments on both sides of the question, then make your own decision - does recycling an American flag seem disrespectful to you?


, Certain United States government organizations offer services to dispose of the flag with proper ceremony at your request for no charge. The American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars, the Boy Scouts of America, the Girl Scouts of America and the US Military provide this service. If you don't have access to any of these organizations, you may find success by contacting your city hall or local government.

