 If they are requiring any sort of up front payment to use their services, it is almost always a scam. Many of them will claim that it's for the cost of training, etc. Most of that is just lies. More often than not, the scammer will take your money and run.;
, Let's face it. Very, very few of us are ever going to make thousands of dollars each day. However, scammers prey on our hopes and dreams of being rich without moving a finger. They tell us that our dreams can come true, but only if we do what they tell us to do. Our emotions shove aside logic, and we want to believe what they say, even if they are shady characters. Thus, the scammer's greatest weapon is you. Always keep your logic handy.
 Are they trying to help us out of the goodness of their own hearts? Are they making a selfless sacrifice of their time to help us become rich beyond your wildest dreams? Not likely. Very few people in the online community are going to volunteer vast amounts of their time and effort just to help someone else succeed. Most of the time, they are doing it for their own benefit. When we ask this question, we have to see through the lies. We need to recognize the reason behind false statements. For example, when they say that we could earn "$1000/day", they actually just want to draw us into their web. Their ultimate goal is for us to give them money in the form of an up front "registration fee."

, There are only two different ways that websites can make money from you: independently of you or dependent on you. In other words, websites making money independently of you don't need you to succeed for them to succeed. On the other hand, websites making money dependently on you need you to succeed in order for them to succeed. A website dependent on you for their own well-being is much less likely to be a scam, since they cannot survive if you don't make money. They will have more incentive to help you make money, rather than hurt you.
 Creating a feeling of scarcity helps make the item seem more valuable. Sometimes the website *does* go dark after a day or so ... but that's probably because it was pulled by the web hoster for being an illegal scam.
, There are a few who do, just like there are a few small businesses that make it big.

