 Whether you're going out for a night on the town, hanging out with your spouse, or going to school, if you want to up your sex appeal, make your own comfort and confidence a priority. For some of us, that might mean rocking a new pair of pumps and a tight-fitting dress, while others of us might feel more confident in a straight-forward shirt and pants. Whatever you're wearing, if you feel sexy, you'll be sexy.


Try to find some kind of middle ground between the sweatpants-and-slippers level of comfort and the 6-inch-Louboutains level of super-sexy high fashion. You don't have to go all out like you're on the runway, but you do need to make sure your clothes are appropriately-fitted, clean, and that you're well groomed and looking your best if you want to be comfy and feel great.
 Spend a little time each day grooming yourself and giving your body the care and attention it deserves. Hair, make-up, oral hygiene, and other little things can do wonders for your self confidence. It's hard to feel sexy and project sex appeal if you're anxious that you don't smell great. Be confident that you've done everything necessary to look your best.


You don't have to be a chiseled hard-body to gain more confidence and pride in your appearance. But if you don't feel comfortable with your stomach, or some other part of your body, take care of it. Put work into your body to get fit and become more confident. Even losing a few pounds can drastically affect your self-confidence, and your sex appeal.
Start slow. Many people get turned off of the idea of losing weight because of overly-elaborate weight-loss schemes and complicated workout regimens. It doesn't have to be that complex. Start going on long walks instead of taking public transportation, or start doing short sets 5-10 each, of push-ups and sit-ups while you watch television. It'll go fast and help you start getting fit. You may even like it.
 Practice working on your posture, keeping your shoulders back and your chin up to present yourself as someone who is open to conversation and to interaction. Stand up straight and project an appearance of comfort and confidence being in the world you inhabit. Even if you're on the train, exhausted after working all day, stand up straight. You never know whose eye you might catch.


Closed body language includes slouching, crossing your arms, or burying your head into your telephone. If you want to seem unapproachable and icy, close off your body language and people will get the hint.
 Trust your own judgment and your ability to pay attention to input from others, and choose what you think is best. You're just as capable as anyone of making the right choice.


It's not sexy to hem and haw at the menu for 20 minutes while everyone else is done. Make a choice and be done with it. If you're getting together with friends to go out for the night, don't spend a lot of time second-guessing the club you're hitting up. Once you've pulled the trigger, let it go and be confident you've made the right choice. People are attracted to that.
 If someone's not picking up on your obvious sex appeal, move on without comment. Like a duck, let that water roll off your back. Keeping yourself above petty squabbles and fights maintains an air of mystery, as well as leaving the door open if the other person changes his or her mind down the road. Plus, others will be impressed with your obvious confidence, which is inherently sexy.


Attraction is complicated, and there are multiple reasons why it might not be there. Instead of acting bitter and hurt, maintain your friendly composure. Maybe you struck out with this person, but someone else could notice how your confidence seems untouchable.
 Maybe nothing is more simple but less obvious than a pleased, attractive, confident smile. Is there anything sexier than a good, genuine smile? To radiate sexiness, keep an amused half-smile on your face, regardless of what you're doing, but especially when talking or flirting with a cutie. You should look like you want to be there, not like your mind is elsewhere.


Smiling also draws people's attention to your mouth, dragging their mind into thoughts of kissing you. If you smile, you'll be that much closer to locking lips.
In fashion ads and runways, models always have a grimace or scowl locked on their face. While fashion models are a certain kind of sexy, that sexy is also unapproachable and "distant" by design. You're supposed to aspire to the product they're selling, a relationship you'd like to avoid when chatting up strangers and meeting singles.

