 If you smoke, then the number one thing you can do to prevent CAD or CHD is to quit. Smoking puts added stress on the heart, increases blood pressure, and leads to other cardiovascular complications.Those who smoke a pack a day are at twice the risk of a heart attack as non-smokers.About 20% of all heart disease-related deaths in the U.S. stem from smoking., In fact, you can check your blood pressure once a day from the comfort of your home. Talk to your doctor about the device that he or she thinks would be best for you. Most of the at-home blood pressure devices involve you putting the device on your wrist, holding your wrist out in front of you at heart level, and then checking your blood pressure reading.


Ask your doctor what your normal, resting blood pressure is. This will give you a standard to compare your daily readings to.
 Because coronary heart disease is a cardiovascular (aka heart) issue, you should do cardiovascular exercises to strengthen your heart. Cardio exercises include running, walking briskly, swimming, biking, or any other exercise that elevates your heartbeat. You should try to exercise for at least 30 minutes every day.


Speak with your doctor before beginning any exercise regiment to make sure it's appropriate for your health and fitness levels. She can usually even recommend options that are tailored to your specific needs.
 The healthy diet should consist of heart-healthy foods that also keep your weight and cholesterol at a healthy level. A balanced diet should consist of:High quantities of fruits and vegetables containing balanced daily intakes of vitamins and minerals
Lean proteins such as fish and skinless chicken
Whole grain products, including wheat bread, brown rice, and quinoa.
Low-fat dairy products such as yogurt.
Less than 3 grams of salt a day to reduce your chances of developing high blood pressure

, In particular, you should get fish that is rich in omega-3 fatty acid. Omega-3 reduces the risk of inflammation in the body, which in turn reduces your chances of getting inflamed blood vessels that can lead to heart disease. Fish that contain omega-3 fatty acids include:Salmon, tuna, mackerel, trout, and herring

, If you are concerned about your heart’s health, you should stay away from foods with high amounts of saturated fats or trans fats. These raise your low-density lipoprotein (LDL), or "bad," cholesterol levels and can clog your arteries and lead to heart diseases.Sources of saturated fat include red meats, ice cream, butter, cheese, sour cream, and products made with lard. Deep-fried products are usually loaded with saturated fats.
Trans fats are usually found in fried and processed foods. Shortening that is made from partially hydrogenated vegetable oil is another common source of trans fats.Consume fats from fish and olives. These fats are rich in omega-3 fatty acids, which may help lower your risk of heart attack and heart disease.
You should also avoid eating more than an egg a day, especially if you have difficulty controlling your cholesterol levels. Although eggs are usually healthy in moderation, eating too many of them may increase your risk of heart failure or heart disease.When you do eat eggs, don't load them down with fats such as cheese or butter.

