 Every camera has a wide array of settings you can adjust. Generally speaking, however, there are three main setting categories to understand when photographing insects: aperture, ISO, and shutter speed.


Aperture involves the size of the opening through which light enters the camera. It’s measured in “f-stops” like f/2.0 or f/8.0, with larger numbers equaling a smaller opening. A smaller aperture (bigger number) will bring more of the background into focus, while a larger aperture (smaller number) enhances detail in lower light., ISO measures your camera’s sensitivity to light, with higher ISO settings (100, 200, 400, etc.) increasing the sensitivity level. Using the lowest ISO setting possible provides the best image quality, but only if there is substantial light available; otherwise, increase the ISO until you find the sweet spot., Shutter speed is measured in fractions of a second (1/500, 1/1000, etc.) and equals the amount of time in which light is permitted to enter the aperture. A higher shutter speed lets in more light, but a lower one reduces blurring. You can adjust shutter speed manually, or just set your camera to “auto” or “aperture priority” (in which you set the aperture) and let it adjust shutter speed automatically., Because of the limited depth of field created by extreme magnification, obtaining and maintaining optimal focus on your subject insect will be an ongoing challenge. Use a small aperture, and play around with the auto and manual focus options on your camera to see what combinations work best for you.The depth of field can be so limited that, when dealing with larger insects, you’ll actually have to focus on a particular part of the bug. Sharp focus on the eyes or the wings can produce dramatic imagery, for instance., While it’s a good idea to snap away for practice and fun, take your time before you attempt to take high-quality shots of an insect. Watch the insect move about with your own two eyes, and eventually through your lens. Learn where it likes to go, how it likes to perch on a leaf, the cues it gives before taking flight, and so on.Studying beforehand will enhance your ability to anticipate and capture a great shot, instead of missing your chance.
 Moving insects present a challenge, but this movement can be captured in a still frame and give life to your subject. To catch ants at work, for example, you may want to choose a larger aperture (to blur the background) and a fill-in flash (to enhance detail even when outdoors) in order to bring this sense of movement to the forefront.For insects in flight, use a tripod and remote shutter (to prevent blurring from camera movement), and use a shutter speed at or above 1/250s (to capture wing details).
If you’re clicking away with your iPhone, use a slow shutter app to increase exposure time, set up on a tripod, and use burst mode to capture many images in rapid succession., When it comes to insect photography, if you can’t take pleasure in the journey, you won’t get as much joy out of the destination. Think of the practice, the setups, the stalking, the missed chances, the blurred images, and the unwilling subjects as all part of the process toward achieving amazing images of insects.In truth, even your shots that are out of focus or off target can make for interesting images that reveal something about both insects and insect photography.

