 When you can't stop the noise at it's source, you can do your best to keep it out. Sound-proofing your home will help you rest easier at night and keep your home quieter during the day as well. If you can't sound-proof your entire home, you might want to invest in sound-proofing your bedroom, so you'll have at least one respite from the noise when you just can't take it anymore.


If you don't want to reconstruct your walls and floors with sound-proof building materials, consider the less expensive option of installing carpeting and wall coverings that soften and absorb sounds.
Acoustic foam panels are a cheap, easy-to-install option when you want to quickly soundproof a room. For an even easier solution, try hanging blankets on the walls or installing extra bookcases filled with books.;
, Situate your home so that your bed isn't right next to your noisy furnace or air conditioning unit. If there are any other sources of constant noise, try to locate them far away from your sleeping and living areas so you can have some peace and quiet.


You might also want to consider using these machines less to give yourself a break from the noise. Turn off your air conditioner and open the windows, even if it means being a little hotter than normal. You might find the less noisy atmosphere more relaxing than a cooled-down room.
 Sometimes it's simply impossible to truly get away from the noise. If you live on a busy street with lots of traffic, you know there's never really a respite from traffic sounds, sirens and honking horns. Getting away from it all is a good way to restore your emotional balance. Go to a quiet spot that's as free of sound as possible. Stay there and enjoy the silence for a few hours, until you feel renewed and ready to reenter the noise of daily life.


See if you can go for a walk in a quiet natural spot away from busy roads.
If you can't make it to a quiet outdoor space, try sitting in a library for a few hours. The librarians will make sure it stays nice and quiet.
Churches and cemeteries are also good places to find some peace and quiet.
 With more and more rural areas being developed, noisy engines and construction sounds aren't going away any time soon. Learning how to meditate can help you deal with noise and destress without needing to drop everything and leave.


When you're feeling overwhelmed, sit very still, close your eyes and focus on taking deep, even breaths. Do 10 breaths and try to let your worries go and ignore the noise around you. No matter where you are, whether it's on a noisy subway car or in your own kitchen, you can try this technique to calm yourself down., These inventions help millions of people deal with everyday noise. Earplugs are a cheap drugstore purchase that buys you hours of sleep, once you get used to falling asleep with them in your ears. Noise-canceling headphones are a bit more expensive, but if getting peace and quiet is at the top of your priority list, they're probably worth the splurge.
 This is by far the most expensive method, but if nothing else is working for you, and you are serious about the peace and quiet, this is a most effective way to stop noise from getting in your home.