 Select a fairly large stock vine and saw off the top roughly 30 minutes before you intend to graft the scions.


Note that this is the simplest grafting method to use and generally produces good results.
You should cut the top based on the desired head height of the grafted vine. Make the cut at a clean, unblemished portion of the vine and cut until the height of the rootstock is roughly 4 inches (10 cm) shorter than your final desired head height.;
, Use a cold chisel or similar splitting blade to split the rootstock down the center of its top surface.


This split needs to be at least 2 inches (4 cm) deep.
Hold this split open while you prepare the scions by keeping the chisel inside.
 Select two dormant scions and taper the bottoms into a "v" shape using a sharp, clean blade.Make straight, even cuts that taper down from the lowest bud to the bottom of the scion. The tapered edge should be about 2 inches (4 cm), or about as long as the rootstock split is deep.
Note that the outer edge of the scion is usually a little wider than the inner edge. Cutting the wood in this way makes it easier for the scion to come into contact with the correct part of the rootstock.
The bottom of the taper should be about 1/16 inch (1.6 mm) wide.
 Wedge the tapered bottom of one scion into one side of the rootstock split. Wedge the other scion into the other side of the split.


Remove the chisel before fitting the scions. If necessary, use a large, flat screwdriver to hold one side of the split open as you wedge a scion inside.
Push the scions down until the cambium layers of the scions and rootstock meet. The cambium is the single layer of active plant cells located just beneath the bark. The connection between the two separate vines will establish itself at this level.
 Wrap the sides of the split with rubber bands or tape. Apply grafting compound to the entire exposed split.


Sealing the split seals existing moisture in and keeps excess moisture out.
Apply the grafting compound very generously using a wide, stiff paintbrush.
For extra protection, you may even wish to apply interior latex paint over the dried grafting compound.

