 The fatal funnel, as it is graciously known, is one of the most dangerous areas to be in when traversing a building. This area includes doorways and other portals which only allow a narrow area in and out of a room (such as narrow hallways and archways). If you were picking a choke point for an ambush, fatal funnels would be perfect places to focus your attention. It is in your best interest to spend as little time as possible in these areas.


At a doorway, the fatal funnel is the area on either side of the door, as deep as the door is tall and just as wide.So standing to the side of a door does not count (obviously the fatal funnel is an imaginary area — an area which the intruder might not be respecting, so just because you are out of the fatal funnel doesn't mean you can't get shot).
 If you are unable to do so (for architectural reasons), you will have to place your body in the fatal funnel while you open it.
 If this is your house, and you know this specific door does not have a lock, you don't have to perform this step.
 When grasping the doorknob, use your non-firing hand and reach below your weapon. This will allow you to bring your weapon to bear without blocking it.
 If you are pushing the door away from you, be sure to swing the door enough so to expose the whole room. If the door stops unusually short of the wall, it may be because something or someone is behind the door.


If you pull the door toward yourself, the amount of throw is less important as even a small opening will allow you a peek in the room right away, and as you clear the room you can open the door the rest of the way.
 This keeps you and your gun away from someone who may be on the other side of the door ready to grab you or your gun. Distance favors the trained shooter. In the event that you are the only one with a gun, distance favors the person with a ranged weapon.
 This time, you have to scan up to 180-degrees instead of only 90. Clear it with the slicing the pie technique. Be sure to start at the wall the door frame is attached to clear as much of the room as possible. You should know all of the hiding places in your house and pay particular attention to them as you're clearing the room.


When crossing the fatal funnel during the pie slicing, you may want to speed up your pace to spend as little time in the fatal funnel as possible without missing important parts of the room.
 Start outside of the fatal funnel and move in toward the caddy-corner area. This is a diagonal motion, and it should be done quickly, being sure you don't get hung up on the doorway.
 If someone were hiding in the corner that you weren't able to see during the slicing the pie you will be able to see them now.


The corner you are walking toward is your first priority. View that corner before you look at the one behind you, as an assailant in the corner in front of you is a higher priority.
 This may include looking behind furniture and in closets. You do not want to leave an area unsearched; as soon as you leave the room, you assume no one is behind you, when in fact someone may be.

