 Aromatherapy is a herbal treatment which employs the fragrance of a plant’s essential oils to treat headaches, insomnia, anxiety, depression, stress, digestive disorders, and other conditions. A licensed physician or aromatherapist can help determine what works for you.Undiluted essential oils can cause skin reactions, so they need to be mixed with a carrier oil or lotion before use. Carrier lotions are made from emulsified oil and water, which makes them non-greasy and easy to apply.
People with dry, sensitive skin should use wheat-germ, olive, or avocado oils as carrier oils, which are heavier and seal in moisture more completely. Taking a bath or shower before applying oils also increases skin moisture.
To dilute the oils, add 5 drops of essential oil to 1/2 fluid oz (approx. 15ml) of carrier oil or lotion. Store any unused portions in a dark-glass dropper bottle that has a tight screw top., Peppermint oil has a significant amount of menthol which can help relieve headaches, muscular aches, and nasal congestion.To use it as a headache treatment, apply 1-2 drops of diluted peppermint oil to the forehead and temples, then massage for 3–5 minutes. Rub in small clockwise circles. Never apply peppermint oil to the face of an infant or small child, as it may cause spasms that inhibit breathing. If you experience irritation or develop a rash, discontinue use immediately., Chamomile oil has the ability to ease pain and relax muscles. It is generally used as a remedy for insomnia, nausea, and anxiety.To use as a headache treatment, apply 1-2 drops of diluted chamomile oil to the forehead and temples, then massage for 3–5 minutes.


If you are allergic to asters, daisies, chrysanthemums, or ragweed, you may also be allergic to chamomile. Chamomile may cause drowsiness and should not be taken before driving or exercise., Lavender oil has anti-inflammatory properties essential for relieving pain and soothing sore or tender body parts. It can help with conditions such as headaches, anxiety, stress, insomnia, and muscle soreness. It also smells great. To use it as a headache treatment, apply 1-2 drops of diluted lavender oil to the forehead and temples, then massage for 3–5 minutes. You can also add 2-4 drops of pure lavender oil to 2–3 cups of boiling water. Then hold your head over the water, inhaling the vapors in the process.
Do not consume lavender oil. It is toxic, if eaten. Only use the oil externally or by inhalation. Do not get it in your eyes. If you have asthma, talk to your doctor before using lavender. Some people with asthma find that lavender further irritates their lungs.
Pregnant and breastfeeding women should avoid using lavender.