 Do not use it as a source of nutrition. It is not good for growing horses as it has too much phosphorus and doesn't have enough calcium to provide a nutritious equine diet.;
, The corn is often processed even further by the food companies to make it non-heating. Non-heating means that the nutritional concentration is lowered a little bit so that the horse gets a little less energy from it.
 Be aware that there are lots of different pellets to suit different horse's needs, so you should make sure to buy the one that meets your horse's needs (e.g., pregnancy, lactating, over-wintering, etc.). Read the labels or ask for advice form your vet or the retailer.
 Take a good look at coarse mix; it looks much like Raisin Bran cereal, which makes it look a lot more appetizing! But a more valid reason to feed coarse mix to horses than pellets is because it takes longer time to eat. This makes it better for the horse's digestive system. Note that this food comes in various grades; read the labels or ask for advice when purchasing.
 Uncooked linseed is poisonous to horses of all ages. Linseed must be boiled at a high temperature until the seeds split. The up-side to this laborious feed is that it has laxative effects, which helps produce a glossy coat.
 Note that barley is often underrated, but it has a high energy content. However, you should take care when feeding it to the horse because even a small change in the amount fed can result in significant nutritional consequences.
 Even when it is dried up, alfalfa still contains wonderful concentrations of minerals and vitamins that are found in grass. It has a particular value for its fiber and calcium content. It is often called "pelleted sunshine".
 Oats are mostly popular due to the fact that careless changes to the amount fed make a very little difference in nutritional value due to the fact that oats have a very low energy content. Unfortunately, oats are not a natural food for horses, so don't feed them solely on oats or they will become deficient in much needed nutrients.
 This is a valuable feed due to its richness in protein and energy. Beet pulp is dried beet and must be soaked in fresh water before feeding, or you may risk poisoning the horse.
 Just like the beet pulp, beet cubes expand very rapidly when they touch water, or saliva for that matter and also need to be soaked in water before feeding, so as not to promote poisoning or choking. Colic is also a risk that may occur if beet cubes are not soaked in fresh water before feeding. Never confuse beet cubes with ordinary cubes.
 There should still be some water left in the feed that has not been soaked up in order for this feed to be desirable.

