 One of the great ways you can help strengthen your children’s bond is by encouraging them to participate together in various holiday outings and annual events. For instance, supply your kids with a pumpkin and allow them (when they reach an age where they are able) to cut it into a jack-o-lantern (with adult supervision). During the winter, build a snowman in the yard, or provide them with the means to construct their own gingerbread houses., If your kids never have opportunities to bond and spend time together, they won’t have a strong relationship. Take your kids bowling, or to the park, or just allow them time to play in their rooms together. These shared experiences can give your kids’ relationship a solid foundation.Young children who play together will fight at some point, too. But unless their conflicts occur frequently (at a rate of more than one conflict per five positive interactions), don’t encourage them to stay apart from each other.
If you know that your kids get cranky and are more likely to fight at certain times of day – for instance, in the late evening – don’t schedule joint playtime during those times.
 Growing up, especially in a small house, kids might feel that they are overexposed to their siblings. This feeling that their siblings are always around might make them feel trapped and frustrated, leading to a deteriorating relationship. It is just as important, therefore, to give your kids time away from each other as it is to provide time when they can be together.Instead of taking both children everywhere with you or insisting that they play together when one or both don’t really want to, provide opportunities where they can be apart for a time.
For instance, take one child to the zoo this weekend, then take your other child to the baseball game next weekend. That way, you’ll be able to spend an equal amount of time with each even though the time spent isn’t always together.
 If there is a significant difference in your kids’ backgrounds, find ways to help them bond that acknowledge and accommodate their differences. For example, if one child is 5 and the other is 15, it might seem hard to find ways for them to bond. Identify activities that they both like to do and facilitate opportunities to enjoy these activities together.For instance, if both children enjoy baseball, allow the older child to take the younger one to a baseball game.
Without relinquishing your responsibilities as a parent, encourage your older child to watch out for their younger sibling in certain situations. For instance, if both children ride the same bus to school, encourage the much older child to protect the younger one.
 If your siblings feel like they are in competition with each other, then it may be difficult for them to be supportive of each other. To improve their relationship with each other, try to encourage helping behaviors among your children.

For example, you might encourage your children to be supportive of each other during stressful times, such as before a big game that one of your children will be playing in, or before one of your children has a big test at school.
Try saying something like, “Don’t forget to wish your sister good luck on her history test today! She is really worried about it and it will mean a lot to her if you give her some words of encouragement.” Or, “Let’s all cheer for Danny when he comes out onto the field! It will make him happy to know we are all here to support him.”

