 Cauliflower has a mild, creamy taste that soaks up other flavors well, just like rice. Any dish that calls for white or brown rice can be made using cauliflower rice, instead. Here’s how to make it:Clean and chop 1 head of cauliflower.
Process the chopped cauliflower in a food processor until you have small, rice-sized pieces.
Cook the “rice” by placing it in a saucepan with a tablespoon of melted butter; cover and steam for 8 minutes.
 The flesh of roasted spaghetti squash really does have the texture of al dente spaghetti. It’s a simple dish that hits the spot in the fall and winter months, when spaghetti squash is in season. You can even dress the squash with marinara sauce, or substitute it for pasta in another favorite dish.

To cook spaghetti squash,

Preheat the oven to 450 degrees Fahrenheit.
Slice the squash in half lengthwise. Scrape out the seeds. Rub the flesh with olive oil, salt and pepper.
Place the squash halves in a roasting pan cut side down and roast for 40 minutes.
When the flesh has cooled, scoop it out; serve plain or dressed with sauce.
 This is your summer vegetable season counterpart to spaghetti squash. Spiralized zucchini has a springy texture and mild flavor that makes it a great substitute for carb-laden pasta. It’s easiest to make it with a spiralizer machine; you just peel the zucchini and feed it through. If you don’t have one, follow these steps:


Peel a large zucchini.
Use the large holes on a box grater to grate long, thin pieces of zucchini. Alternately, slice the zucchini into thin strips with a knife.
Steam the zucchini with olive oil and water for about 10 minutes, until cooked.
 Any pasta dish can be made into a low-carb-friendly meal by subbing out the pasta for fresh greens. You can serve the greens simply dressed with olive oil, parmesan and pepper, or go for a heavier pasta sauce to satisfy your craving.


Try arugula, butter lettuce or a spring green mix to serve with lighter sauces.
If you want a bed of greens that will hold up to thick sauce, try cooked spinach or swiss chard in place of pasta.
 You don’t have to give up your favorite sandwich experience when you go low-carb; simply swap out the bread for a sturdy piece of iceberg or romaine. Start by spreading hummus or mayonnaise on the piece of lettuce, then top with cold cuts, fresh veggies and your other favorite sandwich mix-ins.


If you want a sturdier wrap, try using a collard leaf instead of lettuce.
You can use lettuce in place of the crust when you’re craving pizza, too. Brush the piece of lettuce with olive oil, add a sprinkle of cheese and some toppings, and pop it under the broiler for a few minutes to melt the cheese.

