 The Norwood/Hamilton scale is the accepted scale for assessing male pattern baldness, first introduced by Dr. James Hamilton in the 1950s.


If you suffer from male pattern baldness, being able to identify your level of hair loss as falling somewhere in one of the seven stages identified by the Norwood/Hamilton scale can help a doctor determine how the best treatment method.There will be times when you have to explain your level of hair loss over the phone to a doctor or physician. Being able to point to a stage on the Norwood/Hamilton Scale will be helpful.The Norwood/Hamilton Scale also protects against misdiagnosis. You can make sure your hair loss is following the pattern of male baldness and not merely the result of aging.;
, There are 7 stages of the Norwood/Hamilton Scale used to assess male pattern baldness. Figure out which of the seven stages best reflects your hair loss.


Stage One, which sometimes goes unnoticed, is marked by a very minor recession of the hairline and does not require treatment. Unless you have a family history of baldness, you do not need to worry about Stage one.Stage Two is marked by a triangular recession of the hair lining the frontal temporal areas. The hair around your ears will also recede by several centimeters. Baldness becomes more apparent in this stage.Stage Three is the lowest level of hair loss needed for a person to be considered bald. Temples will be bare, only covered by sparse hair, and the hair towards the front of the head will begin to form a crown. Stage four is marked by these symptoms becoming more severe, and hair further thinning and receding around the temples and the front of the head.In Stage Five, the band of hair that extends across the crown thins. Hair loss around the temples and the ears become larger and more noticeable. This continues into Stage Six, when the bridge of hair across the crown is totally lost.Stage Seven is the most advanced form of hair loss. There is only a narrow band of horseshoe-shaped hair on the sides of the head and the back of the scalp. There may be some hair, forming a semi-circle, over both ears., Once you've reached Stage Seven, hair loss becomes very difficult to treat. If you want to combat male pattern baldness, seek out the advice of a doctor and physician to figure out how to best treat your hair loss before you reach Stage Seven.