 In any serious medical situation, always call emergency services after or during the first-aid process. While you don't need to call emergency services for minor scrapes and cuts (including bruises, skin-deep cuts, or mild burns), it's best to be cautious in more serious circumstances. Call emergency services in the case of:Broken bones (especially if visible through the skin).
Bleeding that won't stop.
Vomiting blood, or large amounts of blood coming out of any orifice
Spurting or gushing blood

, Let emergency personnel take care of this, since you have no idea what is going on beneath the skin or what organ the object could be impaled into.Extract the object slowly. If you rip it out suddenly, you may enlarge the puncture wound or cause further tissue damage and blood loss.

If the impaling object is very large, and you’re concerned that the victim may bleed out if you remove the object, leave it in and try to stabilize the impaled object until the emergency crew arrives and takes over. Do not let go of the object until told to do so by the paramedics.
 Depending on the severity of the wound or puncture, you may need to press quite firmly on the bloody area to stop the bleeding. Apply pressure using a clean piece of medical gauze from a first aid kit or a clean cotton cloth.In an emergency, you may need to use a piece of clothing or even your bare hands.

Before interacting with any open gash or puncture wound, make sure to clean your hands with soap. If you have access to nitrile gloves, put those on as well, to prevent bacterial infection. If you do not have access to either of these things you may not be able to wash your hands. In these cases applying pressure to stop the bleeding is the first priority., This will diminish the amount of blood flowing to the wounded area, and make the bleeding stop sooner. If you’re at home, rest the injured area on a chair or sofa cushion. If you’re outdoors, you can rest the elevated limb on a rock or on a balled-up jacket. Keep pressure on the wound or puncture while elevating the limb or body part.If you’re dealing with a small puncture wound, the bleeding may soon stop on its own. However, for a more serious open or puncture wound, stopping the bleeding immediately is of the utmost importance.
 If you can tell that the victim has a broken bone (or if the fracture is clearly visible), tell the victim to remain still. They should not move the limb with broken bones, or the fracture may become worse (or cut into the surrounding flesh).If the bones have broken through the skin, make sure to stop the bleeding before dealing with the fracture. Before medical personnel arrive, cover the open fracture with a clean dry cloth and do not try to put the bone back in place.

