 You can bend the truth a little bit, but don't make it completely unbelievable. Are you going to your mom's office party? If so, tell them you'll be going to do some major partying.;
, Catch up on all the trends for winter and wear whatever you can that's trendy.
 Some bath and body works shower gel for your mom. Some Victoria's secret lipgloss or an iTunes gift card for your college-bound sis. Some Habbo Hotel credits for your brother. Just put a nice, heartfelt and sincere note attached to them and slip them in their stockings or give them to them after you light the menorah or whenever.
 Stuck catching reruns of holiday specials on Nickelodeon? Go to the spa. Get a massage and a mani-pedi. Or do it yourself. Both are acceptable.
 Going to your mom's office party? Tip time:


Make a big entrance. The flashier, the better.
Act bored. Constantly.
When people tell you how big you've grown or whatever, accept their compliments with a smile and a thank you and leave it at that. Only return the compliment if it's your mother's boss or whatever.
Don't even look at kids who aren't cool. Chances are, if you are reading this article, you won't have many kids your age at the office. Scout for kids your age and ask your mom on the car ride over. If they are actually cool and not playing with a Nintendo, you can talk to them.

Hang around with your COOL. COOL. Cousins. Leave your dorky younger cousins behind. If you have no cousins, try to smooch some gossip from your mom and aunts.
Act disgusted when you see the table is filled with food you don't like and don't eat too much. Chew gum at the party or have a lighter meal before you go.
Text your friends a lot and act like you don't care.
You're going to get crappy gifts from some relatives, you'll just have to grin and bear it. Even if the sweater your aunt brought for you smells like goats, just smile and say thank you. Don't forget to write ah-mazing thank you notes for every gift!

, Ideally, meet up at Starbucks at the mall to chat about your holidays, gossip, and then go shopping for everything you didn't get during the holidays that you wanted.
 Before Christmas/Hannukah/other holiday, go shopping with your friends for Christmas presents, bake cookies, go to the spa, whatever.
 Did Ben get kicked out of school? Did Bryce and Amanda hook up? Make sure you know this.

