 This will help you to balance what you saw with the realities that it was all made up, props were used and actors simply spoke lines. This section explores a few ways to turn the movie into "just another day in the job of those who made it"!;
, Look up some head shots of some of the cast looking normal (no crazy costumes).
 Search for an interview with one of the main characters or one of the scary guys.
 They usually aren't famous considering they wear masks and make noises the whole time. This means that they usually have small parts in other films and shows. A serial killer is never scary when the role before that was a cashier in a low-budget comedy.
 Most actors and actresses use horror films as a stepping stone into action, comedy, drama, etc. Go to IMDB.com and search for the movie you saw, once you click it, find some of the scary characters and click on their actor's names. Find some lighthearted films on their bio page and go rent them. For example, Adam from Saw and Saw III, was in the romantic comedy, The Referees.
 Do an online search for the movie's title along with "behind the scenes" and you'll usually get a 5 minute video going on a tour with one of the main characters.
 Some movies even go as far as having videos of the actors getting their make-up on.
 Trivia of the movie is usually interesting. For example, did you know that Starbucks refused to be mentioned in Dawn of the Dead? Use the trivia to make the horror scenes much more trivial.
 People go there to tear apart movies they saw. Most of these reviews are hilarious in nature and make the movies seem quite silly; this might be useful for feeling less taken in by the movie you watched.
 If the movie won any awards, look for the acceptance speeches of the people, it's like an interview and seeing them all happy crying is a great chance to get to know them.
 Look up goofs in the movie on IMDB, for example, in The Hills Have Eyes, "at the beginning of the movie, after the title sequence and during a long crane shot toward the gas station, the film crew can be seen in a reflection on the green car's windows." To find goofs for the movie, search for the movie on IMDb.com, click the search result, and then scroll down past the cast and crew, to where it says "Goofs". Then click, "More". Every movie has a ton and it will make the movie seem laughable. To make this even more effective, see the movie again and look for the mistakes. If you don't want to see the whole movie again, go to YouTube, Google video, Metacafe, etc, and search for "goofs]".
 Most movies have gag reels which have the cast screwing up and laughing during suspenseful scenes. For example, "Silence of the Lambs gag reel" brought up a video of people laughing, dancing, and ab libbing funny lines during takes. Just use Google and search for it.
 Most horror films reference funny movies, such as One Missed Call has a girl explaining the drama Beloved's plot to someone.
 Again, under Movie Connections, movies are usually referenced in comedies and made fun of. Besides, Scary Movies 1, 2, 3, and 4, Saturday Night Live has done a lot of parodies of scary movies. Look under Movie Connections> Referenced In/Spoofed In. Also, search on YouTube for fan-made parodies of the movie which are usually hilarious.
 Under Fun Stuff on the movie's IMDB.com page, click on quotes, most horror films have some seriously funny quotes. For example in One Missed Call, Beth Raymond says, "How was it?", Leann Cole, "It was a funeral, it sucked. From now on I don't go to parties where someone gets cremated."

, Now that you know what is coming up, make fun of it the whole way through. The more ridicule, the better.
 This can help you to forget the horror and replace it with really funny things. Be sure to find something that is really hilarious though; it needs to totally counteract what you just watched. This might help you to relax and sleep better.


It's probably a good idea to stay away from black comedies straight after a horror movie.
 This won't be easy but practice it anyway. Letting go of horrible images that aren't real is possible with repeated attempts, so keep at it.

