 Make a show of shuffling your deck. Part of a successful magic trick involves drawing your audience’s attention somewhere specific. Shuffle the deck once, then let your spectator shuffle the cards or cut the deck to show that the arrangement of the cards is completely random. After they shuffle the deck, memorize the bottom card.


One way to do this is to cut the deck as the very last shuffling action you do, then sneak a peek at the bottom card as you tap the cards on the table.
Another option is to glance at the bottom card before you go to shuffle the cards one last time.
Two methods for making sure the card on the bottom stays on the bottom when shuffling are:

When performing a Riffle shuffle, make sure that you always start the shuffle with the hand that has the bottom card in it.This way, your bottom card stays the same as it hits the table first.


In an Overhand shuffle, angle the face of the cards away from your audience.Cut the deck, but grip the bottom card with the pads of your fingers. While you separate the deck to shuffle, pull back on the bottom card so it doesn’t get pulled up, but stays on the bottom.;
, Have the person memorize it and place it on the bottom of the deck. When your spectator puts the card at the bottom of the deck, it will be right next to the bottom card you've memorized.


Make a show of looking away as your spectator memorizes the card. The less it looks like you’re trying to figure out what the card is now, the better your trick will look in the end.
 You can cut the deck yourself, or have the spectator cut it. Your original bottom card which you’ve memorized and your spectator's card will end up somewhere in the middle of the deck. When you turn the deck over and fan them out, the person's card should be on top of, and to the right of the card that you memorized.


If you have good sleight of hand, you might want to cut the deck a few times. If you know where your two cards are roughly placed in the deck, you can further cut it, keeping the two cards together.
 This is your time to bring out the “magic” of the trick. The more you can sell your performance, the more fun the trick will be for your audience.


Have fun fanning out your cards, running your hand over the deck as you look for your spectator’s card.
 Fan through through your deck face-up, so that both you and your spectator can see your cards. When you find your original card, you'll know that your spectator's memorized card should be the one on top of it.


Once you’ve located it, don’t pick it out right away. Study your spectator as if you can read the answer there.
Play around with almost picking other cards, then deciding to move on. Finally, once you’ve built suspension, pick the card your audience member chose.
 With a great flourish, show your spectator her card.


Ask your audience member if the card you are holding is her card. If it is, congratulations! You’ve performed a basic magic trick.
If for some reason it is not her card, you can say something like “There must be an interference in the magical realm.” And attempt the trick again.

