 If you’ve gotten to a bad place in your relationship, you may find yourself getting annoyed by everything your boyfriend does. Maybe you hate the way he does something or get offended when he says something. Try to get out of the habit of being negative about your boyfriend.Instead of automatically getting annoyed, think about why he is doing the thing that bothers you. Is it really a problem, or is it a common action that has just started getting on your nerves? Try to take a step back and realize it’s not a big deal.
Talk to your boyfriend about things that really bother you. He may not even realize it’s a problem.
 If you are obsessed with your phone, it might be impacting your relationship. Constantly checking Facebook, Instagram, and Twitter or texting other people while you’re together may make him feel unwanted and cause problems. Instead, put your phone away and pay attention to him. Make sure he does the same for you.If you are paying attention to your phone, you might miss something he is saying. You also are not fully there when you are doing an activity.
Focus on the person in front of you and enjoy spending time with him instead of turning to social media every few minutes.
 You cannot change your boyfriend. He cannot change you. If you think the relationship will be better by changing him, then you need to change your thinking. Trying to change him will only lead to conflict. Instead, talk about things that bother you. The two of you can work together to find a solution.Compromise is a way to work towards a better relationship without forcing change on anyone. Talk to each other and come to an agreement about how to handle the issue.
People want to be accepted for who they are, especially by their significant other. Trying to change your boyfriend may make him think something is wrong with him or that you you don’t care about him.
 If you have to disagree with your boyfriend and you end up arguing, it's not the end of the world. However, you should make sure that you're not fighting in a way that you'll regret later. Follow these rules to make sure that you fight in a fair and respectful way:


Be specific about what bothers you.
Do not be accusatory or petty.
Don't use generalizations, like "always" or never."
Focus on the issue at hand; don't bring past arguments into the present one.
Try to stay calm, and talk about the issue only when you are calm.
Be communicative. Don't give your boyfriend the silent treatment.
Talk about your feelings; do not use actions to show how you feel.