 Conversation starters are strategies that can be employed to strike up a conversation and maintain it. A conversation starter is like a practice kit equipping the child with all the tools necessary for them to initiate a conversation comfortably.


These conversation starters can be designed to include all the "do’s, don’ts and how’s" of initiating a conversation.
They can include what to address before starting a conversation, what to say to break the ice, what kind of topics to talk about depending on the age (what to talk about with peers, what to talk about with adults), how to start, how the conversation should go, what to avoid (as in interruption, monologuing, etc.), understanding the non-verbal cues, how to participate in the conversation, and how best to engage others.
Conversation starters can serve as practice tools/material. A conversation map is one such conversation starter., Preparation helps autistic children feel less worried about conversations (which can be a very daunting task to them). Try role-playing some sample conversations. When the autistic child is supposed to start a conversation with a peer or adult:


Identify the partner with whom the child has to interact.
Identify the reasons behind their intention to interact with the child (is it to play, is it to discuss a subject, etc.).
Identify the other child’s interests (meaningful interaction and conversation are possible only when the autistic child identifies what the other child’s interests are. Based on that, he can strike a conversation and keep it alive without boring the partner.).
 Oftentimes, autistic children don't realize that their favorite topic is not everyone's favorite topic. (For example, just because she loves to hold caterpillars and discuss their habits doesn't mean her classmates will share her delight).


Identify some topics that hold general appeal.
Encourage them to pay attention to how the other person feels about the topic, and to change the topic (e.g. "So, how have you been?") if the other person seems disinterested.
They can even try initiating a conversation or breaking the ice with questions such as "What music do you like to listen to?", "Who is your favorite singer?", "Who is your favorite actor?", "What are the interesting places you have been to so far?"
Encourage them to join clubs or activities with children who share their topics of interest, so they can talk about what they love. Remind them that it is okay to want to share your favorite things with others.
 Make it clear that wanting to share your favorite things is always okay, and it's good to make sure that their conversation partner is interested. Teach them to read cues of disinterest so they can change the subject if the other person isn't interested.


Make sure they know that they don't have to hide their special interest, and that if something really excites them, they can tell you about it. This lets them know that you care about their happiness.
Find parts of their special interests that you like. For example, if they like dogs and you like to draw, maybe you could draw dogs together., A ‘Conversation clock’ is an assistive tool that helps autistic kids follow the rules of typical conversation. The conversation clock works by coding the conversation into images that indicate who is speaking, at what pitch and tone, who is being interrupted, by whom and for how long, among other indicators.


This serves to provide visual feedback, providing your child with an additional set of guidelines for conversation.
The conversation is coded in varying colors to indicate the speaker.
The size of the color grows when the voice of the speaker grows and overlaps with another color to indicate when a particular speaker is interrupting another speaker.
This conversation clock acts like a mirror and puts everything in front of their eyes in a clear and understandable manner.
 Learning how to make conversation should not be frightening or boring to an autistic child. Respect their boundaries and find topics that interest both of you. (You need to accommodate them just as much as they need to accommodate you!) Keep things casual, lighthearted, and enjoyable for all parties.


Always respect a child's boundaries. If they aren't ready to go talk to a group of kids, or are afraid of walking up to a teacher after school, don't push it.Most likely, they'll feel scared, and associate conversations with bad feelings instead of good ones.
Respect their ability to make their own choices. Your child doesn't need to be "normal." It's more important that they can choose what makes them happy.
Avoid over-teaching. If socializing becomes a long list of rules, unsolicited advice, and criticisms, your child will only feel more alone., Autistic people are often quite good at many skills that are related to computer use. Encourage them to explore the world and its people through the internet.


They may find it easier to talk to people via text chats online. This is great—they can still learn about conversation that way, in a more nonthreatening setting.
When they are equipped with good information and knowledge, they will feel confident to venture out and initiate conversations on their own.
 Most autistic children want friends but may not know how. Take time each day to listen to your child, and offer tips and gentle encouragement. For example, if she mentions a sweet boy who would be a good playmate, suggest that she sit next to him at lunch. Talk to your child about potential playdates, and make it clear they can invite friends over (or they can ask you to call their friend's parents to arrange the playdate).


Talk with your child about any playdates beforehand, so that they aren't alarmed.
Sometimes autistic children are not interested in making friends. This is okay. They can still be happy. Focus on other things for the time being,and if they one day change their minds, you'll be able to offer your help.

