 Lots of pop stars feature looks that were popular in the 1980s. This means lots of neon colors and bold prints. You don't have to worry about wearing too many different prints or bright colors. Nicki Minaj frequently mixes a variety of looks, usually focused around the color pink.Add to your pop star look with more classic styles, like those of icons Marlene Dietrich, Bianca Jagger, David Bowie, and Cary Grant. Mixing a classic look with contemporary designs could reveal a look perfect for you.;
, Lady Gaga is famous for her eclectic and creative wardrobe. For example, you could dress in the style of your favorite super hero, science fiction character, food item (think candy or anything with an interesting wrapper), or pin up doll.


Science fiction costume designers often use historical trends or current fashions to inspire their futuristic looks. Look to your favorite sci-fi movies for pointers that can make your pop star outfit more personalized.
Take design cues in military outfits. Many dress uniforms are intended for ceremonial purposes and might have just the feature that makes your pop star look come alive.
 Not just the territory of super heroes anymore, capes are becoming a feature of the fashion elite.If you are hesitant to try this style, rest assured that you are not alone in donning this classic costume. Taylor Swift and Madonna are both recent examples of how the cape is alive and well in pop star fashion.Keep in mind there are many different kinds of cape and ways of draping it. You might prefer a knit or crocheted cape in cooler weather. On a summer night, you might choose a light fabric side-cape or a short dress cape. You should look for bold patterns and colors when selecting a cape for your outfit, as many consider these to be the trademark of a pop star.
 Select a bustier to be the focal point of your outfit. Don't cover it up! The bustier has been a popular pop star choice since Madonna.You can keep the look simple without adding much to your bustier, or you can wear clothing to fill out the look. A large sweeping skirt might be the perfect compliment to your bustier.


Or, if a bustier is too risqué for your tastes, why not try a vest? Vests come in many patterns and colors, and you can find many classic vests at local thrift stores.
 These flowing garments light weave makes them a strong choice for your warm weather pop star wardrobe. If you want to make a grand entrance in true pop star style, the swirling folds of any of these options can elegantly emphasize your every step and gesture.
 You should always remember to be respectful of other cultures, but the fashion industry and pop stars throughout history have borrowed extensively from traditional styles and fashions.A turban has been featured by such notables as Greta Garbo, Elizabeth Taylor, and Coco Chanel.A graceful kimono or sari might offer nice counterpoint to pop star edginess, and you can include extra flair by changing up the way in which you wear your ethnic apparel. A quick google search can teach you traditional knots, bows, and the best way of tying a garment to keep you looking your best.

The Indian sari has over 80 recorded ways in which it can be worn,and here are three different ways that this look might accentuate your pop stardom.
 You've got a lot of options when it comes to accessorizing your look. Choose from bracelets, earrings, long necklaces, and jackets. The metallic look is very popular among K-Pop right now, so you might consider wearing metal finger clips or rings with a lot of shine.Nails are usually painted in wild, bright colors. You may even want to have false nails applied in order to get long nails with a designer look.
Don’t forget eyewear! Many pop icons, Elton John for example, have made names for themselves based on their choice in sunglasses alone.Scarves, belts, and shawls can add a dash of excitement that kicks your pop star appeal out of this world. You might capture the spot light just like a pop star with a glittery shawl or a classy belt buckle.
Hairpins and bows can add a new level to your pop star persona. Tiny hats attached to bobby pins will leave your stylish hair visible for all your admirers.

