 Using lukewarm water to lather up a cleanser of your choice, gently wash your face, applying it gently to areas you apply makeup. To ensure you have thoroughly cleaned your face and neck take at least a minute in this task.


Some experts claim that the best results can be achieve only by washing your face before cleansing.;
, Choose a skin toner suitable for your skin type. This might require you to do some research, as some people have more sensitive skin than others or allergies that make certain toners impossible to use.You may find that a gentle, all-natural cleansing agent is less harsh on your skin.
 Makeup adds definition, color, or contour to your face, but it also dry out your skin leaving your skin looking tired. It can also clog your pores, contributing to skin conditions like acne.Choose a light moisturizer, as heavier or greasy brands may interfere with the application of your makeup.
 Makeup is all about highlighting your best features and downplaying the features you're unhappy with. Consider which features you will want to pay the most attention to, and then determine your skin tone and the colors that might work best:



Pale skin: use light colors. For your eyeshadow, a shade approximately 2-3 times darker than your natural skin tone may work best. Consider a dash of gold or bronze in the inner corner of your eye to brighten up your eyes, light brush, and mascara that is lighter on the bottom lashes than the top.

Normal/Tan skin: light browns will work well with eyeshadow, and pink or silver on the outer side of your eye can make your eyes pop. Your lips might benefit from lip balm/gloss that is darker in color, like a deep cherry. When considering blush, apply only lightly, and contemplate leaving out eyeliner.

Dark skin: brown and pinks might be the thing for you. These colors go well on the eyelid, with dark brown being applied in the crease. Coral or orange colors do well with darker skin tones on the lips. Avoid mascara on the bottom lashes. Wear dark blush., Now that you have some idea what features you want to bring out (or hide) and a basic color palette to work with, you will likely need:


Beauty blenders
Blush (optional)
Concealer
Eyelash curler
Eyeliner (optional)
Eyeshadow
Foundation (optional)
Foundation brush/sponge (optional)
Lip products (balm, gloss, lipstick)
Mascara
Powder (optional)
Powder brushes

, Lots of makeup on your face can make it hard to focus on your truly good features. Beauty experts have long adhered to a principle credited to Coco Chanel: remove one thing from your look.It's easy to get carried away with makeup and lose your best features in a sea of product; less might be the cuter option in your case.

