 An 8-ounce glass of milk provides about 8 grams of protein. It is also a prime source of calcium, vitamin D, and potassium. The U.S. Dietary Guidelines suggests 3 glasses of milk per day for children under the age of 9.If your child is not fond of milk, try mixing in a small amount of chocolate syrup to make chocolate milk.
If your child is lactose intolerant, introduce them to soy, almond, or coconut milk. These milks are also high in protein and usually fortified with calcium and potassium.;
, One egg provides about 6 grams (0.2 oz) of protein. They are also rich in Vitamins A and B, Omega-3, and Lutein, which improves eyesight.Poaching and hard-boiling are the healthiest ways to prepare eggs.However, scrambling and frying are also fine options, although they will require some butter or oil. Find out what your child prefers.
 Fruit generally doesn’t have much protein but there are a few exceptions. Figs, prunes, raisins, apricots, melon, nectarines, peaches, bananas, and avocadoes each provide between 1 and 3 grams of protein per cup. They also include a variety of vitamins, antioxidants, and other valuable nutrients. Try to work in at least one serving of protein-rich fruit per day., Some whole grain cereals are high in protein and fiber to give your child energy and keep them feeling full well into the day. Try offering a high-protein cereal to your child for breakfast.


Some good brands for high-protein cereal include Kashi Go Lean, Special K, Nature’s Path, Post Selects, Kind Health, Quaker Oats, and Cascadian Farms.Avoid cereals with added sugar or candy like marshmallows or chocolate.
If your child doesn’t enjoy these cereals or oatmeal, add in fruit or a small amount of cinnamon or honey for flavor.
 If you are worried that your child is not getting enough protein, then adding a nutritional supplement drink may be helpful. However, make sure that you talk you’re your child’s pediatrician or a dietitian before adding a nutritional supplement to your child’s diet. Some options include:Carnation Instant Breakfast
PediaSure
Ensure
Boost
KinderCal

