 Microsoft Paint comes standard with any edition of Microsoft Windows, but depending on your settings and operating system, it can be located in a variety of different places. The quickest way to open Microsoft Paint is by opening your Start menu, finding the "search" function, and typing "Paint" into the search bar; this should locate Microsoft Paint for you, allowing you to click on the relevant icon., If you have a post-Windows Vista rendition of Microsoft Paint, your interface will look drastically different than on Vista, XP, or previous versions. Take a minute to browse through the various tabs of your interface with the "edit colors" function in mind. If you have Windows 7 or later, this option will be an icon next to your color palette.For example, Windows XP has a row of six tabs in the upper left-hand corner: File, Edit, View, Image, Colors, and Help. The option to "Edit colors" should be under the Colors tab; you can also access the "Edit colors" menu by double-clicking any color in your default color palette.
 Once you've located the "Edit colors" option, access it by either clicking on the pertinent tab or, on earlier operating systems especially, simply double-clicking a color in your palette. This will bring up a color gradient with every feasible color


For example, if you want to create a blend of green and blue, you can position your cursor in between the green section of the gradient and the blue one, then click to anchor your selector. If you decide you want more blue than green or vice versa, you can move the selector in the direction of that color.
 There should be a vertical slider next to your color gradient; this slider will have pure white at the top and pure black at the bottom, with a gradient of your color running the length of the slider. Once you've settled on an approximate color, you can change the light and dark settings thereof by moving the slider's arrow up or down by clicking and dragging your mouse.
 Once you're satisfied with your blend, you can add it to your "custom colors" bar by clicking the "add to custom colors" button. You can then close out of the gradient window, and your color will be waiting for you in your palette.


Note that, while your custom color will be saved for the duration of your Paint session, you will have to reestablish your custom palette after you close out of Paint.
If you wish to replicate a color at a later date, make note of the numerical values underneath the gradient; if you type these in exactly as they appear during a different session, you'll get the same custom color.

