 As you become more proficient in your field, avoid the temptation to confuse this with a total mastery of anything and everything related to it. Instead, take advantage of every opportunity to learn something new. Embrace every new fact, idea, and method that may improve your work performance.Subscribe to newspapers, magazines, podcasts, blogs, and/or business book clubs that report on your trade or issues that it faces.
Keep up to pace with evolving technology to spot new ways that it could streamline your duties.
Value new workers who can teach something new, even when their position is lower than yours in the organization’s hierarchy.
 Resist the urge to avoid anything new just because it may seem difficult at first. Appreciate the difference between good stress and bad stress. Regard your brain’s needs as being equivalent to your body’s, in that it needs stress in order to grow (the same way you need the physical stress of doing curls in order to build your biceps). Exercise your brain accordingly while expanding your know-how. Expect a rejuvenated feeling of self-confidence and satisfaction upon completion of tough projects.Recognize good stress from bad by the element of control. Stress becomes detrimental when you begin to feel helpless.
Take a step back from your work whenever you feel like you have bitten off more than you can possibly chew. Reappraise the situation and formulate a new strategy if the old one isn’t working.
Working in a positive team environment helps reduce bad stress by offering a greater number of fresh perspectives when the going gets rough.
 Don’t wait to be handed down directives and mission statements. Take an active role in shaping the organization from within. Present yourself as a key player in its future while demonstrating your investment in its success.Establish regular meeting with your supervisor to discuss ways in which your position and/or department can be improved.
Offer your services for new assignments or projects. Display both your willingness and capabilities while also gaining firsthand knowledge of where the organization is headed.
Volunteer to train new hires and underperforming employees. Prove yourself to be a team player to your supervisors. At the same time, place yourself in a position to spot future potential in recent hires and resolve problems contributing to underperformance.
 Embrace both positive and negative feedback. Reward your efforts by accepting commendations for your accomplishments.At the same time, value critical feedback as being equally vital to your success.Maintain a clear distinction between your potential and your current abilities and performances. Honor your potential by striving to embody it, but keep an honest perspective on how far you have left to go.


Accept supervisors’ decisions not to move forward on your suggestions. Ask for specific reasons for their decision. Use these to either reformulate your initiatives so they incorporate your supervisors’ concerns, or devise entirely new plans to meet their expectations.
Embrace failed or lackluster projects as learning experiences. Review your performance to spot potential alternatives you might have taken to achieve a more positive result. Welcome recommendations and constructive criticism from supervisors and coworkers.
Listen to concerns and questions from underperforming workers and new hires. Use their input to identify areas where the organization could improve to ensure better productivity.

