 Depression comes with a host of typical signs in any person. These symptoms can often manifest themselves differently in children. Noticing if your child has any signs of depression can help you more readily identify a potential problem and seek professional help in a timely manner. Your child may be depressed if he or she has the following signs:Being sad, irritable, tearful, or cranky most of the day
Showing an inability to enjoy the things that he or she used to
Showing significant changes in weight, either up or down
Sleeping too little at night or too much during the day
Wanting to be alone
Lacking energy or feeling an inability to do even simple tasks
Feeling worthless or guilty
Having trouble concentrating or making choices
Having little or no care about the future
Having aches or pains when nothing is wrong
Thinking frequently about death or suicide;
, Depression is not something you can treat on your own. The best way to help your child is to get professional treatment.Call your child’s doctor and make an appointment. Let the office know what it’s for so that the staff can get your child in as soon as possible. Depression can be treated in more than 80% of the people who have it.Tell your child that you’re concerned about the way he or she has been feeling and that you’re taking him or her to the doctor. Let your child know that depression is normal and that seeing the doctor can help him or her feel much better. Make sure you tell your child to be honest when talking to the doctor so that he or she can get the best help available to overcome depression.
Let the doctor know any symptoms you’ve noticed in your child and ask any questions you may have. Remember that when you’re answering questions to also give your child a chance to speak.
 Your child’s doctor may refer him or her to a mental health professional. These individuals can help your child manage his or her depression, especially if your child feels comfortable with the person. If a person is not a good fit with your child, try another professional. Ask your doctor which of the following mental health professionals might be right to help your child:Psychiatrist, which is a medical doctor who can diagnose and treat depression as well as prescribe medicine
Psychologist, which is a health professional who can diagnose and treat depression but may not write prescriptions
Licensed clinical social worker, which is an individual who has a degree in social work and is qualified to treat your child’s depression

, Treatment for depression in children is often a combination of psychotherapy and medication. Giving your child prescribed anti-depressants can help relieve the symptoms of his or depression.Be aware that the Food and Drug Administration has only approved two drugs for use in children. These are fluoxetine (Prozac) and escitalopram (Lexapro). Prozac is approved for children over the age of eight and Lexapro for children over 12. These medications may increase the risk of suicidal thinking or behavior in children and you should closely monitor your child if he or she is taking an anti-depressant.Keep in mind that it can take two to four weeks for antidepressants to begin working for your child. Use therapy and self-care to help your child during this period. Many doctors may have your child gradually stop taking the medication after six to 12 months.Make sure your child takes his or her medications as directed every day. This is one of the biggest ways you can help him or her with depression.Talk to your doctor or psychiatrist if your child is under 8 and suffering from depression.
 Your child’s doctor may want to try alternative treatments if therapy, medication, and self-care are not working. From hospital stays to electroconvulsive therapy, these alternative treatments may help relieve your child’s depression.Some of the alternative treatments you may want to think about for your child are:


A hospital stay or outpatient day treatment for your child if he or she is really struggling with depression.
Electroconvulsive therapy, or ECT, is a surgical procedure in which electrical currents are passed to the brain to improve brain function. Despite many misperceptions, it is safe for children and often has a high response rate, which means it can help a child with depression relatively quickly.Transcranial magnetic stimulation, or TMS, which can help those children who don’t respond to anti-depressants.For this procedure, a treatment coil is placed against the scalp to send a magnetic pulse that stimulates nerve cells involved in mood regulation. Although doctors are still gathering evidence on the efficacy of TMS in children, it is safe and may help your child if other treatments aren’t working.