 Your true friends will listen to you if you have concerns about teasing. Your friends might even be able to help you analyze the situation, and, hopefully, stop it from bothering you. You don’t have to let your friends completely change your mind or your feelings. Simply be open to hearing what they have to say.


Friends who are present during the teasing might offer a different perspective about what happened. Maybe the boy was teasing you because he likes something about you. Maybe the boy is insecure about himself so he chose to pick on you.
After the boy leaves, turn to your friend and say, “Hey, what was that about? Do you think he likes me?”

, Talk to a teacher, guidance counselor, or coach if you feel comfortable with them. Immediately tattling so that the boy gets in trouble may not be the best first move. You can, however, get advice from a teacher as you might do with a friend. Adults have a different perspective of student social life and can often offer more seasoned advice.


If the teasing happens regularly, makes you feel physically or emotionally uncomfortable, and generally affects your quality of life, you have a more serious problem. Teasing that targets one person in an effort to truly hurt them is bullying. Tell an adult if you are being bullied as this can escalate into more serious physical or emotional problems.School officials are trained to intervene in bullying situations, so be sure to communicate with them.
Approach a trusted adult. Try saying, “Hi Mr. Taylor, I wanted to ask you about something. Sam makes rude comments about my clothes during class and it’s starting to get to me. I’ve tried telling him to stop but it isn’t working. Is there something you can do?”

, Like an adult at school, your parents might be able to help you cope with teasing. They may offer new perspectives or help you practice comebacks for when you are teased. Ask your parent to help you handle the situation. Do not ask them to intervene. It is not recommended for parents to get involved with peer conflict.Sit down with your parents when you are both free from distraction. Be clear about what you want from the conversation. Maybe you only want them to listen, or maybe you are looking for real advice. Try saying, “Hey grandma, I need your help with something. This boy keeps making fun of my height. What do you think I should say to him?”

, The internet has many resources for people who are being teased. Read other people’s stories about teasing, and see if you can relate to their experience. It helps to know that you are not alone. Some websites, for example, have advice columns where youth send in their stories and get advice from experienced mentors.