 Anyone who wants to fish in Ohio will most likely need a fishing license. There are several options available, depending on your residency and the length of time you plan to fish.Get a Resident Fishing License if you are between the ages of 16 to 65, and you have lived in Ohio for at least 6 months. It will cost you $19. If you are 66 years old or older, and you have lived in Ohio for at least 6 months, you can obtain a Senior Resident Fishing License for $10.
Purchase a 1-Day Fishing License if you are planning a fishing outing for just 1 day. Residents and visitors pay $11 for this license, and it can be used towards an annual license if you decide to fish again. Anyone planning a charter fishing trip on Lake Erie for 1 day can also get an $11 license.
Get an Annual Nonresident License if you are not a resident of Ohio, but you plan to fish in the state for several days throughout the year. This will cost $40.
Buy a 3-Day Nonresident License if you plan to do your fishing in Ohio just during one trip, but you know it will be for more than 1 day. This license is $19.;
, Any license can be purchased on Ohio's Division of Wildlife secure website. You will need a credit or debit card to pay for the license, and the ability to print your license once you have paid for it.You will need the Customer ID Number from an existing license, a driver's license number, and/or your Social Security number. You can find the website at https://oh-web.s3licensing.com/Home/Info.
The license can be printed or merely shown on the screen of a mobile device, whichever is more convenient for you.
 Each county in Ohio has stores and vendors that sell fishing licenses. If you are unsure of where to look, check the listing on the Department of Natural Resources website, http://wildlife.ohiodnr.gov/portals/wildlife/pdfs/licenses%20&%20permits/ohioagents.pdf, or call 1-800-945-3543, to get a list of vendors in your area. You can pay by cash, check, or credit card.You will need to provide a Customer ID Number from an existing license, a driver's license number, and/or your Social Security number.
The retailer will print out a copy of your license.
 You will need to pay a convenience fee in addition to the cost of the license for this option. The fee is $5.50 to talk to a live person at 1-866-703-1928, or $3.50 to get the license through an automated service at 1-855-764-3474. You will need to pay by credit or debit card.


You will need to provide a Customer ID Number from an existing license, a driver's license number, and/or your Social Security number.
You will be given a license number, which you need to carry with you in addition to your identification. No printed license will be provided for the 1-Day or 3-Day licenses that you get by phone.
 Call the Department of Natural Resources at 1-800-945-3543, and request a form. They will send you a form for the license you need to the address you provide. You can send in a check, credit card number, or a money order to pay.


You will need to provide a Customer ID Number from an existing license, a driver's license number, and/or your Social Security number.
Your license will be mailed to you once the form is processed.

