 On leveling up, your character will have skill points to spend. If you want someone to be able to craft good high-end traps, then you will ultimately want them to have a full four points spent in trap-making.


You will not be able to become a master trap-maker right away. It will involve leveling and spending skill points on the trap-making tree multiple times. If you want to be a master as soon as possible, then spend a point on trap-making every time that you are capable of doing so.;
, There are four separate tiers, and each one allows you to create better traps.


The first tier allows you to make basic traps. You will need one skill point to spend in order to gain this tier.
The second tier allows you to make slightly more complex traps. You will need to be at least Level 4, have already unlocked the first tier of trap-making, and have another point to spend in order to gain this tier.
The third tier allows you to make third-tier traps. You will need to be at least Level 7, have already unlocked the first and second tiers of trap-making, and have another point to spend in order to gain this tier.
The fourth tier allows you to make all traps in the game. You will need to be at least Level 10, have already unlocked all previous tiers, and have another skill point to spend in order to become a master trap-maker.
 In order to actually make the traps, you’ll need to select the character with the trap-making skill points, and open up the crafting menu.


To do this, press “P” to open up the Skills and Talents menu. From here, it is advised that you drag the trap-making icon down to your quick-bar for easy access in the future. If you don’t want to, you can just double-click the trap-making icon to open up the crafting menu.
 To craft a trap, you will need to have unlocked the recipe for it, be at the right skill tier, and have the required ingredients.


As an example, Spring Trap Plans are automatically unlocked once a character reaches Tier 1 trap-making. Then, all you need to build it is one trap trigger.
If you have the trigger, the recipe will show up as craftable on your list, so click on the Spring Trap Plans. A window on the right will then show you the ingredients for the Spring Trap.
 If you have all of the ingredients, then the button that says “Craft” will be clickable. If you lack ingredients, you will not be able to click the “Craft” button.


By clicking the “Craft” button, you will make one Spring Trap. If you have the ingredients and want to make another Spring Trap, you will have to click “Craft” again.
 It requires a character to have all four tiers of the trap-making skill, and the recipe must be purchased from Alarith’s store in the Denerim Alienage. It also requires a larger and more varied amount of ingredients: 3 toxin extracts, 2 corrupter agents, 2 concentrator agents, and 1 trap trigger.


Only once you have fulfilled all of those requirements, will you be able to craft one of these high-end traps.

