 In general there are three different species of dwarf hamsters that are kept as pets — Russian or Siberian dwarf hamsters, Roborovski dwarf hamsters, and Chinese dwarf hamsters. Each species of hamster has a slightly different average weight range, as follows:A Russian or Siberian dwarf hamster, also known as a Winter White or Campbell’s dwarf hamster, normally weighs 1.5 – 2 ounces (or 40 – 60 grams) on average.
A Roborovski dwarf hamster will normally weigh 1 – 1.5 ounces (or 25 – 40 grams) on average.
A Chinese dwarf hamster will normally weigh 1.5 – 1.8 ounces (or 40 – 50 grams) on average.;
, In order for the weight of your hamster to register on a scale, the scale needs to be one designed for items like food or postal items. Based on the average weight of a dwarf hamster, the scale needs to be able to read weights as low as 1 ounce or 20 grams. Scales such as these can be found at kitchen stores or department stores, or even online., Hamsters aren’t know for sitting still for very long periods of time! As such, you’ll need to entice your hamster to stay on the scale long enough to obtain a weight. If you find your hamster won’t stay on her own, you can try the following tricks to weigh her:Place a very small box or container on top of the scale. This box needs to be big enough to hold your hamster, but small enough to fit on the scale.
Place a couple of treats or seeds inside the box or container.
Reset the scale to zero so the weight of the box and treats aren’t included in the measurement.
Place your hamster inside the box or container and hold your hand over top to discourage her from escaping.
Take note of the weight.
 Once you know what your hamster weights, write it down in a chart. From this point forward weigh your hamster on a regular basis — once a month, or once every few months. Each time you weigh your hamster, write it down in the chart. And, each time you weigh your hamster, compare his actual weight to the average adult weights for that hamster breed.Baby hamsters will obviously weigh quite a bit less than adult hamsters, so you won’t need to compare your hamster’s weight to the adult average until he's at least 12 weeks old.
If your hamster weights significantly more than the average adult weight for that hamster species, your hamster could be obese.
 Comparing your hamster’s weight to the average adult weight of that species of hamster is one way to determine if your hamster is overweight, but it’s not the only way. If you hamster has a higher than average weight, but she's active, energetic, bright-eyed, and eating properly, she may not be obese, just higher than average.If you hamster is showing signs of illness, in addition to being over the average weight for her species, there’s a significant chance your hamster is obese.
Look for general signs of illness like dull eyes and fur, laziness and excessive sleep, and a serious lack of energy and activity.
Feel for the amount of fat that covers your hamster's bones. OK, hamsters are tiny, but you should be able to get an appreciation of where her ribs are and her backbone. If you can't and there is padding between your fingertips and the spine, then the hamster is likely to be obese.
 If you find that your hamster has an above average weight, and he’s gotten a little lazy, it may be time to put him on a healthier diet with more time for exercise. Allowing your hamster to stay overweight for too long is very unhealthy and can lead to more serious problems, such as: a reduced lifespan, type 2 diabetes, heat intolerance, skin issues, heat and other circulatory system problems.A hamster diet simply means you need to follow a regular schedule and only provide your hamster with the proper amounts of food every day. You should also give your hamster the opportunity to do a variety of activities every day.
The combination of both a healthy diet and regular exercise should get your hamster back to an average weight. If, however, your hamster has been overweight for a long time, or he is showing other signs of illness, you should take him to your veterinarian to be examined.
If you have concerns about your hamster’s diet, take him to your veterinarian and get help on what and how much to feed your hamster in order to help him lose weight.