 You can use a variety of different websites to download YouTube videos directly to your Android device. First, you'll need the link to the video, which you can quickly get from the YouTube app.;
, You'll see this next to the thumbs up and thumbs down buttons, directly beneath the video title.
 This is usually towards the top of the menu, but the location will vary depending on your device. Tapping "Copy Link" will copy the video's address to your device's clipboard.
 There are several downloader sites that work well with Android devices:


clipconverter.cc
savido.net

, This will paste the copied video address into the field on the downloader site.
 Press the "Continue" or "Download" button after pasting the address to load the video and find the download links. Note that these sites will often load pop-ups, so be sure to close any extra tabs that open or close any fake system messages that appear.
 There will likely be a large number of links to choose from. Each will display the resolution and file size. Higher resolution videos will take up more space. 1080p 60FPS is the highest quality available, but not all devices will be able to display it, and the file sizes are generally quite large.


Unless you know otherwise, select an "MP4" format file, as this will play on virtually any Android device.
 After selecting your version, tap the "Start" button if necessary and start the download. You'll will likely be subjected to more ads, and you may have to tap another "Download" button. Be wary of ads designed to look like Download buttons.


The download will appear in your notification bar once it has begun.
 YouTube download sites are not known for their speed, and you will likely need to wait a while until the download is finished. You can monitor the progress in the notification panel.
 Your video will appear in the "Downloads" folder on your device. It may not have a recognizable name, since names don't always get saved when using downloader sites.


You can view your Downloads folder by opening the Downloads app on your device. You can also use a file manager app to navigate to the Downloads folder on your device.
 You may be prompted to select what app to open it in. You can select the media player you already have installed, or you can download and install another media player app like VLC Player.

