 Some good situations are if you're best friends is acting a little weirdly, or if you want to know who your best friend's crush is the person you have a crush on. Don't abuse the knowledge though. There can be situations where it is inappropriate to know people's personal emotions.;
, Are they twitching or looking uncomfortable? Or are they smiling and looking extremely relaxed? Have they got a mocking expression or are they looking at you/the other person seriously? Try to associate your observations with an emotion. For example, a serious expression could mean that they take you seriously. Or an uncomfortable expression could mean they are uncomfortable with that person. Step into their shoes. When do you feel twitchy? When do you feel comfortable with someone?

, Are they facing away from you? Or are they facing you directly? Are their arms crossed or do they look open? Generally, tight body language or if the person is facing away, they want to get away, but if they look open and are facing you, they want to hear you out, meaning they respect you.
 For example, say you want to know if your sister genuinely likes you, ask her for advice, or something else that sisters help each other with. Does she respond in a nice way? Or say you're not sure if your crush has genuinely asked you out, or whether he is doing it as a dare. Ask questions like "Oh my gosh! I just forgot my history assignment!" See whether he helps you, or lets you run back and get it yourself. Also try the good old book drop trick. 'Drop' your books and see how quickly he retrieves them for you. In this situation, quick means eager.
 For example, if you don't know if your best friend is mad with you, ask her if she likes your nail polish, or something else little. If she smiles and says yes, even if it's a horrible colour, she probably is still your best friend. But if she rolls her eyes, she's probably annoyed. If you want to know who the popular girl's secret crush is, keep your eyes out for any subtle flirting, or if she often happens to sit next to one guy in particular.
 Does your crush remember the fact that you have a pet fish called Dory? Or that you have <insert number=""> hair accessories? If they remember little details, they probably like you. Note that this step only works with telling if a boy like you, or if someone wants to be your friend. Also, don't stress if they don't remember trivial facts about you, they are hard to remember!

, Do they tell you that your crush likes someone else? Do they tell you that your and your best friend will always be best friends forever? You're probably right, so just go on ahead.

