 Although the fire is confined to a fireplace, it still can present a fire hazard to your home. Some key safety considerations:


Before use each year, check that the chimney is cleared of debris and that birds or other animals haven't taken up residence in the top.
Keep furniture and furnishings a safe distance from the fireplace and ensure that any close furniture is able to withstand direct heat. Do not leave plastic furniture of any kind near a fireplace.
Keep a space around the fireplace that uses fireproof or fire resistant materials. Tiles, slate, concrete, etc. are appropriate materials to make a space around the fireplace for sparks to fall upon and self-extinguish. Do not have rugs, carpet, or flowing fabrics anywhere near this space around the fireplace - the risk of embers sparking a fire is too great. While natural fibers cope better with heat, all fibers risk catching on fire and should be kept well away; scorch marks can result on woolen sweaters for those who sit too close and if that happens, you are too close! Cotton and synthetics have no fire resistance, so take care wearing or hanging these anywhere near live flames.
Use a fire screen around the fireplace to prevent embers from sparking when you are too busy to tend to the fire, such as when leaving the room for any reason, or when caught up in conversation. Fire screens are very important when young children are around and youngsters should be taught early on about correct fire safety.;
, Do not skimp on quality fireplace tools. You need a poker, a shovel, a brush, and perhaps tongs to lift, shift, move logs and to clean up the ash mess after each fire dies down. Good tools result in safe handling of the fire.
 Not all woods prove to be good woods for burning. Some things to consider include:


Has the wood been obtained from a sustainable source? Do not burn wood needed to help biodiversity, such as hollow logs which provide homes, and do not burn any wood from endangered species of plants and trees.
Is the wood safe? Some wood is coated in creosote, or other forms of chemical to protect the wood against rotting, borers etc. When these woods burn, the toxins from the chemicals can be released and fill the air that you and your family breathe. Be aware especially of softwoods, as tend to get used a lot with chemical treatments. Know the origin of the wood and if you do not, err in favor of not burning it.
Some hardwood varieties don't burn well. Ask for advice from the business or person who provides you with the wood.
Is the wood dry and properly seasoned? Wet or improperly seasoned wood will not burn properly and can smoke, sputter, and even put out the fire.
 Ask for relevant authority certificates to verify their statements and get advice from trusted neighbors and friends.
 Although a tiresome job, ash left to pile up in a fireplace renders the fire less effective and is a respiratory health hazard. Remove after each fire burning, usually the morning after. Wear a mask to prevent respiratory distress from flying ash if this is a concern for you. Dispose of the ash responsibly and beware of hot coals still within the ash - you don't want a fire sparking in your garbage! It can be helpful to have a dirt pit in the yard to dig the coals into, and use the earth to quench the coals. When removing coals, always use a metal dustpan or scoop, not a plastic one which can melt when hot coals come into contact with it.
 Organize a professional chimney sweep to clean the chimney at least yearly. That way, you can be reassured that all is in order!

