 SNAP benefits are reserved for U.S. citizens and other U.S. nationals. Undocumented immigrants and legal immigrants do not qualify for benefits. All applicants must also be residents of Washington State. You are a resident if you currently live in Washington and intend to stay here.If you are a legal immigrant, you may be eligible for Washington’s Food Assistance Program. This program helps legal immigrants who are disqualified from Basic Food solely because of their immigration status. You can find out more about the program here: https://www.dshs.wa.gov/esa/community-services-offices/state-food-assistance-program-fap.;
, You can’t qualify for Basic Food benefits if you make too much money. The income cut-off is based on your pre-tax income and your family size. You can have income up to 200% of the Federal Poverty Guidelines:A household with one person can have up to $1,980 in monthly income.
A household with two people can have up to $2,670 in monthly income.
A household with three people can have up to $3,360 in monthly income.
A household with four people can have up to $4,050 in monthly income.
A household with a disabled person or someone 60 or older must meet different income requirements., You can get emergency benefits within seven business days if you are particularly low income. You can qualify in any of the three following situations:Your household has less than $150 a month in gross income and less than $100 of liquid assets. Liquid assets are things like cash, savings accounts, and checking accounts.
Your household’s monthly rent and utilities are more than your income and resources.
Your household has as a member a migrant or seasonal farm worker who is destitute.
 Washington has an online questionnaire you can answer to find out your eligibility for Basic Food. It only takes about 15 minutes to complete. Visit https://www.washingtonconnection.org/home/ and click on the “See If I Qualify” button.

If you have any questions about your eligibility, call your local Community Service Office.
Call if you think you’re close to qualifying. Let DSHS determine whether you are eligible.
 You can apply for benefits in one of the following ways. Choose whichever is most convenient for you:Online. Visit https://www.washingtonconnection.org/home/ and click on “Apply Now.” You should create a username and password.
Local Community Services Office. Complete a paper application, which you can download from online. Applications are available in 12 languages.
Mobile Community Services Office. Apply when this mobile unit visits your town. Call (509) 734-4117 to find out when they are next in your town, or check the schedule on their Facebook page.Mail or fax. Complete a paper application and mail it to: DSHS, CSD—Customer Service Center, PO Box 11699, Tacoma, WA 98411-6699.You may also fax it to 1-888-338-7410.
 You’ll need to tell DSHS who you are. Provide the following personal information on your application:name
address where you live
mailing address (if different than where you live)
preferred phone number
email address

, The application asks for certain information about everyone in your household. You should list everyone, even if you are not applying for food stamps for them. However, you do not need to provide information about citizenship or race for non-applicants. Provide the following:name
gender
relation to you
whether you want benefits for this person
Social Security Number
citizenship status
race
tribal affiliation (for American Indians and Alaska Natives)

, You must answer several background questions so DSHS can judge your eligibility for benefits. The following questions are a sample of what you will be asked:Whether you have received cash or food from another state within the past 30 days.
Whether you or someone in the household is in school.
If anyone is fleeing from the law to avoid court or jail.
Your marital status.
Whether anyone in the household has been convicted of trading, buying, or selling food stamps.
 DSHS may double check the employment status of anyone in the home who is applying for benefits. You’ll also need to attach proof of your income sources. Provide the following information:names of anyone in your household who works a job
employer’s name
employer’s phone number
start date for the job
gross income (what you received before deductions)
number of hours worked per week
pay dates (such as every Friday, first of the month, etc.)

, Washington counts all sources of income—not only the income from jobs. You’ll need to report the following for all household members. Also get proof, which you should attach with your application:retirement/pension income
Social Security income
Supplemental Security Income (SSI)
tribal income
unemployment benefits
workers’ compensation benefits
child support payments
spousal maintenance payments
rental income
educational benefits, such as student loans, work-study, or grants
dividends and interest
annuity payments
Veteran Administration (VA) or military benefits

, Provide information about the following monthly household expenses to DSHS:rent or mortgage
homeowner’s insurance
property taxes
utilities you pay for, such as heat, water, sewer, garbage, and phone
child support payments someone in the household makes
child or dependent care expenses
medical bills for someone with disabilities or someone over age 60

, You must interview with DSHS to determine your eligibility for the Food Benefit program.If they request documents, you should gather them as soon as possible to speed up the process., It can take the state up to 30 days to determine whether you are eligible for Basic Food. You’ll receive benefits the day after you are approved. Generally, however, DSHS makes a determination the same day they receive your application.If approved, you will receive your benefits loaded onto an EBT card. This card works like a debit card., You can use your food stamp benefit to buy breads, fruits, vegetables, dairy products, meats, and fish. However, you can’t use benefits to buy prepared hot foods, household supplies, or paper products.You also can’t trade your benefits for cash. You’ll lose your eligibility if caught doing so.
 Able-bodied adults without dependents need to work in order to get more than three consecutive months of benefits. This rule applies to those ages 18-49 who are not receiving benefits with a minor.

This requirement has been waived in some counties for 2017—Pierce County, Snohomish County, and the Muckleshoot Reservation.