 Determine whether the person you're interested in has a significant other, or whether they aren't interested in dating right now. Since you already know the person, it will be easier to have the conversation without making it seem like you are interested. Ask questions about where they are right now romantically, and determine whether they are ready to date.


You can start the conversation by saying, "Have you been dating around recently or just hanging out by yourself?"
You can also say, "I thought you were still seeing Derrick. Are you not together anymore?"
If you've noticed that the person isn't regularly in a relationship, ask them something like, "I notice that you don't date that often. Are you trying to concentrate on your studies instead?"
Do your best to talk to them so that they open up and start talking about their romantic desires.
Sometimes people don't date because they are busy with school or work, have recently got out of a relationship, or are enjoying their time being single.
Some single people may want to stay single.
 At this point, you already know that you like the person, but that doesn't mean that they like you back. Determine if there is any romantic chemistry by thinking about the times that you've spent together and whether there is any sexual tension when you hang out.Think about what you share in common and how you make each other feel. If you are playful and flirtatious, the chances are that the chemistry already exists.


If you are platonic friends, asking your friend out may upset them.
 Learn more about the person that you plan on asking out on a date. Ask them questions about what kinds of things make them happy. Have deep and honest conversations with them by opening up yourself. If you tell them what interests you, they will feel inclined to offer their opinions as well. Figure out what they enjoy, what they dislike, and how they like to spend their time socially. Use this information to come up with a date that they will enjoy and appreciate.


If they like staying inside, you can watch a movie on the TV instead of going out.
If they like to party, you can take them to the club or bar.
If they are interested in theater, you can search for shows coming up in your area.
 Once you feel comfortable and confident asking them out, give them a call on the phone or talk to them in person. Don't build up the event in your head and don't overthink your execution. This can actually create unrealistic expectations and you'll be upset if you are let down.Simply ask the person if they would like to go out with you at a particular time and date.


You can say something like, "Hey, I know you like plays and Wicked is coming into town. Would you like to go with me next Friday?"
If they can't go because of their schedule, ask them if they can go at a different time or date.

