 Fill a large pot with water and bring it to a boil over medium-high heat. While the water is heating up, fill a large bowl with equal quantities of cold water and ice. When the water boils, place the tomatoes into the pot and boil them for about a minute, long enough to loosen and wrinkle the skins. Remove the tomatoes with a slotted spoon and plunge them into the ice water.Leave the tomatoes in the cold water for 30 seconds to a minute. This will stop the cooking process immediately and cool the tomatoes.
Blanching makes it easier to peel fruits and vegetables.
 Peel the skin off the tomatoes with your fingers. If you want, you can also squeeze the seeds out if you don’t want them in the sauce. Transfer eight of the tomatoes to a blender and puree them until smooth.


With the remaining two tomatoes, chop them roughly into small chunks.
 Melt the oil and butter in a large stockpot over medium heat. Add the onion, pepper, carrot, and garlic. Sauté for five to 10 minutes, until the onions turn translucent and begin to turn golden brown.You can substitute any or all of the green pepper for red, yellow, or orange pepper.
You can also add five to 10 chopped mushrooms to the sauce, a chopped zucchini, or a small head of broccoli, chopped., Pour in the tomato puree, the chopped tomatoes, all the herbs, the wine, and the two whole celery stalks. Bring the sauce to a boil over medium heat.


The celery stalks don’t need to be chopped because you will remove them from the sauce before serving.
 When the sauce comes to a boil, reduce the heat to low and place a lid on the pot. Simmer the sauce for about two hours, then add the tomato paste.Stir in the tomato paste and continue simmering the sauce for another two hours.
You don’t have to simmer the sauce for the full four hours, but cooking it for the full length of time will yield a thick, rich, and flavorful sauce.
Cooking the sauce for one to two hours will result in a sauce that’s slightly runnier and not quite as rich.
 When the sauce has simmered for four hours or the desired amount of time, remove the celery stalks with a pair of tongs, and use a slotted spoon to remove the bay leaf.


Serve the sauce hot with pasta, rice, or vegetables.