 HSV -1 commonly affects the face, and often causes cold sores (painful blisters on the lips). HSV-2 tends to cause painful genital blisters.


HSV-1 can spread through kissing or oral sex, while HSV-2 can spread through skin to skin contact with infected genitals.
Be aware that HSV can have a long-dormant period. You may have contracted herpes long ago, but the virus may have stayed dormant in the nerve cells where it resides. Stress and lack of immunity (getting sick) are common triggers for activation of the virus from the dormant phase.
Even if you can't remember ever being in contact with someone with HSV-1, consider if you've ever had a cold sore or fever blister.;
, In the "prodrome" or early phase of any disease, symptoms indicate the onset of a condition. For whitlow, these symptoms usually appear 2 to 20 days after initial exposure, and include:


Fever
Fatigue
Unusual pain
Numbness
Tingling in the area,
These vesicles may merge and take on a black/brown color.
Ulceration, or a break in the skin, may develop later.
Symptoms can resolve from anywhere from 10 days to 3 weeks.
 Since whitlow is a more of a clinical diagnosis, the medical staff might not order any additional tests. Instead, the doctor will take your symptoms and medical history — including an HSV diagnosis — into consideration to diagnose whitlow. The doctor may also take a tube of your blood to order a complete blood count (CBC) with a differential (a count of your white blood cells). This will let them see if you have enough immune cells to fight infections, or if you have an underlying immune dysfunction that causes reoccurring infections.


The doctor may want to test for herpes if you haven't been diagnosed with it. They may analyze your blood for herpes antibodies, order a PCR test (for the detection of herpes DNA), and/or order a viral culture (to see if actual herpes virus is growing from your blood)., If whitlow is diagnosed within 48 hours after the symptoms start, the doctor can prescribe antiviral medication to you. The medicine might be topical (a cream) or oral (pills), and it will lessen the severity of the infection and promote quicker healing.Thus, it's crucial that you seek immediate medical advice.


Commonly prescribed medications include topical acyclovir 5%, oral acyclovir, oral Famciclovir or valacyclovir.
Take the medications as advised by your doctor or pharmacist.
Dosages will be adjusted for children, but the treatments will remain the same.
 In particular, avoid touching body parts that contain fluids or bodily secretions. These include the eyes, mouth, tongue, genitals, ears, and breast.


If you wear contacts, don't wear them until the infection has resolved. Touching the contacts, then inserting them into your eyes, could infect the eye.
 You can do this easily at home, too, by buying the bandages or wraps from your local pharmacy. To keep the wrap fresh, change it daily. To be extra safe, your doctor may advise you to both wrap the infected area and wear a glove over it.
 It can be difficult enough to be conscious of your hands as an adult, but children often find it quite difficult. You don't want them sucking on infected fingers, touching their eyes, or any other areas of the body that contain or carry bodily fluids. Even after wrapping the infected area, watch them closely to make sure everything is as it should be.
 They should ease pain while the infection heals by reducing inflammation to the area. If you saw a doctor within 48 hours of noticing the symptoms, the doctor might not recommend anything beyond pain medication.


Children and teenagers with viral infections are advised not to take aspirin. There's a risk of developing a multi-organ fatal condition known as Reye’s syndrome.
Seek expert medical advice before taking over-the-counter pain meds for viral infections.
Take all medications as described either by your healthcare provider or on the label. Be careful not to exceed the maximum daily dose.
 Whitlow is a viral infection, but you can compound the issue with a bacterial infection (this can appear dark, have an odor, and may have a whitish pus discharge).


The doctors will order a complete blood count with differential (to detect immune cells or white blood cells) if they suspect bacterial infection.
The white blood cells will be high if you have a bacterial infection.
They may reorder this test after you've completed your antibiotic course to check for normal levels of white blood cells. This isn't always necessary if symptoms have calmed and they have no further suspicion.
 A doctor will likely want to confirm a bacterial infection before prescribing antibiotic treatment. This is because overuse of antibiotics can cause bacteria to adapt and become resistant to treatment. However, once bacterial infection is confirmed, antibiotic treatment is very simple.Always follow your doctor or the label's directions precisely.
Make sure to complete the full course of treatment, even if symptoms seem to resolve.
 You may be tempted to pick at or try to burst the vesicles, just as people can't resist the urge to pop pimples. However, this makes the wound open to bacterial infection.Furthermore, the released fluid carries the virus, and can spread the viral infection further.
 This is best used when painful lesions start appearing on the infected area. You can add salt or epsom salt to the water to help with relief. The concentrated salt will diminish swelling in the effected area.


Fill a container deep enough for the infected area with warm water. Soak the infected area for 15 minutes.
Repeat as the pain reoccurs.
When finished, wrap the area with a dry bandage wrap to prevent disease transmission.
 If you've tried to burst or drain a vesicle, you can add regular or antibacterial soap to the warm water when you soak the area.While you may opt for antibacterial soap, studies suggest that regular soap works just as well at protecting against bacteria and infection. Keeping soap in the water can help prevent the spread of the condition as fluid from the infection mixes in with the water.
 Magnesium sulphate paste can help with the pain and swelling associated with whitlow. Though this is widely documented, the exact reason behind this effect is still unclear. In a study published 2008, a group of patients with HSV 1 or 2 were treated with a mixture that included magnesium. The results showed that over 95% had resolution of symptoms within 7 days.To properly use magnesium paste, first clean the infected area using a suitable antiseptic. Examples include isopropyl alcohol, alcohol prep pad or soap.
Apply a generous amount of magnesium sulphate paste. You can buy this product at any pharmacy.
Cover the pasted area with lint or cotton wool, then bandage it.
Change the bandage daily, and applying fresh paste each time.
 It will also slow blood flow to the area, reducing any inflammation or swelling that would contribute to the pain. You can either buy an ice pack from the pharmacy, or just wrap some ice cubes in a towel. Gently apply the pack to the infected area.
 This can be challenging, but making an effort can help prevent future outbreaks. HSV can lie dormant in nerve cells for quite some time, but stress can activate it.Thus, avoiding stress can be the key to avoiding whitlow. Some options to deal with stress and boost the immune system include eating healthier, getting a good night sleep, and exercising regularly.

