 Let students create their own learning expectations for the semester or year, but guide them in their goal setting to make sure they are realistic for the individual, since progress will be different for each student. Try these strategies when helping students set and reach goals:Frame expectations in a positive statement. For example, “To improve in mathematics, I will…” or “By Spring Break, I will have completed…”
In order for students to track their progress, goals need to be assessed and measured. Measurable goals also help students know where they went wrong or how they failed to meet an expectation, which makes it easier to adjust goals to be more achievable.
Students should be in control of their own goals. This will teach students independence and responsibility, but it can also be frustrating for students when they fail to reach a goal because of someone else or for reasons beyond their control.
 If students never or rarely receive positive feedback, they may stop exhibiting positive behaviors or lose self-confidence. From academic achievement to good behavior, there are many opportunities to deliver positive feedback to students.Display good work in the classroom, write positive affirmations on student work, and/or tell the students’ parents when they achieve a goal or surpasses an expectation.
Beyond just praising students, point out specific things they have done well in their work, or even better, places where they have improved in their work.
Even if students don’t perform well on assignments or exams, there are other opportunities to praise students, like being on time for class, listening and contributing during discussions, asking questions, or helping out a classmate., Even if you don’t feel like the student is doing their best work, don’t give up on them. Dig deeper, check-in, and let the student know that you care by asking him/her questions about what may be affecting their academic performance. If they aren’t meeting expectations, be flexible and adjust expectations and goals if necessary.

