 Anti-inflammatory drugs may a good first step in your treatment. Your doctor may recommend that you take other medications at the same time to reduce your symptoms. You may be prescribed the following anti-inflammatory drugs:Oral 5-aminosalicylates: These anti-inflammatory drugs, often sold by brand names Delzicol, Pentasa, Salofalk, Dipentum, Colazal, Apriso, and Lialda, are often prescribed if Crohn’s disease is affecting your colon; however, they may not be effective if the disease is in your small intestine. The benefits of these drugs are limited, and not as effective as once hoped. Side effects include nausea, diarrhea, vomiting, heartburn, and headache.

Corticosteroids: These drugs, often referred to as steroids, can help to reduce inflammation in your body but they do not work for everyone with Crohn’s disease. Your doctor may prescribe corticosteroids if your body is not responding to other medications. Side effects include a puffy face, excessive facial hair, night sweats, insomnia, and hyperactivity. These drugs are also not recommended for long-term use and should be taken three to four months at a time. These drugs are typically only used when patients do not respond to other treatments.;
, These drugs will help to reduce inflammation by targeting your immune system. Your immune system produces the substances that cause inflammation, so suppressing these substances can reduce your symptoms. Your doctor may recommend you have a combination of several immune system suppressors, including:Azathioprine and mercaptopurine: These drugs, known by brand names Imuran and Purinethol, are the most commonly used immunosuppressants for Crohn’s disease. You will need to schedule follow ups with your doctor while taking these drugs and get your blood checked regularly to check for any side effects. Side effects for short-term use include liver inflammation and bone marrow suppression. Long-term side effects include lymphoma, skin cancer, and other types of cancers.

Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) inhibitors: These drugs help to neutralize an immune system protein called tumor necrosis factor (TNF) and can help to moderate severe Crohn’s disease symptoms and signs. These drugs are known as infliximab, adalimumab, and certolizumab pegol. Your doctor may recommend combining TNFs with other drugs to improve your symptoms.

Methotrexate: This is a drug that is used to treat cancer, psoriasis, and rheumatoid arthritis, but it can also be prescribed for Crohn’s disease. Side effects of short-term use of this drug include nausea, fatigue, and diarrhea. Your doctor should monitor you closely when you are on this immunosuppressant.
 Your doctor may also prescribe antibiotics in addition to other medication or if you develop an infection due to Crohn’s disease. You may also go on antibiotics if you develop a fistula or an abscess due to your illness. Your doctor may prescribe the following antibiotics:Metronidazole: This is a commonly prescribed antibiotic for Crohn’s disease; however, it can have serious side effects, such as numbness and tingling in your hands and feet. You may also have muscle weakness or pain. You should stop taking this antibiotic if you have any of these symptoms.

Ciprofloxacin: This antibiotic can help to improve your symptoms, including inflammation of your gut. It has rare side effects, including a tendon rupture. You are at a greater risk of a tendon rupture if you are also taking corticosteroids.
 Your doctor may also suggest that you try taking other medications like anti-diarrheals and over-the-counter pain relievers to reduce inflammation. You may take several of these other medications in addition your prescribed medication. You may try the following other medications:Anti-diarrheals: This could be a fiber supplement that you can buy at your local drugstore or a diarrhea medication if you are experiencing severe diarrhea. Though some people with Crohn's disease avoid fiber, your doctor may suggest a fiber supplement based on your body's reaction to the disease.

Pain relievers: Your doctor may suggest you buy acetaminophen over-the-counter. But you should avoid other common pain relievers like ibuprofen and naproxen sodium, as these drugs can make your symptoms worse.

Supplements and vitamins: Your doctor may also recommend that you take iron supplements if you have chronic intestinal bleeding to ensure your body has enough iron. You may take Vitamin B-12 shots to ensure you have enough Vitamin B-12 in your body, as Crohn's can cause vitamin deficiency such as b-12 due to malabsorption and surgical removal of portions of the GI tract. Calcium supplements will help maintain bone strength that could be lost due to the side effects of prescribed medications and malabsorption associated with Crohn's.

