 Before buying your fish, you need to prepare the aquarium. A typical saltwater aquarium needs:A tank. Your tank’s size should match the type and number of fish you plan to have. Generally, you should have an aquarium that can hold at least 5 gallons (20 litres) of water.

Live Rock. You will need at least one pound (500 grams) of live rock per gallon (4 litres) of water in your aquarium, unless you are setting up a Fish Only tank.
Saltwater mix.

Protein Skimmer. Doing research can help you choose the best brand of protein skimmer for your tank.

Aquarium sand or substrate. Saltwater aquariums typically use sand rather than gravel as beds.

Heater and thermometer. Most saltwater fish need to live in temperatures ranging from 75 to 82 °F (24 to 28 °C). Always research or consult with your local aquarium expert about what the correct temperature for your fish tank is.

Lights. The type of lighter you choose depends on what kind of fish or invertebrates you plan to have and is especially important if you are setting up a reef tank.

Decorations. These include fake or real plants, as well as rocks, caves, and other picturesque aquarium ornaments.

Airstones, powerheads, or air pumps. All tanks need to be well oxygenated.

Aquarium vacuum. There are several types of aquarium vacuums to choose from: ones that connect to faucets, ones that only suck up water, and ones that you need to pump.

Fish net. You’ll need to remove your fish from its tank for various reasons. Be sure to choose a net big enough to hold your fish.

Aquarium glass scrubber or sponge. Some glass scrubbers act as magnets that stick to the tank’s glass for easy clean up, while some are special sponges that are safe to use in your tank.

A large bucket. You’ll need a bucket or several buckets that can hold a large amount of water for when you need to do water changes.

Aquarium test kits and a refractometer. To maintain your tank’s water quality, you will need to test your tank’s pH, ammonia, and nitrogen levels regularly. As well as the level of salt in your tank.

Fish food. Be sure to provide your fish with the correct diet. Not all fish can just eat fish flakes or pellets everyday.
 Never use soap or detergents to clean your tank. Using soaps or detergents can seriously injure and damage your tank inhabitants. Simply wash your tank and equipment with hot water.


Use a sponge or clean washcloth and scrub the inside of your tank. Then hose it down to rid your tank of any impurities.
Wash and massage your filter’s cartridges under the tap or in a bucket. This is very important, especially if you’re using a carbon filter. Massaging or rubbing the filter activates the carbon inside the cartridge.
Wash all decorations in clean water.
Your substrate will be cleaned after your aquarium is set up.
 This means putting your tank on its stand, arranging your power heads, and setting up the lighting and heating for your aquarium.


If you are adding a live rock, do not add substrate or decorations to your tank. You must cure your live rock before you can do this.
Don’t plug in your filter. Set it up and place it in the correct position but don’t turn it on until you have water in the tank. Having it on without water can damage your filter.
 The saltwater mix you purchased should have detailed instructions on how to prepare your saltwater. Generally, you will be mixing room temperature water with the salt mix in a bucket or several buckets. If you don’t have enough buckets, you will need to prepare your water in parts or mix the salt right in the tank.


Check your salt levels with your refractometer. Typically, the specific gravity reading should be between 1.021 and 1.024 depending on the temperature of your water. Measuring the specific gravity of your saltwater means measuring the density of your water since adding salt to water increases the density of water., If you have FOWLR tank, you will need to start the process of curing your live rock, which could take up to 2 months to complete. To begin the process:


Turn on your aquarium. This means turning on the lighting, the heating, the filters, and the power heads.
Place your live rock in the tank. You may need to drain some water from the tank to accommodate your live rock. You should also place it in a position where it is in the middle of the tank and several or all power heads are aimed at it. The power heads will help blow off the debris from the rock.
Prepare saltwater to do a partial water change. A few days before, mix a new bucket of saltwater and wait for it to reach the same specific gravity reading of your tank.
Do a partial water change and scrub your live rock every few days. Turn off the power and take a brush like a toothbrush, and scrub your rock to remove any dead or dying organisms. You can do this directly in the tank. Then, vacuum the debris from the tank and change the water.
Use a test kit to determine your tank has 0 ammonia and 0 nitrates. Before your live rock is completely cured, your tank should look and smell pretty bad. You’ll know when the process is over when your tank begins to smell like the ocean.
 Before adding any substrate to your tank, you will need to prepare a bucket of saltwater to help clean it. Add your substrate into the bucket and stir. This allows the dust and dirt from your substrate to rise for you to siphon out with your aquarium vacuum. Use a cup or ladle to add your clean substrate to the tank.


You will need to drain more water out of your aquarium to accommodate the addition of your substrate and any decorations.
 Thoroughly check your aquarium’s water salinity, pH, ammonia, nitrate, and hardness levels using your test kits before adding any fish. The ideal readings for a saltwater aquarium with a live rock are:Temperature: 75°F - 82°F (24°C - 28°C)

Specific gravity: 1.020 - 1.024

pH: 8.0 - 8.4

Ammonia: 0

Nitrite: 0

Nitrate: 30 ppm or less (especially for invertebrates)

Alkalinity or carbonate hardness: 8 - 12 dKH

