 In The Clique movie the walls in Massie's room are glossy white. Have your walls painted white with a high gloss finish. If you have wallpaper and do not want to repaint, you can just re-wallpaper. There are lots of different types of wallpaper with white patterns that can be pulled off with Massie's style.;
, If you have enough money, get hardwood flooring, and make sure to add white sheepskin rugs just like Massie has.
 You can buy new white furniture or repaint your existing furniture white. You will most likely want to have:


White bed
White bed table
White dresser
White vanity table
White desk
White bookshelf
White coffee table

, You will need a new white duvet and royal purple sheets (Massie loves purple because she read in COSMO that purple is the color of royalty). Have about 4-6 purple throw pillows on your bed to give it a splash of purple.
 Massie's room is very well-lit. Get a glass, crystal, or diamond chandelier and have plenty of purple lamps around your room like she has in the books.
 Massie has a white iMac computer on her desk, so if you can afford it, buy one for yourself.
 You will need a mannequin to pick out your stylish outfits with, just like Massie does. Put it in a open-door dresser. If you can't, just leave it in the corner of your room and keep it close to your closet. If you can't get a mannequin try to get a full-length mirror to look at your outfits with.



In The Clique Movie, there are framed paintings of shoes, handbags and makeup in a row. There is also a framed picture of a flower pattern. If you do not like framed pictures there are loads of shops that sell Canvases with pictures printed on them.
Get a white pin board with pictures of your own Clique having fun, magazine pictures, or anything that is cute.



Have a few purple vases with purple flowers just like Massie has in the books. Real flowers are better than fake ones, since fake ones look cheap.
Massie has a green apple as the center piece on her coffee table. Also consider putting fashion magazines on the coffee table so your friends can read them when they come over
Put all of the Clique books in your bookshelf

, Massie's room is very organized and clean. Get some royal purple baskets to put your stuff in and keep your room organized. Keep your room clean all the time and make sure you where everything is.

