 As the follower, you must be attuned to what the leader is directing you to do. Pay attention to all the leads that your partner gives you and move instinctively in the direction that he is pushing you in.









Do not lead or pull your dance partner around. As the follower, you should wait for his lead and follow in line with the dance.
 This is the traditional Salsa step and mirrors the leader's moves described above. Use the following basic steps to dance the Salsa with your partner:








Start with both of your feet together.
On the first beat, step back with your right foot.
On the second beat, step forward with your left foot.
On the third beat, step forward with your right, starting with the ball of your foot.
On the fourth beat, hold the beat, transfer the weight to your heel, and do not take any steps.
On the fifth beat, step forward with your left foot.
On the sixth beat, step back with your right foot.
On the seventh beat, step to distribute your weight back onto the ball of your left foot.
On the eighth beat, hold the beat and do not take any steps, but distribute your weight onto your heel.
 For music that pops on the even counts, you may want to learn the "On 2" step, too. It's the same as the "On 1" variety, but on 2. It goes like this:









Start with both of your feet together.
Hold the first beat.
On the second beat, step back with your right foot.
On the third beat, step forward with your left foot.
On the fourth beat, step forward with your right, starting with the heel of your foot.
On the fifth beat, hold the beat, transfer the weight to your ball, and do not take any steps.
On the sixth beat, step forward with your left foot.
On the seventh beat, step back with your right foot.
On the eighth beat, step to distribute your weight back onto the ball of your left foot.

Again, think in terms of fast, fast, slow. For this one, 2, 3, 4 is right, left, right and 6, 7, 8 is left, right, left. Fast, fast slow -- right, left, right. Fast, fast, slow -- left, right, left.



