 To prevent your child from sticking their finger or any other objects in an outlet, use protective coverings.;
, Make sure all of your household chemicals are out of reach and hidden from plain sight. If necessary, you can purchase shelve and cabinet locks or child-proof caps for the chemicals.
 Even children's medication should be kept out of reach, as they can overdose on this just as easily as adult medication. The only exception would be if the child has a medical condition which requires them to carry certain medications on them in case of emergencies. Other than that, keep all medications out of children's reach and make sure the bottles have child-proof caps.
 Install safety gates that are up-to-date with current safety standards. Use safety gates at doorways that lead to stairs, basements, attics, and other places in your home that could be unsafe for your children.
 Any tables, desks, dressers, and any other large furniture should be anchored down with an anchor strap to avoid the furniture tipping or falling over if the child climbs on it.
 If you have a swimming pool, buy a cover that you can strap down to prevent your child from falling into the pool.
 Make sure your yard is fenced so your child doesn't run off anywhere. If you have any ponds outside, use a fence or gate to prevent your child from accessing it.
 Make sure any house-hold devices are properly stored in an area inaccessible to your child.
 Keep all breakable items away and out of reach of your children's hands, especially any glass objects.
 Protect your child by covering corners and edges of furniture with foam to prevent any injuries.
 To prevent any drowning, close all toilet lids(You can can also purchase toilet-lid locks to restrict your child from opening the toilet lid) and don't leave water in bathtubs or buckets.
 A child could turn on the water and burn themselves in hot water. If you live in an apartment and can't completely change the water setting, just turn the faucet onto the cold setting., Remember, if the toy or item can fit through a toilet paper tube, it is a choking hazard. Some common choking hazards to keep out of reach and locked away are: marbles, buttons, pins, crayons, paper clips, beads, rubber bands, and tiny doll shoes.