 If something happens to your passport, or any important travel documents (like an identification card, any visa information, etc.) you want to have duplicates of those to show to police or to a consulate.


Keep your duplicates in a different place than your actual documents. For example, if you have a purse you're keeping all the important documents like passport and so on, keep your duplicates in a different bag.
You should also leave duplicates of everything with a trusted friend or family member. That way if everything gets lost or stolen you can contact them and get the copies of the documents from them.
 Know as much about the area you're traveling to as possible. Find out what places are safe and what places aren't safe, so that you know what areas to avoid.


Make sure you’re aware of local customs so you don’t offend people. There are certain gestures in the U.S., for example, that are extremely rude in other parts of the world.
Ask locals where is safe to go. The locals are the ones who are the most likely to recommend good places to go, as well as where to stay away from. There are lots of websites (like the one for Couchsurfing) where you can connect up with people from the area over the internet and they should be able to give you information.
 While you're probably not going to be able to become fluent, you should at least make sure you can access enough of the language to communicate if you get into trouble.


Have a sheet of important phrases (not just "Where's the bathroom?") with things like: how to get to the train/bus station, where is the nearest police station/home country consulate, internet cafe, and so on.
Knowing enough to make basic communication with local people will make locals more likely to help you, because you have made an effort to be more than just a tourist.
 This is especially important if you're traveling alone. Somebody who is responsible should know where you are supposed to be and what you're supposed to be doing. This way, if you don't show up at the place you're supposed to be, someone will be able to start making inquiries.


If your itinerary changes make sure that you connect with your trusted person and let them know that it has changed.
 A decoy wallet is basically a wallet that has an expired credit card, maybe an old i.d. card, and a few smaller denominations of whatever country's currency you're using. If you have a decoy wallet and someone robs you, they’ll only get the decoy wallet.Do not bring your fancy phone or wallet packed with money with you traveling. You'll be far more likely to be robbed.
 This ties in with the above step. Don't bring your expensive jewelry, watch, cell phone, laptop, and so on with you when you go traveling. While you can be robbed just as easily at home, it's more likely to happen when you're an obvious tourist in a place that you don't know well., Always stay alert when you're traveling. It can be easy to drop your vigilance for a moment, but that's the moment when someone can snag your camera, or your purse.


Make a mental checklist of your most important items (like your wallet, your phone, your passport, etc.) and pause every now and then to make sure they're still there. It's easy to get flustered or in a rush while traveling and that's when you tend to lose things.
Check around your area if you’ve been sitting somewhere for awhile or before you get off something like a bus.
 Never, ever, keep all your cash in one place. Spread it out through your things. Keep some in your decoy wallet, some in your actual wallet, some in your bag, in your sock, in your other bag.


This way, if on thing gets stolen or you get robbed, you won't be completely without money.
 When you're traveling it's easy to get into a different headspace, one that isn't very aware. You're stressed, you're hurrying, you're wanting too look at lots of things, it's totally understandable.The reason people tend to be robbed while they're traveling isn't because other countries are more crime-ridden than your country. It's because you're more likely to be paying attention when you're home and you're more likely to notice when something is out-of-place.
Thieves can orchestrate or take advantage of a chaotic situation to rob you. If a bunch of people are swarming around you, pay attention for any little hands in your pockets.
The more alert you look, the less likely you are to be pinpointed as an easy target.
 Thieves can orchestrate situations where they distract you by "helping" you while a confederate robs you. Be wary of anyone who is too nice.


Unless everyone in the area is super nice, then you should be skeptical of anyone who is going above and beyond, or is incredibly insistent about offering you some assistance that is very distracting.

