


Only use beans that are blemish free. Look for green beans that have no small beans inside them. While the small beans don't hurt the taste or quality of the beans, they signify that the green bean is past its prime.






Use the freshest beans possible. Freeze them the day you pick them from your garden or as soon as possible after you purchase them. If you must wait to freeze green beans, store them in the refrigerator in the meantime.





;
,,

Use a paring knife to snip the ends off the beans. If the green beans have any bug spots or bruises, you can cut them out with the paring knife.






Cut the beans to the length that you prefer. You can leave them whole, or you can cut the beans into pieces about one-inch long. A bean Frencher is a device that allows you to cut the beans into long, thin strips.


Put a large pot of water on to boil. Leave room in the pot for the beans. Covering the pot with a lid makes the water boil faster and conserves energy.






Fill a second large pan or bowl with ice cubes and water.



This process removes enzymes that break down the quality of the beans.






Be sure not to let the beans boil for too long, or they will overcook.


Use a slotted spoon to move the beans from one pot to the other.






Add more ice to the beans, if necessary.






Chill the beans at least three minutes.


It's important to get as much moisture as possible off the beans. Otherwise, they may have ice crystals form on them in the freezer, which can cause the flavor to deteriorate.






Use a paper or dish towel to remove extra moisture from the beans.


Use freezer bags that zip or bags that seal with a vacuum sealer.






Put enough beans in each bag to make a meal for your family. This way you'll be able to defrost exactly as many as you need instead of the entire batch of beans. A rough measurement is one handful of beans per serving.






Close the zippered bag almost all the way. Insert a straw into the opening. Draw out the remaining air through the straw. Withdraw the straw as you finish sealing the bag.






Label the bags with the date you froze them.



Rearrange the beans in the bags so the bags are lying as flat as possible. This allows the beans to freeze quickly and preserves the fresh taste.
Frozen beans will keep for nine months in a conventional freezer, and longer in a deep freeze appliance.

