 Most mild cases of ringworm can be treated with over-the-counter cream or powder medications, such as clotrimazole, tolnaftate, miconazole, and terbinafine. You can buy these medications at a drugstore, or you can take your child to the pediatrician to get a recommendation.You can apply the cream two or three times a day for about one to two weeks.
If the rash is spreading or doesn’t get any better, take your child to the pediatrician.;
, If your child’s ringworm doesn’t get better after using at-home or over-the-counter remedies, your pediatrician may prescribe an oral antifungal medication. These medications are stronger and work to kill the fungus. If you are given a tablet or liquid medicine, it spreads through your body to help kill the fungus.Your child may need to take the medication for a few weeks.
Oral medication may be needed for people who have ringworm of the scalp or the nails.This usually requires six weeks to several months of treatment.
 If your child has ringworm on the scalp, which is common in toddlers and young children, you can use a special shampoo to help treat the scalp and prevent the spread of ringworm.Any other family members who may have caught the ringworm should use the shampoo. They should also examine themselves for any other signs of ringworm.
 Most ringworm infections can be treated with at-home remedies. If there is no improvement within one week after using OTC or herbal remedies, it is still spreading after a week, or lasts longer than a month, call your physician for advice. Ringworm is annoying, but it is not dangerous, just contagious.Contact your doctor immediately if pus is draining from the ringworm spots.
You should also contact your doctor if the ringworm is on the scalp or there are more than three spots of ringworm.
Remember that ringworm is very contagious, so make certain your child stays away from close contact with any other children until after they begin treatment. Change your child’s bedsheets daily and reserve a bath towel just for your child until the rash disappears.
Kids with ringworm can got to school or daycare after they begin treatment. Cover any areas of the skin that have ringworm if you can to reduce the chance of spread.

