 If your bank closed your account, you may have negative information on your ChexSystems report. However, not all banks use ChexSystems. There also are some that review all applications on a case-by-case basis.Likewise, if your bank used a different service, you should look for banks that don't use that service. These banks will be more likely to open an account for you because they won't know about what happened between you and the bank that closed your account.
You may be able to find this information on the bank's website. If not, you can always call the toll-free customer service line and ask. Many branches also have the logo of the service they use on their doors.
 Smaller community banks are far more likely to review applications on a case-by-case basis, and typically are more forgiving if you had your account closed because you overdrafted or made a mistake.If you apply for an account at a small community bank, go into the branch in person rather than applying online (many of these small banks don't even accept applications online). Dress presentably in clean, neat clothing so you make a good impression with the banker.
Be as open and honest as possible about your past relationship with your old bank and the reason you want to open an account. This can prevent you from having problems again with this bank if they discover you lied on your application or failed to disclose important information.
 Since credit unions are owned by their members, they tend to be more forgiving of past mistakes. Credit unions also typically offer more assistance with budgeting and financial responsibility, if that has been a problem for you in the past.Credit unions typically only allow certain types of people to be members. For example, they may only accept employees of certain companies, people who live in a certain community, or people who fit other criteria. Check the credit union's website to find out if you meet their membership criteria before you apply.
You also might ask your employer if there are any credit unions you qualify for because you work there.
 In the United States and some other countries, a number of large banks offer second chance checking accounts for people who have a history of troubled banking relationships.Use these accounts as a last resort. They typically have annual fees and may require you to maintain a fairly substantial minimum balance at all times. They also may have other requirements that you would have difficulty meeting.
If you do get a second chance checking account, you typically have the option of converting it to a regular account after you maintain it responsibly for a year or longer.

