 Make sure that they are safe and comfortable. Also, make sure that you have all of the "Things You'll Need" nearby. Make sure that they are within reach of your child and you.;
, Start by reading one, then ask your child if they want to read another one. If your child can't talk, decide by seeing if they refuse another book or just seem distracted or bored. Keep on reading until your child is ready to be done or if you are ready to be done.
 If they have one, let your child feed their "drink and wet" doll. Make sure that they hold it over the toilet, a potty chair, or a doll toilet so that the doll does not go on the floor! Hold the cup up to the mouth and tip or squeeze it so that the water goes down the doll. Then, watch the doll go.
 Turn on the faucet in a nearby sink so that your child can see the water running. Let your child watch for up to 30 seconds. Then, turn it off. The water helps the child let it flow and to go to the bathroom in the potty.
 Encourage your child to drink as many cups as they would like. This may help them go as well. Don't force a child to drink, though. This only makes potty time more dreadful and makes them create a bad impression towards drinking and going potty in the toilet.
 Sing along to your potty CD or say the rhymes yourself with your child. Try looking at your local library for a CD or rhymes. The internet has plenty of options, too!

, You can also let them play on a potty app.
 Help your child sit back and think about going and flowing. Push on the tummy or bladder to help, too. Encourage your child to push on their body, not you. If it gets painful, make them stop immediately.
 Talk about what a big kid they are for sitting on the toilet and possibly going. Tell them how much fun it is and how they can go on the potty just like you! Praise and encourage them. Point out all of the things in the bathroom: the toilet, potty chair (if there is one), toilet paper, sink, soap, towels, light, door, trash can, flusher, toilet seat, wipes, and training pants or underwear.


Teaching children these words also helps with communication during potty learning, school readiness, and being able to shop and talk with others.
 Use a clipboard or tray whenever possible to prevent loosing your coloring page and crayons or colored pencils! Talk about the picture with your child, pointing out all of the items in it. You can also color on a potty app, see step seven.
 Let your child change the doll and clean up the "accident" the doll had. Explain to your child that accidents are okay and that dolly should try to go in the potty after having an accident. Practice and talk about this with your child.
 Let your child try wiping and then have you "check" heir wiping. Also, let them flush if are not scared. Sing along during hand washing (make sure hand washing takes at least 30 seconds). Make sure dolly washes his/her hands to! Wipe up any messes and turn off the lights. Let your child help you with everything.
 Put a sticker on a sticker chart. Have a tiny treat. You can even let them choose what to eat (as long as it a reasonable choice and healthy) or let them choose what to do next. A fun potty app may have games to play as a reward.


Rewarding children will build up their self-esteem and make them want to have more potty time.

