 Tell your partner about your day. Talk out your conflicts and discuss both negative and positive emotions. Respectfully discuss theology, values and beliefs. Discuss your dreams and goals. Talk about the future. Share what you are learning practically and spiritually. Pray and read the Bible together.;
, Be attentive to your partner's dislikes and likes. Pay close attention to their feelings and thoughts. Think before you respond; maybe they just want you to listen.
 Don't assume the worst about them! Instead, talk things out. Be honest with them, even if it makes you feel ashamed at the moment. Don't put yourself in situations where you are tempted to break their trust (cheating, spilling a secret, etc.). Remember that God is in control. Anything that makes you doubt or distrust has already been handled. Also remind yourself that if your partner is trusting Jesus, He is guiding them, and He will never guide them to a place that is ultimately harmful for you or for them.
 Pray for your partner frequently about both general and specific requests. Meet their family and friends. Visit their church. Deliberately encourage them in their faith and life's path.
 Make sure that both of you have space to grow on your own. Each person needs to have their own spiritual walk, or their heart's state will rely on someone else--someone who is not perfect and will fail at times. It is important to give each other room to grow spiritually, mentally and emotionally. Set physical boundaries as well. Instead of asking yourself as a Christian, "how far is too far," keep in mind that the closer you get physically, the closer you will be bonded emotionally (See Mark 10:8). If the relationship ends someday, you want to spare yourself and your partner from as much heartache as possible.
 A big part of Christianity is community. Your Church family is there to encourage and guide you in your relationship. Be willing to take others' advice and let them voice any concerns. Have them keep you accountable in your relationship with your partner. Though it is good to share your feelings with your partner, it is healthy to get out your irrational fears and thoughts so that your partner does not have to process them.
 There's a cliché pyramid illustration that tells us "the closer you both get to God, the closer you get to each other," and it's totally true. Because the only source of real love is in Jesus Christ, you cannot love your partner without being "plugged in" with Him.
 Use social media to share photos. Talk via Skype or FaceTime. Fall asleep together on the phone. Don't just text--Email! It shows you are invested in the relationship and willing to spend time on it. Write letters.
 Set up a time to talk every day. Let your partner know when you are busy, but be willing to set aside time specifically for them.
 Choose specific activities to do together. Go somewhere new. Plan ahead to ensure that the visit goes smoothly.
 Do things at the same time. Learn something new together. Share your calendar, blog and photos.
 Wear a jewelry item they gave you or put a picture of them in your wallet. These little things will remind you of your love for them and everything about them.
 Positive thinking is all based on logic. Instead, think of the truth of the Gospel and the freedom you find in Jesus. Remind yourself that God has authority over your life and relationship, and that He is working in you to make you more like Him. Know that you are His child, and that He has brought you to your partner to be a mirror of His relationship to His Church. You are no longer under the bondage of sin and you have freedom to live boldly in Christ. When you know and believe these things, you won't need "positive thinking."

