 Many infertile men experience a regular sex life and have sperm that looks fine to the naked eye.In this sense, it is difficult to recognize the physical symptoms of male infertility. Warning signs are rare, but some infertile men have lumps or swelling near the testicles, breast growth, erectile dysfunction, and respiratory problems., A lump, swelling or pain and discomfort in your testicles can be a symptom of male infertility.


Examine your testicles while standing in front of a mirror. Hold your right testicle with your hand and your thumb on top. Roll it gently and feel for any pain or discomfort. Next, hold your left testicle and roll it gently to feel for any pain or discomfort. Do not worry if one testicle feels slightly larger than the other one, since this is perfectly normal.If you feel any pain or a heaviness in your groin, you should see a doctor., If you have grown very large breasts (known as gynecomastia), you may be experiencing a symptom of male infertility.


Talk to your doctor if you have large breasts. Gynecomastia is often confused with just having fatty breast tissue, so you should ask your doctor to look at your breasts. Your doctor may check for breast cancer or an infection of the breast tissue called mastitis., One symptom of male infertility is a decrease in body hair, which can be a sign of a hormonal imbalance. If you have significantly less hair growth than normal, you may be experiencing a symptom of male infertility.
 Erectile dysfunction can also be a cause of male infertility.In this case, you should ask your doctor about treatments for erectile dysfunction.


Common treatments for erectile dysfunction include sildenafil (Viagra), tadalafil (Cialis), avanafil (Stendra), and vardenafil (Levitra, Staxyn). These types of medications help your body increase blood flow to the penis. However, you should see your doctor for full treatment options and approval of any medication. In particular, the above treatments are dangerous for people with low blood pressure, liver or kidney disease., Another symptom associated with male infertility is respiratory problems. If you have trouble breathing or have had a lot of respiratory infections, you may have a condition associated with male infertility.