 The story begins with you flying over Poptropica with your friend, Amelia. Amelia says you are going to enter a race, so you do. The mayor will be leading the race. The mayor says "Are you ready?". When he does, say "Let's go!".;
, She will throw a wrench at your plane and it will hit the propellers, making the plane crash.
 You will end up landing on an island, with a black monkey that greets you. Amelia is nowhere to be seen, but the monkey seems to want you to follow him. Press and hold close to your Poptropican to walk, and far from your Poptropican to run.
 Click/tap the edge of the frame to move onto the next one. There might be an advertisement whenever you go through worlds (not video ads, but as you go to the next one there will be a billboard-like ad for whatever is being advertised)., When you get to the next frame, Amelia will be sitting in her plane that crashed into a tree. The monkey calls you over to a rope. Climb the rope by pressing and holding directly above your Poptropican., You can 1. Free Jump, by pressing and holding into the desired direction, or 2. Target Jump, by clicking/tapping a spot and quickly releasing to jump to that desired spot.,, She will say that you need a tool to put the propeller back on. Go to the left frame, following the monkey., The monkey will hop on the shadowy side of the right seesaw. Do the same thing to the left one, trapping the crab and making it drop the wrench.,,, She asks you if you want to know how to use tools. Optionally, you can say yes, or you can just read how to use them in this guide.
 Take out the wrench, and click/tap "Use". You will use the wrench to fix the plane. Amelia will try and takeoff, but after a few second of going smoothly, the plane breaks down even more, it's wing, back, and engine cover falling off., Go to the right frame., Amelia tells you to ring the bell. Click/tap the bell to ring it. As soon as you do, a man comes, who is most likely the owner of the resort., The man talks a lot, and Amelia asks you if you want to know how to speed up dialogue. To do this, click on your menu, then click the gear. You can edit your sound, graphics, and dialogue speed here.
 After the man finishes his story, he asks you to get a fruit smoothie, a cloth, and a rope.
 up the stairs where a monkey appears to be pushing a giant bag of fruit. Deciding that the resort man is putting a lot of work on the monkeys, jump to the right where another monkey is pushing at a pulley. Push the pulley that is beside her, helping her.


The bag will bump into a tree branch, and as you try to push harder, the rope snaps and sends you flying down the slide. Once you reach the bottom, the rope comes out after you, smacking you in the head, but you also collect it.
 Since the rope snapped, the cloth ripped and the fruit fell out. Jump back up to the area where the fruit fell out, and push the fruit into the smoothie machine until it is full. Afterwards, jump down to turn the smoothie machine on, and a smoothie will fall out. Collect the smoothie.
 To do this, jump up to where the branch is, and pull it off of the branch by jumping on top of it. You will collect it.
 The items will automatically be given to him and he says he will go make something amazing. After a while of waiting, you and Amelia go over to the area where the man is, wondering what is taking so long. The man ends up to be sleeping on a hammock after drinking some of his smoothie. He tells you he needed rest before he makes his invention, giving you a drawing of his invention. The invention appears to be similar to an air balloon, with him drinking a smoothie in it.
 He will fall asleep. After he falls back asleep, tap on the monkey, who gives you a drawing of the invention the monkeys thought of together, which resembles a blimp. This blimp is the same one you use to travel around worlds in Poptropica. Click/tap the "X" button again to give it back. Amelia says that "the monkeys were the brains behind this operation the whole time".
 Later it will show the blimp fully completed. The monkeys will be cheering you on to win the race using the blimp. Tap the blimp to go inside. Once you do, you fly off, ready to win the race.
, She begins getting mad that you're back. She knocks you off the blimp, and the blimp starts going down. Luckily, you are caught by the top of the blimp. The Red Baroness will fly up above the blimp, dropping items down, trying to hit you. Run to dodge these items.
 However, you are still too heavy. Go in your backpack, and click the "use" button on your wrench to throw it out. This makes you go a bit further, but you are still heavy. As you are about to drop the last big bag, the resort man wakes up!

, The resort man did not care, and drank his smoothie some more. Amelia asks you to talk sense into him to throw his smoothie out in order to be a bit lighter. Instead of telling him that he needs to throw it out so you can win the race, tell him you are going to get him a refill. He will give you his smoothie, and you will throw it out. As he gets mad that you did that, you will drop him into the Red Baroness' plane, making her plane heavier, and you lighter.
 While he does, he spills some of his smoothie, breaking the Red Baroness' plane engine, and they fall down. You regain your spot in first place.
 The mayor congratulates you. After you fly back down, everyone who participated in the race and also the people who work at the main island congratulate you, along with the mayor and Amelia, and the mayor awards you with the island medallion and credits (if you are on Computer). Confetti falls from the sky and there is a short party. Eventually, everyone leaves except for Amelia, who will always be there at the island.


The adventure has been completed. Have fun playing Poptropica!

