 Choose unprocessed food over processed food as much as possible, eating plenty of leafy, green vegetables and other vegetables, fruits, grains and small amounts of meat and fish. Learn to cook for yourself if you don't already possess this skill; it's not hard and it makes healthy eating a whole lot easier. Healthy eating will help you to keep your body in balance, which can help improve the look of your skin, keep your overall shape and most importantly, gives you sufficient energy to do all the things you pack into your day.


Sugary foods, fatty foods and processed foods should be consumed in moderation; the more you treat them like treats rather than standard fare, the better.
There are many fad diets. Rather than simply accepting them at face value, think carefully about whether the diet is truly beneficial and will actually help you. Many diets are hype and are not based on good nutrition principles. Always put your long-term health before any fad; talk to your doctor before selecting a diet.;
, Starvation leads to the body's natural instinct of hoarding fat, which can in turn cause you to gain weight and keep that weight when you eventually begin eating again. Starvation is also a form of self-harm, stoked by trying to meet beauty ideals that can sometimes err into the realm of ridiculous. Instead, focus on eating moderately and healthily; eat more protein and complex carbohydrates from unprocessed food sources, eat smaller portions and eat nutritionally-dense food over food from which all the nutrients have been stripped. Looking amazing includes feeling amazing too, something having plenty of energy will ensure. Exercise regularly; you may find it helps to do a brisk walk before mealtimes, to help stoke up your metabolism before eating.


Fasting is promoted by many people as a way to "detoxify" your body and lose weight quickly. Again, talk to your doctor about the benefits of fasting in your case; it is not always the right option.
Constantly aspiring to being ultra-thin can be an issue about control. If you feel that you are consumed by counting calories, weighing yourself and obsessing about wearing size 0 all the time, you might consider discussing any underlying emotional issues with a qualified therapist. There is more to life than the diet treadmill and you deserve freedom from such crushing expectations.
 It is important to find your optimal sleep range to ensure your continued well-being. For most people, the optimal amount of nightly hours for sleep is between 7 and 9 hours, with variations for age, health and personal requirements. There is no shame in needing more sleep than somebody else and it is important to recognize that many people who claim to thrive on 5 hours a night are not likely to be as healthy as someone getting more sleep. While you can push your body on less sleep for a while, the sleep deficit clocks up and will impact you later, including possible weight gain and ongoing irritability.


Get your sleep pattern set. Aim for around eight hours of uninterrupted sleep each night. Adjust either side by an hour or so, to suit your needs. Waking up feeling refreshed and having energy is a sign you're getting sufficient sleep.
Keep your bed setup simple but effective. Don't be too warm or too cold, as both extremes harm the ability to sleep well. Use comfortable bed linen and wear non-constricting nightwear to bed.
Some drinks can aid with sleeping, such as chamomile tea or warm milk. If you have ongoing sleep problems, talk to your doctor for advice.
 Give yourself time to do things that help you feel better each morning, such as stretching, doing some exercise, reading or working on a hobby. Early morning is a special time of day and it is more enjoyable to get ready at an even, unrushed pace. Exercising in the morning can increase your energy for the rest of the day.
 At least go for walks; these are as healthy as you can get, provided you take them regularly. Be sure to include inclines (hills) to give your body a full challenge, and speed up the walking at some parts of the whole walk. Other exercise should always be based on what you enjoy doing and what is best for your body type. A physiotherapist can help you decide what is a good exercise for your body type if you're not sure (it means that you will get the most benefits for the effort put in). Any exercise that you hate or causes you pain is likely to end up being discarded or put you off exercise in general, so it is not recommended. Some other ideas include:


Run on a treadmill a few times a week or even go run around the block a few times.
Maybe go to the gym and workout with friends. (Not everyone likes gym work, although you can feel pressured into using a gym given the heavy advertising this industry invests in. If it isn't for you, it isn't for you; there are plenty of other ways to keep fit and toned.)
Go to the park and have a race or two with your friends. Or, take your dog and race her instead.
Do long walks, hikes or cycle rides on weekends.
Swim.
Play team sports regularly.
Exercise at least three times a week for 30 minutes each time. Not only will this keep you in shape, it will also eliminate stress and keep you looking younger.
 Wash and condition your hair with a shampoo suitable for your hair type. Brush your teeth at least twice a day. Use a facial wash to gently clean your face, especially after a day of being out and about in the grimy city.
 Things you might like to do include:


Apply a deep conditioning masque to your hair to repair any damage.
Do a facial masque to deep clean your pores and once a month or so, get/do a manicure/pedicure.

Note that over-excess of nail polish is not recommended due to the amount of damage it does to your skin, especially the cuticle area.



If you have allergies, test brands that state they are hypoallergenic or contain no allergens, etc. While there are no regulated tests that substantiate such claims, these brands rely on not causing itching and swelling, etc., to keep their customer base. It doesn't mean you won't react, so try little amounts to begin with.
 For example:


Use concealer for blemishes. Simply dab it on rather than rub it in. Dab on the discolored area until hidden.
Add foundation and powder, if needed. A multicolored mineral powder can work well, or find one that is the closest to your own skin tone. Use a brush or a bodied pouf to apply an even layer (flat poufs can make it looked caked-on.)
Leave thick eyelashes alone; they need nothing extra. If your eyelashes are straight and long, simply curl them and that's that. If you do need mascara, use a waterproof one that is shade darker than your eyes, and apply sparingly.
Match eyeliner to the color of the mascara. It should have a fine point; use this to carefully dot along the dashes––do not draw a straight line!
Use light pink or clear lip gloss on your lips. Don't apply too much. Avoid using sparkling glosses. Exfoliating the lips can enhance the softness but isn't something everyone likes doing.
 Wearing it regularly can end up being a huge time and financial expense. In some cases, makeup can cause skin problems and bacterial infections. To look amazing, it is a good idea that people are used to you without makeup as much as with it, if not more so. Your unmade-up self is amazing too; be sure to brush the hair, brush the teeth and put on your best smile.
 Keep in your closet at least four tops and two pairs of pants that are of a nondescript nature so that if you wear them on Monday and Thursday, no one will recognize them. Note that the set nondescript clothes should be changed at least once every two months. Then, go shopping like crazy - as long as you will actually wear what you bought. However, keep in mind how you would like to come across to other people. If you go for the simple and sophisticated look, don't get a clownish top with culottes to match.
 Keep a fancy black shirt and a fancy black dress handy for formal events. (Also, consider getting a semi-formal to formal non-black, non-white outfit for special occasions such as weddings.)

, Have at least one pair of running, one fancy black, and the remaining choices of styles and colors are up to you.
, Accessories can make clothes look richer, deeper and more interesting. Besides which, accessories are just plain fun!


A small accessory can make a big difference, so take care not to overdo them.
Eye-catching purses or handbags can really set off an outfit.
 Smiling costs nothing and it helps you to glow. Smiling helps you to feel better. And it's one of the best things you can give another human being. A smile will always make you look amazing.
 Change the things about you you're not happy with, but only because you know you can do or be better, not because someone else prefers you to be something else. Learn how to spot the difference; if you feel pressured, it usually means that someone or something else is raising your expectations to change, not you. That is a recipe for losing yourself, not gaining the best from yourself.
 Happiness is fleeting, contentment and fulfillment are enduring. Contentment with life isn't about getting stuck; it's about appreciating what you do have already and knowing that, in spite of setbacks (of which there will be plenty throughout life), you have the ability to keep going and to continually grow stronger.
 As the saying goes, everyone in life is doing it tough somewhere, some of the time. Kindness can be the helping hand that another person needs, and kind people are awesome. If that isn't about looking amazing, then what is?


Be nice to the people you come across in life. It takes the same amount of energy to be nice as it does to be mean, with the difference being that kindness opens up opportunities, while meanness shuts them down. Moreover, a mean-spirited heart carries many a burden that a kindhearted person doesn't have to bear.
Being kind and thoughtful towards others has its own attractiveness; you can feel like a role model for the better world we'd all like to live in.

