 Collect on delivery (COD), also known as cash on delivery, allows you to buy something and then pay for it when it arrives. The primary benefit of this option is that no money is spent until you get the items. You can check the product delivered and refuse delivery if necessary. This leaves the responsibility of the item to the seller instead of you. One other benefit is that, depending on the company, you can buy things for much higher than most credit card limits. Cash used to be accepted, but it is rarely accepted now. To pay when your items arrives, you need to pay with a personal check, business check, cashier’s check, or money order.


This used to be very common but is not as popular anymore. It is still possible with individual sellers and small retailers.
UPS, Fedex, and the USPS still offer this service. It is available within the United States and between the US and Canada. Fedex also does COD in India.
COD can have more costs than normal shipping. The extra costs have to be paid by you when the items arrive.
This option is great for high-dollar purchases that exceed your credit card limit. , Some online retailers, such as Amazon, Macy's, and EBay, will allow you to use points for purchases. You can enable this option from these sites from their pay with points pages. You can use points from cards such as the Amazon.com Business Rewards Visa, the American Express Membership Rewards, the Chase Ultimate Rewards, the Discover Cashback Bonus, the Discover Miles, and the Citi Thank You card. The drawback to this method is that the value of points is often very hard to figure out. They will vary from company to company and even from product to product.


There is usually a dollar value associated with getting points, such as one point per dollar spent. The value when you spend the points is typically not the same. Each program is different and you should consult the terms and conditions of your program to determine the value of points or rewards.
Points can be collected and redeemed in many different ways. You can also get rewards from e-commerce sites such as Amazon or the Ebay Bucks program., Gift cards can be used at many online store such as Amazon, Barnes and Noble, and Hallmark. You can use a gift card to buy any item from the online store, just like you would cash in a real store. You can also add the card balance to your account to be used the next time you buy something. The processes of using gift cards is similar across sites. If you want to use it on a particular purchase, you can enter it on your payment page when you are checking out. There is typically an option to redeem a gift card on your payment screen. You then locate the claim code on the card and enter it into the site.


To add the money to your account, go to your account page on the site. Choose to add a gift card to your account from this page. Enter the claim code and then hit submit or apply.
For plastic gift cards, you may need to scratch off the coating on the back of the card to see the code. The claim code is different than 16-digit card number.
Purchase gift debit cards. Gift debit cards (ie. Visa Gift Card, AMEX Gift Card,etc.) are accepted anywhere debit cards are accepted. You will likely be able to purchase them at a store that sells gift cards. They work like gift cards, however they are accepted anywhere debit cards are accepted, and some can be re-loaded.

