 In most cases, you should only ask a girl to be your girlfriend after you have gone on several dates and know that she is interested in you as more than just a friend; if you're younger and are used to asking girls to be your girlfriend before going on dates, then look for signs that she likes you, such as her blushing when you talk, or the fact that she waits for you after class. Having an idea of whether or not she likes you back can improve your chances when you ask.


If you have never spoken to her, don't know her very well, or know that she is already romantically involved with somebody else, then don't ask her out. There are plenty of other fish in the sea!
You don't have to be 100% sure about whether or not she likes you, but try to read her body language and words the next time you're together. Does she turn her body toward you, seem a bit nervous in your presence, or look excited to see you? If so, then these are pretty good signs that she might be interested.
 Start off by greeting her with something like "Hey you," "Hey, how have you been?" or "Hey, how is your day going?" This will help ease into the conversation and prepare her for the question. Let the conversation flow naturally. There's no need to be extra clever right at the beginning or to make what you think is a hilarious comment. It's better to be direct and to stick to the point; she'll be impressed by your confidence if you don't dilly dally too much.


Though you may not know what every second of her day looks like, try to send it at a time when she is likely to not be too busy. For example, if you know she has soccer practice right after school, send it a few hours after that.
 Tell her that you enjoy spending time with her, and compliment the qualities that make her unique, explaining why you like spending time with her so much. Try saying something like "I've really enjoyed spending these last few weeks with you," or "You really make me feel special," or "I've never felt this way about anybody before." Whatever you choose to say, be honest and only say things that you really mean. That said, you don't need to go overboard with the praise.


Wait for her to respond before asking her to be your girlfriend. How she responds to statements like these will help you determine whether or not she's interested in a relationship with you without you having to ask her explicitly.
See if she reciprocates. If she says that she feels the same way about you, then go ahead and ask her if she wants to be your girlfriend. If she doesn't respond, or simply says "thanks" without telling you how she feels, then she might not be interested.
Don't smother her with compliments, as this can come across and insincere and overwhelming.
 There are several ways to phrase this question. You can ask her straight-out by saying something like "Do you want to be my girlfriend?" or "Can I call you my girlfriend?" or "Do you want to become an official couple?" Don't wait too long to pop the question. The sooner you ask it, the sooner you can move forward.


Alternatively, you can leave her with a more open-ended question like "So where do you see this going?" or "Are you open to the idea of having a boyfriend?" Open-ended questions like these show her that you genuinely care about her wants and needs, and are willing to compromise to make her happy. This can take some of the pressure off, though you may not be getting the answer you want.
 If she wants to be your girlfriend, then great! The first thing you can do is to suggest a fun, simple activity that you can do together, like going to a show or going bowling, and also pick a time and a place to meet. This can make her see that you're really serious about her and have put a lot of thought into your potential relationship.


If she's not interested, then be nice and thank her for talking to you. It's best to leave things on a good note so you can feel proud of your mature reaction.

