 To begin making these gluten-free and vegan hush puppies, pour the ground flaxseed in a microwaveable bowl, then add 3 tablespoons (44.37 ml) of water. Microwave on high for 20 seconds until the water is warm. Take the flaxseed out of the microwave and stir until it creates a sticky mixture.Flaxseed is a vegan alternative to egg. When combined with water, ground flaxseed becomes sticky and helps bind ingredients together much in the same way that egg does.
Warming the water helps the texture of the flaxseed become stickier.
If you can’t find pre-ground flaxseed, grind whole flaxseed in a spice grinder.
 In a large mixing bowl, combine 1 cup (236.59 ml) of corn flour and 1 ¼ cups (295.74 ml) almond meal, along with the baking powder, cayenne pepper, coconut sugar, and salt. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully combined.Coconut sugar is a slightly healthier sugar, as it contains less fructose than regular sugar. However, if you don’t have access to coconut sugar you can substitute cane sugar.
Make sure to use corn flour, not cornmeal. Cornmeal is coarser and makes for a different texture.
 In a small bowl, combine the white onion and the coconut milk. Stir to combine, then pour in the flaxseed mixture that you reserved and mix well.Make sure to shake the can of coconut milk before pouring, since coconut milk naturally separates.
 Pour the dry corn flour mixture over the flaxseed mixture, stirring continuously until the ingredients combine into a batter. Then cover the bowl of batter and place it in the fridge for an hour.Chilling the batter helps it become more cohesive and less sticky.
 After the batter has chilled for about 45 minutes, turn the oven on to 400 degrees F (204.4 C) and let it preheat. Line a baking sheet with non-stick parchment paper., In a small bowl, mix the 2 tablespoons (29.57 ml) of corn flour, 2 tablespoons (29.57 ml) of almond meal and a pinch of sea salt. These ingredients combine to make a glaze that you will use to coat the tops of the hush puppies so that they become crispy., Once the batter has chilled for an hour, take it out of the refrigerator. Use your hands to scoop the batter into golf ball-sized balls, then roll them in the bowl of coating mixture, shaking off the excess. Place the balls on the baking sheet.

Try putting a little corn flour on your hands to prevent the batter from sticking to your palms.
 Place the baking tray in the preheated oven and bake the hush puppies for 8 minutes. After 8 minutes, take them out and flip them over with a spatula so that they get evenly baked. Then place them back in the oven for another 7 minutes., After the hush puppies have cooked for 15 minutes, take them out of the oven. Let them cool on the pan or a cooling rack for around five minutes or so, then serve them while they are still warm!