 You may want to hide your depression due to shame, guilt, or confusion about why you are feeling negative, sad, and alone. Though you may try to maintain an outside appearance to show everything is okay, hiding your feelings of depression will not allow you to get the help you need. Consider sharing your feelings with a close friend, family member, or your partner or spouse. Being honest about your feelings can often make you feel better and help you work with others to find ways to recover from depression., Your workplace’s Human Resources representative may be a good resource to confide in if you decide to share your feelings of depression. Set up a one-on-one meeting with your company’s HR person so you can discuss your depression and how you feel it is affecting your workplace performance.Your HR person should offer you support options like a leave of absence from work, a depression support group contact, or a therapist through the company’s medical insurance. Many workplaces have resources available for employees who are struggling with depression and do not want it to negatively affect their careers.
 To get hands-on help for your depression, you may consider hiring a therapist or a counselor who specializes in depression. Ask friends who also struggle with depression to refer you to a therapist or talk to your company’s HR for a contact for a counselor. You may also be able to hire a therapist through your personal healthcare plan.You can also talk to individuals who are professionally trained to deal with depression through a depression hotline in your state or country. You can do an online search for depression hotlines you can access toll free, 24 hours a day, in your area or call the national depression hotline at: 1-800-442-HOPE (4673)., The combination of psychological counseling and medication has been proven to be very effective for individuals suffering from depression. Your doctor can prescribe medications to help relieve your symptoms and suggest a therapist or psychologist to help you process your feelings of depression.Depending on the severity of your depression and your medical history, your doctor may prescribe antidepressant medication such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) like Prozac, Paxil, Zoloft, Celexa, or Lexapro; or serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) such as Cymbalta, Effexor XR, or Fetzima.
Your doctor may prescribe tricyclic antidepressants like Tofranil or Pamelor, which can be effective but can also cause more severe side effects. Tricyclics are not usually prescribed unless you have already tried SSRIs and show no signs of improvement. Always discuss the potential side effects of antidepressant medications with your doctor before taking them and speak to your doctor if you experience any adverse effects while on these medications.

