 Practice makes perfect, so challenge yourself to speak with at least one new person during every social event you attend. Even if it’s just to say hi, talking to new people is a skill you can improve with practice., Shy people often forget they can take advantage of their shyness by actively listening. Taking time to really listen to what other people have to say and responding to them meaningfully makes conversation easier for those who experience social phobia. Being aware and mindful in social situations is a great way to feel less shy and more open to engaging with others., If someone says something that you don’t know how to respond to, tell him. You don’t have to be blunt or rude, but it’s okay to admit when you feel unsure or confused.


When people bring up a topic you’re unfamiliar with, try saying something like “I’m not sure I know much about that. Can you tell me more?”
Joking can make you feel more confident and able to contribute in social situations especially when the discussion focuses on a topic you’re unfamiliar with. Say something like, “I don’t know about you, but I only came here to talk about comfortable subjects like religion, politics, and money.”
If a person is talking about something you don’t know how to engage with, try changing the subject by asking the person for information about some other hobby or pastime they enjoy that you are more familiar with. “That’s really interesting. Have you done any skiing this season?”, If your shyness stems from lack of self-esteem, one great way to improve your ability to communicate openly with others is to explore your own strengths. Everyone has something to contribute, and that includes you. Knowing what you can contribute to conversations and social situations is a great way to improve your confidence and appear less shy., You may be one of the many people who avoid talking with new people due to fear of how they will perceive you. What others think of you should matter very little when it comes to how you see yourself, but despite best efforts, it does matter for many of us. The trick is not to let the perceptions of others or your own fear of those perceptions keep you from being yourself.


One great way to relieve your own social anxiety is to refocus your attention from how others see you onto those you interact with. Offering polite attention to those around you rather than fixating on your anxiety or embarrassment often makes you look and feel more at ease.Compassion for others may be the best cure for shyness because it allows you to more readily shift your attention toward others and away from your own fear of embarrassment. Focus the energy that could be wasted on negative feelings onto thinking of how others are feeling in the situation.