 You won't be doing any sewing in this method, but you will be doing some cutting. Because of this, you want a material that does not fray—such as fleece or wool-felt. A throw or twin-size blanket will work best for this. A much larger blanket may be too long, especially in the arm area.


If you do decide to use a larger blanket, you may need to cut it down.;
, If you'd like, you can fold it asymmetrically, so that the front part is shorter than the back. Once you have folded the blanket, rotate it so that the folded part it on top, and facing away from you., This will be your cutting line. A quick and easy way to find the center is to fold the blanket in half widthwise, and make a mark at the top and bottom edges.
 Make sure that you are only cutting through the front layer of fabric, and not both. Cut straight up from the bottom edge of your blanket all the way to the top edge. These two flaps will make the front of your coat.
 Make sure that the circle is centered. If you want a more tailored finish, cut a narrow half-circle through both layers of fabric first. Next, cut the circle bigger, but only on the front layer of fabric. This will create a neck opening that is narrower in the back, and wider in the front, just like in store-bought garments.


To find the circumference for the circle: measure the base of your neck, then add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters)., Drape the coat over your shoulders, with the solid piece against your back, and the two flaps hanging down in front of your chest. Figure out where your waist is, then slip sewing pin into the fabric.


The sewing pins will mark the placement for the belt holes, so that you can close the coat.
 The edges of the fabric should fall to your wrists, or just below. If the blanket is too wide and the sleeves are too long, you will need to shorten them. Figure out where you want the sleeves to end, then mark the spot with a sewing pin. Do this for both sleeves.
 Make sure that the sewing pin is centered on each flap first. Next, cut a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) long slit on each front flap, then remove the sewing pin. Do not cut through the back layer of fabric.


You will be slipping a belt through these slits. If the belt you want to use is wider than 1 inch (2.54 centimeters), then cut the slit longer.
 If you made marks where you want to cut the sleeves, unfold your blanket, and spread it out on the floor. Fold the edges of the blanket inward using the sewing pin as a guide. Cut along the fold on each side, then remove the sewing pins when you are done.


Consider using one of these strips as a belt for your coat. If the strip is too wide, you can cut down lengthwise.
 Drape the coat across your shoulders, with the solid part against your back, and the two flaps hanging down in front of your chest. Place a belt behind your back, under the blanket. Wrap the belt around your waist, and slip both ends through the slits you cut. Finish off by buckling the belt.The back piece will hang loosely against your back. The front will be gathered and scrunched up.
If you are using one of the strips you cut off earlier as a belt, simply tie it in a loose knot or bow.

