 When you are in a group of people, don't jump into the conversation right away. Wait until you are introduced, then you can join the conversation a little bit at a time. You still don't want to be over exuberant, just talk to one or two people at a time. Make sure your body language doesn't seem closed off. You want to seem open to intimate conversation but not overly interested in every detail of each conversation.


This is true for the kinds of activities you undertake as well. Avoid loud parties or large clubs. Being coy means hanging on the sidelines, trying not to be noticed. You want instead to attend small, intimate gatherings., Whether it is at work with your colleagues or with people you don't know, you should keep to yourself. Don't divulge unnecessary information to people at work or tell them about your personal problems. If you are around your closest friends, feel free to talk about how your boyfriend dumped you or the problems you are having house training your new puppy. If you just met someone, however, keep your distance and keep your thoughts and feelings to yourself. You want to feel out how people are and how they act in order to know what kind of person they are before you try to instigate a friendship.You should also try to avoid over sharing when asked questions. You don't want to divulge information about yourself to random people. Once you get to know someone, then you can start telling them more intimate details about yourself.
 When you are trying to be coy, you don't want to be the center of attention. This goes for attitude and dress. You shouldn't wear clothes that try to grab the attention of those around you or put you in the center of the action. It is harder to make close friendships if you are constantly surrounded by tons of people. If you try to stick to the sidelines, those people that do notice you will be more likely to be interested in getting to know you for who you are., If you are typically on the outskirts, listen to those around you. Take in the information that others divulge Try to ease into new relationships, listening to what they say in order to get to know them better. Once they become more than just an acquaintance, you can open up around them and limit your coy, shy behavior when they are around.