 You can try yoga, listen to calming music, meditate, exercise, or talk to friends to reduce daily stress. Stress can damage your heart function and increase the inflammatory response in your body.It can also affect behaviors that impact your arteries and heart function. For example, many people turn to alcohol, smoking, overeating, and don't have much time for rest or exercise when stressed. This leads to high blood pressure, arterial wall damage and obesity that can all damage your heart function.Try a variety of stress-reducing techniques until you find one that relaxes you. You might also try deep-breathing exercises, massage, hypnosis, or tai chi., Talk with your doctor about a smoking cessation program that will work with your lifestyle. Or, at least try to reduce smoking, since it contains thousands of chemicals that can seriously damage your heart. Smoking reduces heart function by increasing blood pressure, reducing exercise tolerance and increasing the likelihood that the blood will clot. Nicotine, the addictive compound in cigarettes, is known to increase heart rate and blood pressure.You should also take care to avoid secondhand smoke, which can also damage your heart.Stay in open outdoor areas, upwind from friends and relatives who like to smoke.
 Laughing can also reduce stress, which improves heart function. Researchers found that the old saying “laughter is the best medicine” holds some truth. They found that people with heart disease were 40 percent less likely to laugh compared to other people of the same age without heart disease.Make it a point to find the things in life that give you joy and make you laugh every day. You might try:Watching a funny movie or television show
Reading comedy books
Laughing about the funny things your pet does
Spending time around people that make you laugh

, Sleeping less than six hours a night or more than nine can increase your risk of heart disease and death. But, sleeping seven to nine hours each night leaves you feeling rested and refreshed. More importantly, it helps reduce your stress level and allows your body plenty of time to relax and unwind.Lack of sleep can increase your blood pressure, irritability, instability, and decrease your energy level., Talk with your doctor about whether you should reduce or stop drinking alcohol. If there are no reasons why you shouldn't be able to drink, then one or two drinks should be safe. But, if you or someone in your family has a history of alcoholism, hypertriglyceridemia, pancreatitis, liver disease, heart failure or uncontrolled hypertension, then you should not drink alcohol. Each of these conditions will damage your heart function.Review your alcohol intake with your doctor every year to discuss the benefits and risks.
 You should have your blood pressure measured annually if it has been within normal limits, since blood pressure is an indicator of heart function. High blood pressure is one of the primary health conditions that damages the function of your heart.If it's high, you'll need to follow the treatment plan prescribed by your doctor. There are also several lifestyle changes you could make, including:Keeping your weight within normal limits.
Drinking at least eight 8-ounce glasses of water to avoid dehydration.
Cutting back on the amount of caffeine you drink daily.
Getting involved in a supportive community.

