 If you're just after meat, there's no reason to take a bunch of heavy bone back with you. There's a lot of meat on an elk, meaning there will be enough weight to pack out without fiddling around with bones. If you've got a long hike ahead of you, getting the good-quality meat is possible with the right tools and the right approach.With a sharp hunting knife, you should be able to break down an entire elk, just taking the meat, in an hour or two, plenty quick to avoid spoilage. Keep a couple of big plastic garbage bags on hand to get the meat into quickly and get it cooled down.
 Basically, you'll take all the meat you can from each side of the animal separately, working your way from the back to the front. After you've cleaned one side, you can flip the animal over to the other side. It won't matter that the skinned side is getting dirty, since you've already taken all the meat you want from it. It's quick and clean.
 Start working the hide off the hind leg on the side facing up by making a small cut around the lower joint below the ham. Pull the hide away from the meat, working your knife underneath to help unzip the hide and pull it loose as directed in the first section. Keep working until you've exposed the meat on the entire hindquarter.
 You don't have to be an anatomist or a licensed butcher to see where the good meat is. Trim away any fatty layer along the outside of the meat to get a good look at the ham that you've got. There should be a seam, where the major thigh muscle separates from the other leg muscles, providing a nice seam to work down and separate your first big roast or ham of meat from the carcass.


Work carefully, using your hunting knife to make small, clean cuts along the seam, pulling the meat loose in a big chunk as you work. Work down as close as possible to the bone as you can, taking as much as possible. This is some of the best meat for roasting or cutting into steaks on the elk. It's all good.
Most of the cuts should just be through membrane, making it relatively easy and quick. Around the pelvis though, keep your knife flat against the bone to work the meat loose and you should be fine.
You should spend the most time working at removing meat from the hindquarters. The most meat you'll get out of the animal will be there. Keep looking for the seams that separate muscles, cutting down until you get close to the leg bone, then pulling the meat loose. Place it directly into plastic bags.
Continue skinning up the carcass. As you work up the animal, continue skinning as you go, working the hide up and pulling it back to expose the seam, working your knife along to loosen it.
 Work the hide back over the backbone to expose it and remove the backstraps, which are like the outside tenderloin of the elk. These are two long "straps" of meat that run along each side of the backbone. You may only be able to get to the backstrap on the side you're working on, depending on how the animal is oriented, but if you know where to look for it, it's some of the best meat to get.


Feel the side of the animal, where the ribs end, then trace upward until you get to the backbone. The backstrap should start about there, and extend all the way along the backbone. To get at it, insert your knife and keep it flat against the backbone, then cut along it, keeping tight into the bone, up toward the shoulders and back toward the pelvis. Separate the backstrap from the pelvis, and at the top near the shoulder blade.
Find the seam several inches down the ribs of the animal to separate the backstrap completely. It forms a kind of "trough" along either side of the backbone, which you should be able to feel bulging slightly. It's about an inch or two deep and maybe five or six inches wide, running from the shoulder to the pelvis.
 There won't be as much meat from the front quarters are there will be along the back, but there's still a substantial amount. Work the hams off, finding the seams and separating the meat between the muscles. Work your knife until you hit the shoulder bone and separate your flank steak in a long strip.


It's also a good idea to work your knife up along the side of the neck to get the neck meat from that side. There's a lot of it. This is excellent for stewing and slow-cooking.
 Because elk are so big, it's surprisingly easy to get the meat from the ribs without having to bother removing the ribs themselves. You can work your knife along the bone, using each rib as a guide, and separate the meat the connects them. Go slowly and carefully, making sure that you don't push your knife into the carcass too far. Remember, the guts are still in there, making it very important that you work carefully and gently.
 The tenderloin is the meat that runs opposite the backstrap, along the inside of part of the backbone. It's the best meat on the animal, but it's also the most difficult to get to using this method. It's worth getting, though, every time.


Carefully push down the membrane separating the intestines from the last foot or so of ribs, where the backstrap ended. Holding the intestines down, and using extreme caution, use your knife to separate the tenderloin from the backbone, using the bone as a guide and letting your knife do the work. Be extremely careful.
 On a cool day–around 40 F or less–you can pack out all your meat in plastic bags and get it back to your camp to continue cooling down as quickly as possible. On hotter days, it may be a better idea to cool things down more actively.The biggest cause of spoilage is body heat, and not getting the meat cooled down quickly enough. If the temperature is higher than 70 F, you might want to rinse the meat in cool water to bring the temperature down before packing it out.


Aging meat helps to dry it out and improve the flavor. Elk is no different. While you want to get it cooled down as quickly as possible, in temperatures of less than 60 °F (16 °C), the meat should be fine for up to three days. Then cool it below 40 F for up to a week or two.

