 If your hair is sticking up in the wrong places or covering part of your face in an unflattering way, it will take away from any of the positive aspects of the picture. Make sure your hair is combed to get out any of the kinks, and that you have used product or hairspray to get rid of any static.


Your hair doesn't have to look perfect, but you do have to make sure it does not attract attention away from your face.;
, When you are taking photos of yourself, you can try wearing slightly more makeup so your features are not washed out under the lights. Just don't apply 'too' much makeup or you won't look like yourself and may look like you're wearing a makeup mask. If you don't normally wear a lot of makeup, you can just put on some nice mascara and lip gloss to draw attention to your features.


If your face is naturally a bit oily, make sure to put some powder on your face, or to remove the oil with a natural oil-blotter. An oily face can look even more oily in a photo.
 Natural lighting is always best, but play around with the lights in different rooms. Always do your best to take your picture in a room that has sufficient lighting to see your features.


If you are indoors, stand near a window.
If you are outside, take the photo early in the morning or late in the afternoon so the sunlight does not overwhelm the photo.
 The background you choose should make you stand out instead of making you look washed-out or plain in comparison. If you are indoors, just a plain white or brightly-colored wall will do; don't stand in front of a wall with a lot of posters or designs on it, or you won't stand out as much.


If you are outdoors, pick a uniform background, like a row of trees or a lake, and try not to stand in front of other people or moving objects, like buses.
 This is one common way to take a "selfie," so you should be comfortable doing it before you take dozens of pictures that don't come out right. This will help you avoid that awkward photo where your forearm is blocking half your face and looks incredibly muscular.


Remember that your arms will get tired, so take a break from practicing to adjust the light or pick out a new outfit.
 Your pictures will look much better if you're feeling silly, loose, and just in a great mood. This will make you more comfortable in front of the camera, and more likely to experiment and relax. Try indulging in some of your favorite things while you're taking the picture, like listening to music that makes you want to dance, or humming your favorite tune to yourself.

