 Credit monitoring services protect your credit by tracking your credit report and keeping an eye out for identity theft. These services are typically offered by banks or credit unions. The credit bureaus and some independent companies also offer them. Some are free and some have a fee. Depending on the company you choose to monitor your credit, the service will watch your credit at one, two or all three of the credit reporting agencies, which are Experian, Equifax and TransUnion.
They send you letters, e-mails and text alerts to notify you of activity on your credit report.
 Lock financial documents away in a safe place. Limit what you carry in your purse or wallet and when you travel. Shred receipts, credit offers, credit applications, physician statements, checks, bank statements or other documents that state your personal information. Take outgoing mail directly to the post office or a post office collection box, and remove mail promptly from your mailbox., Take steps to protect personal information you give out over the internet. Use caution when opening e-mails from anyone you don't know. Install software designed to protect your privacy.Never give out personal information on the phone, through the mail or online.
Be wary of clicking on links through e-mail, even if they are from a company with whom you do business.
Safely dispose of computers by using a wiping program to clear the hard drive of all personal information.
Find out how to delete information permanently from a mobile device before trading it in for a new one.
Guard online transactions with encryption software.
Keep passwords secure, and don’t overshare on social media.
 Don’t share your social security number without finding out if other identifying information will suffice. Schools, doctor’s offices and other businesses often ask for social security numbers to verify your identity. Before giving it out, ask how they will use it, how they protect it, and if other information can be used instead., Be aware that others can access information over Wi-Fi networks. Be suspicious of communications from people you don't know.Install security software such as anti-virus and anti-spy software.
Avoid phishing e-mails by never opening e-mails or clicking on links sent from someone you don’t know.
Don’t send personal information over the internet if you are using a public Wi-Fi network.
Don’t keep financial information on your laptop, and protect it from being opened by a stranger with a password.
Read the privacy policies on websites where you share personal information to understand how they protect your information.

