 You can't change the past, so there is no need to dwell on it. Instead use past experiences to develop new coping strategies and plan for future hardship.


Acknowledge the resources they have helped you manage difficult situations in the past, and identify ways to engage those resources again in the future, should you find yourself in difficult situations again.
 Recognize real limitations, without being defeated by them. Set small manageable goals that will boost your mood gradually as you achieve them. Setting unrealistic goals will only set you up for failure.Break large goals up into smaller goals to achieve as you progress towards the greater goal. This will minimize the devastating effects of failure and set back.


If you decide to set a goal to lose at least 50 pounds in a year, break it into smaller weekly goals. Working towards losing 1 pound a week feels more attainable, and failure to meet that goal feels less significant than focusing on the total of 50 pounds.
 Circumstances change; what was a reasonable goal yesterday, may no longer be attainable. Letting go of unachievable dreams is not giving up hope. It's giving up disappointment and makes room for new dreams. We often have trouble setting new goals because we become trapped in our past failure.Try writing your original failed goals or unrealized dreams on a white board. Then consider whether those goals are still important to you. Then wipe the board clean. Create a new list of goals focusing on your current circumstances and desires. Some may make the list the second time, but completely let go of those you didn't rewrite.
 Very literally create a vision. Find some way to physically represent what achieving your dreams would look like. Vision boards, visual measurements of progress toward your goal, and photos or affirmations will help keep you focused on the future and possibility, rather than the past and discontent.Have multiple visual representations to keep in various spaces to provide small doses of hope and inspiration throughout days and weeks. Having a vision board at home is great, but does little to help you remain optimistic through challenges at work.
 You may be putting unnecessary limitations on yourself based on current circumstances. Most situations in life are temporary. Take inventory of the situation and make note of new resources every week.


Keep track of positive changes. You might consider keeping a list you can easily add to in a place where you will see it often. This will remind you to check your perspective and of positive things in your life.
If you are struggling to see change or find resources, ask a friend to discuss the situation with you and help you identify changes and new resources.

