 It can useful to talk through things when the whole family is present, so everyone can contribute and everybody can hear from each other. If you have an issue you want to talk about, don’t be aggressive, but stay calm and try to explain yourself as clearly as possible. Family meetings can be useful for discussing things you will all do together, such as holidays., If you are feeling alone and left-out, don’t be afraid to talk to your parent about the situation. But, remember that they care deeply about your stepparent and will want to spend time with her as well as you. Try to see things from their point of view and be understanding and generous. If there are problems, try to work them out together.Your parent can talk to the stepparent about the matter in his or her own way, to help smooth things out too.
Be sensitive and moderate, say something like 'I'm not really feeling happy with how things are going, and I am hoping we can sort things out together'.
Stress that you are looking for ways to improve things: 'What do you think I can do to feel happier and more comfortable?'
Don't blame everything on your stepparent, saying things like 'I hate her!', 'She completely resents me!'
An understanding and less confrontational approach will be more successful and gain more sympathy from your parent. If you say something like 'I know you really love her, and I want you to be happy, but I feel left out', your parent will talk with your stepparent about how to address this.
 Keeping an open line of communication with your stepparent is important in helping you get used to each other and understanding where you are each coming from. You may not feel comfortable talking about serious things with them for a while, but don’t retreat and just ignore them altogether.


Just having some idle chit-chat can help you feel more comfortable together.
Tell her how your day was, and return the favour asking 'how was work today?'
If you talk to your stepparent, it's better to avoid starting your sentences with 'you', which can direct the blame, but rather say 'I feel' or 'I think'.Listen carefully to your stepparent's response and think about it.

