 Warm or hot water can cause colors to run and may even cause the hat to shrink depending on the material. You only need enough space to keep the hats submerged. If you only want to wash one or two hats, you can even use a large plastic bowl instead of a tub.


This method works best for hand-knitted hats or delicate baseball caps that you're afraid will come undone or stretch out in a washing machine.If you knitted the hat yourself, check the yarn label for washing instructions.;
, Stir about a teaspoon of detergent or soap into the water until it is completely dissolved. The type of cleanser you use will be determined by the material your hat is made of and what kind of grime you're trying to remove.


If your knit hat is woolen, you should select a soap that is specially formulated for wool fabric. This will reduce the chance of pilling, discoloration, and other types of damage. If this type of cleaner is unavailable, a mild detergent without bleach or other additives may work.
Never use chlorine bleachor enzyme treatments on woolens., If you're using this method on a hat for the first time, you should soak a small patch before immersing the whole garment. Hold the patch underwater for about two minutes.


Check for bleeding colors while the hat is still wet. You may notice dye coming off in the water. If you don't, try dabbing the hat on a light surface or object.
When dabbing the patch, make sure to do so with something that is either easy to bleach or that you don't mind discoloring.
Pick a part of the hat that is not easily visible to others when you wear it. That way, if the discoloration is noticeable, it won't affect the hat's overall look.
If you don't notice any bleeding colors or general discoloration, you can move onto the next step.
 If your test patch does not show any signs of damage after two minutes, go ahead and submerge the entire hat. For a light, ordinary cleaning, you only need to soak the hat for roughly 30 minutes. If there is mud caked onto the hat or if the dirt is more stubborn, you may need to soak the hat for a few hours., Remove the hat from the soapy water. Rinse it under a strong, steady stream of running tap water to get all of the detergent out. Keep using cold water to prevent discoloration and shrinkage. Continue rinsing until it no longer feels sticky and no additional soap can be spotted., Hold the hat in between your hands and gently squeeze your hands together. Place the hat on a clean towel and continue patting it until there is no longer any water dripping out of it. Do not wring or twist the hat, as doing so may distort your hat's shape or cause pilling., Place the knit hat in a location with good air circulation. Lay it out flat on a towel and arrange it in its original shape. You can speed the process up by running an electric fan nearby on low power, but do not use a hot blow dryer. Heat may cause your hat to shrink. Do not place the hat near direct sunlight, which may cause your hat to fade.