 This will include an Xbox or Xbox 360 game supporting system link capability, game discs for each console (featuring the identical game version, maps, etc.), as many televisions or monitors are you need for each player and a system link or crossover cable.Those wishing to connect more than two consoles should also acquire an Ethernet hub, switch or router with enough ports to accommodate the number of consoles in use.
You can determine whether a game supports system link by looking on the back of the game box or in the manual. This will also tell you how many players can join in on system link play.
Note that standard ethernet cables won't work without a hub for original Xbox users because they do not negotiate IP addresses. A crossover cable is required instead.;
, Simply use your system link cable or Ethernet crossover cable to create a connection between the Ethernet port on the back of each console. You'll find the Ethernet port below the Aux port on the original Xbox, Xbox 360 E and Xbox 360 S editions, and it's located next to the A/V port on the original Xbox 360.


Those connecting at least three consoles will instead use Ethernet crossover cables to connect your consoles (separately) to the network hub, switch or router. Note that some older routers may not work as well.
Connect the consoles to your network hub, switch or router in order rather than skipping one of the ports.
A standard ethernet cable (Cat5 or Cat6) will work for original Xbox consoles (so long as you're using a network hub rather than connecting the systems directly).
 Note that you may wish you to assemble your screens so that other players can view them all or only the player's. Either way, you'll likely need some space to arrange them appropriately.
 Be sure you've each inserted your game discs to the consoles. You'll find system link instructions associated with your specific game, so follow those, and you're on your way.


Those connecting at least three consoles should switch on their network hubs, switches or routers before turning on the consoles.

