 Metal roofing and vinyl siding, for instance, don’t require repainting or replacing. Though they will bring up the initial investment in building your home, they’ll save you money over the long term.Make sure to consider the climate when purchasing your building materials. Some materials may not hold up well in all regions. For example, vinyl siding may crack and deteriorate in a desert climate.
Consider the CC & Rs of your home owners association as well to see if there are restrictions on the types of materials that you may use.
 Bricks, cinder blocks, paint, and a variety of appliances are available at a discount if you know where to look. Check your local newspaper for demolition sales, and search online for home supply stores that are having sales on returns, reconditioned items, or floor models. Online marketplaces like Craigslist also offer many secondhand or surplus housing materials for next to nothing.


Not only is reusing materials economical, it also prevents waste from accumulating in the junkyard.
Keep in mind that you may also be able to negotiate with the builder to have things like appliances included.
 Both building materials (such as nails, boards, and concrete) and finish materials (like flooring, cabinets, and doors) can be obtained at cheaper rates when you compare prices at several different home supply stores.Additionally, look for more economical alternatives to the materials you’ve selected. For instance, marble floors will be more expensive than hardwood floors. Choose materials that are inexpensive to save money.


Many builders will donate materials that they cannot use to Habitat for Humanity. Check to see if there is a Habitat for Humanity store near you where you can purchase discount materials.
 Some upgrades will help you save money, while others merely look nice.For instance, investing in quality insulation is a material choice that can increase your home’s value and keep your energy costs low. A really expensive kitchen cabinet, on the other hand, will only beautify your home, but add little in real value.
 For instance, drywall is available in 4’ by 8‘ sheets. If you want to put up drywall on wall that measures 8’2’’ by 4’3’’, you’ll end up with lots of wasted building material in the end, plus added costs due to the time that cutting and measuring the materials require. Set the dimensions of your home to correspond to standard building material lengths and measures.

