 In the main menu, select Custom Night. Note that the Custom Night is only unlocked after getting both the real (scooped) ending, and the fake (defeating Ennard) ending.;
, Change the difficulty to Very Hard.
 It will take a long time, and it will require much patience. With that in mind, start the game.
 Ballora's cue is the ballet music that chimes from her music box. The music will be louder on either side depending on her position. Shut the door she gets closest to, and wait for her to leave. She will also jump scare you if you run out of power.
 His audio cues will give you the direction he is in, either right or left. He has two cues that indicate attack.


"Bon Bon, go get him!" This cue indicates that Funtime Freddy is sending Bon Bon down the closest door to you. Whichever side you heard Funtime Freddy's voice, shut that door.
"Get ready for a surprise!" This cue indicates that Bon Bon is being sent the opposite way to you. Whichever side you heard Funtime Freddy's voice, shut the opposite door.
 Funtime Foxy will charge to your office if you don't check the cameras enough. Shut the right door if it isn't in its usual place when you check the camera. If it hits the door, it will knock your power percentage down.
 Lolbit will appear on the monitors in your room. The only way to force Lolbit away is to type "Lol" when it appears. If you fail to type "Lol" before Lolbit appears on all three monitors, Lolbit will pop up on your screen as a distraction, and will stay for a few seconds or unless it is deterred.
 Yenndo is a rogue endoskeleton, very similar to that of Funtime Freddy. Yenndo will drain your oxygen while it is in your office. To make Yenndo go away, bring up your monitor, and bring it back down. If Yenndo drains all of your oxygen without countering him, he will attack and kill you.
 The pink puppet will race across your office at random, from right to left. Click on her nose with the mouse to make her go away. She will jumpscare you if you fail to click her nose before she reaches the other side.
 Electrobab will drain your power at random intervals. When you see a warning next to your power meter, check CAM 03 and CAM 04. Use a controlled shock on Electrobab immediately.
 Bidybab will climb through the central vent to get to you. The only audio cue will be thumping in the vents.
 They will appear randomly in CAM 06 and drain your oxygen. If you see a warning next to your oxygen meter, and Yenndo is not there, check the cameras and shock the Minireenas to make them disappear.
 Minireenas will appear at random and block your view, preventing use of the door and vent buttons. Once they appear, they will not leave until you die or complete the night..

