 Hay is a staple food for New Zealand rabbits. Hay provides the essential nutrients that your rabbit needs and it also helps to wear down her teeth, which never stop growing.Make sure that your New Zealand rabbit always has access to an unlimited supply of fresh hay.Give her new fresh hay least once per day and check now and then to see if she needs more.


Never give your New Zealand rabbit corn, or other grains or seeds. Just stick to hay.
Timothy hay is a great choice as primary feed for your New Zealand rabbit.;
, Plain pellets can also provide your New Zealand rabbit with some nutrition, but rabbits only need a small amount of pellets each day. Limit your rabbit’s pellet intake to about ¼ cup per day.


For a bigger rabbit or for a rabbit that is not gaining weight properly, you may need to offer more than ¼ cup per day. Check with your veterinarian for a recommendation based on your rabbit’s size and other needs., Dark leafy greens also provide your rabbit with a good source of nutrients and your rabbit will enjoy nibbling on these. Try to give your New Zealand rabbit a couple pieces of dark leafy greens each day. Some dark, leafy greens that your rabbit may enjoy include:basil
cilantro
collard greens
parsley
kale
mustard greens
turnip greens

, New Zealand rabbits like to chew on crunchy veggies, fruits, and seeds, so try to offer a crunchy treat once per day. Some good choices for your New Zealand rabbit include:apple slices
carrot slices
hulled sunflower seeds

, Your New Zealand rabbit always needs to have access to fresh, clean water. A sipper bottle is ideal for your rabbit because it will not spill or get dirt or feces in it like a water dish. That means that you won’t have to deal with a toppled dish of water or a dish that your rabbit has contaminated with feces.


Make sure that you keep your rabbit’s water bottle full of fresh clean water at all times.If you decide to use a water bowl, use a ceramic bowl and check it often.
 Some foods may make your rabbit sick, so you will need to be careful about what you give him. Some foods to avoid giving your rabbit include:broccoli
brussel sprouts
spinach
cabbage
cauliflower

