 If your doctor has specific restrictions or concerns about you participating in yoga, they should write a letter to your yoga instructor that describes these concerns.Your doctor may want to include contact information in case your yoga instructor wants to speak with them personally.
Follow up with your doctor as you continue with your class and let them know if you notice any improvement or easing of your arthritis symptoms.
 Some yoga studios, gyms, or community centers may offer yoga classes that are specifically designed for people who have arthritis. Finding one of these classes is your best bet because you know the class is intended specifically to ease arthritis symptoms.Your doctor may know about some of these classes or have one they would recommend. If you are a member of an arthritis organization, you might check with them as well.
Senior centers or assisted living facilities also may offer arthritis for yoga classes that are open to the public.
 Ideally, if you want to practice yoga to ease your arthritis symptoms, you should find a teacher who has documented training and experience working with yoga for arthritis.For example, in the United States, look for an instructor who is registered with Yoga Alliance and has received training or certification with the organization Yoga for Arthritis.
Ask each instructors to show you documentation of their training and any certifications they have, and talk to them about how long they've been a yoga instructor and how long they've been teaching people with arthritis.
 The only way to know for sure if a yoga class is going to be right for you is to observe it in action. Pay attention to the instructor's teaching style and methods, and how they interact with the students.Instructors that demonstrate modifications for poses, rather than just talking about them, may be best if you are just getting started in yoga. Sometimes it is easier to see how the modification works.
You also want to pay attention to the other people in the class and how they interact with each other. Decide if they seem like people you would get along with.
 Before you sign up for a yoga class, you want to make sure the yoga instructor is someone from whom you can take instruction. They should be easy to talk to and open to your questions.If you encounter a yoga instructor who is dismissive of your concerns or doesn't seem willing to answer questions, you probably want to look elsewhere.
Ask the instructor to share some of their experiences in teaching yoga to people with arthritis. Talk to them about your particular condition and find out if they've taught students with similar symptoms.

