 Another common cause of incontinence is constipation. When large amounts of stool stays in the body rather than being expelled, it can limit how much room the bladder has to expand and causes the bladder to have unpredictable contractions, both of which cause incontinence.Constipation usually causes infrequent bowel movements for 3 days or more in a row, hard, pebbly stools, very large stools, or pain when moving the bowels., If you aren't sure how bad your child's constipation is, have a doctor figure out whether or not your child has a lot of stool backed up in her system. This can be done with the use of X-rays or through a physical examination.


Knowing for sure that your child is constipated will help her overcome her incontinence issues., Many kids with urgency and incontinence tend not to drink much fluid, which actually makes their constipation worse. Try to have your child drink at least eight glasses of water each day to stay hydrated.If your child doesn’t like drinking plain water, you can give him fruit juices, milk (no more than 2-3 cups a day), and sports drinks., To help fight constipation, increase your child's daily fiber intake. Fiber is one of the best ways to get your child’s bowels working properly. There are plenty of foods that are high in fiber. Try introducing as many foods that are high in fiber as possible into your child’s diet. Foods high is fiber include:


Fresh fruit and vegetables, including raspberries, blueberries, green peas, spinach, collard greens, acorn squash, kale, and broccoli.Whole grain breads with at least three to four grams of fiber per serving.
High fiber cereals, such as Raisin Bran, Fiber One, Shredded Wheat, and All Bran.
Beans, including black, lima, garbanzo, and pinto beans. Lentils and popcorn are also high in fiber., Adding fiber-rich food to your child’s diet may not be enough. If your child is still having problems, try child-safe laxatives. One laxative that is safe and frequently used is propylene glycol, more commonly known as MiraLax.


MiraLax causes water to be transported into the bowel, thereby softening the stool and improving movement.You should check with your child's doctor for guidance before giving MiraLax or other laxatives to your child. Most kids require between ½ capfuls and two capfuls per day, and the dose may be adjusted as needed.