 If you are having difficulty getting enough sleep, talk with your parents about the problem because they may be able to help you. For example, your entire family could focus on developing good sleep habits. If everyone in the house is trying to get more sleep it may help you sleep better as well. Ask your parents if you can dim all the lights in your house or apartment around bedtime. This will help signal to your body that it is time for sleep.Similarly, the whole family could try turning off all technology after 9 pm. The lack of distractions will help everyone begin to wind down and prepare for bedtime.
 In some instances, a lack of sleep could be a result of an underlying sleep issue. If you are struggling to get enough sleep and it is impacting your ability to concentrate during the day, you should seek medical attention. For example, perhaps you are suffering from chronic insomnia, sleep apnea, narcolepsy, reflux, periodic limb movement disorder (PLMD), or restless legs syndrome (RLS).Explain to your doctor how much sleep you get each night, and how you constantly feel tired and drained of energy.
You should also explain where your sleep issues come from. For example, do you have trouble falling asleep at night? Do you wake up throughout the night as a result of bad dreams or difficulty breathing? Do you nod off in the middle of school?

, In order to diagnose an underlying health or sleep issue, your doctor will likely complete a number of medical assessments. For instance, they may evaluate your overall health and sleep habits, ask about your family medical history, and inquire about any medication you are taking.


This assessment will help your doctor determine the type of treatment necessary for your particular situation.
 If your doctor discovers that there is an underlying medical condition, such as sleep apnea or insomnia, they may provide you with treatment options. Depending on the issue, you may be treated with medication, light therapy, or other sleep techniques.Be sure to follow all instructions and tips provided by your doctor.

