 Things like ham, lamb, and beef are traditionally served at Easter.Instead of just serving red meat as a dish, serve red meat in dishes that have healthy additions to them. Mix in things like vegetables and legumes with traditional Easter meats.Use meat more for texture and added flavor than as a staple of the course. Ham, for example, has a strong flavor and is often served on Easter. Instead of serving ham, serve squash with diced ham as a main course.
Beef and lamb are also a popular Easter dish. Instead of serving beef and lamb on their own, serve beef and lamb as part of a healthy vegetable stew.;
, Fish and chicken are healthier meat choices than red meat. While red meats are generally more associated with Easter, consider making fish or chicken and giving it an Easter twist.Honey-glazed ham is a popular Easter dish. Try serving honey-glazed chicken instead, or even something like honey-glazed salmon., How you cook meat affects its nutritional benefits. When cooking meat for Easter dinner, make sure you use healthy methods. Frying meat is generally not as healthy as grilling or baking meat.You can bake or roast meat in the oven to prevent having to add unhealthy, fatty oils when frying meat.
If you saute meat, use heart-healthy oils like olive oil. Even a no-calorie cooking spray can be used when sauteeing meat. You can also add plenty of veggies when sauteeing meat for a stir fry.
 Watch portion size. If you're making plates for your guests yourself, give them small slices of meat. Fill the rest of the plate with things like fruits, vegetables, and whole grains. Simple portion control can go a long way in making a meal healthier., Brussels sprouts are an easy dish to serve as you can cook them in the oven. This cuts back on adding calories when sauteeing or frying vegetables in oil. Brussels sprouts can be baked on a lightly greased baking sheet at 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) for 30 minutes.Spices, such as a garlic powder or a small amount of salt and pepper, can make brussels sprouts taste better.
You can drizzle maple syrup over brussels sprouts to add some flavor, but only use a small amount. You do not want to add too much sugar to an otherwise healthy dish.
 Casseroles are often a staple of Easter meals. Many casseroles call for bread crumbs to add texture or a topping. A simple way to increase the health of casseroles is to opt for whole wheat bread crumbs. This adds fiber to the dish and cuts back on empty calories.Most grocery stores sell whole wheat bread crumbs. You can find them where you would find regular breadcrumbs.
 Mashed potatoes are a staple of an easter meal, but they tend to have a lot of starch. To cut back on starchy foods, substitute mashed cauliflower for mashed potatoes. Steam or boil cauliflower florets for 12 to 15 minutes. Then, add ingredients like milk, butter, and garlic for texture and flavor. Use a fork to mash the cauliflower until it's smooth and creamy.You can also use a food processor to mash the cauliflower.
 Buns are often served as Easter meals. Instead of serving buns made with white flour, pick up some whole wheat buns. In addition to providing fiber, whole wheat buns are more filing. Guests will fill up faster and eat less overall., You do not have to neglect potatoes altogether for a healthy Easter meal. Instead of mashing them, which often requires a heavy amount of butter and milk, roast them. Roast them alongside other vegetables to provide more variety and nutrition.To roast potatoes, you cook them in the oven at 425 degrees Fahrenheit. You can flavor them with spices like lemon, rosemary, and garlic first.
Add other more nutritious vegetables, like artichoke heart, to the mix for a delicious Thanksgiving side.
 When a recipe calls for something like vegetable oil, substitute apple sauce. This is lower in calories and fat and will make baked goods healthier.In general, use the same amount of applesauce as oil. However, if the recipe calls for more than 1/4 cup of oil, you should not add more than a quarter cup of applesauce. This can prevent proper baking.If the recipe calls for more than 1/4 cup oil, add a quarter cup of applesauce and then the remaining amount of oil. For example, if a recipe calls for 1/2 cup of oil, add 1/4 cup of applesauce and 1/4 cup of oil.
 Fruit-based pies do not require as much sugar as fruit is sweet in and of itself. When making pies, opt for things like apple and cherry pie. Look for pie recipes that call for natural fruit over canned fruit.You can also reduce the sugar called for in fruit pies by about 25 to 30% without seriously affecting the recipe.
 In baked goods, try cutting back the sugar by about 25 to 30%.To make up for the reduced sugar, add sweetening extracts to sweeten your foods. Go for things like vanilla and almond extracts or fruit extracts like raspberry extract. Add the extract to taste after cutting back on the sugar., Instead of making sugary recipes, look for recipes sweetened with spices like cinnamon, cardamon, allspice, and nutmeg. These spices are naturally sweet and can add flavor to a dish without added sugar.Try serving natural fruits, like slices apples, sprinkled with cinnamon and other spices. Sprinkle a small amount of sugar over the dish for guests to enjoy.

