 Before a business takes steps to dispose waste in an eco-friendly manner, it should be aware of the waste it generates. Usually, this is done by checking the bins and seeing how full each bin is. The idea is to check the volume and then have measures in place to segregate waste, so that minimal amounts make it to landfills.   While the volume is being checked, an effort should also be made to determine the type of waste generated. Not all waste materials can be reused or recycled and it is necessary to identify those that can be.;
, Bins across the business premises should be labeled and installed, so that employees know which bins to use when they are throwing away things that are not required. For instance, anything that can be recycled should go into the “recycle bin”, while items that can be re-used should be put into the “re-use bin”.
 There are several ways a business can reduce waste. One is working with a supplier that reduces packaging material. In this case, when the supplier delivers the order, he unpacks the items and then takes away the packaging material to use for another client. This way, the business does not have to worry about disposing packaging material.  


The business also can adopt a paper-free operation. Storing documents on a Cloud-based server can ensure these documents can be accessed from any part of the world without having to print them out and waste paper. Instead of taking photocopies for meetings, the business should encourage participants to access documents virtually.   Instead of having disposable glasses and plates for employees, the business should make an effort to introduce glassware, which can be washed and reused.  
There are many ways a business can reduce its waste production. Each business is different and hence, there is a need to sit down and figure out ways to reduce waste in ways that suit the needs of the business.
 Things like old newspaper, plastic bottles and cans can easily be recycled. While the business does not have to recycle these items itself, it can identify a local recycling company and collaborate with it to collect, transport and recycle waste.   Then there are certain items that the business can recycle on its own. In this case, recycle would mean re-using, wherein efforts are made to re-use certain items that otherwise would have been disposed as waste. Packaging material and boxes often can be re-used.
 Things, such as old computers, laptops and furniture, are often discarded and sent to landfills. Offices can identify these items and deliver them to a local charity, so that they can be used by families that are less privileged.   Some businesses also encourage employees to purchase computers at a discounted price when they upgrade their systems. This is also a great way to reduce e-waste, which is filled with toxic and hazardous materials.   There are several ways businesses can reduce their waste disposal costs and make their business greener. The key is making an effort to identify waste and then determining ways to re-use, recycle and reduce waste.

