 The aftermath of a divorce involves many changes. Your family may move to a new home or a new city. You may have to divide your time between households, or even go to a new school. Once you have gotten control of your emotions, try to sit down with your parents and ask them about the details.For example, you might say, “Where will I live?” or “Who will I live with?” to bring up the topic.
 Although the final decision is ultimately up to your parents, feel free to respectfully voice your concerns if you are worried about changing schools, leaving behind your friends, or any other changes. Don’t feel like you are adding to the burden by venting to your parents. They will likely be happy you spoke up.Express your worries by saying, “I’m unhappy about having to change schools. I will miss my team, my teachers, and my friends. Can I come back on weekends to see my friends?”
Don't bottle up your emotions. Doing this can lead to emotional outbursts, and even make you sick. If you don’t feel comfortable talking to your parents, you can still share your feelings by writing them a letter.
 Don’t take sides during your parent's divorce. Your parents may have bitter feelings about one another, but that shouldn’t rub off on you. Even if you happen to hear about one parent’s wrongdoing, try to withhold any judgment. There are a lot of issues between your parents that caused the divorce. It won’t do you any good to throw the blame on one parent.If your parents try to pit you against one another, tell them “I won’t be taking sides.” Keep saying this until they get the message.
 A divorce can bring out a lot of ugly actions and words between your parents. If they are distant or upset, recognize that this is happening between they are trying to deal with their own feelings and cope with the marriage ending. Keep in mind that just because they may not love one another anymore doesn’t mean they don’t love you., It may seem illogical, but sometimes there is a silver lining in a divorce. Some kids may actually feel relieved that the marriage is ending, especially if your parents fought a lot. You might also like the idea of having two homes, establishing new traditions, or being able to have separate time with each of your parents.Looking for the positives in the situation can help you maintain perspective and not get lost in your grief.
 In the weeks and months after the initial breakup, many other changes may happen. Your parents may have to go to court to determine who you will live with. You may also notice financial strain in which your parents don’t have as much extra money for you to go to the movies or for pizza with friends. Another possible change is the introduction of new people in your family, such as a stepmom, stepdad, or even a new baby.


Try to be understanding of these changes. Things may be very tense now, but they probably won’t always be this way.
Resist the urge to automatically dislike your parents’ new partners. You don’t have to view this person as a parent, and they won’t replace your other parent. But, you can be open-minded and try to get to know them.