 Jumping straight into a low-calorie diet is a shock to your system. When you go cold turkey, your body has no idea what's going on — so as a protective measure it clings onto your fat stores. Instead, ease your body into the diet by cutting your calories gradually.Set a reasonable daily calorie goal that you can reduce to gradually. It might be 1,200 or 2,200 depending on your individual factors. Seek advice from your doctor, nutritionist, or dietician for guidance tailored to your needs.;
, Your body may adjust to a lower but steady calorie intake, meaning it won’t draw from your stored fat. To keep your body guessing and your metabolism up, try switching between higher and lower daily calorie intakes. This might help avoid that dreaded weight-loss plateau and improve your willpower.In other words, if you do a low-calorie diet all the time, your body may adjust its metabolic rate so you don't lose too much fat. But if you keep it on its toes, it won’t be able to regulate your fat stores as effectively.
This plan should still be paired with lowering your average daily intake gradually. Ask a doctor or nutrition expert you trust for their take on this type of diet plan.
 In simple terms, eating spurs your metabolism — the process by which your body turns food into energy. Eating more often, then, may kick your metabolism into a higher gear more times per day (e.g., if you eat six times a day, you get six “spikes”). But, you must make sure that eating more often does not also mean eating more; it’s essential that you reduce your overall average daily calories.Eating every two to four hours may work for you, for instance. If you've already finished lunch and it's been three hours, grab an apple, some yogurt, or some veggies.
 Burning fat is all about keeping your metabolism churning. And when you've been snoozing all night, it’s safe to guess that your metabolism has been snoozing too. So get up, brush your teeth, and eat breakfast. The more protein-packed and substantial, the better.Egg whites, low-fat dairy products, and lean meats should be on the menu regularly. Stay away from empty calories (doughnuts, calorie-laden fancy coffee drinks, etc.) and go with whole grain cereals and breads.
 Not only is adequate water consumption great for your skin, hair, and internal organs, it may also help you lose weight. Drinking water may, according to some research, on its own cause your metabolism to spike. And, at the very least, drinking water before a meal can help fill you up (and cause you to eat less).Drink water more frequently, and more overall per day. You'll be more hydrated, healthier, and your body won't be looking to cling onto those fat stores!

