 Even if you're not planning on tearing down your own guttering, you might be able to find someone who is. Ask around the neighborhood, put a request on Freecycle, Craigslist, or similar, or place a notice in a local community center asking for old guttering.;
, It should be free of dirt, grime, flaking paint, etc. before starting. You'll be adding fresh soil, so you don't want to contaminate it with any old soil harboring possible bacteria. Use a hose or a water blaster for a really close clean. Then scrub any stubborn parts with soapy water and a good scrubbing brush.


If you're concerned that the paint on the guttering might be lead based, it is best to not use it.
 This step is optional but ideally, you should do something to protect the guttering, especially if it is made of metal rather than plastic. Choose a color that matches the fence or wall and paint the outside of the guttering (not the inside where the soil will go).
 This will provide drainage of water from the soil after watering and rain.
 If you want to hang the guttering off the fence or garden wall, select a part of the garden that gets adequate sun and is nicely sheltered from wind. You might also select a house wall but only if this doesn't detract from the appearance of your home. (Also be aware that attaching items to your wall might cause leakage problems if not done carefully.) Measure up the space and cut the guttering to the right length before attaching.
 Screw the guttering lengths to the fence or wall. Drill holes through the guttering and align these with the fence or wall, and drill holes in the exact same positions. Then add the screws to keep the guttering firmly in place.


The exact type and method of attachment will depend on the material you're attaching to, as if varies between wood, brick, veneer and other surfaces. If you're not sure, simply ask at the hardware store for precise advice.
Try this alternative: Use the frame of a pallet and attach the gutter lengths to the frame, on the inside. This nifty invention can be propped up anywhere in your garden! See the image for general guidance.
 Use a suitable, good quality growing soil along the length of the guttering. Only fill about three quarters of the way, as the plants will need to last part for growing within the sheltered protection of the guttering. Add fertilizer if required.
 Obviously, guttering is shallow. Hence, you'll only be able to grow plants with shallow roots, like lettuce, radishes, strawberries, cacti and herbs. Many small annuals could be grown in this guttering style, and will brighten up the fence or wall.
 The shallow nature of these planters means that they tend to dry out a lot faster. You might want to consider adding a drip watering system if the watering effort becomes tiresome.

