 A U visa allows someone (including undocumented immigrants) to stay in the United States if they are the victim of certain criminal activity. The following is some of the criminal activity that possibly qualifies:abduction
domestic violence
sexual assault, rape, and abusive sexual contact
female genital mutilation
false imprisonment, unlawful criminal restraint, and hostage taking
murder or homicide (e.g., if your parent or spouse was murdered)

, You must fill out Form I-918, Petition for U Nonimmigrant Status. You can download the form here: https://www.uscis.gov/i-918. Also make sure to download the instructions.


You can also call toll free 1-800-870-3676 or 1-800-375-5283 to request forms., Type the information into the form or print neatly using black ink. If you need extra space, then attach a sheet that indicates what item number you are referring to. Also sign and date the extra sheets. Form I-918 will ask for the following information.full name and alternate names used (such as a nickname)
gender
home address
safe mailing address, if you don’t want to receive mail at home
home phone, safe daytime phone number, and email address
Social Security Number (if applicable)
Alien Registration Number (if applicable)
date and country of birth
passport information, such as the number and date of issuance
information about the criminal activity you are a victim of
your signature

, You need to write a statement describing the criminal activity you have suffered. Spend some time on this, but always to remember to write it yourself. Include the following information:nature of the criminal activity
date of the crime
identity of the person responsible for the crime
the substantial mental or physical abuse you have suffered as a result of the crime
how the crime was investigated and prosecuted

, As the victim of qualifying violence, you can include certain family members in your application. If you get a visa, then they will also be able to stay in the country. Download Supplement A from the USCIS website. Also read the instructions to find out what supporting documentation you need. The following family members can qualify:If you are under 21 years old, then your spouse, parents, unmarried children, and unmarried siblings under age 18 can be included.
If you are over 21 years of age, then qualifying family members are your spouse and unmarried children under age 21.
 You have to file this supplement along with your application. The police must certify that you have been the victim of a qualifying crime and that you have been (or likely will be) helpful in the investigation and prosecution of this crime.You can download this form from the USCIS website.
Give it to the police officer you have been in contact with. Ask them to fill it out and return it to you.
 Supplement B will help establish that you have been the victim of crime. However, you should also include other documents that show you suffered direct and proximate harm as a result of the criminal activity. Look for any of the following:court documents and trial transcripts
orders of protection
police reports
affidavits signed by you or people with knowledge of the crime

, USCIS will have to analyze the harm you have suffered, weighing a variety of factors. You should obtain evidence that shows the severity of the abuse you suffered. For example, look for the following:medical records
photographs of visible injuries
reports or affidavits from social workers, medical personnel, school officials, clergy, and court officials
orders of protection
affidavits from witnesses who have personal knowledge of the criminal activity

, U visas are granted to people with helpful evidence of the crime. Supplement B will establish this fact. However, USCIS also encourages you to submit any other information or documents that establishes your helpfulness. For example, you can include the following:police reports
affidavits from police, judges, and court officials

, You also must show USCIS that you are willing to help in the investigation and prosecution of the crime. Supplement B will help establish this, but you should also provide other supporting documentation:court documents and trial transcripts
police reports
news articles
affidavits from court officials or other witnesses
copies of reimbursement forms that show your travel to and from court

, Gather all of your supporting documents and completed forms. Keep a copy for your records, and then mail the completed packet to USCIS – Vermont Service Center, 75 Lower Welden Street, St. Albans, VT 05479-0001.There is no filing fee.
USCIS might contact you for more information or to schedule an interview. Respond to their requests promptly.
You will receive your decision in writing.

