 Any change in diet can be difficult - especially if you're giving up a habit that feels like a food addiction. Having a support group can help motivate you and encourage you as you make difficult changes. Studies have shown that many people stick with positive changes longer if they have a support group.


Ask family members, friends or coworkers to support you. In addition, you can see if anyone would like to join you on your journey to give up fast food.
Research online support groups and forums that you can log on throughout the day. It's a great way to have support any time of the day.
 These health and nutrition experts can play a key role in helping you understand and overcome your fast food habit. They have the training to help you drop the fast food habit, help you plan healthier meals in addition to giving you coping mechanisms to deal with your food addiction.


Ask a dietitian for help with meal planning, cooking skills or basic nutrition knowledge so that you have the skills necessary to drop your fast food habit.
Discuss with a licensed therapist about your food addiction and any emotional eating issues that have come up.
Check with your primary care or other doctor for a referral to a registered dietitian or licensed therapist. They may know or work with someone locally.
Check out EatRight.org and use the "Find an Expert" button to search for dietitians in your local area.
 When you're stressed or a fast food craving hits hard, it's important to have a list of activities that you can do to distract yourself and calm down. Have these handy when a craving hits.


Try engaging in mentally and physically active things. For example: taking a walk, cleaning out your junk drawer, calling a friend or family member, keeping a journal or reading a good book.
Sleeping longer or getting lost in TV may not make you feel better. You're not addressing the issue at hand. Instead, it's being ignored or slept through.Try to stay away from drinking alcoholic beverages. Drinking alcohol is never an appropriate coping mechanism for addiction.Write down your feelings. Get that notebook or journal out and write down your feelings and how they are affecting your cravings or feelings of hunger.
Keeping a journal can help you clearly identify your situation and make the difference between emotional eating and physical hunger.A journal can also act like a mental release allowing you to pour out all your emotions and feelings onto paper., Studies have shown that even a few minutes of meditation can calm your mind, help you feel more centered and assist you in overcoming addiction.This can be an easy way to help ease your mind.


Start with just 5 to 10 minutes a day - especially if you've never tried meditation before.
Check online for free audio guided meditations. These can help you ease yourself into meditation by following the gentle commands of a guide.
Try active meditation which allows you to focus on a small object - a stone, a fruit or a jewel. This can help give your mind some occupation while you try to stay in the present.
 Always keep a stock of healthy items at home. This will allow you to cook nutritious meals without having to stop at the store on your way home.


Having a well stocked home may help alleviate the stress around cooking or getting a meal on the table. You'll already be prepared with the basics of a meal.
Pantry staples can include beans, canned vegetables with no salt added, canned fish, whole grains (like brown rice or whole wheat pasta) and nuts.
Freezer staples can include frozen protein (like chicken or fish), frozen vegetables and fruit, frozen cooked whole grains (like brown rice or quinoa) and low-calorie frozen meals (for a night that cooking isn't an option).
Refrigerator staples can include washed and cut fruits and vegetables, low-fat dressings and sauces, eggs, low-fat yogurt and cheese and cooked proteins (like grilled chicken breasts).
 Whether you you're in a recipe rut or need some help coming up with healthy meals, trying new recipes is a great way to explore a variety of different healthy foods. Try one or two new recipes each week.


Need recipe ideas? Try purchasing a healthy eating cookbook, looking up healthy eat blogs online or asking friends or family for new recipes to try.
If you're short on time, search for recipes that require minimal cooking and preparation. Many times, you can just assemble your meal instead of preparing everything from scratch.
 Burgers and fries or chicken nuggets are delicious - that's why it's hard to break a fast food habit. Try making your favorites at home with healthier cooking techniques. This will help you to "indulge" but with a much healthier option.


If you love fries, try baking them at home. Sliced sweet potatoes also make a great french fry alternative. Plus they have a lot of vitamins and minerals!Bread chicken with crushed cornflakes or crackers and bake for a crunchy, low-calorie version of fried chicken or chicken nuggets.
Research some recipes online for your favorites. You'll find some great ideas and a variety of recipes for healthier versions of common fast food meals. Try searching for "fast food swaps" to find healthier substitutes for your favorite fast food options.

