 See things as they are, not by what you already think to know about them. Read between the lines. For example, you might think countries are a good way of grouping cultures, those with similar origins, and language, countries keep their citizens safe, but this kind of structure also makes conflicts, wars, espionage, religious tension, advancement gaps, misfeasance, secrecy, jobs taken away by foreigners and separation of people living in the same region possible, which would not exist (at this scale anyway) if there were no countries. Countries on this planet are as unnecessary, as dividing a city into parts with borders, making them watch each other, and only allow authorized passage from each part to the other. Many people didn't like the way Berlin got divided after World War II.;
, No matter what position they're in, they can and will find a way to take advantage of you for their own good. Not everyone of course, but keep your eyes open. Take your time and read the contract you are signing. Check the money you are given. It might be counterfeit. Political campaigns can be very deceiving. Your best choice probably is to utilize a search engine and make background checks for the party and the candidates. Look for signs they are not keeping their promises. Only trust someone you have a good reason to. People can be very convincing, but can still harm you. Let me give you a few topics you should pay more attention to: pharmaceutics, politics, advertisements, legal documents, health care, education, religions (including materialism, which is one of the biggest businesses on earth). Keep in mind that some industries or some interests only care about profit, and nothing about people. There are small scale cons done every day, don't think it is not happening big time. Selfish people act the same way on every level of power.
 For most people press is the main source for news. But news bulletins are not always factual. They can be speculations, manipulative, misleading, incomplete, or false. Press is not an extension of your senses. Believe only what you see for yourself.
 We need the environment to live, thus we must protect the environment. Things on Earth don't go as well as you are lead to believe. Leading the planet to ecological destruction is good business unfortunately. Keeping people feeling safe is just a way to avoid panic. You know what you know about the environment, because that is what you should know to keep your mouth shut. Just take care of your surroundings, environment is saved or ruined by individual persons. If you don't care about all this, take my advice and don't make plans for a long future, because we'll be extinct before you know it.
 You don't have to be special to achieve big things. Everything that has been done on Earth was done by individual persons. The only thing you need to keep in mind is your goal. And the only thing you have to do is reach it and don't give up. There is no such thing as impossible. There is only unknown. (Having an answer for a question does not mean you have the right answer.)

, Understand, that you might know something for a fact that is not true. Be open minded. Try not to be arrogant. Accept if you are proved wrong. If you did not take the time to verify some theory, or a statement to be true, don't try to right yourself out of defiance. Understand, that others may still do this, so don't let yourself be convinced of something that the other party cannot prove or support with rational reasoning.
 Keep them in mind, and make use of them.
 And to keep relationships intact, and working for long years.
 Very important! Don't judge someone from a particular country or by how their government acts. You may know from first hand, in some countries citizens have no voice in anything they're government does except to elect them. Countries are not people. They are just legal entities. What they do is solemnly up to their government. Citizens on the other hand have their own life, their own goals, they have feelings and families. Most likely they never think of harming anyone, they are not looking for conflicts.
 Each and every one of them. The difference, is the scale and what good means to them. Examples: A selfish man serves himself. He does good to himself while harming others. He doesn't care about that though. A dictator is convinced his actions serve a good purpose, for some. About the others, he doesn't care. When you act, place yourself in the position of people affected by your actions. Try to evaluate the pros and cons of an action. The value of an action is measured in the magnitude of its positive effect compared to the negative.
 Project it on a bigger group or a society. If in large scale your lifestyle would lead to negative or destructive consequences it is probably a bad thing in small scale too. Like smoking. It smells bad, it creates an addiction, it shortens your life, and makes you sick possibly. In large scale, people throw away the cigarette stub on the street, they make non smokers feel uncomfortable, smoke is pollution, and big business too. Refrain from helping those financially who take advantage of your bad habits or addictions. It's like paying an assassin to poison you slowly.If you collect garbage selectively, it is time for me to give a big Thank You to you! May others do such good things to you too! It might seem like a small contribution, but like before, looking at it on a bigger scale would mean less garbage and more recycling, and thus a cleaner environment.
 You might not be aware of it, but good things constantly happen. People invent great things, an unexpected rain saves an entire crop from drying out, someone writes a great book about something you love to do. Hopes and dreams come true. Long lost family members find each other. A retired couple give all their life savings to a hospital, to help. So many noble and good hearted people live on this planet. Don't be fooled by the news you are watching. The world is not all about politics, catastrophes, accidents, violence, conflicts and war. This is only one side of the coin.
 They might be in a very stressed state of their life. If they cannot restrain themselves from being impolite or rude, try to keep your cool, and remind yourself how you would have liked to be treated, try to be helpful and kind. Treat others the way you want to be treated. This helps most of the time!

