 Try to choose an item which both you and your spouse can use such as a bed or a dinning set. If you have a piece of furniture in your home that hasn't been replaced in a while, try finding a modern replacement or even try refurbishing an antique piece.


No type of furniture is off limits. You can replace or revamp patio furniture, bookshelves, home decor, and many other items. Think about the needs and wants of your spouse.
You can always personalize furniture to make it extra special. Try adding a plaque, favorite colors or patterns, or married monograms which include the initials of both parties.;
, Is it traditional with neutral colors, upholstered wood furnishings, and wood floors? Or is it more modern with metal furnishings, concrete or linoleum floorings, and black or white being the predominate color?When purchasing furniture, consider what would go well with your current style.


For example, if your home is decorated in early 20th century style, don't buy a piece of furniture that is extremely modern. Alternatively, if your home features modern decor, an antique from the 1800's may clash.
Look for common themes in design. Are there certain colors, patterns, or animals that are reoccurring in your home?, How do you and your spouse spend your free time? What do you really enjoy doing? By answering these questions, you can find a unique way to gift furniture that will be useful and appreciated.


For example, if you and your spouse spend much of your time in your pool, pool floats or accessories like a floating bar could be an appropriate gift.
Maybe you and your spouse enjoy fishing or other outdoor activities. If so, lawn chairs or seats for a fishing boat would be ideal gifts in honor of a 17th anniversary.
 Home accents are a great way to infuse personality and style into a home, so give gifts like wall art, vases, or throw pillows to liven up furniture.


Accessories are typically more affordable than large furniture pieces but can be just as useful and thoughtful. Once again, consider personal style when choosing pieces., This is more of a humorous option as the card that accompanies it should indicate that this is an opportunity to grow the wood that will one day be used to create your own custom furniture.


You can also have a tree planted in your spouse's honor. Not only does it demonstrate longevity, but it helps the environment.