 The moment you realize that the puppy needs CPR, you should have someone call a vet. A vet may be able to walk you through the CPR process and will provide information about care after CPR.


Only call if there is a second person available so that in the meantime one of you can perform CPR.
Have the person call a vet you are familiar with, if possible.
Inform the vet of the puppy's breed, approximate size, and any other relevant information.;
, Take a few seconds and gently examine the puppy’s mouth and throat to make sure that the puppy’s airway is free from obstructions. If it is, you can proceed with CPR.


Gently pick up the puppy.
Gently pull the puppy’s tongue out of the mouth to make sure it is not blocking the airway.
If the airway is obstructed, try to dislodge it by pulling it out with a single hooked finger, two fingers, or tongs. However, be very careful and avoid pushing it further into the airway. If possible, have someone hold a light so you can view the obstruction., Before continuing, you need to lower the puppy’s head. This is important, as it’ll allow you to you to make sure the puppy’s airway is clear – something that is necessary before performing CPR.


Hold the puppy.
Lay or point the puppy’s head downward so any fluid will naturally drain out of its mouth.
Make sure to provide support for the puppy’s head.
Handle the puppy gently., Before continuing, you need to make sure that the puppy’s mouth and throat are free from secretion, slobber, or other liquid that might hinder the CPR process.


Wipe mucus or other fluid away from the puppy’s nose or mouth with a cloth or article of clothing.
Use a suction bulb to remove fluid, if necessary., Since the size of newborn puppies varies based on breed, you'll have to quickly decide whether you are most comfortable holding or laying the puppy on a flat surface.


Perform CPR holding the puppy, if it is small enough for you to do so comfortably.
Lay the puppy down on the ground on their right side, if the puppy is too big to hold comfortably.
Have someone else hold or assist you with holding the puppy, if possible.
 To effectively resuscitate the puppy, you’ll have to breathe for the puppy. Breathing is the foundation of CPR.


Place the puppy on a flat surface and lay them on their right side.
Alternatively, you can also use your hand to form a tight seal around the puppy’s nose and mouth, put your mouth to your hand, and provide breaths through your hand.
Know that diseases like Brucellosis may be transmitted from puppies to humans through fluids. Use the hand method to protect from this danger., After you’ve formed a seal around the puppy’s mouth and nose, you need to begin breathing for the puppy. Make sure you perform this function calmly and slowly, as you don’t want to injure the puppy.


Make sure your breaths are small and measured. The puppy’s lungs are very small. Blowing too much air may damage it.
Do not fully exhale.
Provide a pause of 1 second between each breath., Your most certain sign of success is a breathing puppy. Look at the puppy's chest. If you don’t observe breathing, you need to continue CPR.


If you do not feel or observe a heartbeat or breathing, you need to move on to chest compressions., After breathing for your puppy, you need to search to see if its heart has restarted. While you should do this this quickly, you also need to make sure you stay focused and do not panic.


Place the puppy on a flat surface.
Put your index and middle finger on the chest wall to feel for a heartbeat.
Use a stethoscope, if you have one.
If you don’t locate a heartbeat, you’ll need to perform chest compressions., After you’ve confirmed that there is no heartbeat, you need to position your hands. Positioning your hands is one of the major tasks of CPR – as you want to make sure that they are in the appropriate position to apply pressure to the heart.


Put your thumbs and forefingers around the puppy’s chest.
Your thumbs should be in the middle of the chest, behind the front legs., If you feel no heartbeat, you need to compress the puppy’s chest rapidly. Compression is intended to help restart the heart.


Push down, lightly.
Compressions should occur 1 time per second.
Stop if you notice a heartbeat or breathing., After compressing the chest, you need to breathe for the puppy again. This is important, as many dogs do not respond immediate to the first breaths or compressions.


Perform mouth to snout every 15 to 20 seconds.
Be very gentle and remember not to breathe too hard.
Check for signs of breathing., Whenever you complete your repetitions of breathing, you should also perform more chest compressions. When repeating chest compressions, make sure to:


Check for a heartbeat.
Position your hands appropriately.
Rapidly, but gently, compress the puppy’s chest., In some circumstances, you may need to continue CPR for what seems like a long time before you notice results. You should, however, continue to perform CPR as long as you think there is hope of resuscitating the puppy.


Don’t give up too early.
You may perform CPR for up to 5 minutes.
The success rate for CPR on pets is relatively low – less than one in ten. If you cannot resuscitate the puppy, it is probably not your fault., If you succeed in getting the puppy breathing again, you need to continue care. Ultimately, the puppy won't be out of danger until they can breathe on their own for an extended amount of time.


After resuscitating, make sure to care for the puppy for at least 20 minutes.
Turn your puppy right side up and rub it with a towel after you resuscitate it.
If your puppy starts to breathe and stops again, continue giving it small breaths until it breathes on its own.