 If you are not happy with any of the commercial dog treats on the market, you can make your own. The most common types to make at home are hard biscuits, meaty treats, jerkies, and vegetable or fruit leathers.


There are many different recipes out there, such as homemade pumpkin pie treats or sweet potato jerky. Research some with the types of ingredients that your dog likes to find more. Homemade treats will have less ingredients and be lower in fat and calories than store bought treats., Raw vegetables are great treats for your dog. Most vegetables should be raw, but if you want to cook the vegetables you feed your dog, avoid using any oils or seasonings on them. These things are bad for your dog's health. Vegetables that dogs often like are:


Baby carrots or carrot chips, which are good raw and cooked
Canned low sodium green beans, rinsed
A handful of frozen peas
Sweet potatoes or potatoes, cooked into cubes or mashed
Squash, zucchini, or pumpkin, cooked
Greens such as lettuce or spinach, There are many different fruit that are also good as treats for your dog, especially if your dog has a sweet tooth. These can be given to him as fresh or frozen. Good fruits for treats include:


Apples, without cores or seeds
Blueberries and strawberries
Watermelon
Cantaloupe
Bananas, frozen as chips, Your dog may also like cooked meat as treats. Cube some cooked chicken into small bites and give it as treats. Bake him some salmon, which is especially good if he has itchy skin since the Omega-3s help with allergies. Cut off tough areas of your cooked steak or pork loins to give your dog as a treat.


These treats can give him a protein boost and make him full if he's hungry between meals.You can also use meat broths to make treats. Freeze no sodium chicken or beef broth in ice cubes and give them to your dog. These are especially good during hot weather.
Never feed him raw meat., One scrambled egg can make a good snack for your dog. It provides a nice protein boost and has needed nutrients, such as selenium and riboflavin. Just make sure you cook the egg without oils, butter, or spices.


Never feed your dog a raw egg., There are some cooked grains that can be good for your dogs. Cooked oatmeal, rice, and pasta in small portions are good to feed your dog, especially if he has an upset stomach.


Grains also provide a good source of fiber for your dog, which can help his digestive tract.
Make sure you don't cook them with any oils, seasoning, or other additive that might mess his system up or add calories., Small cheese cubes can make a good treat for your dog. Make sure you buy good quality, low fat cheese for him. Full fat cheese has too much fat and might cause him to gain weight.Also avoid giving him too much cheese because dogs have a hard time digesting lactose in large doses and may cause problems such as diarrhea., Yogurt can make a good treat for your dog, but only in small doses. Yogurt is a good source of calcium and probiotics, but these may actually cause harm to his system if he is fed too much. In large doses, he also may have a hard time breaking down the lactose, which can cause diarrhea.


These may be good for when your dog has stomach issues because the bacteria can help flush his digestive tract.
There is also a possibility that your dog may be lactose intolerant, so watch to make sure the yogurt doesn't cause any stomach issues., Although these human foods are great treats for your dog, there are certain foods you should never feed your dog because they are toxic to him, which can make him ill or kill him. These foods include:


Grapes or raisins
Onion
Garlic or chives
Avocados
Chocolate
Citrus, including the stems
Coconut
Alcohol
Macadamia nuts
Fatty meat scraps
Small cooked bones, especially chicken bones
Yeast dough
Xylitol, which is found in sugar free foods and some peanut butter