 Throwing a brochure together without a plan can result in type, images, and a layout without a consistent tone. Your plan needs to include thinking through how you will be using your brochure and who your audience will be. You may decide to tailor your design to a specific event or product, or you may need a more versatile design that can be used as a direct mailing, a handout, and as a response to inquiries. Whatever your purpose, your brochure needs to be designed with a specific audience in mind so that everything - the information, the layout, even the size and fold type - appeals to their specific needs, desires, and general taste.;
, Format choices for your brochure printing include size, paper type, folding, and possibly the coating. Choose a size and fold that will allow you to include all of your information while also remaining practical for the purpose of your brochure. For instance, a big size is definitely more noticeable but may not be practical for mailing purposes. A tri-fold is great for a direct mail brochure but not the best fold choice when you need an open spread presentation.
 Keep in mind that a heavier paper type makes your company seem more professional to clients. Some paper types can only handle a glossy coating, but others allow for a matte. Gloss makes your colors and images more brilliant while a matte coating provides a softer look, so if available choose the one that matches the image you are creating.
 Write your copy in a consistent voice, use language that is easy to read, and create short sentences. Your headline should be both interesting and informative so that readers want to find out more. Don't forget the all important call to action and contact information in a noticeable yet appropriate location in your brochure.
 Graphics include artwork, your company logo, charts, and graphs. Make sure that all of your images are at 300 dpi for a crisp appearance when printed. An order form or response card should be perforated for easy removal. These forms work best when they are mailable as is - no need to place in an envelope - so include a space for a stamp and your address.
 Of course, different brochure formats differ in their layouts, but there are some general layout tips to follow for any brochure type. The first is to break up long paragraphs of text into bullet points and use boxes (not too many) for setting apart extra/important information. Make your margins slightly off-center to avoid an amateurish look, and use white space to create a natural flow from section to section. Use headers and sub headers to make your brochure easy to skim over since most readers don't have the time nor patience to read long blocks of text. Most importantly, keep your design simple. Too many charts, boxes, or pictures and too much information make a brochure appear cluttered and your message becomes hidden behind the busyness. When laying out your content, you will need to decide on colors. Using your brand colors is the best choice so that consumers can recognize the brochures as yours. Limit your amount of colors to a 2, 3, or 4 color scheme and use each color consistently throughout the brochure. For instance, one color could be used for the headings and subheadings only, while another could be used only for the background.
 To get professional results, you need a professional printer. Be sure to choose an online printing company that has experience with brochure printing and that can also offer the custom options and services you need. Before sending in your file, contact your printer to find out their file format, file versions, and other file preferences. Most printing companies prefer you send your font and image files along with the design file so that they can be sure to get your layout just right. If you used RGB colors, convert these to CMYK colors before sending to print, since CMYK colors are used in offset printing.

