 In today's market and with the power of the Internet you can make purchases anywhere. In 2011, Arizona, Nevada and Florida and parts of California have homes at 1/2 the price due to overbuilding. The US population grew from 1980 to 2010 at the rate of 2.75 million per year (in 1980 was 227 million and was 310 million in 2010 and still growing) so the population increase will eventually absorb the foreclosures and there will be another housing boom.;
, This is especially important if Make an application to a mortgage company. You need to know what they can do for you and let them know what it is that you are looking to do. If you are going to buy single Family Homes or Multi-family buildings. Make sure they can make the loans and how much of the rental with they use towards qualifying you for a mortgage.
 Make sure you tell the loan officer what you want up front. Once you find the property you want to purchase you can make the deal a cash offer subject to appraisal.


If you take the asking price and divide it by the square footage of the property, properties sell for around a certain average price per square foot. In my city in California the properties sell for around $200 per square foot while in Central Phoenix Arizona they sell for around $50 per square foot. In 2011, if you want to get the Bank to approve the Loan, don't select a property above the average or the Bank will not approve the loan (even if the property appraises for what you offered, the Bank will not make the loan).
 Contact agents that specialize in working with Buyers and not an agent who works for the seller. However, a sellers agent can provide information about a property that a buyer's agent may not know. The realtor's fiduciary duty is to provide honest real estate help and knowledge to all parties in the transaction.
 Make a list of the ones you are interested in then go out by yourself and drive around the area. Don't be afraid to knock on doors in the area and ask questions of the people. Such as Schools, Shopping, Crime, you get the idea. You can also go online to check out the schools ratings and the crime stats for the area.
 Get the Seller Disclosure for each property. This will become a great tool down the road. Once you have all of the properties listed and all of your notes written down on each property.
 Find out if it had been listed before by any other office or For Sale by Owner. This is a very important step. Remember the time a property is on the market will have a dramatic effect on your offer.
 Try to make your upfront money as big as you can and the settlement date as short as possible. Remember you have a mortgage already if you did what it says in step #3 and you are ready to make offers. Make sure your agent knows that you are going to move very quickly and you want the seller to move just as fast.
 Don't buy properties because they look good or you like the interior. Make smart educated purchases from good data. Ignore the decorations and the potpourri try to compare house size, location and age. You may be willing to redecorate a bargain if everything else is good.



Cleaning, interior and exterior paint, flowers and minor repairs make the property jump in value a lot, while a new deck will make the value jump a little more than the cost and Kitchen/Bath remodels usually do not increase the value as much because homeowners tend to go overboard in their spending on these projects.

