 Adequate levels of protein help maintain bodily integrity, healing, and organ stability, which promotes optimal health and development. Good sources of protein include meat, poultry, fish, eggs, legumes, nuts, seeds, and milk products. Here are the general guidelines for how much protein people need in their diets:


1-3 years old: 13 grams per day
4-8 years old: 19 grams per day
9-13 years old: 34 grams per day
Males 14-18 years old: 52 grams per day
Females 14-18 years old: 46 grams per day
Males 19 years old and up: 56 grams per day
Females 19 years old and up: 46 grams per day

, Good fats are crucial to overall health, as they help provide energy, improve brain function, and enable the body to absorb important vitamins such as Vitamins A, D, E, and K, all of which are needed for optimal bodily development. To ensure that you’re getting the right kinds of fats:


Limit your intake of saturated fats to less than 7% of your daily calorie intake.
Limit your intake of trans fats to less than 1% of your daily calorie intake.
As much as possible, choose polyunsaturated and monounsaturated fats, which are commonly found in olive oil, canola oil, sesame oil, and soybean oil.
Try to eat the fatty acids found in fish like salmon and mackerel.
 A healthy amount of carbohydrates can help you maintain the energy levels necessary for good overall health, and can also help you digest and absorb nutrients effectively. Here are some tips for managing your carbohydrate intake:


The recommended daily allowance for carbohydrates is calculated by taking 45%-65% of your daily calorie intake and dividing that number by four.
Whole grains are high in carbohydrates.
Fruits such as bananas, cherries, and raisins are good sources of healthy carbohydrates.
Vegetables like potatoes and carrots are high in carbohydrates.
Eating legumes, nuts, and seeds can a be a good way to get your carbohydrates.
 In order to maximize overall liver health, be sure to focus on consuming the following vitamins and minerals:


Vitamins A, C, E, B1, B6, and B12
Iron
Selenium
Calcium
Magnesium

