 Cedar is a good choice, since it is free of preservatives and naturally resists rot and decay. Plus, it is easier to work with than hardwoods or tightly grained softwoods such as pine that are more likely to warp and split.;
, The one in this illustration is 18 inches (46cm) wide, 22 inches (56cm) long, but the final size depends upon your needs.
 These pieces will be the main supports, serving as both the mounting frame for the wheel and for the handles, so choosing good lumber is important.
 Scribe a pair of parallel lines on the thicker end so you will have a pocket for the wheel/axle assembly to mount in.
 Then scribe a block to fasten the two handles together, staying back about 12 inches (30cm) from the end you are using for the wheel mount.
 Three layers will give you a wheel about 2 inches (5cm) thick, using two 1 X 6 inch (2.5cm x 15cm) planks will allow you to cut a wheel 11 inches (28cm) in diameter, as shown in the illustrations.
 Then cut it out with a jigsaw or band saw.
 A 1/2 inch (1.5cm) galvanized rod will give you a fairly stout axle. Put a nut on the all-thread, running it down about 3 inches (7.5cm), then add a flat washer. Thread your rod through one handle, and start a nut on the end where it passes through the handle. Tighten it so that it pulls into the wood if possible, to make it stationary.
 Add another washer, then another nut, before allowing it to pass through the second handle. Add a final nut on the outside of the second handle, and tighten it securely. Make sure the space between the wheel and its washer spacers is fairly tight, but not too tight, so the wheel cannot wobble.
 You can begin by laying this assembly on the inverted box and marking the edges of the handles so you can fit the next piece in the correct location.
 Lay them on the lines you marked earlier and fasten them with wood screws.
 Add your legs and braces, using 2 X 2 inch (5cm x 5cm) material scribed on the angle of the handles so that they support the wheelbarrow in the position you want. You can let these legs run wild (cut longer than needed) so you can trim them when you have completed the project.
 You can now set the wheelbarrow right side up and check it to make sure it sits correctly. There are a number of simple ways of adjusting the way the wheelbarrow sets, including adding wedges underneath the box, and trimming the support legs.
 You can line the wheelbarrow box with plastic to give it more protection from moisture if you are going to use it for a planter, but if you use a good, exterior grade wood, it should last for a long time with just a sealer on it.

