 Dehydration is a common, easily fixed cause of low energy. Even mild dehydration can sap your energy and affect your ability to think and reason.If you're lacking energy, try drinking a few glasses of water as your first plan of attack.


Try to drink water throughout the day, not just when you feel thirsty.
Women should aim for 9 cups (72oz) of water daily, men 13 cups (104 oz).Drink more water if you have exercised to replenish what you sweat out, or if you consumed dehydrating beverages, like coffee or soda.;
, A 10-minute walk can pump up your energy for up to two hours. The energy bump you get from sugar or caffeine only lasts about an hour and you may suffer a major crash afterwards, leaving you with even less energy than before.Other exercises that can get your energy up in 10 minutes include jumping rope, dancing, climbing stairs, lunges and squats.You don't have to break a sweat to reap the energy benefits of a quick workout. Just getting your body up and moving for 10 minutes can increase energy and boost mood., Light suppresses the production of Melatonin, a hormone your brain releases to make you feel sleepy. If you're indoors all day in a dark office or classroom, your brain may think it's time to go to sleep and release Melatonin, impacting your energy.Try to spend lunches or breaks outside.
If possible, sit by a window when you're indoors so you have some exposure to the sun throughout the day.
If you can't get outside during the day or there's very little daylight (like during the shorter winter days), consider purchasing a lightbox. These mimic the effects of daylight and can be used to lift energy, A combination of complex carbs (i.e. green vegetables, whole-grain bread, oatmeal, yogurt, apples) and protein (i.e. nuts, chicken, eggs, tofu, cheese) can give you the fuel you need without spiking your blood sugar, which can lead to crashing.Carbohydrates are broken down by your body and absorbed into the blood stream to provide energy. The addition of protein slows this process so that your blood sugar remains steady, giving you more energy for longer periods of time.
Bananas, apricots, and dates are also easy pick-me-up snacks.
 Watching a brief, humorous video or reading a comic that makes you chuckle can both decrease tension and increase energy. It may also make you more willing to tackle challenging projects., A power-nap around 2 or 3pm can improve cognitive ability, creativity, and memory, and can leave you feeling rested and refreshed. Just don't oversleep or you may end up groggy instead of revitalized.If you have more time, sleeping for 90-minutes will allow you to complete a full REM cycle. You'll get more rest and avoid grogginess.
Find somewhere quiet, dark, and away from people, where you have some room to curl up.
If there's nowhere nap-worth nearby, try reclining the seat of your car and use an eye mask to block out any light.
 Chocolate contains theobromine and caffeine, both proven energy boosters. Flavonoids, a mood-enhancing antioxidant, can also be found in cocoa. Just remember to enjoy in moderation!You can still get results from milk chocolate, but the darker the chocolate, the greater the energy benefits.
Stick to straight chocolate bars or squares and avoid chocolates packed with sugary extras like marshmallow, caramel, etc.
 There's a reason most people turn to coffee to wake them up in the morning--it's packed with caffeine and increases metabolism, energy, and focus. The catch is that these effects peak quickly but can have far-reaching side effects, like preventing you from falling asleep at bedtime, which can impact your energy long-term.Try not to exceed a single cup of coffee in a day, or try smaller, more frequent servings instead of one large cup.
Don't sweeten the pot. Adding sugar will spike your blood-sugar and lead you to crash in about an hour.
 Listening to uptempo music before you begin work or during breaks can make you feel motivated and more alert. This works best if you pick songs you really enjoy.If you are working on a creative project or complex tasks (like writing a paper, reading, studying for a test), try listening to repetitive "background" music while you work.Do not listen to popular music or music with lyrics while you are working. Your brain will try to process both things at once and it will be more difficult to process the task at hand. Save this kind of music for breaks to reinvigorate yourself.Tapping your toes can provide an extra bump of energy., Cinnamon, rosemary, and peppermint can also help improve focus and decrease fatigue., While you may want to plow through your work as quickly as possible, taking a 5-10 minute break can actually provide an immediate shot of energy and increase productivity overall.If you're sitting for most of the day, try taking four 30-second breaks every hour and a 14-minute break after two hours.