 Lots of times someone that is suicidal will ask you not to tell anyone else about what is going on. You don’t need to tag their friends in a Facebook post saying the person is suicidal, but you should let someone close to them know what is going on. This way, the person has a support team looking out for them and trying to prevent the suicide.The stress of this won’t be only on your shoulders.


If the person is under 18, then tell an adult you trust. You can tell the person, “I don’t want to make you mad, but we need help with this. I’ll call Coach.”
You could explain to the person that you aren’t going to mention suicide. This can help you and the person feel better about you asking for help.
For example, “I’m not going to mention suicide. I’m just going to say we have some emotional stuff we need help with.”
If the person is being abused by someone, you should avoid telling the abuser. Instead, you should talk to a teacher, coach, or supervisor about your concerns. Take the source of their issues into account when deciding who to talk to. For example, if the source of the problem is a teacher, then do go to that teacher with your concerns.
 You can prevent a suicide by setting up a plan in advance for handling suicide attempts or signs that a person is planning suicide.This way everyone on the support team will know what to do.


You can download a Suicide Prevention Safety Plan from the Suicide Prevention Lifeline website.
Include a list of people that will check on the suicidal person, important phone numbers, etc.
Include the person when you are making the plan and if possible, have a professional help make it. Also, encourage them to see a therapist so that they can work on their issues and help them to identify a support system, such as friends and family.
 Don’t stop checking on the person immediately after the suicide crisis is over.Regular check-ins allow you to recognize any warning signs or new risk factors for suicide. They also let the person know that you still care about them and how they are doing.


Make sure other people on the support team are checking in with the person as well.
Checking on the person doesn’t have to be a serious thing. It can be meeting up for ice cream and a chat about how the week is going.
You don’t have to ask, “Are you thinking about suicide?” every time you get together, but do be on the lookout for warning signs.
 One way to prevent a suicide is to encourage the person to do things that will help keep them healthy in general. Encourage them to eat well, get enough sleep, get physical activity, and socialize.


Work with them to develop a bedtime routine to make sure they are getting enough rest.
Suggest activities that you can do together like hiking, playing a sport, or swimming that will also get the person physically active.
Buy the person a journal so that they can express their feelings instead of holding them in.
 Trying to prevent a suicide can be physically, emotionally, and mentally draining on you. Make sure you are doing the things you need to do to take care of yourself, just like you are doing for the person considering suicide.


Get enough sleep and eat healthy meals.
Spend time with your friends and family doing things you enjoy. Go to see a funny movie, take a bike ride, or have a picnic.
Start practicing meditation or using other stress-reduction and coping strategies. Even just taking a few deep breaths can help calm you from the stress of trying to prevent a suicide.
 If someone threatens suicide as a way to get you to do what they want (whether you believe them or not), it’s emotional abuse.You aren’t responsible for someone choosing suicide. And you shouldn’t feel pressured to do something you aren’t comfortable doing because someone is threatening suicide.


If you know someone that threatens suicide when you don’t do what they want, you should tell someone you trust.
For example, if your boyfriend says he will kill himself every time you say you want to leave him, you should tell a close friend, your parents, or someone else you trust.
You can also call the crisis hotline at 1-800-273-8255 or your national emergency number. They can help the person threatening suicide and you.
Calling for help will also let the person know that even though you aren’t giving into what they want, you do take their suicide threat seriously.

