 Use a water siphon to vacuum the gravel. Then, remove any active carbon for your water filter. Lowering the water level will increase surface agitation of the water and help to circulate the ich medication when you add it to the water.You should also check to make sure the water filter in the tank is pushing a strong, steady flow of water into the tank.
 Increase the water temperature slowly over a 48 hour period in small increments of 2 degrees F or 1 degree C every hour. This will give your goldfish time to adjust to the rising temperature and prevent shocking him.Unlike the natural treatment, the purpose of raising the water temperature is not to kill the ich with heat, but to speed up the life cycle of the ich. You are trying to force each parasite to develop into the free-swimming stage very quickly so the ich medication can kill them, without harming your fish.
 There are several commercial ich treatments available online or at your local pet store. Some ich medications are copper-based, so they will not stain like some other medications. However, copper-based ich can be harmful to other invertebrates or plants in the infected aquarium. Always read the label of the medication to ensure it will not harm your other aquarium pets.Follow the dosage instructions on the label to apply the ich medication to the tank water.
 If you would like to also add salt to the water to boost your goldfish’s slime coat and speed up the killing of the ich, you can do so after you put in the ich medication.Make sure the other fish and invertebrates in the tank are not sensitive to salt treatments. If you are concerned the salt any harm the other fish in the tank, don’t use it. Stick to just the ich medication.
 It may take some time for the ich medication to rid the tank of ich, as each ich parasite needs to be in the free-swimming stage before it can be killed. After a couple of weeks, the white spots on your fish should be gone and the tank should be ich free., After a couple of weeks of the professional treatment, your goldfish should be swimming normally and white spot free in the tank. It’s now time to bring the water temperature back down to its normal temperature in increments of 2 degrees F (1 degree C) every hour over 48 hours.Do one last 25 percent water change at the end of the natural treatment and then continue your normal weekly water changes.

