 You can also extract essential oils by using steam to extract and capture the oils. You can do this using a crock pot, if you own one. To start, you'll need the following:Plant material from your chosen essential oils
A crock pot
A glass container
A piece of cloth

, Use distilled water here, to make sure your oils are not sullied by chemicals found in tap water. Fill your crock pot about halfway full, or three quarters of the way full, with water., Take your chosen plant material. Place it inside the crock pot, allowing it to float on top of the water.You should use just enough plant material that it comfortably fits in the crock pot with distilled water.
 Turn the crock pot on low heat. Cover as you would when cooking meals using the crock pot. Allow it to cook on low for 24 hours.Be careful where you leave the crock pot. Crockpots cook at low temperatures, and are generally safe to leave on when your'e not home.However, make sure to keep the crock pot in a safe place away from flammable materials.
 After the 24 hour period has passed, you can turn off the crock pot. You should also open the crock pot. Leave the mixture alone for 2 to 3 weeks to allow the oils to be fully extracted from the plants.As you're leaving your crock pot open, it's important to find a safe place for it. This is particularly important if you have children or pets, as the water from the crock pot should not be ingested.
A high cabinet, which closes safely, may be your best option. Let other household members know you are making essential oils and they are not to disturb the crock pot.
 After 2 to 3 weeks have passed, a small bit of visible oil should have risen to the surface of the water. You will want to collect this oil and transfer it to a dark, glass container.You can use a cooking spoon or regular spoon to remove the oil. It may take quite a few scoops before you get all the oil. Be careful to collect only the essential oil, and not any water or plant material.
 Take your cloth and place on top of the glass container. Set the container aside for 24 hours. After 24 hours have passed, any extra water will have evaporated and your essential oils will be safe to use.As with the crock pot, it's vital that you take precaution when storing your container. Keep it out of reach of children and pets and place it in an area where it will not be disturbed.
Your essential oil should last for about 12 months. Place it in a sealable container after 24 hours have passed.

