 Dogs are generally capable of recognizing the faces of their owners and others they love. If your dog recognizes someone, it's likely to follow that person around, especially when greeting a person. If someone, say, enters a room that a dog knows, they'll generally follow them initially.If a friend walks in that your dog knows, it's normal for your dog to follow them for a few minutes.
If a dog has stopped recognizing someone, it's likely to remain indifferent when someone enters a room.;
, How does your dog behave in the presence of familiar people? A dog's body language in the presence of friends rather than strangers should be relaxed and friendly. If your dog seems nervous or aggressive around familiar people, it may no longer recognize them.A relaxed, friendly dog will have its ears forward, its head held high, its mouth slightly opened, and its tail down and wagging. A relaxed dog will also carry their body in a looser fashion. If your dog knows someone, it should generally be relaxed around that person.
A fearful or aggressive dog will lower its body. It will pin its ears back, wrinkle its nose, and keep its lips curled. This is not a normal reaction a dog should have in response to seeing people it knows.
 If your dog is generally calm around people, even new people, it's unlikely to behave in a fearful fashion if it stops recognizing people. However, your dog may simply not pay much attention to new people. If your dog seems uninterested in greeting or playing with familiar guests, it may be losing its ability to recognize people., If you suspect your dog is no longer recognizing people, pay attention to other ways your dog behaves. Cognitive decline can show up in other forms. If your dog is showing other symptoms of cognitive decline, this can help confirm your dog has indeed lost the ability to recognize people. One of the most common signs of cognitive decline is forgetting learned behaviors.Does your dog remember basic commands and tricks it learned? If your dog suddenly does not remember how to sit or roll over, this is a sign of cognitive decline. This should occur on a regular basis and not just be a one time misstep.
Your dog may also forget basic household manners. If your dog knows not to go in the kitchen while people are eating, and is suddenly consistently underfoot during meal times, for example, this can be a sign of cognitive decline.
 As dogs age, they may forget their potty training lessons. Your dog may forget that its not supposed to eliminate indoors. If your normally potty trained dog is suddenly going inside a lot, this can be a sign of cognitive decline.Bathroom issues can also be a sign of a physical problem, so it's important to get them evaluated by a veterinarian to rule out other causes.
 A dog that's developing cognitive decline may be confused and upset easily. This can often manifest itself in physical symptoms. While any physical changes should be evaluated by a vet, a dog experiencing cognitive decline may display some of the following behaviors:Trembling or shaking
Being easily startled
Pacing throughout the house
Sleeping more frequently

, A dog with cognitive decline may get confused simply navigating your home. Your dog may get trapped in your bedroom and be unable to find the door. Your dog may get lost coming from the living room to the kitchen for dinner., Symptoms of cognitive decline should always be evaluated by a veterinarian. Many symptoms can be indicative of an underlying health condition, which should be ruled out first. There is no cure for cognitive decline in older dogs, but your vet should be able to develop a treatment plan to slow down symptoms.Schedule an appointment with your vet. Let your vet know about the concerning changes in your dog's behavior.
Make sure you make a list of symptoms ahead of time. The more information you provide, the better advice your vet can give.
Your vet will do a general exam and, depending on your dog's symptoms, may want to run some blood work and other tests.
 Your vet will not be able to cure cognitive decline, but can make your dog's life easier by recommending a particular routine. A routine that combines daily exercise, play, and support can ease your dog's symptoms. Your vet may have specific recommendations for behavior modification techniques that can help your dog., In addition to lifestyle changes, in some cases medication or a special diet can help. Talk these options over with your vet to see if they're right for your dog.Make sure you ask your vet questions about any medications your dog is prescribed. Follow the instructions carefully and monitor your dog for side effects.
A special diet for cognitive decline is usually supplemented with certain vitamins and minerals shown to slow the symptoms. You may have to order special diet food online or get it at your vet's office.
 In order to minimize confusion for your dog, keep your routine consistent. Try not to make any sudden changes to your schedule and avoid changes to your household. Do not, for example, suddenly add a new couch, as this can confuse a dog suffering cognitive decline., It can be hard for a dog with cognitive decline to get around, so keep your home clear of clutter. Keep floors clear and do not leave items sitting out. Dogs with cognitive decline get lost and confused easily, so less clutter is important for your dog's health.