 Use a butter knife or similar tool, like popsicle sticks or a spatula. Add just enough wax to lightly cover the target area. As you do, spread the wax down in the direction that your hair grows. For example, with your calf, spread it from your knee down to your ankle, not the other way.With each application, apply it in a fast, clean motion in order to spread it as thinly as possible. Dragging it too slowly over your skin may result in thicker deposits, which will be tougher to remove.This may take some practice, so consider making an extra batch just in case you mess up.
 Use cotton muslin strips of an appropriate size for the area you’re waxing, or slightly larger. Set it over the wax, with at least a couple inches (about 5 cm) remaining clear of the wax at one end, so you have a tab that’s easy to pull. Then gently rub the portion that’s stuck to the wax in the same direction that your hair grows, without pressing directly down into your flesh. Do this two or three times.Alternately, you can cut up an old t-shirt or other cloth and use strips of that. If you do, just make sure the material isn’t too stretchy. You want something nice and firm for easy removal.
The free end should be in the direction of your hair growth. For example, with your calf, it should be pointing toward your ankle, not your knee.
 With one hand, use your fingers to pull the surrounding skin away from the fabric, so it’s nice and taut. Then, with the other, take the fabric’s free end in between your fingertips. Quickly pull the fabric free of your skin in the opposite direction that your hair grows.For example, with your calf, you should pull the strip up toward your knee.
As you do, try to keep as straight as possible. Avoid pulling it off at an angle that’s different from the one in which it was applied.
Tear it off like a bandaid, in one quick, clean motion.
 Apply more wax and strips as needed to wax all of the intended area. Depending on how large an area you’re waxing, reheat the mixture if it cools off or hardens to the point that you can’t spread it easily. Once you’re done, wash your skin with warm to hot water.If needed, apply more wax to the same area and use a second strip. After that, use a tweezer to pluck any remaining hairs. Your skin will probably be too sensitive for a third waxing.Use soap if you want when washing, but it isn’t necessary. All you need is warm water, so stick with that if you used scented oil and want the smell to last.If your skin feels dried out afterward, apply baby oil after washing to rehydrate it.The fabric can also be cleaned with hot water, so you can use them again..

