 Due to their small size, guinea pigs are vulnerable to risks when it comes to surgery. And it is a common myth that neutering will make boars get along better with other guinea pigs or make them friendlier. Neutering doesn't affect the personality of a guinea pig in any way―it is a tactic to prevent pregnancy.

If you don't need to get your guinea pig neutered, then don't. Avoid the risks and unnecessary cost of neutering. Unless you're planning to keep him with female sows, there is no need to castrate your boar.;
, Performing surgery on small animals is a complicated process for the surgeon, especially one that isn't as experienced. The smaller the animal, the more risks involved. Risks can happen during and after surgery. Respiratory issues can result from surgery due to the given anaesthesia or the infections following the surgery if proper care isn't provided.

You should go through the risks of neutering with your vet too so that you fully understand any complications that can arise and gain knowledge on the situation your guinea pig is potentially being put in.
Castrating a male is much easier than spaying a sow, hence why some vet clinics won't perform on female guinea pigs. Castrating your boar will be easier (and maybe cheaper) than choosing to spay your sow., Avoid the assumption that any vet can easily neuter a guinea pig. Find an exotic vet that has experience with guinea pig neutering and, of course, good outcomes from surgery.

Ask around from friends or online forums for advice on finding a suggested vet to go through with neutering your guinea pig. It can be difficult to find a vet alone.
 As much as the cheapest option may seem the best option to go with, sometimes this isn't always the truth. You should opt for an average priced neuter from a reliable vet clinic.

Costs for surgery can come anywhere between $50 and $300. The average would be about $100.
 These places are cheaper for a reason. Vet schools have students learning to become vets, which means that they may not be well-experienced in neutering guinea pigs. Avoid clinics that have bad reviews. This is an obvious one!, When finding a reliable vet or vet clinic asking around goes a long way! As much as it can be a minor help, sometimes asking your friend or family member isn't good enough into guiding you to choose the right place for your cavy. Shelters can assist you with finding a reliable vet considering they should have quite a few experiences with guinea pigs and their health. Optionally you can locate a vet in the vet section of the yellow pages.

Look for vets and/or vet clinics specialised in small animals and exotic pets.
 When it comes to finding a vet, the best thing you can do is question them to know whether they're right for your guinea pig. Make sure you're asking questions to do with how many guinea pigs they have neutered, their success rate, over what period of time they have neutered guinea pigs, any experience with complications and possibly references from past patients. These are all safe questions that shouldn't be restrained from being asked. It's completely fine to be extra sure.Ask how the surgical procedure will go and which anaesthesia will be used. Isoflurane gas if preferred whilst halothane and methoxyflurane gas are considered unsafe to be used.
 You will have to wait at least 4-6 weeks until you can house your boar with a sow as it takes time for the viable sperm to die off. A just neutered guinea pig still has the risk of impregnating a sow., An unhealthy guinea pig that isn't doing too well physically shouldn't be put through with surgery especially due to risks associated with after surgery is performed., Most vets will perform a vet check prior to surgery to ensure your guinea pig is all good to go through with the medical procedure. If this isn't included with your guinea pigs castration you should arrange an appointment to ensure your guinea pig is in good condition., Weight is a major factor to do with your guinea pig's health. 650 grams is considered the minimum of neutering your guinea pig. Regular weight checks should be performed nether the less as a way to spot early symptoms in potential healthy issues., There is actually a recommended age when it comes to neutering guinea pigs. The most preferred age is to get your guinea pig neutered at as young as 4 months. A 3-4-year-old guinea pig isn't recommended to get neutered.Some vets will have an age limit. Ask first and get their recommendations.
 Make sure you set-up a cage for your guinea pig before you bring them home as they will need extra care, supervision, and isolation away from other guinea pigs, animals, children, and noises., Your guinea pig should start eating again 2 hours after their surgery and remain active. They may show aggressive behaviour, An indoor environment is the best environment while your guinea pig recovers from surgery. An indoor environment reduces stress, infection and temperature can be regulated as well as being able to supervise your guinea pig more frequently., Do not give your guinea pig any antibiotics or medication that hasn't been prescribed to be given to them. Only give your guinea pigs medication if your vet has instructed you to. Antibiotics shouldn't be added to their water if it isn't recommended as your guinea pig can be put off from drinking due to this.

You will most likely be given antibiotics to help your guinea pig during their healing process and have the option to administer pain killers to your guinea pig to get their eating faster.
 You should refrain from using your normal bedding for your guinea pig during the healing process. Anything with small fragments should be avoided such as wood chippings/shavings as these can irritate the wound. You should opt for white towels instead which will help with monitoring your guinea pigs urine and droppings. Line newspaper at the bottom first and then the towels which will need to be changed at least once a day.

Your vet might suggest you with what kind of bedding to use to prevent infections and irritants to the wound.
 The hay can be irritable to your guinea pigs wound. You must keep the hay compacted into a tube or suitable rack that restrains the guinea pig from sitting in it. Make sure you're buying a soft brand of hay such as meadow hay (but not too soft that it isn't any good for your guinea pig). You should avoid oaten hay as it's a lot tougher., They should be kept separate from any cage mates while they are recovering from surgery. This includes other guinea pigs, animals, and people. The only one that should be interacting with the guinea pig is you. Small children should be kept away from your guinea pig to reduce unnecessary stress., You should be giving your guinea pig 50-75 mg of vitamin C depending on their weight. You can give them vitamin C naturally through vegetables such as (green) capsicums., Weighing your guinea pig can help identify signs of early illnesses; especially if their weight rapidly drops all of a sudden., After surgery, your guinea pigs wound is prone to infections during the healing process. You should keep an extra eye on your cavy each day to ensure their health is stable. This is why it's optimal to keep your guinea pig indoors while they are healing.

Additionally you should monitor their behaviour and eating habits too.
 If you plan on doing so, then after at least 4 weeks you are able to keep your boar with a sow. You must wait four weeks to give any viable sperm time to die off, otherwise there is still a high risk of your boar impregnating the sow.