;
, All berries should be rinsed in cool water.
 Add an inch of water to the bottom, cover securely, bring to a boil for 10 minutes.
 Measure an equal volume of granulated sugar to the berries you have (one pint in this case).
, Stir into the corners of the pot to wet any pockets of sugar hiding there.
,, Reduce the heat and heat until the "oily" liquid rises to near the top of the pot. Pay attention and do not allow the mixture to boil over.
 If the temperature is less, add sugar by the tablespoon until it gets to the right temperature. Be aware that boiling sugar solutions will burn you quickly and seriously!

, Leave about a quarter inch of headroom. A canning funnel (not used here) makes for less mess. Wipe the jar rim with a clean towel, if there is any jam on the jar rim. The rim must be clean in order to have a good seal.


The frothy foam shown in the photo is edible, but it's not the most attractive or tasty part. You can skim it off with a spoon, if you wish. A pat of butter or margarine added as the jam boils also helps keep so much foam from forming.
, If you use a large stock pot, place a rack or other spacer on the bottom so that the jars do not rest directly on the bottom of the pot. Add enough hot water to cover them by 1–2 inches (2.5–5.1 cm). You can measure it to the first knuckle, as shown.
 Boil for 10 minutes, adding 5 minutes to the processing time for each 3000-foot increase in altitude.
 Jar tongs are a secure and safe way to do this, or you may be able to raise the entire rack in a water-bath canner. Place the jars on a clean towel to cool.
 You may hear the metal lids make a loud “plink” sound. That is because the contents are cooling, which creates a partial vacuum in the jar.
 The vacuum created when the contents cooled should have pulled the "dome" lid down very tightly. If you can press the center of the lid down, it did not seal. It should not spring back. If any jars have not sealed, you can place a fresh lid on them and process them again, or you can refrigerate those jars and use the contents soon.
 You can remove the rings at this point, since the seals should be holding themselves on securely. Allow the rings and jars to dry thoroughly before replacing the rings, to prevent rust.
