 This method for cooking your New York strip steaks may be unfamiliar to amateur chefs, but, when done right, allows you to get deliciously tender medium-rare steaks very consistently.To start, fill a dutch oven about two-thirds of the way full with water and set it to a medium heat.


You want the internal temperature of your dutch oven to reach about 130o F (54o C) before you begin to cook your steaks. If your dutch oven doesn't have a built-in thermometer, you can use a candy thermometer by attaching it to the side of the oven.
 The problem with cooking steaks in a moist environment like a dutch oven is that there's no way to give them a nice, crispy crust like they'd get on the grill or in a pan. However, there's a way around this — by giving the steaks a quick pan-crisping before (and, as we'll see, after) they're cooked in the dutch oven, we can still give them their desirable crust.


Season and prepare your steaks and pan exactly as directed for a pan-searing above. However, only cook your steaks one minute per side — remember, you're trying to brown the outsides of the steaks, not cook them through.
 Once your steaks have slightly-browned exteriors, place them in a sturdy plastic bag and seal it (you may want to double-bag them to prevent water from leaking in). Remove the air from the bag either with a vacuum-packing tool or by lowering the bag into the water with the seal open, then sealing once the water has forced most of the air out.


At this point, drop the bag of steaks into the dutch oven and close it. If necessary, raise the heat setting of the oven slightly to bring it back up to 130o. Cook at this temperature for about two to two and a half hours.
As the steaks cook, periodically check their progress. Move the bag and turn it over about once every hour or so to ensure the meat cooks evenly.
 While you're waiting for steaks to finish cooking, you have plenty of free time to prepare other dishes if you'd like to. One thing you may want to consider doing is making a simple sauce or garnish to put on your steaks once they're finished. For instance, you can make a delicious mushroom garnish by melting a few tablespoons of butter in a saucepan, then tossing in some mushrooms, chopped shallots, and minced garlic for flavor — simply cook the ingredients together until they're flavorful and fragrant.


You can "eyeball" these ingredients if you'd like — it's hard to add "too much" of any one of them. For precise measurement recommendations, see the ingredients section above.
For extra flavor, try adding a splash of white whine!

, After a few hours in the dutch oven, the steaks should be deliciously tender and cooked all the way through. At this point, if you'd like, you can toss the steaks back into a hot, oiled pan for one or two minutes on each side to improve their outer crusts. The steaks should now be ready to eat!


If you made a sauce or garnish, pour a spoonful over each steak before serving it on its plate.

