 Once you’re ready to talk to your friend about how their bragging is affecting your relationship, you’ll need to choose the best time to talk. Be mindful that your friend probably won’t like being told that they brag too much.Pick a time that works for your friend. Be considerate of their schedule so that they’ll realize that you value them.
Make sure that you have enough time to talk it out. For example, avoid inviting your friend out for a quick drink at happy hour to discuss the bragging.
 When you’re ready to talk to your friend, make plans to meet them in a neutral location, such as a favorite restaurant that you both enjoy.Avoid talking to them at a place that is normally child-centered, such as a little league game.


Have the conversation when it’s adult’s only so that your friend doesn’t have to choose between your conversation and caring for their child.
Let them know that you need to talk to them. Say, “Hey, I’ve been feeling some distance between us lately, and I’d really like to talk about it.”Assure your friend that you care about his/her child. You could say, “Brennan is such a great kid! His talent speaks for itself.”
Pick a location that you both like, preferably one where you’ve spent many great moments of your friendship.
 While you may want to loosen up with a drink before talking to your friend, resist the urge. You don’t want to say something you regret in the heat of the moment, so stay away from the drinks until you’ve finished discussing your concerns about the bragging.
 Focus solely on how your friend’s bragging is affecting your relationship.


Tell your friend how you feel using “I” statements. You could say, “I feel like your bragging takes away from our time together.”Avoid saying things like, “All you talk about is your kids!” or “You never listen to what’s going on in my life.” While you may feel this way, your friend will tune out your concerns.
 The conversation involves just the two of you, so don’t try to speak for other friends, even if they’ve made comments about the bragging to you in the past.


Avoid statements like, “Everyone says that you brag too much.” This will just put your friend on the defensive.
Don’t gang up on your friend. Only talk to your friend one-on-one.
 Since the goal is to continue being friends, make sure that you don’t say something that will cause more damage to the relationship.Don’t tell your friend that you find them annoying, even if that is sometimes true.
Don’t accuse your friend of bragging to cover up their own insecurities. Even if you are right, this will only cause more hurt, and it’s not your place to diagnose your friends.
 After you've told your friend how you feel about their bragging, listen to what they have to say about the situation. Be open to how they feel.Ask your friend how they feel. Say, "I really want us to stay close. How are you feeling right now?" Even if they are upset with you, knowing how they feel will help you move forward.
Realize that they may bring up an issue they've had with your behavior.

