 Witches are known mostly for casting spells. You don't have to use real spells if you're just pretending to be a witch, since spells mostly have to do with the intention. Rhyming some words and moving your hands isn't dangerous in any way.


Draw a circle on the floor with chalk, or build a circle out of little rocks and sticks outside. Light candles at the corners and sit in the middle. Close your eyes and move your hands in circles, as if you're channeling the spirits. Hum softly to yourself while you're pretending.
Use spells from Harry Potter, or other books or movies that you like, if you want to. "Double-double, toil and trouble..."

, Portion-making is the other most important part of a good witch-impression. Build up a big collection for mixing different sorts of potions. Some good things to collect for your potions, or for spell-casting, include:


Dried herbs like lavender, rosemary, or witch hazel
Mosses
Little bones or beaks
Crystals or stones
Essential oils
Candles

, Keep your wand, little bones, and other potion-making ingredients in little wooden boxes, or in vials and keep them on a shelf that you display in your room. Put pictures of your witch-icons, as well as candles and other little trinkets. Put out some tarot cards and other occult-style things. This all screams "witch."

, Head into the woods at night with the rest of your coven, and sit and pretend to cast spells in a little glade. Check out a graveyard with your friends after dark. Hang out in spooky places whenever you can, to do your witchy work.


If you're young, make sure you get your parents' permission to go places after dark. It's ok to go in the daylight too, even though the "witching hour" is usually around 3 am.
 Witches are mysterious, heady, and always act like they know something you don't. When you're acting like a witch, it's good to say spooky, mysterious things, like you know what's going to happen in the future.


Work on your cackle. Witches don't laugh. Witches cackle. Think of it as the evil version of your regular laugh

, Witchcraft is commonly practiced, even today. If you want to know more about Wicca or witchcraft, you can explore various articles on wikiHow for a good primer.Check out the following:


Cast a Spell
Make a Magick Spell
Write a Spell
Cast a Circle
Channel Spirits

