 Disabled people are the foremost experts on disability, so look for the leading voices. They will show up higher in search engines, and they will say what disability/ies they have on their "about me" page.;
, Disabled people often experience the misfortune of others speaking for them and over them, and you can avoid doing this by learning what they think. Here are some examples of misconceptions that the disability community discusses:


Insistence upon only person-first language when many (but not all) disabled people prefer identity-first language ("disabled person").Using appropriate language shows respect.
Inspiration porn—"This girl is smiling despite the horrible horror of having two prosthetic legs, so all your struggles are invalid."Widespread support of harmful organizations, such as Autism Speaks., You may have unwittingly absorbed negative attitudes, so education can call them to your attention and allow you to act with acceptance. Here are some examples of stereotypes:


Conflating disability and deathDisabled people as violent, evil, etc.Disability caused by mental weakness or laziness
All disabled people being childlike or asexualDisability being constant suffering; disabled people being incredibly strong for having accomplishments/leaving the house/breathing

, Be sure to read from disabled women, disabled people of color, disabled LGBTQIA people, disabled heavier people, et cetera. An end of ableism means access for all disabled people, not only the straight white male ones.
 As you read, it's important to reflect and evaluate yourself. What have you been doing that helps? What have you been doing that hurts?


Have I done this harmful thing that the writer describes? Next time, what could I do instead?
Have I been dismissive or disrespectful towards disabled people?
Do I harbor negative attitudes towards people with physical disabilities, mental illnesses, or cognitive disabilities? Do I think of them as worthless, criminal, lazy, or disgusting?
Do I know how to be polite towards disabled people? Should I read more about good manners?

, It takes time to understand new things. You will mess up sometimes, and you may be called out for it. Apologize sincerely, carry on with kindness and grace, and forgive yourself. The fact that you made a mistake is less important than how you responded to it.


It's important to know how not to take criticism personally.

