 You'll need a ruler and a protractor to draw a parallelogram with specific side lengths and angles. If you don't have a protractor, you can print one out from an online picture, or make your own out of paper.;
, The steps below tell you how to make a parallelogram with certain side lengths and angles. If your problem only tells you an angle, or only one length instead of two, the rest is up to you. For example, if a step below tells you to draw a line of the specified length, and the problem you are following doesn't mention a specific length, just draw the line as long as you like.
 Put your ruler flat against the paper and draw a line across its edge with your pencil. Make this a long line, but don't bother measuring it yet. A longer line will make some of the later steps easier.
 Move the ruler to the center of the line. If your parallelogram is supposed to be 10 centimeters (4 inches) long, make two pencil marks, next to the 0 line and the 10 cm line on the ruler. These mark the two lower corners of your parallelogram.
 Put the protractor down so the flat side is along the line (this is where a longer line will help guide you). Move it from side to side so the dot in the center of the protractor is over the left pencil mark that represents a corner of the parallelogram.
 The edge of the protractor is labeled with numbers from 0 to 180. These are the degrees in the angle. If you are trying to draw a parallelogram with a 75ยบ angle, find the line labeled 75, or estimate where the line would be halfway between the 70 mark and the 80 mark. Draw a pencil line at the edge of the protractor, continuing the line you found.


If your protractor has two sets of numbers, use the one that has "0" on the line between your two pencil marks.
If your protractor has one set of numbers and the line between your pencil marks is labeled "180," move the protractor to the right pencil mark instead and count from there.
 Move the protractor out of the way and arrange your ruler between the corner where the protractor was placed, and the pencil mark you just drew using the protractor. Connect these two marks by running your pencil along the ruler edge. Measure the length this side is supposed to be with the "0" of the ruler on the lower pencil mark. Make yet another pencil mark to show where the side ends.
 The left and right sides of a parallelogram are always parallel, meaning they are at the same angle. Position the protractor on the other corner of the parallelogram, and mark the same angle using the method described above. When you have both the left and right sides drawn, they should be parallel to each other and exactly the same length.
 Position your ruler between the two top corners of the parallelogram, where the left and right sides end. Draw a straight line between them, and your parallelogram is finished.

