 Before you quit your day job and take on your passion full-time, it can be beneficial to practice sharing your passion with others on a part-time basis. This could mean giving short lessons to your friends or taking on a few clients that could pay for you expertise. Pursuing your passion on a small scale can be a good indicator of whether it is truly a good option to take to the next level.The main thing to find an tangible way that you can start right now, because otherwise it is easy to keep putting it off. Even if your first step is simply telling someone that you are thinking about pursuing a passion professionally, this is a start rather than a postponement.
 In pretty much all cases of pursuing your passion, you won’t be able to just jump in and start following it wholly right off the bat. You will need to make a plan that outlines the specific steps you need to take. Once you have a good idea of what the end goal is, break it down into actionable steps you will take to reach that goal.These steps might include getting training, filing for specific licenses or permits, finding an office or commercial space, saving up some money, or building a network. Don't be afraid to include small steps along with big steps.
The more specific you make the steps, the easier it can be to follow through on them.
 If you are looking to apply for jobs that already incorporate your passion, you may need to consider your current resume and find out whether or not the job you want requires what your resume offers. If you have only had jobs and experience that barely relate to your sought after job, you will need to rework your resume to reflect what the desired job needs.Find ways to highlight aspects of your experiences that would fit the desired job.
Can you take what you have done and emphasize how you worked independently, how you always met deadlines, how you learned good public relations? A resume needs to be truthful, so don’t fabricate anything. But how you present the truth can affect how your resume is received.
 If you are passionate about something, it is important to you, it is valuable to you. Making it a profession means you want to make that thing valuable and important to other people as a means of income. Therefore, use your passion as a way to serve people and make their lives more fulfilling. Making your passion a profession is not only about making money doing something you like, it’s about using that passion to help other people lives better lives. Let this idea be what guides you in pursuing your passion.If your passion is working on cars, and you have the necessary skills, you could begin working on people's cars for cheaper than what a mechanic would charge them. Maybe you would try to serve people with lower income. You could still make a good wage, but you would have less overhead than a larger garage has.
Maybe you have a product idea that exists, but you know how to make using the product more efficient than what's currently on the market. Your idea would be cheaper to make so you can sell it cheaper, and it's easier to use so people can save time. In this way, your product benefits people by saving them time and money.

