 If you know what your problems are at work, you can deal with them more effectively. Keep a journal for a week or two. Every time you have a problem at work, write it down.Some examples might include:


”I’m being asked to work too many hours, and now I feel burned out.”
“My boss keeps asking me to take on more projects, and I can’t say no.”
“My coworkers are gossiping behind my back.”
“I can’t rely on my team to get their work done, so I end up doing it all.”
“I feel as though I am being unfairly criticized for my work.”;
, Sometimes it might seem as though you have no control at work or that you have no opportunities to escape your current position. You can regain control by identifying new goals for yourself. These can be career goals or general life goals. You might want to establish both long-term goals for where you want to be after five years as well as some shorter-term goals to complete within the next year. Some goals might include:


“I want to get a promotion to a higher position within two years.”
“I want to be able to spend more time with my family in the evenings.”
“I want to be able to find a job that offers better benefits.”
"I want to run my own business."
"I want to get my MBA in three years."
"I want to win the customer service award."
"I want to feel less stressed in my daily life."

, Now you can begin to start identifying practical solutions to help you reach your new goals. Try to come up with a few manageable steps that will help you escape the rut of your job. These may be steps that help you find a new job or they might help relieve the tension at your current job.You can learn a new skill, such as coding or a different language. You can teach yourself, go to a local community college, or take advantage of a work-training program.
You can request a transfer to another team. Make sure you have spoken to members of the other team before you do so to make sure that they are a better fit for you.
You may be able to request working at home once or twice a week to escape the negative atmosphere at your job.
 You cannot always fix a bad job. If your job is taking a toll on your health and mental wellbeing, you should start looking for a new job immediately. You do not necessarily have to quit your old job while you search for new positions. By keeping an eye on the job market, you may be able to land a new job with a healthy workplace.You should update your resume to reflect your most recent experience. You should also update any networking sites that you use, like LinkedIn.
Check local job boards to see which companies are currently hiring. You can also contact businesses in your field to see if they would be interested in looking at your resume.
Remember that you may have to ask your boss for a reference.Do not start neglecting your current job just because you are planning to quit.

