 If your teen enjoys reading outside of the cannon, ask them what they are reading and why they like it, then talk about a work of classic literature you enjoy that explores similar topics.Present them with that book and say something encouraging, such as, “The way you were talking about vampires in Twilight yesterday reminded me of Bram Stoker’s Dracula. Here’s the copy that I read when I was your age. I would be curious to hear what you think about it.”;
, Describe your favorite scene from a classic you’re encouraging them to read. Giving them specific details can entice them to read it themselves.
 If you listen attentively as they talk about their favorite book, they will likely become more receptive to your suggestions.
 Classic novels have the distinction of being constantly adapted for film and TV series. Encouraging a teen to watch a film based on a classic novel might help to introduce them to relevant and recognizable themes in the work, which may make the task of reading it less daunting.It can be exciting to have both read a book and watched its film version; few teenagers can resist smugly asserting that the book was better when their peers discuss the film version.
Some prominent examples of films based on classic literature include William Wyler's adaptation of Wuthering Heights, John Huston's version of Moby-Dick, and Robert Mulligan's version of To Kill a Mockingbird.

Keep in mind that there are many films that borrow loosely from a classic novel rather than adapting it directly. For example, Coppola's Apocalypse Now is based loosely on Conrad's Heart of Darkness. The 2001 comedy Bridget Jones's Diary is a loose adaptation of Jane Austen's Pride and Prejudice. If a teen already enjoys these kinds of films, you may be able to encourage them to read the novels that inspired them.
 They can read the book, then watch the film adaptation, then do a fun activity connected to the book’s plot (cooking, playing baseball, etc)., By leading teens towards novelists who dealt with issues they are likely to be facing - social pressures, bodily anxiety, "fitting in" - you may be able to spark their interest in the broader body of classic literature.For example, teens reading Dickens' Hard Times may have difficulty applying material about 19th century poverty to their lives. However, they might find the themes of social pressure and anxiety in Salinger's Catcher in the Rye much more applicable.

