 There is a higher risk of complications during pregnancy and delivery when you are carrying multiples. Seeing your prenatal care provider regularly can help put your mind at ease and catch any potential complications early.Ask your primary care doctor or OB-GYN to refer you to a doctor who has experience dealing with multiple pregnancies and multiple births.
You may need to have more frequent prenatal visits for a multiple pregnancy than you would during a pregnancy with a single fetus.;
, Birthing multiples requires additional monitoring equipment, a potentially longer labor, and extra precautions for your safety and that of the babies. Ask your doctor about the advantages and disadvantages of a surgical delivery (cesarean section) vs. a vaginal birth in the case of a multiple pregnancy.The fact that you are carrying multiples does not necessarily mean that you will need a cesarean section. The decision to have a cesarean section vs. natural birth will be based in part on your past birthing history, the positions of the fetuses inside your womb, and whether there are any complications with the pregnancy (such as a low-lying placenta).
 This is the most common complication with multiple births. If you are carrying twins, there is a greater than 50% chance that they will be born preterm, and higher numbers of multiples are almost always born preterm. Ask your doctor about what sorts of special care your babies will need if they are born preterm., In addition to potential complications for your babies, carrying multiples can place additional stress on the pregnant mother. Talk to your doctor if you have any specific concerns about your own health. You may wish to discuss some of the following issues:Proper nutrition. Women carrying multiples are advised to gain more weight than women carrying a single baby. As a general rule of thumb, you should eat an extra 300 calories for each fetus on top of what you would normally consume.
Exercise. Staying active is important during any pregnancy, but you may need to avoid anything too strenuous. Ask your doctor about an appropriate level of exercise for your pregnancy.
Risk of pre-eclampsia and other health complications. Talk to your doctor about the possible health risks to you. Multiple pregnancies come with an increased risk of developing problems like pre-eclampsia and gestational diabetes.
 Your prenatal health specialist may be able to connect you with a pediatrician who is able to see multiple new patients and who has experience with the health issues young multiples may experience.

