;
,, For example, you can substitute most items as follows:
Cheese - vegan cheese (soy or rice based)
Beef - veggie mock beef strips (usually seitan-based)
Chicken - veggie mock chicken (usually gluten-based)
Pork/bacon - veggie mock pork/bacon (usually soy-based)
Sausages - there are many mock sausage versions on the market
Sliced sandwich meat - a variety of mock veggie sandwich meats exist
Butter - substitute oils or vegan margarine. For baking, solid coconut fat is a great choice and it is good for you in small quantities owing to its vitamin E content.
Ice cream - try soy or rice substitutes
Milk - try soy, rice, nut or oat substitutes. Water or juice will often substitute in baking.

Eggs - there are many egg-substitutes on the market. Other ideas include pectin (for example, use pureed apple in cakes).
Honey - try agave nectar or brown rice syrup.
Half of a banana
Mashed tofu (1/4 of a cup)
1/3 cup of applesauce
Egg Replacer (brand)
Gelatin - agar agar and pectin are good choices; sometimes banana or apple can substitute. It is best to follow instructions in a vegan cookbook on substituting gelatin.
 For some vegans, anything resembling meat is off-putting and undesirable. There are still choices! Try chunky cuts of vegetables in stews and stir-fry, try tofu or seitan for substance and texture.
 It will take a while to get the ingredients right and also the measurements. It is a good idea to try to start out with keeping the measurements in the recipe as close as possible but you will find that you need to make adjustments with practice over time. Some of the hardest things to convert are in the area of baking, so it is very prudent to borrow some books on vegan baking to give you a good idea.
 Use the internet, the library and your local bookstore to browse through vegan cookbooks and recipes. Get as many ideas as you can and start trusting your own instincts for what textures, flavors and substitutes work well together. It takes some patience and some experimentation but within three months you should be starting to cook confidently with substitutes and remembering without having to check what can be quickly substituted for your non-vegan recipes.

