 The glow effect is painted to simulate the street affects of the models real life counter parts on the streets that use neon lights to glow the underside of the car. The first way is to mix glow in the dark powder with a clear polyurethane. Glow powders come in 8 different colors and now glow super long. Some glow for over 12 hours. Most modelers use the powders that are white in the daytime and then glow either blue, purple, green aqua or white in the dark. These powders glow with different intensities and longevity. The glow in the dark powders glow times are as follows. Green 12 hours, Aqua 10 hours, Blue 5 hours, Purple 4 hours, and white 2 hours. Mix 1 oz of glow powder to 4 oz of the polyurethane. The simply brush it on. The mixture can also be sprayed on with an airbrush or gravity fed detail gun.;
, You want to mix your powder with a slightly thicker clear medium. We suggest a clear gloss acrylic. Model Master makes a nice 1 oz bottle. Mix in ¼ oz of glow powder and then apply as normal.
 Working with the glow in the dark paints or powders is a little tricky. Almost all model bodies are sprayed to get the best finish. The best affect we have witnessed were accomplished by spraying the entire body of the car with white primer. Then you tape off the areas you wish to paint as normal. You can mix glow powders with Testors Transparent Colors. The glow will be slightly diminished because of the pigment in the paint but not that much. The powders in all these applications need to have light energy to glow. They store this energy and slowly release it over time. You mix the powder with the transparent paint ¼ oz powder to 1 oz of paint. The same as the clear gloss acrylic for pin striping. Then spray as normal. You can not mix two glow powder colors and get a different color. Blue and yellow do not make green. You can create different shades by adding more coats, or using more glow powder. The options are really endless with glow in the dark products. For more information on long glowing products and their application you can visit www.glonation.com. Happy modeling.
