 A mother's milk has the nutrients necessary for puppies to thrive. A mother will also be able to feed her puppies enough milk without a lot of intervention. When possible, a mother's milk is always the best option. You should only attempt to bottle or syringe feed if the puppies are orphaned or if the mother rejects the litter., You should never use cow's milk or goat's milk as a substitute for a mother's milk. You should only use milk replacement formula designed specifically for newborn puppies, which you can buy online or at a vet's office.It's always best to get your formula straight from a vet's office. This way, a vet can recommend a safe formula to meet your puppy's needs.
 You never want to serve a puppy formula that's too warm or too hot. Let it cool to room temperature before feeding your puppies.Check the storage instructions on the formula. You want to make sure you don't leave the formula out too long when cooling it.
 You want to make sure your puppies are getting enough calories for their age and weight. Puppies should be fed six to twelve times a day, with calories divided equally between each feeding. During the first week, puppies need between 60 and 69 calories per pound each day. As they age, that number increases.In the second week, puppies need between 70 and 79 calories per pound a day. In the third week, up that to 80 to 89 calories. Beyond four weeks, puppies need between 90 and 100 calories a day.
These ranges are general rules, however. You should consult a veterinarian for precise instructions, especially if your puppies have any specific health risks.
 Make sure you're feeding your puppies correctly to avoid injury. You should use a bottle that releases milk very slowly. Milk should come out one to two drops at a time rather than pouring out.Hold your puppy in your lap to feed it. Keep it face down. Holding it on its back is dangerous.
Gently guide the puppy's mouth to the nipple and slowly feed it the proper dose of food. Only feed the puppy one to two drops at a time.
 Puppies should be fed six to 12 times a day. They should be fed every two hours when they're younger. You should also feed them once or twice during the night., To make sure puppies continue to get adequate nutrition after weaning, introduce solid food at the right time. Most puppies are ready for solid food after four weeks of age. Talk to a vet before weaning your puppies just to make sure it's safe to switch your puppies to solid food.A vet can also recommend a quality puppy chow to keep your puppies healthy. Ask something like, "What type of puppy chow do you recommend for this breed and size?"

, If the mother is still feeding her newborns at the time of weaning, you do not want to make the separation too abrupt. A gradual separation is best for the mother and puppies.At first, start by separating the puppies and mother for a few hours at a time. During this time, give the puppies access to a pan of food.
Over time, increase the amount of food and length of separation.
It's normal for the puppies to resist at first and there may be some setbacks during the weaning process. Try to accept this without becoming discouraged. Be strict with the rules even if the puppies appear distressed and eventually they will calm down.
 Opt for a high quality puppy chow recommended by your veterinarian. Puppy chow should have 25% to 30% protein. A puppy's teeth are still developing during weaning, so water down the puppy chow with warm water. This will make it soggy, allowing the puppy to more easily eat it.Do not get discouraged if your puppies play with their food instead of eating it at first. This is a normal part of the transition and the puppies will eventually learn what their food is for.
As a goal, aim to have puppies consuming mainly dry food by seven to eight weeks of age.
 You want to make sure your puppies are getting adequate nutrition during the weaning process. Make sure you know how much food puppies should receive during this time.Puppies are unlikely to overeat when they're getting used to their dry food. It's okay to leave dry food out for puppies to peck at until they're nine to twelve months old.
At nine to twelves months, most puppies reach their adult weights. Talk to your vet about the proper portions for your puppy based on its size and breed once it reaches this age.
 Bottle feeding is a difficult task and can be dangerous for your puppy if done incorrectly. In the event your puppies are orphaned, or the mother rejects them, talk to your veterinarian about bottle feeding before attempting to do so on your own. You do not want to put your puppy's health and safety at risk., If puppies are cold for whatever reason, bottle feeding can actually be deadly. Organs start to close down if a puppy is cold and body feeding can speed up this process. If a puppy seems cold or sick, take it to a vet., If held upside down, a puppy can choke during bottle feeding. Always hold a puppy face down on your lap to bottle feed, imitating the natural position it would be in when feeding from its mother.