 Describe it in as much detail as possible. Avoid being too brief with the description. For example, saying "large pure black tom with amber eyes" is too simplistic. Instead, describe your warrior cat as: "Pure black tom with dark amber eyes, the exact shade of fire. His glossy fur is long, and he sheds frequently. His tail is shorter than average and seems twice as thick due to his long, flowing fur. He is stocky and thick compared to his height, though he is taller than the average tom."


Choose only natural fur and eye colors, no purple, pink, green, yellow, or straight orange, red and blues on cats. If you want to have a 'blue' cat, make sure they are a dark silver or pale gray, maybe even a blue-gray like Bluestar, and red cats should be either orange, ginger, red-brown, or even a mixture of browns and ginger. Orange fur is usually a lighter ginger colors. The cat's eyes should either be blue, gray, yellow, amber, green, you could also look up natural eye colors for cats to see what possibilities there are.;
, When describing your cat you need to include the name (see next step), fur color, gender, eye color, clan, personality, and any kits or mates. For example:


Rosestar: Cream colored she-cat with blue-green eyes. Very stubborn but loyal. No kits or mate.
Silverthorn: Silver gray she-cat with amber eyes. Mysterious and loyal. Has a kit called Yewkit. Nobody knows her mate.
Lightningtail: golden-yellow tom with a white stripe across its body, a zig-zagged tail, and gold eyes. Brave and very kind. Mate is Icepool. No kits.
Owlpaw: brown and white tom with green eyes. Clever and brave. No kits or mate.
 Think through the cat's likely life story when coming up with a name. Imagine your (male) cat as a kit, his eyes still closed. You are his mother and you must name him. For example, "Nightkit. He is large and dark, like the night sky, and the moon is occasionally orange, and its eyes would look like moons in the night sky." Then, zoom to his warrior ceremony. He is a young cat, Nightpaw. Take into consideration his pelt color, length, his eye color, his personality, size, and everything about him. Nightnose wouldn't make sense because there is nothing special about his nose or sense of smell. But Nighttail, Nightfur, Nightheart, and Nightshadow are good ideas. Nighttail because of his bushy tail. Nightfur because of his fuzzy pelt. Nightshadow because he is very dark black. And Nightheart because he is brave and tough, but kind-hearted.


Warrior cat names must be based on nature and must be things that cats know about or come into contact with. Thus, names like 'Dragonfang' and 'Princesspaw' or 'Marshmallow Nose' are not allowed because these aren't things cats are familiar with. Common pet names are not allowed unless the cat is a former kittypet.
Warrior cat names come in two parts. The first part stays constant throughout life, and the second part changes based on rank. Cats younger than six moons (months) have the suffix 'kit'. Cats older than that are apprentices and have 'paw'. After they become warriors, they get a warrior name. If they happen to become leader after that, the suffix changes to 'star'. For example: Amberkit, Amberpaw, Amber gaze, Amberstar.
 It doesn't have to be too detailed if you draw it. Just get your point across!

