 Because you have a shy dog, you will need to be up front about its temperament. Let potential adopters know that it is timid and fearful of people or other dogs. It is important that you avoid misleading people about your dog’s behavior. This is unethical and can be dangerous.Make sure that you do not undersell your pet’s timidity. If the adopters find that your dog is too shy for their liking, they may try to give it back to you or send it to a shelter.
 Once you have your dog cleaned up, you should take some photographs of it and upload them to a pet adoption website. Take a few close up pictures of your dog’s face, as well as a few shots of its entire body. Upload them to a pet adoption site and then share your pet’s profile on social media and in any prospective online advertisements. You will want to convey to potential adopters your dog’s physical health and general look.Groom your dog before you put it up for adoption. A clean dog will be more attractive to potential adopters than a dirty one. You can do this grooming yourself, or you can take your dog to a professional.
Be sure to take photos that accurately capture your dog’s behavior. Do not take a picture of your dog running with someone and give it a caption of “Frank really loves people.” This is disingenuous and misleading.
Many pet adoption services allow you to make a profile of your dog that they will host on their website. A pet profile may also attract potential adopters.
 One of the first things you should do when advertising your dog is to contact the place where you originally got it. If you got it from a breeder, they should help you find your animal a new home. If it is a rescue dog, many shelters and rescue groups will take an animal back regardless of how much time has passed.A rescue group or shelter may also help spread the word about your dog by posting its information to their website or directing potential adopters to you.Ask them things like “do you help people rehome dogs?” or “are there any services that you can recommend for pet adoption?”

, The first natural place to begin looking for potential adopters is among your family and friends. You know these people already, so your vetting process will not have to be as thorough. Moreover, it is easy for you to get in contact with them. Simply call, text or email any friends or family members that you believe might be interested in your dog.Consider talking to anyone who has already expressed interest in the dog.
 You can also post your dog’s information on social media. Share your dog’s profile information and any photos you may have on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram or any other social media platform you use. You can also ask your friends and family to share your dog’s information in order to reach even more people., You can also place a spot in your local newspaper advertising your dog. Include your dog’s profile and your contact information. You may also consider putting an ad on Craigslist. Again, be sure to include information about your dog as well as the best way to contact you.When putting out a public advertisement like this, you should always ask for a fee. Some people take free dogs and resell them to medical researchers or dog fighting groups. A fee is an insurance policy against your dog going to one of these people.

