 Heat can help relieve your joint stiffness, especially in the morning after you’ve just woken up. One of the easiest ways to get relief is to take a hot shower or bath. The heat can help relieve any pain while loosening your joints.If you don't respond well to heat, you may find that cold packs work as well. While less common, some people's arthritis is better treated with cold than with heat., Moderate pressure massages can help relieve pain and stiffness, especially if you have rheumatoid arthritis.Let your massage therapist know that you have arthritis, and tell them which joints are affected. Hot stone and Swedish massages with a moderate or light touch are preferable. A strong deep tissue massage may not help you., Nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are the most common forms of arthritis relief. NSAIDs include common over-the-counter remedies such as aspirin and ibuprofen. If your condition is severe, you may want to ask your doctor about a more powerful treatment, such as disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or corticosteroids and other immune suppressants., Exercise can help relieve your symptoms, although you will have to do the right types of activity. If you play sports, work with the coach to try to cut out exercises that put stress on joints. Perhaps they can suggest different exercises.


Swimming and bike riding are great ways to exercise without stressing your joints.
If your arthritis is managed well, you may be able to play soccer or basketball.
Do not do activities that place stress on your joints, such as jumping on a trampoline., Stretching can help prevent your joints and muscles from shortening, and it will keep you more flexible in the long run. Frequent stretches throughout the day can help you stay limber, even if you have been sitting all day. You should try stretching when your pain is at its lowest. You can even do sitting stretches while working at your school desk., While there is mixed evidence about the relationship between food and arthritis, some foods may be able to reduce your inflammation.This means that you will feel less pain and stiffness overall. Avoid red meats, full-fat dairy, and fried or processed food. Some good foods include:Fish
Oranges
Bell peppers
Food rich in, or fortified with, vitamin D and calcium, such as some dairy products
Fruits and vegetables

, Fear and worry can make pain feel worse.If you are having a painful flare, you should try to soothe yourself by repeating positive messages. This may help lower the pain that you feel. Simply close your eyes and repeat some meditation statements to yourself.You can try saying:


“It’s ok. You can get through this. Breathe in. Breathe out.”
“You’re strong. You’ve got this.”
If these sayings don’t help, try to distract yourself by reading a book or solving a math problem.