 Strawberries are the most common kind of fruits grown in pots on patios and decks, but there are other options. Dwarf apple, orange and peach trees can also be grown in containers, as well as blueberry and raspberry bushes.


Some hybrids and cultivars of fruit trees and bushes are self-pollinating but, for best results, you should grow two fruit trees or bushes that are pollen-compatible.
The greenhouse or nursery should be able to help you select compatible trees and bushes.;
, Strawberries can be grown in a variety of containers, including containers called strawberry pots that are specially designed for them.


They can also be grown in window boxes, long rectangular containers that sit on the ground, hanging baskets, vertical stacking containers or just in small- or medium-sized pots that sit on a table.
 Dwarf fruit trees, blueberry bushes and raspberry bushes require large, deep containers that sit on the ground. These fruit trees are commonly sold “bare root,” which is simply the plant without soil or a container, or in 5- to 10-gallon containers.


“Bare root” trees and shrubs can be started in 5- to 10-gallon containers but, as they grow, both container-grown and bare-root bushes and trees will have to be transplanted into larger 25- to 30-gallon pots.
Nearly any type of container can be used, as long as it has several drain holes in the bottom.
 Fruit trees and bushes should be potted up with soil-based potting soil rather than soil from the garden.


Soil from the garden tends to contain insects and diseases and will likely not drain well enough for container-grown plants.
The plant, tree or bush should be planted or transplanted no deeper than it was growing previously.
 Place the planted containers where they will be exposed to at least six to eight hours of direct sunlight each day.


In very hot climates, it is best if the direct sunlight exposure is in the morning and early afternoon as the hot, scalding afternoon sun can cause damage to the leaves and fruit.
Setting the tree containers on wheeled carts is a good way to move them around with ease. Gardeners might also consider investing in a dolly.
 One downside to growing fruit in pots is the necessity for frequent irrigation. Soil in containers dries out much more quickly than ground soil.


Check the containers every morning and evening. Water the fruit plant, tree or bush when the top inch or two of soil becomes dry and apply the water until it drains from the bottom of the container.
Watering plants with spoiled milk is a good way to both stave off powdery mildew and add some nutrients to the soil at the same time.
 Fertilizer must also be applied to potted fruit plants more frequently. A balanced 10-10-10 water-soluble fertilizer should be given every two weeks or so.


Follow the fertilizer manufacturer’s recommendations for dilution instructions and application frequency. Always water first then apply the diluted fertilizer.
Do not apply fertilizer after mid- to late summer to avoid new, tender leaf growth coming into the winter months.
 Gardeners should make sure that their fruit plants have good drainage. Adding horticultural or washed playground sand to the potting soil prior to planting is an excellent way to improve drainage.


Another idea is to set the plant off the ground by using planter “feet” or bricks. This may also help keep out ants.
 Gravel placed at the bottom of fruit tree pots will prevent the containers from becoming top-heavy. Taller fruit trees may also need stakes or trellises to keep them upright, especially when bearing fruit.
 In the winter, even fruit trees and bushes that are hardy enough to take the cold temperatures should be moved indoors or to a protected location in late fall when they are grown in containers.


A garage where the temperatures do not drop much below freezing is fine or, where winter temperatures tend to get very cold, a basement or cool room in the house works well.
Over the winter, you should water the plants lightly when the soil becomes dry.

