 The K-Light Solar Lantern, made by Pisat, is the same size and weight as a full can of soda and has two output settings—one that uses 16 LEDs or the economy mode that uses 8 LEDs. It is charged through a separate solar panel and the higher output provides one hour of light for each hour of charge. In the lower mode, it provides two hours of use for one hour of charge.;
, Having a backpack that is solar powered means you can charge up a laptop computer or cell phone while you are far into the woods with no outlet in sight. Most come with a lithium polymer battery that is built into a detachable solar panel that is placed in the backpack. A USB output comes with the battery so you can plug in whatever cord came with your device to have it charge through your backpack.
 Portable solar panels are an easy and packable way to harness the sun’s rays while camping. These panels, made by Sunlinq, are available in mats and are as thin as a blanket or even notebook paper. You can roll them up and put them in a tube or fold them and throw them in with your camping gear. There is a bit of rigidity to the panels so you can bend them a bit to adjust to the direction of the sun. They just need to be placed on top of your car or RV or even on the ground to gather the energy that will be used later in the day.
 This handy gadget is perfect for those nights when everyone is hanging around the campground and they want some mood lighting but there is no outlet available. You set the Sun jar, which looks like a sun jar to make sun tea, anywhere outside in direct sunlight so it can collect light all day. After time, the battery charges itself and the sun jar gives off a nice muted yellow-orange light. The jar has a frosted surface that allows it to diffuse glare-free lighting.
 A solar power camping shower provides a relaxing hot shower at the end of a long day. All you need is a consistent day of sunshine and the bag containing the water will heat up and since it is black, it will absorb the most amount of light. That light, once absorbed, turns into heat and that heat is transferred to the water. It will continue to heat up as long as the sun is shining on it but it still keeps the water warm even after the sun has stopped shining on it. It’s a nice luxury to have when there is no heating source for a hot or warm shower while on the camping grounds.

