 Sometimes children cyberbully because something or someone has them upset, frustrated, or angry.Showing them stress reduction techniques like deep-breathing and muscle/body relaxation can help stop your child from being a cyberbully. It can help them calm down when they are feeling upset and give them time to think about their actions.Tell your child, “Inhale slowly through your nose. Try to feel the breath down in your belly. Hold the breath for a few seconds, then slowly let it out through your mouth.”
Model deep-breathing for child and walk them through the steps as you do it.
Remind them to log off and put their electronics away while they do their deep breathing and relaxation exercises.
 Targets of cyberbullying may begin to feel negative about themselves because of the bullying, but often the bully is also having negative thoughts and feelings about themself.Tell your child to give themselves at least one compliment a day. For example, you might say, “Every morning, before you brush your teeth, remind yourself how awesome you are.”
Suggest that your child start a list of all the positive things about them. For instance, they might list physical characteristics, personality traits, skills, awards, and more. After your child makes the list, add to it yourself. Ask everyone in the household to contribute to the list.
Encourage your child to come to you when they are having negative thoughts or feelings so that you can help them change those thoughts or feelings.
 You can stop your child from being a cyberbullying by trying meditation. Meditation is a way for your child to release tension. It can also help them become more aware and in control of their feelings. In addition, practicing together will give you time to bond and strengthen your relationship.


Show them how to sit or lie somewhere comfortable.
Tell them, “Focus your thoughts on your breathing. Try to ignore everything else.”
Try out different types of meditation until you find one that works for you and your child.
 You can help your child handle their feelings and help prevent them from cyberbullying if you give them an alternative way to express themselves. Redirect their energy towards positive activities and interactions.


Sometimes children bully because they don’t know appropriate ways to interact with other children. Sometimes it's because they may be a victim of bullying themselves. Talk to your child about forming positive, encouraging friendships.
Encourage your child to participate in sports or community activities. For example, you might sign your child up for basketball or a youth group.

