 This is, obviously, a necessary step if you haven't already created one. What might not be so obvious to people or businesses new to social media is that the fan page and "liking" is a relationship-building marketing tool with great potential.


Try to grasp early on that your Facebook business page is your "brand". Even if you're not a company, business, entrepreneur, cause, etc., you're still developing a brand as an individual or hobbyist "social media expert", even if unwittingly so. As such, it's important to plan the page's appearance and content in some detail, including the image that you want to project from the outset. If you already have a fan page but you're not thrilled by the image you're currently projecting, now is the time to fix it!;
, Once your Facebook fan page is published (or refurbished if needed), it's time to spread it as much as possible through your actual friends. If they accept your invitation to "like" your fan page, these will be your first "fans". Try to think of as many people as possible who you know, to begin with. If you have work colleagues, supporters of whatever it is you're doing (such as running a charity, starting a website, blog readers, etc.), ask these people too.


Do spell it out concisely and politely that you'd appreciate it if they clicked "like" on your fan page. Not all people are clued in about what to do after they've clicked on the URL!
Build on your friends' contacts. Ask your friends to suggest your page to their friends as well, both on Facebook itself and through any other methods they're comfortable with (such as Twitter or by email). Word-of-mouth and genuine friendship trust can be used to your advantage to obtain "friends of friends" who will possibly have similar interests to yours or will be thrilled to start following your page if you're a business or cause.
If any of your good friends are highly influential on Facebook, ask them if they mind inviting their friends to become fans of your fan page. You can return the favor many times over by highlighting them now and then on your increasingly popular fan page!
Try emailing friends who don't seem to be on Facebook already. This might be their first encouragement to join!

, You'll most likely get the best results by posting your comments to pages with hundreds of thousands or even millions of fans, and by being one of the first to comment on updates made on those pages. Don't overdo your links, however; keep it to a reasonable amount or you'll risk annoying people.


Post a link to your Facebook fan page on other Facebook groups or pages. This is another way of attracting more fans. If you'd like, add a short explanation about the page with the link. Again, do this with care and not too frequently.
Use "@reply" (similar to the "@" function in Twitter), to tag a person on your Facebook page. Whenever you do this, your note appears on the page of the person or company whose name accompanies the "@reply". It's important not to overdo this though or you'll be pulled up for "spamming". And if you're a business, don't be surprised if a competitor does it back to your page; smile it off, as it's all part of the social media game!

, Have your fans win something, whether it's a cyber-award you bestow on them, or a real, tangible product or service from your company, such as an eco-bag, a free dog wash, or a can of vanilla roasted peanuts. Try doing this fairly regularly, such as weekly or monthly.



Photo tag: Ask each winner if they wouldn't mind uploading a photo of themselves holding the item if they win something tangible, and ask them to tag themselves in the photo they've uploaded. This is a cool way of encouraging them to spread the word; many fans will do this because they'll be excited and grateful. These photos appear on your Facebook page in a "Fan Photos" folder (you could term it your "winner's" club, a page for others to see and aspire to!) and the tagged photos also appear in their own stream, encouraging their friends to check out your page. (It doesn't have to be a product they take a photo of; it can be a photo doing something that's related to your site, blog, or fan page, such as cooking a recipe or grooming a dog, etc.).
 For example, use your Twitter address link box to place your Facebook page URL rather than a site address. If you have a lively Twitter account, curiosity will cause a lot of your Twitter followers to click and follow through to your Facebook page. Whatever community you join, always be sure to include a link back to your Facebook page so that curious readers can find and connect with you there.


Use a Social Media Management tool to synergize activity across other social networks. Use a third party program such as Hootsuite or Seesmic to make it easier to manage this. Be careful using direct messages to send your Facebook link; more and more people are wary of "automated messages" as they feel that you're not being genuine using these. Try to add a personal touch to show you wrote it for them personally.
Be sure to share other people's Facebook updates too. This will create a reciprocal relationship that encourages them to share your Facebook updates with their followers and fans.
Use photo sites such as Flickr as a way to add your Facebook link. Upload some great photos worth viewing and include your Facebook URL as part of the description, such as "For more great shots or information, see XXX".
Whenever you add information about yourself to a user or contributor page on a social community site, include the Facebook link.
 There are many ways you can promote your Facebook page in real life. More often people notice about your Facebook page in real life, the chances of them visiting and liking your Facebook page increases

Display your Facebook page contents live in your store television; it is like a Facebook TV (brandwand by thefunage.com)
Print your Facebook page url and stick it in your store
Print your Facebook page url in the receipts or notices that you hand over to your customer

, Using the "like" buttons or boxes makes it easy for people to find your fan page and to "like" it from your site or blog. Add it to your site or blog, preferably toward the top so that it's clearly visible. While the button is handy for sitting above posts or articles, having the box to one side is great because it shows real faces of the people who have already liked your Facebook page, and will include the statistics on people who are already your fans for potential new fans to learn about.


To add the Facebook Like box to your website: To add a Facebook Like Box to your website or blog: Go to your Facebook page and click on "Edit Page". Look for "Promote Your Page" and click on "Promote with a Like Box". Choose the height and width of the box as it will appear on your site. Tinker around for the best settings. Among the choices, it's helpful to use "Show Stream" and "Show Header" because this lets people see what you're posting to your Facebook page and they can click through immediately. Choose "Get Code" and insert the iFrame or XFBML code on your site or blog.
 People will be more inclined to keep visiting and to share your content if you maintain regular, interesting, and updated content. And you want them sharing that content, so ensure that it's the type of content people love to share, such as photos, photo sets, videos, and links to really interesting articles (including how-to's).


If possible, think of ways that you can create exclusive content that only gets published on your Facebook page – this means adding links and information that only shows up on your Facebook page and not on your site or blog. For example, perhaps you have recipes, news updates, or links you'd like to share with your fans that you're not sharing on your site or blog. This is a real incentive for people to like your Facebook page and follow it regularly; your readers will grow to look forward to the exclusive updates and will spread the word for you (see "Tips" for "fan only" content).
Use surveys, quizzes, interesting anecdotes, quotes, etc., to draw in interest. Don't just plug your own product, service, or interest – be generous in diversifying what you're sharing with your fans and they'll reward you by sharing the content, which in turn encourages others to join your page.
Regularly ask questions to elicit comments. People commenting on your page is gold dust. Their comments show up in their stream for their friends to read, again serving as an indirect incentive to get new fans. Besides which, comments help to create a solid sense of community on your Facebook fan page and show new fans that it's worth sticking around (and that you're a friendly and timely responder!).
Learn what balance works best for those following you. Keep an eye on the Facebook statistics to see how many readers stop following you, or block the reading feed. Too many doing either of these activities can be a sign that you're updating too frequently or your content is off course.
Equally, don't let your account stagnate; if you're heading off on a 6 week cruise, have regular input fed into a third party program such as Hootsuite, ready to upload regular content for you while you're away. Suddenly popping up again out of the blue can cause people to unlike your page because they'd forgotten you existed and no longer have the same level of "trust" or interest in your page.
 There are a number of social network communities springing up that do nothing else but support one another's social media pages and links in return for you doing the same for all the members. This can be a highly beneficial way of getting trusted people who might be have completely different business, hobby, or personal interests from your own but who are willing to support you because you belong to their community of trust. With such a network of people spreading your Facebook fan page link around, you'll gain more fans. Just be sure to return the favor.
 If your page starts to grow enormously and you don't have time for it, find someone who does. This is vital for a company or business page, as regular and consistent connecting with fans is necessary. Plus, you'll gain helpful information from having a community manager analyze the statistics of your fans and their responsiveness.


Be sure that the person employed to be your community manager has familiarity with Facebook; if not, have them trained before unleashing them as they'll find it easier faster.
Task this person with building and keeping relationships with the fans. Relationships cannot be automated; they must be earned and maintained. This includes answering or responding to comments left on your fan page, dialoguing with regular or "power commenters" (including following and sharing their other social media input), giving people information, stories, opinions about things that are of real interest in your area or industry and not just promoting your own product or services, and now and then being talking openly to people about what you're doing in your company or business. Even the occasional humble "well, this didn't work!" update can tighten your fan allegiance as they see your honesty too. And always respond quickly to complaints.All of this interactive responsiveness provides a sense of connection for your fans, and if you're doing this really well, you'll find your readers start to bounce back ideas and opinions, that you can learn and benefit from too.
 There are several ways that you can be sure to get across the message that you have a Facebook page worth visiting and "liking":


Whenever you write anything online, try to insert a link to your Facebook page. Naturally, don't do this where it'd be considered spamming or overkill but use it wherever it's appropriate, such as at the end of a blog post, in a forum post, or as part of an article explaining what you're mission is all about, etc. If you're a guest blogger, ask the blog owner you're posting on if they'd mind introducing you with a link to your Facebook page.
Tell anyone in your team, company, or partnership to remember to remind people to visit your Facebook page whenever they give a speech, presentation, or talk.
Add a link to your email signature line. In addition, add it to anything you email out to site or blog followers, such as e-books, newsletters, updates, etc.
Add a link to social bookmarking sites.
If you own a shop or store, make sure you let your customers know you're on Facebook. You may display your Facebook URL or include a QR Code that links to your page.
 This can be helpful where you're a company, business, or someone who sees the benefit of spending a little to gain a wider reach for your Facebook page. Even some hobbyists can see the benefit in doing this if they're considering trying to make a living from blogging or running a website online.


Let Facebook advertise your page. If you're willing to pay a fee, Facebook will promote your page and help attract more fans. It's a good idea to promote something that is recent, updated, and hopefully reflective of things happening currently. When tied to current events or news, people will be more likely to want to view your page. For example, say a major magazine or newspaper had just run an article on a renowned celebrity getting sorted after being bankrupt. Write a Facebook fan page post about dealing with bankruptcy and put in associated keywords, with perhaps an image. When Facebook suggests you "promote" the post, click on "Promote". You'll now see the cost per impressions (CPM), and you can tweak the keywords if needed. Make a decision as to whether you think the cost is worth it, along with the length of time for advertising; if it's worthwhile in your estimation, go for it. It might even be worth running it just to see how many fans you gain as a result. And those fans who "liked" your page as a result will have their "like" showing to their friends, so you'll likely gather up some more people even after your advertising ends.
Buy Google ads that drive traffic direct to your Facebook page.
Place ads in local newspapers, newsletters, magazines, or even TV if you own a company.
 Facebook continues to evolve, as do your own strategies and needs for your fan page and your related online business or hobby pursuits. Keep in mind the following important points as you continue to build your fan page:

Building a fan base takes time and dedication. It requires constancy and consistency, as well as ensuring that you're also reciprocating the efforts of the fans who are actively supporting you and sharing the information and updates you're providing. If you're patient and persistent, you will build a reputation as a trusted Facebook "brand" and you'll start being noticed as a good performer worthy of discussion in broader social media circles, not just in relation to your product or service. There is nothing more exciting than finding out you've hit someone else's blog or article as an example of how to relate well on social media!
As upgrades and changes are made, keep up with them and try to be one of the first to either use them or critique them. This sort of knowledge is looked upon with respect by those yet to adopt changes, and you can easily become a leader in setting a new trend. That will definitely get you new fans. It can also help to ensure that you don't fall afoul of spamming or annoying other Facebook users by not keeping up with changes that are implemented to stop anyone misusing Facebook with too many marketing strategies, and knowing that well in advance is a good thing for your "brand".

