 In particular, you want to make sure it's free of any typos, spelling or grammatical errors. Dates should be accurately stated, and contact information for all references updated and accurate.Ask yourself: is the information included in this CV relevant to the position of accounting assistant? If irrelevant information is included, it may detract from the CVs overall strength.
Did you omit anything that should be included? Be thorough in reviewing your education and work history. You want to make sure that your CV includes all experiences you may have had relevant to accounting.
The first page of your CV is the most important. A potential employer may not read more than one page. Keep your writing concise, clear, and focused.
 Many times, other people can see what you can't. A second set of eyes will catch typos, grammatical errors, unprofessional presentation, or other errors.If you know someone who frequently sees CVs in the accounting field, ask them to review your CV. Because they will have seen many different formats, they can offer advice and feedback regarding the choices you have made.
Read a few sample CVs to get an understanding of how they are formatted. Any Internet search will provide you with examples. Remember that there is no single way to write a CV.
 Nothing will turn off a potential employer more than finding a wrong number listed among your list of professional recommendations. Make sure all contact information is up-to-date and accurate.Always make sure that your job references have agreed to be contacted on your behalf, and are aware of the job position for which you're applying. Unless they know that you're applying for a position as an accounting assistant, they won't know what information to share with the potential employer if he should call.
Reorder your list of references based on the job your CV is being created for, with the most relevant job references at the top.
Never use family members or close personal friends who can't speak to your job qualifications for job references.

