 This helps people to know who you are and builds credibility.;
, Before you even start the actual writing process, decide on your strategy. Who you are targeting? Jobs and employers or clients and business? Which jobs/employers/clients? The response to this question should affect the shape and nature of your profile.
 This may not seem relevant, but it is. Some people have many strings to their bow. This is no bad thing, but just remember that employers may not be looking for jacks of all trades, and you may be better off being selective., Write with this target in mind.
 LinkedIn does not restrict you to just one job role, and there is space to add long headers. However, just remember that you should avoid portraying yourself as a jack of all trades.Usually, it is best to add something short summing up your specialization rather than a longer, more general header.
 As this is free-form text, make sure that your profile flows well, is engaging, and is relevant to your target. To this end, it also helps that you keep it logical, engaging and concise.


There is no value in trying to over complicate things with convoluted terminology, rare acronyms and technical speak.Consider adding videos, images and documents to supplement your summary.
 You can use the profile section to highlight a few selected achievements. There are no rights and wrongs in this; it is something for you to consider using. At the same time, if you do include a few highlighted achievements in your profile section, there is no value in repeating them in your work section. In fact, repetition can be counter-productive.
 This section is important because LinkedIn uses this section when it conducts searches.Think of keywords, and key terms that your target (employers or clients) are looking for, and include these in your specialties.
Only list the things that are realistically a specialty of yours. Don't be so brash as to say that you are a French interpreter when you only speak pidgin French. Think of the consequences when you have to decline a job offer because you actually don't have the skill needed.
 LinkedIn prompts you to enter your job roles, companies and dates.


Be selective and choose the most recent and most valuable roles.
Additionally, rather than just listing duties, you are better off being more proactive and including impressive achievements.
 Avoid simply repeating skills already mentioned. Instead, introduce some new, relevant skills and competencies, if possible.
 Recommendations can help your LinkedIn marketability.
 If you do fill in this section, it helps to make them relevant to your target or to demonstrate your abilities in such activities as teamwork, fitness or responsibility.
 LinkedIn prompts for date of birth and marital status. Bear in mind that if your profile is public, which means that your details are potentially open to many people. Do you want this level of personal detail public or not?

, Just beware if your profile is public.

