 If you want to work on being patient, the first step is being able to recognize when impatience has arisen. It can be easy to think the source of frustration is outside of your control (for instance, when you are stuck in traffic), but the truth is, you always get to decide how to respond.Try to stop and notice when you feel impatient, instead of letting your frustration get away from you.
You might say to yourself, “I feel impatient. That is a normal, natural response, and I am in control of it.”;
, Consciously choose to give up the fight. Concede that there is nothing you can do. Take a deep breath and allow yourself to relax. Allow this dull moment to pass without spending extra energy.For example, if you are stuck in traffic, stop looking at the clock.
If necessary, call ahead to inform others that you will be late.
Then try to let it go! You might say, “I’m going to be late. Big deal.”
Try to feel the weight of gravity on your body as you settle into the moment.
Practicing these strategies will help you to stay calm in the moment, but if you practice them regularly, then they will become "learned" and a part of your daily and unconscious behaviors. This will allow you to become a more patient person over time.
 Now scan your body for the symptoms of impatience. Taking the time to notice and recognize each symptom is an effective way to calm down and soothe these symptoms. Additionally, recognizing what happens to your body when you grow impatient can help you to better identify impatience when it happens again.Some symptoms include:


Tightness in the neck, abdomen, or other areas.
Clenching jaw and/or fists.
Heart racing.
Flushed cheeks.
Body temperature rising.
 Begin taking some deep breaths. Each time you inhale, notice how you are making space inside your body. Each time you exhale, try to feel your muscles relaxing.Move through each tight space, one at a time.
Repeat this process as many times as needed.
If you notice a knot that doesn’t want to relax, give up trying to loosen it. Try accepting it instead.
 Practicing patience involves keeping your stress level at a manageable level. Taking mini-breaks—where you actually walk away, maybe go outside, and temporarily distance yourself from whatever is stressing you—can help. Simply step away for a few minutes and take a breather., If you find yourself in a real “red flag” moment of impatience, you can halt this moment using your breath. Taking slow measured breaths for just one minute can release calming neurohormones in your brain.Inhale to a count of three.
Exhale to a count of three.
Slowly lengthen your breath cycles to counts of four or five.
It may be helpful to breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth (but this is not required).

