 It might sound counter-intuitive, but going over what went wrong is an important step in healing, and yet it can also also prolong hurt feelings and confusion if you overdo it. How much time you need depends entirely on you, but aim to find the right balance. Go over your relationship to find the answers you need, and then put it behind you.For example, if he's grown distant because he's started hanging out with a much different crowd, acknowledging this is necessary for you to come to terms with what happened, but dwelling on it won't really accomplish anything.
 Identify what went wrong, but avoid the temptation of using your answers as a means to correcting mistakes and winning him back. Instead, aim to learn from your experience so you can apply those lessons to future relationships. Keep the future in mind, not the past.For instance, let's say that he broke things off because you betrayed a secret that he told you in confidence. Whether he can trust you again is up to him. All you can do is learn from this so you can avoid repeating the same mistake with someone else.
 Whether your relationship was romantic or platonic, perhaps the easiest explanation of why things went wrong is that the two of you weren’t well suited for each other. Evaluate your own wants, needs, hopes, and interests. Compare them with his. If they’re wildly different, also look back on other guys in your life. Ask yourself if they fall into a pattern so you know what to avoid in the future., Emotions are a fact of life, so don’t feel guilty about feeling whatever feelings come to you. However, keep in mind that a successful, mature relationship often requires you to have some (if not total) control over those feelings. Evaluate how often you allowed yourself to be swept away by them, especially the negative ones, like anger., Things may have been great between you two as long as everything else was fine, but his feelings may have changed after the two of you found yourself at odds. Think back about how you handled yourself in those moments. Ask yourself if there was a more positive way you could have approached them in order to resolve conflicts.