 Kids often struggle to finish their homework on time. When you get home, there are so many other things to do. Playing outside, playing inside, messing around. Instead, do your homework first and get it out of the way, to free up time later to do what you want. This is a sign of maturity.


If you're always doing your work and turning it in on time, both your parents and your teachers will look at you as a mature student.
If you forget to do an assignment, don't make up excuses. Tell your teacher honestly what happened. Making up elaborate lies is an immature thing to do.
 Just like at home, at school you need to listen to authority figures. Even when you don't like what they're saying, mature kids understand the need to follow directions and behave in school. Sit quietly and listen when your teacher is speaking.


When you're in class, and your teacher is speaking, you always need to be quiet. Don't talk to your neighbor unless you're told to. Wait until afters school or recess to talk with your friends.
Sometimes, kids who act out in class may seem more "adult" because they're more willing to get in trouble. This is usually a sign of immaturity, though. As you get older, it'll be much easier to tell the difference.
 When you're at school, treat everyone with respect. Don't pick on anyone, especially younger kids. If you see a younger student looking lost, or looking like they might need help, offer it. Be a kind classmate.


When you're at lunch, or at recess, don't ever pick on younger kids. If you don't want to hang out with them, that's fine. But don't make a big deal out of it.
Mature kids know and respect people older than them. When you're in the fifth grade, you'll feel like you're super mature, but as soon as you get to sixth grade, you'll be the little kid again. And to a high school senior? You're really young. try to remember how old you are and don't get too big for your britches.
 Immature kids will always be yelling in school, making the lunch room loud and the hallways loud and the classroom loud. Speak loud enough to be heard, but speak clearly and at a reasonable volume. Kids often have trouble controlling the volume of their voice.
 Immature kids will often do things just to get attention, showing off in gym class or at other times. More mature kids know that the way to stand out from the crowd isn't to brag to your friends and try to show off to others, but to put your head down and do your work the right way.


If you're skilled at something, it's not bad to show off every now and then, but never brag about it. If you're going to be good at something, let your actions show it.
Be a good winner and a good loser. If you lose a game, don't pout. Congratulate the winners. If you win a game, don't brag. Go over to the loser and say, "Good game, let's do this again."

, Looking mature will help you to feel mature. There's no one way to dress if you want to look mature, though, so it's mostly just important to wear clothes that make you feel good. What makes you feel confident? What makes you feel grown up and mature? Wear those clothes.


Clean clothes that are well-fit to your body are always the best choice. Maturity tip: Learn to do laundry yourself, so you can always be sure the clothes you want to wear are clean.
It's still ok to wear the clothes that fit your age. When you're a kid, it's not necessary to start dressing like an adult yet, unless you want to. It would look kind of strange for someone in grade school to rock a business suit.
If you want to wear make-up, make sure it's ok with your parents first.

