 You may literally be at the end of your rope, thinking that there's absolutely nowhere else for you to turn. But you know what the best part of rock bottom is? It's that the only place you can go is up. You may feel like you have nothing to live for and that everything can only get worse, but the important thing to remember is that things will get better if you stick it out and make a game plan. Sure, your life won't be amazing overnight, but if you are aware that things can get better for you, then you'll be on the way to moving forward.


When you feel a suicidal thought creeping up, just tell yourself that you know you can get through it and that you'll have better days.;
, There are many people out there who deal with people like us every day of their lives. They are there because they want to help us, not make us feel even more miserable. It may seem like there is nobody in this world who can help you, but that's probably because you're not letting them help you. If you tell your friends how you're feeling then they are guaranteed to help you out. That is, if you let them. It's understandable that you may not want anyone's help, and that's completely acceptable. But you can't just keep having that thought linger in your mind forever.


If you feel that you are in danger of harming yourself and have no one to turn to, call the Emergency Services, your doctor, or check yourself into the ER as soon as you can. You should not be alone during this difficult time, period.
You can also call a help line if you're in trouble and want someone to talk to. You can call 1-800-273-TALK (8255) at any time in the US or you can call Samaritans at 08457 90 90 90 or PAPYRUS at 0800 068 41 41 (if you are a teen or a young adult) if you're in the UK. Go online to find the contact information for the suicide help line in your country.
 If you're having suicidal thoughts, just tell yourself that you won't do anything drastic for another week. Or another 48 hours. Or even another day. Just putting off whatever negative thoughts you're having will give you time to turn to someone for help, find a distraction, or to start seeing the world in a better light. Yeah, if you're having suicidal thoughts one day, then you won't think that you're the happiest person alive in 24 hours, but you may be feeling better enough to no longer be thinking of suicide.
 Though you should not feel guilty for having suicidal thoughts, you can help prevent these thoughts by reminding yourself of all the people in the world who genuinely care about you. Sure, you may be feeling completely alone, but that may be because you've been out of touch with your friends recently or you haven't been feeling close to your family. That doesn't mean that there aren't people who care for you and want you to move forward.


Of course, one of the reasons people have suicidal thoughts is because they may feel like no one at all cares about them. Sure, maybe you don't feel like you have any real friendships and you don't have a strong family bond, but that doesn't mean that there's no one who cares for you, even if it's a neighbor, a classmate, or a co-worker. If you're thinking negatively, it's natural to think that absolutely no one cares, but this is rarely the case.
 You may feel bad about having suicidal thoughts, but this is the last thing you should feel. Your feelings are perfectly natural and plenty of people have felt guilty before, but that doesn't do them any good. Instead, accept the feelings that you're having. You'll find that this way, you'll be able to move forward much more quickly, and to prevent those thoughts from happening again. If you dwell on your guilt and shame, you'll actually be feeling those feelings for longer.
 This may sound corny, but taking the time to write down and consider all of the things that you haven't done yet, whether it's fall in love or travel to a foreign country, can give you hope and more of a reason to live. The next time you feel like ending your life, you can think about all of the things you have ahead of you, and you'll see that you have so many more experiences to soak up before your life is over.
 Yes, even finding a way to distract yourself, from doing yoga to sharing a cup of tea with a close friend, can help you avoid these suicidal thoughts. If you're focused on something else that you care about, even if it's just something silly that takes your mind off of your worries, then you'll be in a better place. You can even make a list of all of the things you can do to distract yourself, so you have somewhere to turn when you're having suicidal thoughts.


Of course, if you're seriously considering suicide, it's important to get help immediately. But if you just find yourself starting to think that life is meaningless, then you can try to turn those thoughts off by turning to something else.
 If you are having suicidal thoughts, then you can't prevent them alone. You should talk to a doctor or therapist to discuss the next steps. A therapist can talk to you about problems in the past and can help you make a game plan for the future, and both a therapist and a doctor can see if you are in need of medication. Though medication won't be able to "fix" all of your problems or fully prevent your suicidal thoughts, it can greatly help to be diagnosed with depression, bipolar disorder, or many other mental conditions that can be impairing your judgment. You can only get help for these once you learn to move forward.
 Though it may sound corny, making a list of all of the things you have to be thankful for, from your best friend to your physical health, or even the sunlight, can help you remember all of the reasons why you want to live. Make a list that is at least a page long and keep it on your person, or in a place that is easy to reach, at all times. When you're having those suicidal thoughts, you can peruse your list and can see that you have so many reasons to live. And who knows, the list may even bring a big smile to your face.
 Sure, eating three healthy meals a day, getting plenty of rest, and not abusing alcohol may still not make you feel happy about your life, but these things are definitely guaranteed to make you feel better than if you ate poorly, barely slept, and went binge drinking three times a week. Paying attention to your physical condition can have a major impact on your mental condition; though it's easy to neglect your body when you're feeling low, if you make an effort to be healthy, your thoughts will improve.


Exercising also gives you endorphins that can put you in a more positive frame of mind.
 If you know that there are certain things that can lead you to have suicidal thoughts, then you should avoid them at all costs. If seeing your ex always makes you feel like you're in a pit of despair, then avoid them. If going to big family functions where everyone is yelling at each other makes you feel so alone, then avoid them. Make a list of all of the things that make you the most unhappy, and make a plan for avoiding them as much as you can.


Unfortunately, it may not be possible to avoid all of your triggers. But you can make a plan for coping with them if you have to face them.
 If you're even worrying about preventing suicidal thoughts, then you should avoid drugs and alcohol at all costs. While they may offer a temporary release from your problems, once the effects wear off, you will be feeling more depressed and upset than you were to begin with. Both drugs and alcohol are to be avoided at all costs while you're battling with suicidal thoughts; they can also cause you to act impulsively, which is something you definitely want to avoid.
 There may be some concrete reasons for your suicidal thoughts. Seeing a doctor or therapist can help you talk things over and to address any mental illness that you may be suffering from, but that may not be enough. You may feel like you've reached a dead end because you can't stand your job, know that you're in a terrible relationship, or have body image issues. Though there may not be one "cause" for all of your thoughts, there will certainly be many contributing factors. If you set out to change some of those things, such as looking for a new job, then you may slowly begin to see your suicidal thoughts receding.


That said, you should avoid making any major decisions while you're having suicidal thoughts. While those thoughts are happening, it's best to call for help, give it some time, and wait until you're feeling more stable. Then you can think rationally about which next steps you want to take.
 If you're having suicidal thoughts, it's best to be prepared in advance, so you know what to do in the event of a crisis. Everyone can have his or her own safety plan, but it should include certain things like calling for help immediately, driving to a close friend's house, doing something that soothes you no matter what, spending time with your pet, or reading over your gratitude list. The most important thing is that you plan not to be alone while you're feeling suicidal and that you have something to do while you wait for help to arrive.


Writing down this plan can help you know what to do when you're feeling unsure or upset in the moment.
 Get rid of alcohol, medication, sharp objects, or anything else in your home that can make it easier for you to end your own life. If you're having suicidal thoughts, then it's important to make it as hard as possible for you to follow through on what you're thinking. Call a friend and wait for him or her to arrive and find a place to lie down and wait. If you know that there are few things in your home that can make it easier for you to harm yourself, then you'll be more likely to stay safe.
 This means that you should immediately be around a person who can prevent you from ending your life. The opportunity comes from being alone, and if you're having these thoughts, you should be with a friend, family member, neighbor, or someone you know so you can feel like you're less alone, and so that you're feeling like you have less of an opportunity to end your life. If you are considering taking your own life, call for help ASAP.
 Time may not heal all wounds, but it will certainly make things seem less dire. It will be difficult, but you have to understand that having suicidal thoughts will not make time go by any quicker. You just have to be strong and not give up. Progress will be made in time. Things will get better, but you have to let them get better. Only you can decide how you want your future to be laid out. It may not seem like anything is getting better, but the truth is, it is.


Continue caring for yourself even when the thoughts go away. Always make your mental health a priority, even if you haven't had suicidal thoughts for months. Taking the time to exercise, get enough rest, and being kind to yourself can make a big impact on your mental state.

