 Assigning chores to your teen will teach her responsibility and help her practice following through on commitments. Chores will also force your teen to get off the couch and get things done. Create a schedule that breaks down the duties around the house by day and assign each task to your teen and/or others in the home, including:Cleaning her bedroom
Cleaning the bathroom
Doing laundry
Dusting and cleaning the common areas
Sweeping or mopping the floors

, Most teens are easily distracted and reduced to lethargy by their computer, their smartphone, or the latest video game. Rather than cut off your teen completely, which could lead to fighting or a conflict, place specific time limits on these distractions, such as no smart phones at the dinner table during dinner or no video gaming after 10 pm. This will allow your teen to focus her time and energy on her school assignments or her chores. It will also ensure she is not up all night on the computer and can be well rested for a productive day.When setting limits for your teen, it’s important that you also set a good example by also following the same rules. Don’t bring your phone to the table during dinner if your teen is not allowed to have her phone with her during dinner, and try to also limit your watching television or gaming to no later than 10 pm. This will show your teen you can also abide by the same rules you have established for her.
 If your teen argues against doing her chores or does not follow any of your limitations, be firm and clear about the consequences. This can range from less severe punishments like no going out for the night to more severe punishments like a reduction on her allowance, no television or computer use for a week, or grounding her for a period of time.


As the adult in the relationship, you must enforce the rules that you set and dole out consequences for disobeying the rules. Your teen may get upset or angry, but she will understand the consequences of her actions and likely think twice about disobeying a rule or neglecting a chore again.
Try not to over react and give your teen the most severe punishment for small arguments or conflicts. Match the scale of the your teen’s wrongdoing with the level of punishment she will receive.
 Your teen will likely resist your initial attempts to set rules and assign chores, so be prepared for some arguing and talking back. Avoid losing your temper and screaming at your teen. Instead, focus on responding calmly and being positive about the situation. Your teen is more likely to respond to a controlled parent than an angry one.


Rather than take away her phone or computer when she doesn’t listen to you, another option is to simply ask her to do a task and then stand there and watch her until she puts down the distraction and completes the task. Your teen may see you are unreasonable or annoying, but she will soon realize you will not stop watching her until she stops being lazy. This type of motivation will work better than nagging or yelling at your teen.