 Always read the tag if possible before putting a stuffed toy in the washing machine. If there are no washing instructions, look for these signs of delicate toys that should be washed using gentle methods only:


Non-removable electrical components (lights, voice box, etc.) or metal frames
Movable limbs (they usually contain delicate wooden joints)
Toys stuffed very densely, stuffed with foam or fiberfill, or that contain paper or plastic stiffeners (you can feel these when you squeeze the toy)
Visibly aged or handmade toys
Leather
All rips and tears should be repaired before machine washing
Toys over 18 inches (45 cm) in any dimension may be damaged in home laundry machines, but some laundromats have larger machines available;
, Stuffing can take a long time to dry once it's wet all the way through. If you weigh the toy before it gets wet, you'll know that it's mostly dry once it's back to its original weight.


If you skip this step, there's a chance you won't give the toy enough time to dry. The internal moisture could cause rot or sagging.
 You'll have the highest chance of removing dry stains if you rub on a mild laundry detergent and let it sit on the toy for ten minutes before you begin the laundry.


A specialized stain removal cleaner may work, but test it on an inconspicuous area of the toy first to see if it causes discoloration.
 This will minimize damage from tumbling. This is especially important in a top-load washer.
 Use a mild laundry detergent. You may add fabric softener to make the toys softer, but never use bleach of any kind.


If none of your laundry detergents are labeled mild, look at the eco-friendly brands. In a pinch, you can use shampoo or dish detergent, but use ¼ or ⅓ of the recommended amount, as it will create a large amount of suds.
 Swing the toy sharply in the air a couple times to fling off surface moisture, then hang up to drip dry in a well-ventilated area. Once the toy has stopped dripping, move it to a well-ventilated area on a towel and leave it for several days to finish drying.


Direct sunlight can cause color fading.
You can sometimes feel damp lumps when you squeeze the toy. Once it feels normal again when squeezed, it is probably done drying.

