 Acknowledging that you are intimidated or otherwise fearful of doing the splits is a great first step to getting over your fear. Write down what, specifically, you are afraid of. This might range from the risk of injuring yourself to fearing failure if you cannot accomplish this goal of yours. Visualizing your fear can make the mountain of concern seem small and capable of being overcome.Perhaps your fear is rooted in a specific incident. If so, reflect on this incident, considering whether it could have been avoided by, for example, stretching more or not going over your limit.;
, Understanding your body’s motions and knowing how muscles are moving with each stretch is a great way to learn how to do the splits safely. It is also reassuring, because you know what impact your motions are having on your body. You can find up-to-date information about muscle movements related to stretching by consulting online interactive resources such as InnerBody or Healthline.If your fear of doing the splits is due to the risk factor involved, it will be especially good to familiarize yourself with muscle movements so that you can understand how exactly your body is working and so you can set boundaries if a specific movement starts to hurt.
 This is a great way to become familiar with the motions of multiple types of splits. Watching a slow-motion video can also help you see how exactly somebody can drop to a split.


Watching videos is also a confidence booster! You’ll see people achieving their fitness goals, which will take your focus off of potential injuries.
 Know that you are going into this new experience of training to do the splits well-informed. Vow not to go past your comfort zone, so that if a specific stretch starts to hurt, you will stop before you injure yourself. Some reassuring statements you can think or say out loud to yourself include:


"I can try this without being afraid of injury because I trust my ability to decide when my body has had enough."
"If things become too intense, I have the power to stop. I'm totally in control."
"Not getting the splits this time is not failure; it's one step closer to my goal."

