 Haters you run into online can sometimes be even more persistent than the ones you see every day. However, remember that their motivations are usually the same: they're looking for a reaction from you. Luckily there are many ways of shutting down cyberbullies.


Block harassers.Most online platforms allow you to block communication from certain users. Use this feature to keep your hater from contacting you. On many forums, this feature will even hide his or her public posts from view to keep them from ruining your day.
Check the rules of the game or website. Most prohibit trolling, threats, and other inflammatory communications. Instead of responding to such attacks, report them to a moderator.
 Don't use your real name outside of Facebook and professional websites. This is especially important if you have a unique name that can easily tracked through a search engine. Use a nickname when playing games and posting on forums. Consider using different nicknames to keep dedicated trolls from following you to multiple websites.


Always remember that anything you put on the Internet can potentially be accessed forever. Even if you think a forum is private or you delete something, a hater can easily download or screenshot it for later use. Think before you post.
Especially if you are a minor, be extremely careful what type of information you give out online. Don't post things that could tip a stalker off to your home address or typical daily schedule.
 If a hater goes from petty insults to direct threats, then simply ignoring them may not be enough. If this happens to you, tell someone you trust. If you're a minor, be sure to tell a parent or guardian.


Don't delete anything. Although you may be tempted to make these hurtful words disappear, it's better keep them. Save all emails, messages, and chat logs. Certain types of cyberbullying are illegal. If things escalate to where authorities need to get involved, you will need to have proof of what happened., If you run a business, you are likely to get some negative reviews online. The anonymity of the Internet can encourage disgruntled people to speak much more harshly than they would to your face. Don't let their words destroy your confidence, but do consider them carefully. Just because something is said in a negative way doesn't mean it's wrong. It's better to think of this type of "hater" as a harsh critic instead. The same thing goes if you are a writer or artist and post your work online. Nasty comments like these are distinct from harassment and should be dealt with very differently.


Try reaching out to critics with personalized comments. Be empathetic, logical, and polite. Offer solutions. Try not to respond out of anger with poorly-thought-out words.Consider not engaging at all. It's hard to please everyone, and it's hard to meaningfully connect with someone over a comment board. This is especially true when a person has a habit of making hateful remarks. This is the nature of having an online presence. Some people may hate you for the very things that others love.