 If your home is like most, it probably has smoke detectors and carbon monoxide detectors in the kitchen, in hallways, in the garage, and over bedroom doors. These have a little button on them that you can press, to see if the battery is still working. If it makes a loud “beep,” it should be okay; if not, you can replace the batteries with new ones.Ask your parents what type of batteries the detectors use. Usually they are AA batteries or the square 9-volt type. If they don't have spares on hand, add them to the grocery list.
Be sure your parents are okay with you doing this – it will probably involve climbing up onto a small ladder or step-stool.
 This is one of those chores that is often overlooked, until someone looks up and notices how gross the fan blades are. Your parents are sure to appreciate it if you offer to take care of this for them.Check every room for a ceiling fan – if you're going to do them, you might as well do them all at once.
The quickest, cleanest way is to use an old pillowcase (be sure to ask your mom to find one she doesn't use anymore...this may stain the pillowcase.)
Put the entire blade into one end of the pillowcase, then rub the dust off the top of the blade so that all the dirt falls into the pillowcase.
When you're done, take the pillowcase outside and turn it inside out to empty it...then toss it in the wash.
 Even with regular vacuuming, area rugs can gather dust, pet hair, and funky smells. This chore can actually be kind of fun, and you can let off a little steam after being cooped up all winter. It shouldn't take more than an hour or so.Ask your mom or dad which rugs you can clean. Some rugs, like vintage or Persian rugs, are delicate and have to be sent off for professional cleaning.
Take the rugs outside. If possible, take them all out at once – you won't want to walk over your freshly cleaned rugs while carrying a dirty one.
Shake off all the loose dust and dirt.
Hang the rug over a fence or railing, or hang a clothesline between two trees or light posts and throw it over that.
Beat the rug with something solid and flat, which will release the dust. Keep going until the rug stops making little poofs of dust when you hit it. Make sure your rug-beater doesn't have any sharp edges that might pull or tear the rug. A broom is good, or a cricket bat.
Return the freshened rug to its room, and get the next one.
 Cars can get messy fast, especially if they are being used by the entire family. If you have a younger sister or brother, you've probably noticed how messy babies and toddlers can be. Your parents may be too busy to deal with this one themselves on a regular basis, but they will definitely be grateful to you if you do it for them. You'll need garbage bags, Spray glass cleaner, Amor-all wipes or cleaning wipes, Q-Tips, paper towels, and a box or milk crate.Throw away anything that is obviously garbage: empty food wrappers, crumpled-up paper, soda bottles, and things like that. (Look at the crumpled papers before throwing them away. If it's something from work, or a store receipt, your mom or dad may want to keep it.) Put everything else from the car into the box.
Wipe the dashboard, center console, steering wheel, door panels, gearshift, and seats with the cleaning wipes. Dampen the end of a Q-Tip in cleaner, and use it to reach into all the dusty cracks, edges, and air-conditioner vents and cup-holders. Clean the windows with glass cleaner.
Pull up the rubber floor mats, wipe them clean, and vacuum the seats and floorboards.
Return the floor mats and anything else to the car that you know needs to be there – sunglasses, phone chargers, etc. Take the box of random things inside to your mom or dad.

