 Individuals can receive up to $14,000 per year without being taxed. After you reach your annual limit, any other transfer will be taxed as a gift. While there is a limit of $5.45 million in tax free gifts per lifetime, up until that point is reached, you may give your future heirs $14,000 per year indefinitely.Furthermore, you may deposit the money in a trust where it is protected and can accumulate over time.


If a gift of money is paying for higher education or medical expenses, there is no limit to the amount that can be given tax-free, as they are considered "qualified transfers."If there is concern about gifts to a child, a Crumby trust can be set up that allows the benefactors to require conditions on how and when the beneficiary receives access to the money.
If a gift is made to someone who is more than a generation younger, such as a grandchild, gifts may be subject to the generation-skipping transfer (GST) tax.
 If the inheritance will be primarily non-cash assets such as property or a business, a policy for the amount of the estate taxes makes it possible for beneficiaries to retain assets rather than selling them to pay an inheritance tax.
 Another alternative (or subsequent step) is creating a life-insurance trust as the beneficiary of the policy in estate planning. As long as the trust is set up at least three years before death, the death benefits in the policy are not counted towards the value of the estate. , With a GRAT, income producing assets are transferred into the trust for the life of the trust, usually 5 years, at a discounted value. You receive annual payments and any appreciation is tax-free to beneficiaries of the trust.
 A QLT removes your dwelling from the value of your estate and transfers it to a trust for a period of years (usually 10-15). While the trust owns your home, you may continue to live there. Once the trust expires, ownership of your home will be transferred to your heirs. If you still wish to live in your home, then work out a rental arrangement.
 Beneficiaries can then be given shares in the limited partnership.

