 Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a medium, heavy-bottomed saucepan. Place the pan on the stove, and heat it over medium heat until it begins to shimmer, which should take approximately 5 minutes.You can substitute vegetable oil for the olive oil, though you won’t get the same flavor.;
, Once you’ve heated the olive oil, add 1 small yellow onion that’s been diced to the pan. Cook the onion over medium heat for 5 to 6 minutes, or until it becomes translucent.Stir the onion regularly as you saute it to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 After the onion has become translucent, add 2 cloves of minced garlic to the pan. Allow the mixture to cook for another minute or until the garlic becomes fragrant.Stir the mixture as you cook it to ensure that it heats evenly.
 Once you’ve sauted the onion and garlic together, pour ¼ cup (59 ml) of heavy cream into the pan. Lower the heat to medium-low, and allow the mixture to cook down so the cream thickens up, which should take approximately 3 minutes.Make sure to stir the mixture as it’s heating so the cream doesn’t burn onto the bottom of the pan.
 After the sauce has thickened, take it off the stove. Mix in ½ teaspoon (½ g) of minced fresh thyme immediately, making sure that it’s fully incorporated.You can substitute marjoram for the thyme if you prefer.
 When the thyme is fully mixed into the sauce, mix in some salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Set the sauce aside, and allow it to cool completely before adding it to the pizza.If you want to give your white pizza a spicy kick, you can mix in a pinch or two of crushed red pepper with the salt and black pepper.
 To ensure that you’re ready to bake the pizza when you’ve finished assembling it, it’s important to preheat your pizza stone. Place it on the center rack of the oven, turn the temperature to 425 degrees Fahrenheit (220 degrees Celsius), and allow it to heat fully.If you don’t have a pizza stone, you can use a pizza pan instead. Just make sure to lightly grease the pan with olive oil before transferring the dough to it.
 For the pizza, you’ll need 12 ounces (300 g) of pizza dough. Use clean hands to stretch the dough into a circle. It should be approximately 12 inches (30-cm) in diameter and ¼-inch (6-mm) thick.You can use homemade pizza dough or purchase dough from the grocery store or local pizzeria.
If you’re having trouble stretching out the dough, you may want to use a rolling pin to help roll it out.
It’s okay if the dough is slightly thicker than ¼-inch (6-mm) along the edge of the circle. That will form a nice crust.
 To transfer the dough to the stone, you’ll need a wooden pizza peel. Sprinkle the surface lightly with unbleached high-gluten or bread flour, cornmeal, or semolina flour to prevent the dough from sticking to it. Next, carefully transfer the stretched out dough to the peel.If you don’t have a peel, you can put the dough on an inverted sheet pan and use it to transfer the assembled pizza onto the stone.
 Add 1 ½ cups (369 g) of ricotta cheese, ¼ teaspoon (1 g) of salt, ¼ teaspoon (¼ g) of dried thyme, and ⅛ teaspoon (¼ g) of coarsely ground black pepper to a medium bowl. Mix well until all of the ingredients are thoroughly combined.You can substitute fresh thyme for the dried if you prefer.
 When you’re ready to prepare the pizza, apply the white sauce that you prepared previously to the top of the dough. Make sure to leave a ¼-inch (6-mm) border along the edge of the pizza.You can use the back of a spoon to spread the sauce over the dough.
 Once you spread the white sauce over the dough, add 3 cups (339 g) of shredded mozzarella cheese over it. Distribute the cheese as evenly as possible so it covers all of the sauce.You can substitute provolone for the mozzarella if you prefer. A combination of the two also works well.
You may also want to add some grated Parmesan cheese over the mozzarella.
 After you’ve added the mozzarella to the pizza, place dollops of the ricotta mixture evenly all over the cheese. Aim for mounds of the ricotta mixture that are approximately 1 to 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 g) in size.You can swap the placement of the mozzarella and ricotta mixture if you prefer. Spread the ricotta mixture over the white sauce and then sprinkle the mozzarella cheese over it.
 Once you’ve assembled the pizza, transfer it from the peel to the preheated pizza stone in the oven. Slide the pizza carefully onto the stone by moving the peel back and forth gently.Take your time when sliding the pizza onto the heated stone. You don’t want to lose any of the pizza toppings in the transfer.
 When the pizza is on the stone, allow it to bake in the oven for approximately 15 to 20 minutes. You’ll know that the pizza is done when the crust is crispy and the cheese is melted and bubbling., After the pizza has finished baking, use the peel to transfer it out of the oven. Immediately sprinkle 1 tablespoon (4 g) of chopped fresh parsley over the pizza to garnish.You can substitute basil for the parsley if you prefer.
 When the pizza is garnished with the parsley, let it cool for approximately 3 minutes. Next, use a pizza cutter or knife to cut it into 8 equal slices and serve while warm.If you prefer a crispier crust, allow the pizza to cool completely for 15 to 20 minutes. Cut it, and place the individual slices back in the hot oven for 3 to 5 minutes or until the crust is as crisp as you’d like.

