 Though a cheddar and tomato grilled cheese may be the standard, a gouda, mushroom, and onion grilled cheese is the standard gourmet option. Roast some mushrooms and onions and add to liberal amount of Gouda, all pressed between a pair of whole wheat bread slices.Add greens too! Kale will go especially great in this one.
 Once you’ve got a better handle on all the different cheeses to choose from, spend a few extra minutes in the produce department. Particularly healthy – and tasty – options include Brussel sprouts, asparagus, and spinach. All of these go very well with goat cheese.In truth, you can pair just about any cheese with just about any vegetable. After finding a few cheeses you like, grab a whole slew of different veggies to slice up and try out in different combinations.
 One borderline-dessert grilled cheese option incorporates strawberries, a delightful cheese called Brie, and chocolate. Cover a slice of multigrain bread with a layer of sliced Brie. Next, cover the chees with strawberries that have been quartered, salted, peppered, and briefly pan-roasted. Include a liquid drizzle of dark chocolate and add another slice of multigrain. Heat as desired.Alternatively, pair Brie with apple slices and fig jam on multigrain. If you’re looking for a particularly complex sandwich, throw in some arugula and caramelized onions as well.
Want to keep it simple, add some class, and incorporate bacon? It can happen: pair brie with still-hot bacon and apricot preserves.
 Grab yourself a jar of jalapeño jelly and swing by the produce section for a crisp, tart apple too. Pair these with a cheese combination, such as cheddar and mozzarella. This recipe calls for sourdough, and will be best grilled.Alternatively, you can always cut up some fresh jalapeños. While your sandwich will still be both fancy and delicious, it will lose some of the balance brought by the jelly’s sweetness.
 Go for seafood gold and grab yourself some lobster. Include it in a sandwich with Mascarpone cheese, diced scallions, and few slices of freshly cut tomatoes.The flavor of lobster is, admittedly, best allowed to access your taste buds when paired with white bread, such as that of a dinner roll.

Consider adding some provolone as well, and some arugula to add some vegetal spiciness.
 Another fruit and cheese sandwich? Well, this one’s especially worthy of note. Simply layer blueberries, greens of your choosing, and goat cheese on a baguette and douse in balsamic vinegar.