 Set out a mat, towel, or go to a carpeted area. Make sure you have enough space to perform this exercise.If possible, bring your own mat to the gym. It is not guaranteed that a mat will be available when you get to the gym.Most gyms provide mats for use at the gym. A disinfectant spray should be available at your gym. Spray the gym’s mat before and after use.
Wear comfortable clothing that allows movement.;
, Keep your back flat on the ground, and keep your torso straight. Bend your knees so that your feet are flat on the floor.








Be sure that your back is flat against the floor. There should be no space between your back and the floor.
 Rest your fingers at the tips of your ears. Avoid positioning that could lead to yanking the head, such as resting your head in your hands. Your elbows should be flat out to the side.
 Make sure to keep your shoulders even., Make sure your head and shoulders are slightly elevated. Imagine that you are trying to touch your right elbow to your right hip. Keep your lower back and hips stationary on the floor.








Keep your elbows pointing straight out to the sides. Don’t bring them too close to your head.
 Do not lower your head or shoulders. You should be in the same position as a standard crunch.








Use your abs to lift your shoulder blades off the ground, taking care not to pull your shoulders toward your ears or tuck your chin toward your chest.Only lower your head and shoulders if you are starting to feel too uncomfortable. Readjust and begin again. Don’t overdo it if you are too uncomfortable.
 Perform exactly the same movement as you did on the right side. The only difference should be the side you’re moving towards.
 Keep your abs tightened and crunch from side to side. Treat each side as a separate repetition and set. Make sure to do an even number of crunches on each side., Repeat until you've completed three sets. When you can do 10 to 15 reps with ease, increase the number of reps up to 20 or 25. In order to effectively build your muscles, each set should bring you to temporary muscle failure.








Gradually repeat the number of repetitions over time. Don’t increase the number of repetitions until the number you are currently doing feels easy.
 In order to start seeing and feeling results, aim to do three sets two to four days a week for eight weeks. For faster results, combine this exercise with various other abdominal workouts.


Always give yourself a day of rest between abdominal workouts. This allows damaged muscle fibers to heal before you work them again.
 If you want to intensify your workout, hold weights while doing your crunches. You can use hand weights or weight plates. Two to five pounds is recommended if you do not lift weights often.Hold the weights close to your chest.
 To make this exercise more challenging, do not keep your feet flat on the floor. Instead, raise your bent knees to table-top — it should look as though you are resting your calves on a table.