 When you're writing instructions, you must first be familiar with the task personally. Get all the tools and supplies you'll need and lay them out in roughly the order you'll need them.Write down everything needed. When you write your instructions, you may want to include a list of tools or materials that are necessary to complete the task.;
, Even if you've successfully completed the task several times, it's still a good idea to walk yourself through it before you write your instructions, so you don't forget anything.If you're familiar with the task, you may be prone to taking short cuts. For your instructions, make sure you don't skip any steps or leave out any information your reader may not have.
Think in terms of telling someone a recipe. If you make the dish often, you may be able to simply know by sight how much of an ingredient to add. If you're telling someone else, though, they would need exact measurements.
 As you perform the task, take a moment to write down what you've done. This helps you keep the instructions in logical order. If you're doing the task as you write down the steps, you know exactly what needs to be done and when., Instructions for the same task may be written in different ways depending on who will be reading and attempting to follow your instructions. You'll write differently for teenagers than you will for adults.This also affects your audience's reason for completing the task. The purpose may be different if you are writing for young students working on a project, as opposed to adults who need the task completed for work.
 The introduction tells your readers what your instructions will enable them to do and what the final outcome will be if they complete all instructions. Keep in mind that most people will skip the introduction, or at most skim it, so don't include vital information or key warnings in the introduction.For example, if you are writing instructions on how to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, you might briefly mention that peanut putter and jelly is a wholesome and simple option that kids love for lunch or an afternoon snack.
If you do feel it necessary to include an important warning in the introduction, you also should include it elsewhere in your steps for those who skipped the introduction.
 Each step should have a single action, not several. If you have more than one or two sentences per step, it probably can be broken up into smaller, less complex steps.For example, suppose you're writing instructions on how to walk a dog. A step that says "Put the dog's collar around its neck and attach the leash" is a compound step that includes two actions: putting the dog's collar on and attaching the leash to the collar. Instead, write "Fasten the dog's collar around its neck" as one step and "Attach the leash to the collar" as the second step.
 Every step you write should be actionable. Use verbs that show your readers exactly the action they must take to complete that step of the task.Word your instructions in terms of what someone must do, not what someone must think or know.
For example, suppose you're writing dog-walking instructions and you have a step on the fit of the dog's collar. For this step, "check the collar's fit" or "measure the dog's neck" are more actionable than "Know the dog's collar size."

, Assume that your reader is going to jump right in and start working on the task as soon as they read the first step. Typically they aren't going to read your instructions through all the way to the end. If there's something your readers need to know to complete a step, include that information with the step itself.If there is any inherent danger in a particular step, include this warning with the step itself, not in your introduction or at the end of your instructions when it's too late.
Include guides where appropriate, so your reader will know when they've performed the step correctly. For example, you might tell your reader "Your dog's collar fits properly if you can place two fingers between the back of the collar and your dog's neck."

, Use simple language that anyone can understand. In most cases you want to avoid any jargon or technical terms. If you must use a technical word, provide a short and simple definition.For example, if you're writing instructions on how to file a legal brief, you may need to use some technical legal terms. Place the plain-language definition first, then afterward give the term used in the courts.
 Generally, it's better to tell your readers what they should do to complete the task, rather than what they shouldn't do. As someone reads instructions, they're in the mindset to complete the task. If you start telling them what not to do, they might get confused and do that thing anyway.For example, if you're writing dog-walking instructions, it's better to say "check the collar's fit" or "fit the collar properly" rather than "don't fasten the collar too tightly" or "avoid using a collar that's too small."

, The pronoun "you" allows you to address your reader directly and can avoid confusion. When you use the pronoun "you," the reader knows exactly what they must do to complete the task, and doesn't have to guess.For example, if you wrote "the lever should be pushed," you leave your reader wondering who should push the lever. "You must push the lever" or even "push the lever" leaves no doubt that this is something your reader must do.
 For some tasks, there will be more than one way to accomplish a step or group of steps. Provide the alternative along with the step so that the reader can choose how they want to complete the task.For example, if you're writing instructions on how to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich, you might want to include other spreads that can be used: "Substitute almond butter in case of peanut allergies."

, You may have heard the phrase "a picture is worth a thousand words." When it comes to writing clear instructions, sometimes a picture or diagram will make a particular action more understandable for your reader.For more technical instructions, make sure the reader can clearly see what's going on in the picture, and the action isn't obscured by tools or hands.
 Some complicated tasks have more than one part. If you're writing instructions for a larger task that includes several smaller parts, separate them into separate sections.If you're numbering your instructions, start the numbering over with each section. The reader following your instructions will feel a sense of accomplishment after completing each part.
Even if your task doesn't have any semi-independent parts, you still want to break it into parts if it has a large number of steps. Too many steps can be overwhelming for your readers.
 If you can't follow your instructions as written, nobody else will be able to follow them either. Enlist friends to complete your instructions as well and let you know if they found anything confusing.You may have to test your instructions several times, particularly if they are lengthy or complex.
 Typos and grammatical errors can ruin otherwise clear writing, making your instructions hard to follow. Read through them backwards and forwards to make sure they're error-free.If you're not confident in your editing skills, you may want to get a friend to look over your instructions for you.
 Particularly if a task requires specific tools or materials, a list can be helpful for your readers. Put the list towards the beginning of your instructions so your reader can gather materials before they begin the task.Think of this like a recipe in a cookbook. Recipes always provide a list of ingredients and cookware at the beginning, so you can gather all these things before you start making the dish.
 After testing your instructions, you may realize that there are hidden dangers you didn't address when you first wrote your instructions. Alert your readers to these dangers so they can take precautions.For example, if you're writing instructions on how to boil water, you may want to include a warning that the pot will be too hot to touch even before the water starts boiling.

