 If a girl likes you, she's likely to give you a lot of her attention. One way to tell if she's paying attention to you during conversation is eye contact. A girl who likes you will attempt to make eye contact throughout the conversation.If you feel the girl hold your eye contact longer than most people do, she may like you.
You may also notice the girl holds your gaze for a moment and then glances downward towards your chest before gazing up again. This is a more intimate means of eye contact that could indicate attraction.
Also, try to see if she looks at you when you're not interacting with her. For example, maybe you see her glancing at you occasionally while you're on your lunch break or between classes.;
, If someone finds you attractive, they will want to touch you. You may find the girl makes excuses to get physically close to you.For example, the girl may sit closer to you when you talk so your legs brush. She may hug you when greeting you and after saying goodbye.
She may also make excuses to touch you. For example, she may say she wants to brush a dust bunny out of your hair.
You may also notice her leaning in during conversation.
 People tend to mimic the body language and gestures of people they're attracted to. Watch the girl when you interact and see if she imitates your body language.Compare your own posture to hers. If you're leaning back and crossing your legs, she may be doing something similar if she likes you.
Watch to see if she's mimicking any of your mannerisms. If you tend to gesticulate more when you talk, you may notice her doing the same.
 If a woman likes you, she will generally sound happy and excited when she sees and talk to you. You may also notice changes in her voice. Women often talk in a higher pitched tone if they're interested in someone. Listen to see if her voice seems slightly higher when she's talking to you., An open posture may indicate attraction. People often use an open posture to look welcoming to those they're attracted to.An open posture is marked by arms that are spread out somewhat and not crossed, legs parallel or stretched out slightly, and relaxed eye contact. This means the girl will generally hold your gaze, but her eyes may wander on occasion.If her whole body is angled towards you slightly, this also indicates attraction.However, some people get nervous talking to someone they like, which could prevent them feeling comfortable with an open posture. If the girl crosses her arms or leans back, watch for other signs, like the tone of her voice. No one sign will indicate for sure if someone likes you.

