 Gaming is a whole community. While a lot of individual talent goes into gaming, being involved in the larger community is important to adopting the gamer lifestyle.


Be respectful to other players. While derogatory language is common, try to avoid using it yourself. It is actually beneficial to make friends and connections through gaming. Not only does this help you while actually playing the game, it make the whole experience more fun and engaging.Every gamer community has different rules and regulations. Spend some time browsing gamer forums or playing while remaining mostly silent and disengaged. Learn the customs of a given community through observation at first., The best way to improve at video games is by simple practice. If you want to live the gamer lifestyle, you'll have to practice playing each day.


Make time in your schedule to play your game each day. This shouldn't be too hard if you really love the game. Like any task, the best way to improve your skills as a gamer is by simple practice.Make a point of playing with gamers who are better than you. You'll learn how to play by interacting with those more talented than you. Observe their game playing techniques and try to learn from their skills., Gamers can often be broken down into different personality types. Try to develop a gaming persona to set yourself apart. This will allow other gamers to recognizes you, your playing habits, and your personality. This will help you connect with other gamers and immerse yourself in the community.


Do you enjoy the building and strategy aspects of a game? Are you always looking for new solutions in a particular quest or battle? Try to find a niche as a creator/innovator then. Work on looking for new ways to streamline the gaming experience. Be on the lookout for means to make your character more powerful and complete quests, fights, and missions quicker.You can also carve out a niche as an explorer, especially if you're playing an RPG or fantasy game. Always be on the lookout for new levels, hidden easter eggs, and interesting visuals other players might miss. You can also become an adventurer, playing primarily for the story. Only destroy and fight when it's relevant to the story and works with your character. Work hard to complete the story and figure out all the twists and turns.If you're a competitive type, consider carving out your persona as a challenger or destroyer. Strive to get high scores and defeat other players and villains. Challenge other players to battles. Try your best to get on any top scoring charts. In other words, play the game with the intent to win., Some people actually make a living playing video games professionally. If you're really dedicated to a particular game, keep professional gaming in the back of your mind.


Do not quit your day job to pursue professional gaming. The world is competitive and even sponsored gamers can't always make a living this way. However, if you work hard you may be able to make some income as a gamer.Study games. If you're really dedicated to going pro, you'll need to know what's happening in the world of your game of choice. Know about updates and new gear. Keep up to date on any new innovations or strategies gamers practice. You should also spend time online watching pro gamer tournaments. Study the strategies pros use.Up your practice. Professional gamers often practice 7 to 8 hours per day to reach professional status., Gaming tournaments can be a great way to get noticed, especially if you end up placing. This can also be a great place to find sponsors. Many professional gamers make a lot of their income through sponsorship.Even if you're just starting out, pushing yourself to compete in a tournament can be fun. Even if you don't place, you'll meet other gamers. This can help you feel more connected to the gaming community.
Practice hard before a tournament if you've been gaming for a while. Placing in a tournament can help you professionally if you're considering gaming as a career.
 Being a gamer can be expensive. Look for ways to save money as a gamer.


Keep up with sales online and in local stores. There are many online forums, such as CheapAssGamer, that post about the latest deals.Gamefly is a rental system in which you can rent games for extended periods for a monthly fee. It costs $16 a month. If you play and beat a game in 3 months that would normally cost $60, you end up saving money via Gamefly.A lot of games, such as League of Legends, are free to play online. Consider seeing if there are any free games that you enjoy online., It's important not to overdo it when gaming. Video game addiction is a real phenomenon. Try to keep in mind that games are not real and you have real life obligations to fulfill.Take breaks when playing on occasion. Make sure to eat right and drink plenty of water and avoid getting lost in a video game.

