 It is a zipped file, so you will need a zip software to extract it.;
,


Hand
Pencil
Line
Curve
Brush
Effects Brush
Cloning Brush
Pattern Brush
Smoother
Sharpen
Spray Gun
Texturizer
Filling Paint
Border Fill
Transparency Fill
Color Picker
Rectangular Selection
Elliptical Selection
Polygon Selection
Razor
Pen and Path
Magic Wand
Eraser
Opaquer
TextArt
Mark up Tool
Lens
Shape Tool
Custom Shape
GT Shape
Triangle List
Blocks Tool
GT Sparkle
Full Page Gradients
Decorative Gradients
Texture Mapper
Texture Plexus
MyTool Plug ins

, CTRL N, File >> New >> Blank Composition, or click on the sheet of paper in the upper left hand corner.
 Left Click White and Right Click Blue.
 Be sure that both Alpha # 1 and # 2 are set to zero.
 Move your cursor towards the bottom right of the image. Click again to set the second point. If it doesn't have the right colors, double check Alpha #2.


Move it around to experiment with the look of it.
 Select the filled circle (second column, second row). Using this, go back to your initial point, click then move the mouse until you get a reasonably sized "sun", then click again. Note that you can use the mouse wheel to zoom in and out as you try to decide where to click. Right-click to apply when satisfied.
 If nothing comes up, click on Objects >> Brush >> Load from file and select the clouds_animated file.
, You will use these on the desert floor.
,, Experiment with shading the desert floor the way you want it. This allows you to get a little perspective.
 You can widen the brush so that it is more visible.
 Set the brush to 50, right click and smooth out the sand.







Find the Layer toolbox (Window >> Layers or F7) and click on the 'Duplicate Layer' option.
Select the Eraser option and completely erase the duplicate layer. If you look closely at the screenshot, you will see the top layer is partially erased.
Click on the brush tool and load the 'grass_animated' file.
 Using this, make the top part of the grass more transparent with more opacity to the bottom. Right click to set.
