 You get to meet your teachers and not only that but you get important papers, like a handbook, your schedule, locker combo etc. Also, at open house, you can usually sign up for clubs or sports. Such as art club, the co-ed basketball team or soccer team for example.
 Teachers, and sometimes your classmates, hate it when you do not come prepared. Here are some supplies most school ask for. Others are optional:


A Binder. Some schools do not allow zippered binders. Also, a 3 inch (7.6 cm) binder is what most schools require.
2 folders. Often, one for homework and another for Friday folder. A Friday folder is usually a folder that you give your teacher at the beginning of the week, and when it's Friday you get it back. It has your graded tests and important papers like field-trip forms.
Composition/notebooks. A lot of times, some classes require you to get a notebook to write notes.
This is optional: binder tabs. These go inside your binders and if you write notes, or get an assignment you place it in the tab.
Now the basics:
Backpack, not messenger bags because they put pressure on your shoulders. A one strap or two strap is better.

Pencils and a pencil pouch. Have more than 20 pencils or at least six mechanical ones. Keep a pouch to hold them, along with your sharpener, eraser (s) and high-lighters.
Lunch box or lunch money. Bring a lunch because school lunches are not as gross as they are on TV, but they often are not good either. Don't bring a plastic bag or paper bag. They can rip and your lunch spills out and they are always thrown away. A waste of a bag.
 Your locker is one of the best things about middle-school! Unlike the cubbies in second grade, you get a locker! Only you know the combo so no one can break in. Plus, it can be decorated and has more storage. Tips for decorating:


Use magnets, not stickers. You may not want to add stickers, but if you do never use them. Schools often have this rule. Stickers are well--sticky. They are hard to remove and if removed improperly it leaves a black gummy gunk left for the other kid who has to use it: gross. There are fun magnets too! Like iPhone app ones or doggy faces ones.
If it doesn't have shelves, you can buy them. Plastic shelves can easily slide in and out of your locker. They come in different colors and patterns.
You can apply magnetic dry-erase boards or cork boards in your locker. Dry erase boards have fun markers in many MANY colors. Cork boards need tacks. Also, you can get magnetic mirrors.
Also, carry/keep a kit inside here's how to make one:

Get a bag. Can be plastic or it can have a zipper.
Inside put: Band-Aids, pencils, hair bands/elastics, pads or tampons, socks (for after gym), make-up if your allowed to and want to, a small bottle of lotion, mints (never gum), deodorant and a list of emergency numbers just in case your sick and need to call home.


Tips for remembering your combo:

Make up a rhyme or poem for it. Rhymes are easy to remember but if you forget, write it on a sticky note and place it in your binder. For example: your combo is 9-12-32. A rhyme you can use is: I was once nine , and now I leave it behind. I'm now twelve not a 32 year old elf.
Also try a math problem. Use a sticky note to remember: 9+12=32! It's not right, I know but it's easy to remember.



