 Doing this will make it easier to make loved ones a priority because you won’t feel like it’s something special or extra you have to do. Just like brushing your teeth and washing your face are a part of your morning routine, make keeping in touch with your friends and family a part of your everyday life.


For instance, your bedtime routine might include having a cup of tea, reading a book, calling your daughter, and then taking a bath.
Or, for example, your afterschool routine might be to have a snack, play with your younger sibling, and then start on homework.;
, Scheduling time with them the same way you schedule a meeting or an appointment is one way you can prioritize loved ones when you have a busy life.Putting it on your agenda will help prevent you from scheduling anything else during that time. It’s also a way of saying to yourself that your family and friends are as important to you as the other things you put on your calendar.


For example, if your partner is having a poetry reading, put it on your calendar so that you don’t plan anything else during that time.
If you are worried you might forget or overlook your ‘priority appointment’, set an alarm or reminder as well.
 Most busy people find themselves multitasking, doing more than one thing at a time, on a regular basis. For instance, you might be in the habit of watching TV, checking your voicemail, and cooking dinner all at one time. Try using multitasking as a way to make time to contact your loved ones or show them that you care.For example, order your spouse lunch when you’re placing your own order and have their meal delivered with a note saying how much you care.
Or, as another example, make use of the hands-free settings on your car and give your best friend a quick call while you’re riding home from school.
 When you have a lot to do and can’t cancel any of your plans, you can still make your loved ones a priority. Similar to multitasking, consider inviting your friends and family to join you in your activities when it’s appropriate. This way you’re meeting your responsibilities and obligations, spending time with loved ones, and giving them a glimpse of your life all at the same time.


For instance, invite your sister to join you in your weekly tai chi class. You could say, “I won’t have much time this week, but I want to see you. Could you come to tai chi with me? It’s fun!”
Or, for example, if you have to go out-of-town on business, ask your spouse to come with you. During your free time you can spend time together exploring the city.
You can also use video chatting apps like Messenger, Skype, Facetime, ooVoo, Tango or Hangouts as a way to include others in what you’re doing.This allows them to hear your voice and also see your expressions, emotions, and environment as you talk.

