









For larger loads, you may need to increase this amount to 1/2 cup (125 ml) of baking soda. When used in conjunction with other static-neutralizing techniques, you can decrease the amount to roughly 1 or 2 Tbsp (15 to 30 ml).
Baking soda effectively creates a barrier around each garment, preventing negative and positive charges from building up and causing the garments to stick together or to themselves.
Using baking soda also has the added benefit of neutralizing odors.
 After the washing machine completes its initial wash cycle, pause the machine and pour 1/4 cup (60 ml) of white distilled vinegar over your clothes. Restart the machine and allow it to continue its rinse cycle.









Vinegar softens fabrics, preventing them from becoming too stiff and dry. This also helps to reduce the amount of static build-up.
If you have a softener dispenser in your machine, you can pour the vinegar inside at the start of the entire cycle.
Do not use vinegar with bleach, as the two products combined can create a noxious gas.
White vinegar works best, but in a pinch, apple cider vinegar can also be used. You may not want to use apple cider vinegar on white or light colored clothing, though.










The tinfoil serves as a method of discharging positive and negative charges that the washing cycle may produce.
Only add tinfoil to the washing machine. Do not add it to the dryer, since this could pose as a hazard.
 Both liquid softener and softener sheets can help prevent static.









As wet clothes are tossed around in the dryer, they build up an electrical charge that causes them to stick together or to themselves. Fabric softeners contain chemicals designed to stop that electricity from building.
Preventing electricity from building during the washing and drying cycles can make treated clothes less dry and less likely to build up static after hanging in your closet.
 Place one or two dryer balls in your dryer before you start the cycle.









Dryer balls are designed to soften clothes without the use of chemical softeners. They help prevent clothes from becoming too stiff, and stiff clothes are more likely to develop static cling than softened clothes.
Dryer balls also minimize the amount of contact fabrics have with one another in the machine. Electrical charges build up in fabric as one piece rubs up against another, so minimizing this contact also minimizes static.
 Switch the dryer to the lowest heat setting for the last 10 minutes and throw a clean, mildly damp washcloth or towel into the machine for the remainder of the cycle.









Electrical charges are more likely to build up when the air becomes excessively dry. Adding a damp washcloth to the end of the drying cycle prevents the air inside the machine from becoming too dry.










The idea is to prevent static from setting in. This only works if you pull the clothes out of the dryer as soon as the cycle stops, though.
 Hang your clothes out to dry completely or pull them out of the dryer before they completely finish drying and hang dry the rest of the way.









A good portion of the electrical build-up responsible for static clean occurs when wet clothes are completely dried out using warm heat. Air drying prevents clothing from becoming extremely dry, which also prevents it from developing too much of an electrical charge.
 Place a humidifier on the floor of your closet, bedroom, or laundry room.









Using a humidifier makes the immediate space less dry. Placing it in an area where you store clothes can keep the air around those clothes semi-moist, which prevents many electrical charges from developing into static inside a garment.

