 Prior to your surgery, start paying attention to your bowel habits. This will help you figure out if you need to proactively treat constipation or just be prepared to treat it after surgery.


Knowing that surgery can cause some constipation, you need to be paying attention to your bowel habits prior to your procedure.
Note how often you go. Is it everyday? Is it two times a day or every other day?
In addition, start paying attention to whether or not it's easy to go. Even if you're feeling regular, if you have difficulty passing stools, this is still a part of constipation.
If you notice that you're having some signs of constipation, treat it before going into surgery. It could worsen after your surgery.
 To help keep your bowels moving prior to surgery, make sure you pay attention to your diet and fluid consumption. If you're not eating well prior to surgery, this could set you up for more constipation issues after your surgery.A high-fiber diet is one key aspect to constipation prevention. Knowing you have surgery coming up, focus on meeting your daily fiber recommendations.
The highest fiber foods include: legumes (like beans and lentils), 100% whole grains (like oatmeal, brown rice, quinoa or whole wheat bread), fruits and vegetables.
Track your fiber content in a food journal or tracking app. Women should aim for 25 grams of fiber daily and men should consume at least 38 grams of fiber per day.Also focus on meeting the minimum fluid guidelines each day. Remember, you should aim for at least 64 oz of clear, hydrating fluids each day.
 In addition to monitoring your diet prior to your surgery, also keep up with your physical activity routine. This is another essential component to constipation prevention.You should start walking around as soon as your doctor gives you the okay after surgery. Being active after surgery not only helps prevent constipation, it can also aid in overall healing.Regular exercise stimulates your colon. In addition, aerobic exercises with light impact (like walking or running) have some force on your colon to help promote regularity.
Aim for at least 150 minutes of regular aerobic exercise each week. Go for moderate intensity for the best constipation relief.
Try: walking, running/jogging, using the elliptical, hiking, dancing, biking or swimming.
 In general, it's important to try to maintain a regular bowel pattern. Pay attention to your body's signal so that you don't cause constipation.


Your body is great at giving you signals when it needs something - like the need to go to the bathroom.
If you feel the urge to go, don't delay or push it off. Sometimes, ignoring the urge will make the urge go away. If you continually push it off, you will cause yourself to become constipated.Over time, if you take care of your body and don't ignore it, you'll notice your body will stay consistent. You'll probably end up going to the bathroom around the same time of day every day of the week.

