 Guests will feel more at home if they receive a small basket of treats and snacks when they arrive. The basket might include bottled water, travel-sized snacks like granola bars or bags of crackers, and travel-sized soaps. Guests might also appreciate over-the-counter medications, mini lint rollers, and other gadgets and goods to make them feel comfortable., Provide your guests with a sheet that answers frequently-asked questions. For instance, you might draft a sheet that provides the wi-fi password, directions to the nearest tourist sights, and phone numbers for the hotel’s different departments (for instance, front desk, housekeeping, room service, and so on). This will save both you and the guest time.Give this cheat sheet to the guest as soon as they check in.
 Try not to fill up the closets with vacuum cleaners, ironing boards, and other objects. The closet should be storage for the guest’s clothes and suitcase. Find other places (beneath the bed, for instance) for these stored items, and include plenty of hangers in the closet for the guest., Place a water pitcher filled with cool, refreshing water on a table or counter in the hotel room. Put some cups nearby. You could use disposable paper cups, but you’re better off leaving some sturdier glasses with the water. These feel more substantial and make the hotel room feel more comfortable for the guests., Soft lighting make a room feel cozier than harsh overhead lights. Put a few lamps around the room to empower your guests to customize the luminosity of light in the room. Ideally, you’ll include lamps that have a dimmer, which allows for even greater customizability in lighting. , A room with a fresh bouquet of vibrant flowers will give any dull room a burst of color and a fresh scent. You could include tulips, roses, petunias, or mix of many different sorts of flowers when putting flowers in the room. Whatever sort of flowers you choose, place them in a tasteful vase of clear glass or white porcelain.Place the vase on the counter or table.
 When guests walk into a room and the bed is in disarray, they will be reminded that they’re not at home and feel out of place. Guests will feel more comfortable if they come into a room where the bed is made nicely, with the sheet beneath the comforter and the pillows fluffed nicely at the head of the bed. You might also drape a heavy folded blanket over the foot of the bed., Before guests arrive, get the room dusted, swept, and vacuumed. Remove magazines, city guides, and other objects that only clutter nightstands and tabletops. Likewise, remove decorative objects like dolls and small abstract sculptures. The less space you clutter, the more space will be available to the guest to use as they please., Cramped and claustrophobic hotel rooms are not comfortable. Your guest will be most comfortable if you fit the bed to the size of the room. Ensure that each room has at least one window. Keep the ceilings high enough that people don’t bump their heads on them.For instance, do not put a large bed in a small room. Instead, put a large bed in a large room, and a small bed in a small room.
Guests should be able to walk comfortably around the bed on all sides without bumping into either the bed itself or other furniture.
If you have a hotel room where easy movement is impossible, consider swapping the bed out for a smaller one and making it a room for a single person only.
Ceilings should be about four meters (12 feet) high. Any shorter and guests will feel confined.
Add one window and one mirror to the room. These maximize the light in the room and make the space feel more open.

