 Here’s where sortable bins come into play. A set of three or more bins gives children a place to separate whites, darks, jeans, and other articles you don’t want to mix. This can also be done in the laundry area, but bins simplify the task for younger children. As you teach them to sort, you can begin explaining why you need to separate the clothing.At first, small children won’t understand why you separate the clothing. Stay patient with them. Explain it as many times as needed as they grow.
Teach them to care for specialty clothing, too. For example, you may not want to wash formal clothing every week. Lycra needs a cold wash and should be done separately.
Sorting is a good time to teach them additional steps, such as zipping up zippers, clearing out pockets, and reading labels.;
, Let the kids throw in the clothing you plan on washing. Teach them the proper load size for your machine. You wouldn’t want to have them stuff in so much clothing that the washer overflows.The proper load size is three-fourths full for a heavy load.
 Before you let them press buttons, remind them to check the detergent level. Show them where to find the detergent tray and how much to add to it. Younger children will have a hard time pouring detergent themselves, so detergent pods are a great alternative.Be aware that detergent pods such as Tide PODS can be dangerous. Some kids have swallowed the pods, thinking they are food. Teach your kids the pods aren’t to be eaten and store the pods in a safe spot up high when not in use.
 At last, it is time to explain the machine’s functions. Washing machines can be complex, and most adults only use a few functions on a regular basis. Start with a normal wash cycle and work your way up to the uncommon functions. Select one load type, such as dark clothing, and show the children which buttons they need to press to wash it. Explain the buttons to them as you go along. Don’t overload them by explaining multiple processes at once.Label the buttons with permanent black marker or stickers. That way, children will have a quick reminder of what the buttons do.
If you are worried, you can let them practice with less valuable clothing. Stay with them until you feel confident they understand what they’re doing, but don’t discourage them. Calmly explain any mistakes they make.
With gradual teaching, children will be capable of handling the machine around age eight.
 Some clothing, such as Lycra items, do better in the sink, but ordinary clothing can also be hand-washed. Read the clothing labels with the child for directions. Help them put a small amount of water in the sink and mix it with the proper amount of detergent. Show them how to swirl the clothing around in the soapy water without scrubbing or twisting. They’ll never be lost without a washing machine!