 Aspirin can be used to reduce the risk of things like blood clots and strokes. Your doctor may want you to take a low dose of aspirin each day depending on your current health.Usually, aspirin is the first course of treatment. Doses are usually around 81 milligrams, but your dose may be lower or higher depending on your health.
Ask your doctor any questions you have regarding when and how to take aspirin if they suggest it would help with your PV. Also, let your doctor know about any existing medications you're taking in case they interact poorly with aspirin.;
, Phlebotomy is a medical treatment in which a needle is used to remove small amounts of blood from your body. Your doctor may suggest phlebotomy to treat your PV.The goal of phlebotomy is to reduce blood cell count and get your blood thickness closer to normal. The treatment lasts several weeks. In most cases, one unit of blood is removed during each session but treatments vary.
Phlebotomy is similar to donating blood in that a needle removes blood from your body. If your doctor suggests phlebotomy, make sure you ask them about any kind of self care you need to practice before or after the procedure.
 In addition to aspirin, prescription medications can be used to treat PV. Talk over prescription medications with your doctor and see if they think medications would help with your PV.Hydroxyurea is one medication frequently prescribed for patients with PV. It reduces the number of red blood cells, helping with blood flow and blood thickness.
Interferon-alpha is a substance that your body makes naturally. Taking interferon-alpha substitutes can help with PV, as they help your immune system fight excess bone marrow cells.
 If none of the standard treatments are not helping control your PV, talk to your doctor about some new treatments that are aimed at the genetic mutations that cause PV (known as the JAK or JAK-STAT pathway). These new treatments include JAK inhibitors, which block the JAK-STAT pathway and prevent it from producing too many blood cells; and HDAC inhibitors, which slow down the overproduction of red blood cells., Itchiness is a common symptom of PV. While it can be treated at home, extreme itchiness can be treated medically.Medications like antihistamines may be prescribed to treat itching, depending on your current health and existing medications.
Ultralight therapy may relieve itchiness.
Medications typically used to treat depression, such as Prozac and serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), may help target itchiness as well.
 Your doctor may suggest radiation treatment as this can help suppress overactive cells. This helps keep things like blood flow and blood thickness at normal levels.If your doctor thinks radiation would work for you, they will go over the process, including before and after care, carefully with you. Ask your doctor any questions you have at this time. The type and frequency of radiation treatment varies depending on the progression of your PV.
Radiation treatment can increase your risk for leukemia. If your doctor thinks you're at an increased risk for leukemia, they may advise against radiation treatment.

