 Missing a period is a common symptom of pregnancy, but it does not mean it is a certainty. If you are late, you might suspect that you are pregnant, particularly if you have other common symptoms such as nausea or tenderness in your breasts. If you think you are pregnant, it is a good idea to take an at-home pregnancy test. Many of these tests are considered to be very accurate, and are widely available at drug stores.If you are a student, your school nurse might be able to provide you with a pregnancy test.
If your at home test indicates that you are pregnant, you will want to get that diagnosis confirmed by a doctor. At home tests are pretty reliable, but the laboratory tests done in your doctor's office are the best way to confirm a pregnancy. Make an appointment to go in as soon as possible.;
, Once your doctor has confirmed your pregnancy, you will likely have many questions. Your doctor is a great resource for you. Being pregnant will cause significant physical changes to your body. Even if you don't plan to be pregnant for long, you should ask your doctor what you can expect.Your doctor will also perform a physical exam, and may perform blood tests or an ultrasound at the visit.
Ask your doctor to give you an approximation of how far along you are in your pregnancy. Many states have laws about when you can and cannot receive abortions. Typically, abortions are safest in the first trimester.
 Being unexpectedly pregnant can be a very frightening experience. You might feel confused and scared. Give yourself a few days to think about your options. If you have a friend or family member you can trust, don't be afraid to ask for advice. Most importantly, think about the decision that is best for you and your health.Essentially, you have three options to choose from. You can keep the baby, you can have the baby and place it up for adoption, or you can terminate the pregnancy with an abortion.
Even if you know what you want to do, it is still a good idea to talk to a counselor. Abortion (and the decision to have one) can be a very emotional experience. Speaking with a mental health professional can help you deal with common emotions. Ask the doctor or the clinic if they have someone on staff you can talk with.
If you can, you may want to talk to the father of the baby to help you make your decision. But, legally the choice is yours.