 You can do this by using a trowel, hoe, or small shovel to scrape the dead grass. Work on your hands and knees, and get as close to the roots as possible. While you don’t need to tear up the soil itself, try to scrape away as much of the dead blades and stems of grass as possible.You can dispose of the dead grass by burning it or throwing it in the trash.
 You can do this using the small shovel or trowel from the previous step. Coat the scraped area with a fine layer of the ground limestone.To avoid inhaling the fine limestone dust, you should wear a standard dust mask while working with the stone powder. You can purchase this at any hardware store.


You may be able to purchase extra fine grind limestone at your local hardware store also. If not, check at larger home improvement stores, such as Lowe’s or Home Depot. Finally, see if there is a landscaping company in your area, as they may be willing to sell ground limestone.
 Use a hose or sprinkler to gently water the area with the limestone, and also dampen the surrounding grass. Getting the limestone and soil wet will help the limestone reduce and neutralize the acid that the soil has absorbed from the animal’s urine. Let the limestone set for a week.Don’t create runoff from your watering. If the water overflows and the limestone begins to run to a different part of the lawn, its effect will diminish.
 Once you’ve waited a week, you can generously cover the area with a fresh layer of topsoil. Then, sprinkle the area with a few handfuls of grass seed. Don’t worry about over-seeding; you can be liberal with your use of the seeds. Use your hand to pat down the grass seed into the soil, so that they can begin to grow.After you’ve patted down the grass seeds, you can use your hose or sprinkler to soak the soil with water. Be careful not to over-water, though, in which case the seeds will flow away.
Topsoil and grass seed should both be available for purchase at your local hardware store, or at a plant nursery.
 If you’ve generously seeded the area formerly damaged by pet urine, but the grass is growing slowly, you can top the area with peat moss. This light moss will hold moisture in, and so encourage the grass seeds to sprout without drying out.You can find peat moss at a local plant nursery, or through a landscaping supply store.


If the majority of the initial grass seeds have not sprouted or died, you may need to re-seed before you put down the layer of peat moss.

