 Don’t act like you are strangers, instead, be friendly, warm and comfortable with him. Pretend like he is your friend and start a conversation casually. Guys like girls who seem relaxed and fun because it puts them at ease. Talk at your normal speed and tone that you use to talk to your friends. When you talk to your friends, listen to how you sound, and look for the kinds of gestures you make when you are talking naturally. Try to do the same thing around him.


Don’t be overly fascinated by everything that he says and keep your cool. Guys like girls who have their own thing going on. If you can stay engaged with him while showing that you are your own person, this confidence will attract him to you more. Try not to make eye contact where your eyes are really wide open while you are talking with him. This may make you appear desperate or clingy.
Because you are getting to know him for the first time, don’t worry about telling him everything about you in the first night. You want to concentrate on the fluency of the conversation and not the accuracy of everything you are saying. You want to tell him some interesting and cool things about you, but the main point of the conversation is to keep things between you lively and interesting.
 Find something in your environment that you can make a funny comment about. For example, if you have waited a long time for your drinks you can say something silly like, “So do you think we should just ditch this place?" Simple remarks like this can keep the conversation light hearted, and that is good for picking up a guy. Guys find playfulness attractive in women, and it will give you something to bond over. This playfulness can help make the conversation low pressure for the guy.
Even if you don’t think of yourself as a funny person, you can still be playful by exaggerating in conversation.
Practice being funny with your friends, and make little humorous remarks on your environment or what is going on with you.
 Guys find it attractive when women touch their neck and hair while they talk. You can tilt your head to the side and make eye contact while you smile to show him you are interested. Women also flirt by positioning their bodies when they laugh so that they show off their best features. Another way to flirt and show your sexual interest is if you look at him with your upper eyelids partly lowered and smile, the classic Marilyn Monroe look. This look is particularly seductive to guys.As the night goes on, maintain your eye contact longer, stay close by his side, and let your hands touch if you are walking side by side.


If you want to break the initial touch barrier, you can lightly touch his forearm when you are talking.
 Use active listening in your conversation with him. Maintain eye contact, smile and nod along to the things he says. Then ask questions related to what he is saying, and paraphrase the important things to show him that you are interested in the things he is talking about. People like it when they feel like you really care about the things they say and think. At the same time, be transparent with your intentions if you are just looking for a fling, and let him know that before you go too far that you are interested in a casual hook-up. Keep your interests in others as well. Don’t become completely absorbed into him. Check in with your friends, and any people you were engaged with before.
Read what kind of guy he is. When you are actively listening, you can pick up on his vibes. Does he seem to like to lead the conversation or does he seem to like to listen? Depending on what kind of guy he is, you may want to let him talk more, or you can talk more.
 If you find yourself liking him a lot, don’t drink too much or become too excited by your conversation. You might regret some of the things you say or do if you don’t take a break and cool down. For example, if you find yourself laughing an unnatural amount or drinking too fast, leave for a bathroom break. Try to calm down by splashing water on your face, talking to yourself, or texting a friend.


You might want to make a clean break so as to not regret anything later. So make a plan for how much longer you want the conversation to go and how much more you can drink, and then stick to it.
 After you have made good connections with him by listening to him attentively, joking with him, and talking to him like a friend, leave the conversation before the conversation naturally wears out. Tell him positive things about your time talking, and then ask for his contact information. Say something like, “I really liked talking to you- can I have your number? I would love to keep talking more.”


Send him a text message in the next couple of days and see where it goes.
If he doesn’t want to keep talking, don’t worry. Making the first move and talking to a guy you like is good experience, and it will help your conversational and flirting skills so that you are even better the next time you chat with a guy you like.

