 This practice session should take place in a 25–30 yards (22.9–27.4 m) in length and 15-20 yards width field. The goal size should be 4’h x 6’w for a better scoring opportunity. No goal area, penalty area, or penalty spot is suggested due to the small size of the field, but the center radius should be 3 yard radius, corner arc 2’ radius, and a 5’ flags. This will be a 3v3 practice and 2 goalkeepers.;
, Since it will be a 3v3 practice all 3 players must be close to the goalkeeper when he is ready to give out the ball, while the other 3 players will play the defensive role.
 When the counterattack starts the offense players will try to rotate and pass the ball around to wait for an open chance to either shot or pass to an open player.
 The distance suggested to be between the defender and attacker is an arm distance to allow the defender rotate directions in case of a sudden movement or switch by the attacker. Each defender must keep in mind that he/she should be blocking the goal area to protect it from a shooting opportunity. Force the offense player towards the direction desired which should be away from goalkeeper 2.
 The player pressuring should be the closest in distance to the attacker and the 2nd and 3rd defenders should be covering and support. This action of support and cover should move as a wave like across the area as a continuous motion.


For example: if the defender who is pressuring the attacker with ball is in a distance of an arm length then the next defender who is in front of the next attacker should be two arm’s length away and the third defender and attacker should be three arm’s length away, to have an overview of how the fellow defender is doing and the attacker in front of him

, If you can’t win the ball, your intention is to make the offense lose ball. Some defenders will try to tackle or get too close to the attacker and that puts the defense in risk if the attacker got through this defender. So keep pressuring until offense player decides to pass at that moment you can cut off the pass or your fellow defender who was covering you can cut the ball before getting to the other attacker.
 All defenders should communicate to let each other know who is covering and what’s going on exactly. Communication is the key to success.
 Attackers will keep passing unless they get the chance to shot or the ball gets cut off, so try your best as a defender to make the attacker not think of the next move. If the ball is won by defenders it will go out of bounds, if the attackers shot it will be with the goalkeeper wither scored or not.
 After the this practice is done, repeat it with the other 3 players and goalkeeper 2.

