 The biggest obstacle you face may be yourself. Doubting yourself won’t get you anywhere. Realizing that you are just as capable as anyone else to have a big imagination allows you to get there.


Say this to yourself when you are unsure of your potential: “I am bright and creative and have a good imagination. I have the capacity of expanding my imagination and it can become as large as I want.”, Imagination and creativity go hand-in-hand. Closing your mind off to new possibilities and situations will prevent your imagination from expanding. Instead, allow yourself to come up with new ideas, no matter how absurd or outlandish they may seem.


Avoid disregarding any of your ideas and don’t give yourself any parameters when brainstorming. Consider all of your ideas as valuable. Even what may seem like a bad idea can turn into something more., You may find that you just can’t get your mind to be creative anymore. Everyone faces challenges, but fortunately, you may be able to combat this blockage.


For instance, write down the reasons why you may not be able to think of anything new. Then write down the opposite. For example, you could say, “I’m tired and can’t think straight.” The opposite would be, “I’m full of energy and am thinking clearly.” Now decide what you can do to get to the more positive approach., Many people think literally. That is, they see something and think that it is only that. When you think in metaphors, however, your mind and creativity expand. You challenge yourself to see things that you wouldn’t normally otherwise.


For instance, the next time you see a cloud, think of it as a shape, a pillow for birds, or something else that isn’t what it literally is. You’ll find yourself looking at other objects in the same way., Your brain and body function at their best when you give them the right ingredients--that is, healthy foods, exercise, rest, and stress-management. Develop a health model that helps you support your well-being and your imagination.


For instance, choose brain-healthy foods omega-3 fats (e.g. flaxseed and salmon), whole grains, leafy green vegetables, and flavanoids and polyphenols (e.g. green tea).Exercise at least 30 minutes per day on most days.
Get at least 8 hours of sleep per night.
Relax often whether through meditation or a passion project like painting.

