 People can tell when you are faking interest in them.


Genuinely pay attention to what a girl says and does. Showing true interest in her life will let her know that you respect her.
Remembering small things like her favorite food or the name of her dog will show that the things she says are truly important to you., If a girl isn’t showing as much interest in you, she may not be friend or girlfriend material.


If she isn’t asking you questions, showing interest in your life, or giving you all of her attention, then you may not want to spend any more time with her.If you try to make plans to hang out and she doesn’t seem interested or changes the subject, then she might not be the person for you.
 Don’t follow her around and bombard her with questions. If she wants to be your friend or girlfriend, she will also seek out conversations with you.


Being clingy with a girl can be annoying, and may make her change her mind about hanging out with you. She needs time to be alone or hang out with other people, just like you do.If you've given her some space and she comes to talk to you, then she is probably interested in having a relationship with you.
 Pinpointing what kind of girl you are looking for can help you decide if she is the right person to spend time with.A friend or girlfriend is someone you can freely talk to and trust. If a girl makes fun of other people or is disrespectful, then she is not friend material.
Make sure you actually like the person and don’t just want to be around her because she’s popular. Relationships are based on shared interests and respect. If you want to be someone’s friend only because of social status, then you are trying for the wrong reasons.
Friendships and relationships are special bonds. You should only spend your time with someone who respects and cares about you as much as you care about her.
 Relationships that are built on secrets and lies will eventually crumble.


Don’t pretend to be someone you’re not. From the beginning, friends should accept each other for who they truly are. Relationships are built on truth and honesty, and they will crumble if you aren’t being true to who you are and honest about what you want from the other person.Being open with one another can prevent fights in the future. Tell each other when and why you’re getting annoyed or mad, when it's actually happening. Then things will not build up over time and boil over into a huge fight later on., The best part about relationships is doing fun things with someone else.


Go to the movies, hiking, shopping, or dancing together. You and your friend or girlfriend have similar interests, so do things that you will both enjoy.
No matter what you’re doing, blowing off steam with a good friend is the perfect way to balance all of the challenges and hard times in life. Your girlfriend should be there for you in the bad times, but also in the good.