 Advise your child to let a camp counselor, leader, or official know that they are being bullied as soon as possible. Telling an adult as soon as bullying happens will help protect your child from camp bullies because bullying can get worse when it is not reported.Telling an adult can relieve some of the stress of being bullied at camp.
It is also a way to document what happened in case the information is needed later.
Your child might worry that the other kids will get mad at them for telling a camp official. Reassure your child that no matter what happens, someone will be there to watch them and protect them.
 Bullies act the way they do in order to get a reaction. Although it can be really difficult, advise your child to control their fear, anger, embarrassment, and frustration and stay calm.By advising your child to handle bullying by staying calm you are also protecting them from camp bullies.


Staying calm can keep the situation from escalating into something worse. Remind them to take deep breaths and relax when they feel angry or upset.
Tell your child to try not to cry, look upset, or lash out because these behaviors can make the bullying worse
If it is cyber-bullying, your child should avoid responding to mean comments or posts.
 This is one of the most effective ways for your child to deal with a bully because it lets the bully know that what they are doing is not okay. You can protect your child from camp bullies by advising them to calmly and confidently tell the bullies to stop.


Remind your child to show confidence when telling the bully to stop. You could say, “Hold your head up, relax your shoulders, take a deep breath, and then speak clearly.”
You might tell your child, “When the bully starts bothering you, look her in the eyes and calmly tell her to stop. Then walk away.”
Have your child practice saying stop. This roleplaying can prepare them to do it in real life.
 Bullying is less likely to happen when your child is with friends because bullies tend to pick on individual kids or kids by themselves a lot.Advise your child to use their support system at camp to help protect them from camp bullies.


Friends can help your child stand up for themselves and serve as a witness to what happened.
Spending time with friends can also help boost your child’s self-esteem and confidence.
Remind your child that they should stand up for their friends when they are being bullied as well. This will create a safer environment for everyone.
If your child has few or no friends at camp, you may want to speak to a camp counselor about “encouraging” a friendship between your child and some other campers.
 Depending on how the camp is set up, the best way to protect your child from camp bullies may be to tell them to avoid the bully. You don’t want to advise your child to stop doing things they enjoy or drastically change their schedule, but avoiding the bullies means the bullies can’t bother your child.


Talk to your child and camp counselors about ways to minimize the interactions your child has with the bullies.
For instance, if camp kids are divided into teams, you could ask that your child be switched to a different team.
 Being bullied, no matter what form it takes, can be very stressful. You can protect your child from camp bullies by teaching your child to use coping techniques when they are stressed because of the bully.


Show your child how to do deep breathing techniques. Practice inhaling slowly and deeply and exhaling it slowly.
Teach your child about using visualization as a way to reduce stress. For instance, you might work with your child on picturing a fun experience they had in the past.
Violence should not be the answer to bullying. Let your child know that they should not use physical force with the bullies unless absolutely necessary.
 Being bullied can make your child depressed, discouraged, and humiliated. You can protect your child from these effects of being bullied at camp by reminding your child to keep a positive outlook. Although bullying is a difficult situation, there is still a lot to be grateful for and happy about in life.


Keeping a positive attitude can help reduce the negative effects the bullies have on your child’s self-esteem and confidence.
Encourage your child to make a list or keep journal of things that make them happy, that they enjoy, and that they are grateful for.

