 The methods already discussed above are exactly the same for this method. Assume that you came up with an estimated 1600 lb/acre of forage., This is basically total amount of area to graze, or how many acres one set paddock is. Let's assume, for this example, that you are wanting to graze 20 acres., As already mentioned, the lower the forage quantity, the lower the utilization rate should be. For this example, let's stick with the 50% standard already mentioned., At this time it's safe to remind you that this method of stocking rate calculation is not excluding other livestock species. You can use sheep, goats, horses, etc. to estimate stocking rate. Mind, though, the rate of intake as mentioned in the next step. To continue this example, let's assume you're wanting to graze 1250 lb lactating cow-calf pairs., Cattle are expected, on pasture, to have a rate of intake ranging from 2 to 3.5 percent dry matter intake of body weight per day; dairy cows especially are going to be closer to 2.5 to 3.5 percent of forage DM of body weight per day. Horses are going to be about the same, and sheep and goats (lactating) are expected to have a rate of intake of 3.5 to 4 percent of their body weight in DM forage per day. Let's assume you have these cows consuming 2.5 percent of their body weight in DM forage per day., The stocking rate formula, for this method, is Stocking Rate (animals/acre) = (Total DM lb of forage/acre x # of acres x (% Utilization rate/100)) / (Animal weight (lb) x (intake rate as % BW/animal/100)). Using the example created for this article, calculate stocking rate as follows: Stocking rate = (1600 lb/acre x 20 acres x 0.5) / (1250 x 0.025) = 512 animals/acre.

Do note that this is on a daily basis. If you wanted to include the number of days animals are on pasture, then simply add a multiplication of number of days to the denominator (which is multiplying animal weight to rate of intake) to get the number of animals needed to that particular paddock for x number of days. If we were to add 2 days to the example above, then the number of animals per acre is 256 instead of 512.
 Unlike the first method above, all of the variables that are used in the formula in the previous step are prone to change. Everything from knowing the weight of your animals to knowing forage quantity is important to get an accurate estimate of stocking rate--on a daily basis--for a particular paddock or pasture.