 There’s no way to change how tall you are, and the sooner you make peace with that reality, the better off you’ll be. But that doesn’t mean you have to hide your face in shame. Your height is just one of many features. Remember that you have plenty more to offer than just the way you look.Insecurity can lead to bashfulness or defensive behavior, both of which may be unattractive to girls., One simple solution is to go after girls that are around the same height as you. That way, there will be no need to bring up the topic while you’re getting to know her, and no awkward hugs or dances later on. You’ll be able to look her in the eye without constantly feeling like she’s towering over you.Since you won’t be intimidated by someone in the same height range, you’ll be able to focus on enjoying yourself.While height may be something you consider when playing the field, you shouldn’t judge people on their physical characteristics alone. Take the time to really get to know the girls that you’re interested in.
 Most girls are drawn to fun, lighthearted personalities. Whereas tall guys are a dime a dozen, finding someone who can make her laugh isn’t nearly as common. Having a good sense of humor is a far better selling point than simply being a little taller.Don’t hesitate to make a quip about how you have trouble reaching the top shelf or need platform shoes to drive when the situation calls for it. Saying something like "I'm so short you can see my feet in my driver's license photo" can really help to break the ice.
If you let your height become a source of frustration or embarrassment, it may cause you to come off as bitter around other people., Many users on dating apps and websites list preferences for physical traits like height, weight and hair and eye color. With such an impersonal format, it’s possible that you could get passed over before a single word is exchanged. It’s better to talk face-to-face, since this will give you an opportunity to show what you’re all about.Making a solid first impression is critical, but it can be very tough to do over the internet.
Resist the urge to lie about your height on your online dating profile. The truth will come out as soon as you meet, and your date most likely won’t be too pleased.

