 When you wash your hair, shampoo your bangs as usual, but leave the conditioner off them. The main purpose of conditioner is to restore protective oils. If your bangs are already healthy and oily, conditioner just makes them greasy.


Also avoid putting conditioner on your scalp. Your scalp produces oils, and extra grease there can lead to dandruff.;
, If your hair gets oily in between washing, apply dry shampoo to absorb the grease. If using powdered dry shampoo, sprinkle a little onto the oily area, wait 10 minutes, then brush it evenly through your hair. If using a spray, hold it at least 8 inches (20cm) away, spray at the roots, then brush it through your hair. Spray lightly, since the spray can give your hair a weird texture or a greyer color.


Natural alternatives include corn starch (for light hair), cocoa powder (dark hair), or cinnamon (reddish hair). Note that the last two are scented, and that cinnamon may "burn" a sensitive scalp.
Many people apply this before they go to bed, so it can soak up oil overnight.
 If only your bangs are oily, wash and shampoo them in the sink without wetting the rest of your hair. This handles the problem without exposing drier parts of your hair to damage from over-washing.
 Styling products, especially gels and mousse, are thick and greasy. Even lighter styling products can become oily if left in too long. Try to achieve what you can with a pea-sized amount of the product at a time, and/or keep the product away from your bangs.
 Makeup is oily. The more you wear on your forehead, the more it will rub off onto your bangs.
 Touching your hair adds a tiny bit of oil from your fingertips. This may seem small, but it adds up over time. If you constantly sweep your bangs back, fasten them with a clip so they stop falling out of place. If you have a habit of twirling your hair or running your hand over your head, learn how to stop.
 Wash your face whenever oils build up, so they don't transfer to your bangs. Oil removal wipes are an easy way to do this on the go.


When you're sweating, remember to wipe off sweat from your forehead and hairline.
At times when your skin is particularly oily, keep your bangs pinned up or to the side.

