 Leadership is a key ingredient to creating a kin first culture. Leaders can promote the belief that children belong with family, ensure that resources, tools and training are aligned with the underlying values of a kin first culture, and hold all levels of the agency accountable for prioritizing placement with and connections to kin. Leaders can:

Identify champions within the agency who have the authority to implement policies and promote practices that are consistent with a kin first philosophy.
Create the staffing structures needed to identify, engage and support kinship families.
Advocate for a continuum of permanency options available to children in kinship care.
Promote strategies that allow kin to support children, parents, and foster parents even if they are not placement options.
Ensure agency staff and providers receive training on the value of kin, their unique needs, and how best to meet these needs.
Develop benchmarks and continuously review data on children involved with the child welfare system who are living with kin, including children living with kin as an alternative to foster care. Analyze multiple data elements, including placement type, race, age, and gender, to understand the characteristics and experiences of children living with kin.;
, Children in kinship foster care deserve the same attention as children placed with non-kin. Agencies that truly value kin will align their policies to ensure that children in kinship foster care have tailored services and supports and equal opportunities for permanency as other children. Whenever possible, policies should reflect the intent to serve families with respect for race, ethnicity, culture, sexual orientation, and gender identity. Well-drafted policies and protocols will streamline the process and make it easier to place children with kin.

Develop or review/adapt current written policies to ensure they reflect a priority for placing children with kin and preserving connections with kin. Ensure policies are designed with the unique needs of kin in mind.
Share draft policies and solicit feedback from multiple stakeholders, including kin and youth, before finalization. Sample policies include: emergency placement, relative notice and engagement, partnerships with American Indian/Alaskan Native tribes, defined roles and expectations for all stakeholders, full disclosure to kin and parents on all permanency options and support, and tailored training, services and supports for kin.
 Kin first states are ones that begin identifying a child’s extended family network from the moment the child comes to the attention of the child welfare system. Agencies should explore a connection with all identifi ed kin and assess for their capacity to protect children and help them thrive, regardless of their race, ethnicity, cultural heritage, sexual orientation or gender identity. Kin can play multiple roles during a child’s involvement with the child welfare system. They can support children and parents with open child protection cases, provide homes for children in foster care, help children stay connected to family while in foster care, including children in group care, and support families once the children return home. Strategies to identify and engage kin include:

Make family search and engagement a priority at multiple stages, not only when children are first removed from parents’ care.
When engaging kin, focus on the role they can play to help children preserve healthy family connections, even when the children are not placed with them.
Use a combination of casework and technology to identify kin.
Identify and engage fathers and paternal relatives.
Use family team meetings to identify, engage, and educate kin.
Engage tribes early in efforts to locate family placements and supports for American Indian and Alaska Native children. Be familiar with the requirements of the Indian Child Welfare Act and how this can shape work with kinship homes.
Document the family connections identified so the results of family search and engagement are retained for all parties working with the family throughout the child’s involvement with the child welfare system.
  Research shows that kinship foster care is more stable than non-kin care and can help prevent disruptions that are harmful to a child’s well being. Kin first agencies invest necessary resources and align their policies, practices and staff to make the child’s first placement with kin whenever possible. Strategies include:

Create a firewall that requires approval by a supervisor, program manager or director for all non-kin placements.
Provide staff with tools they need to place with kin immediately, such as: well articulated roles and responsibilities across units, streamlined processes for conducting background checks and fingerprinting, clear procedures for conducting initial home checks, and training on the requirements of the Indian Child Welfare Act and how to work effectively with tribal governments.
  Kin first agencies seek to remove all barriers to licensing kin who can provide a safe and stable placement for the child. When licensing kin, caseworkers should examine the suitability of each caregiver in relation to the individual child, not just whether the caregiver can be licensed according to state or tribal licensing standards. Additionally, kin first agencies work diligently to remove barriers before allowing kin to remain unlicensed so they can have the same access to financial resources and other supports as non-kin. Many kin first agencies believe that unlicensed kinship care denies kin equal treatment. Strategies for prioritizing licensing for kin include:

Adopt the National Model Family Foster Home Licensing Standards or model tribal foster care standards, such as those developed by the National Indian Child Welfare Association for a common sense approach to licensing all foster parents, including kin.
Implement a clear process for requesting and granting waivers and variances for non-safety licensing standards that will not adversely affect the child and are barriers to placement of the child with kin.
Develop written licensing procedures with clear timelines and processes, as well as an appeal process for kin who are denied licensure.
Facilitate the licensing process by providing kin with assistance to complete necessary paperwork, obtain items that are required for licensing, make home modifications, etc.
Provide kin with all necessary information about the licensing process. In jurisdictions that provide the option to care for the child as an alternative to foster care, fully educate kin on the differences between caring for a child as a licensed foster parent versus as an alternative to foster care so they can make an informed decision about which is best for their family.
Implement kinship specific training aimed at educating kin about their unique role and the expectations of the agency. Trainings should be culturally appropriate and trauma informed, recognize the unique family dynamics associated with kin care, and include examples that reflect the life circumstances of the kin participating.
 The ultimate goal for children in foster care is to safely return home in a timely manner. Kin should support the goal of a safe return home, but remain willing to provide a permanent home if that goal cannot be met. Kin can assist families by providing safe, loving environments for the children, being positive role models for the parents, and generally supporting the families through difficult times. It is important to honor families by taking time to understand their dynamics and relationships, and explain the legal process and options. This family-centered problem solving will lead to the best possible decision about the most appropriate permanent families for children.

Offer all options for legal permanence for the child, including reunification with the parents and subsidized adoption, tribal customary adoption, or guardianship by kin.
Provide kin families with quality services and supports after the child has become a permanent part of their family through adoption or guardianship.
Use family-centered team meetings to help families make the best decision about a permanent family for the child, including team decision-making meetings, permanency roundtables, multidisciplinary team meetings, etc.
Afford the same level of effort, supports and services to parents as provided to kin caregivers and non-kin foster parents.
 Community based organizations and other public systems can often be a child welfare agency’s best allies in achieving positive outcomes for children in kinship care. Community partnerships can ensure that kin have access to the tailored services and supports they need for the child.

Engage other public systems, such as schools, early care and education, economic security, and aging services to support children, parents and kin.
Involve legal stakeholders, including the judiciary, attorneys, and Court Appointed Special Advocates (CASA), tribal courts, in supporting the agency’s priority for kinship placement and connections.
Provide opportunities for kinship families to network with each other through mentoring, support groups and leadership development opportunities.
Develop strong relationships and referral processes with community-based organizations, including tribal child welfare programs, that can provide tailored, culturally appropriate and relevant services to children, parents and kin.
Partner with private providers to meet the therapeutic and other needs of children, parents and kin.
Partner with kinship foster parents, youth, and other community stakeholders on the development of child welfare policies and protocols.

