 Show the child that you are actively interested in what they have to say through your body language. Put your whole focus on the child and avoid being distracted while talking to them.


Kneel down to the child's level.
Do your best to make eye contact with the child, but don’t force it.
Speak in a quiet, calm voice.
 Acknowledge their frustration, sadness, or anger. Naming their feelings helps the child find the words to describe their experience and emotions. You can help them better communicate their feelings for the next time they encounter a challenging situation.Lots of feelings are very difficult to discern. They feel very similar in the body, and the child might not have the word to describe “frustrated.” So they cry or get angry instead, which is normal.Tell them how you might feel if the same thing happened to you. For example, “If someone had taken my favorite toy at school and wouldn’t let me have a turn playing with it, I would be angry, too. I would be mad that I had to wait my turn.”

, See if they can describe their emotions. If they do not have the words to describe what they are feeling, see if they can point to where they feel it in their body.


Ask open-ended questions like, “How did it feel when that happened?” or “What happened that made you so angry?”
You could ask younger children to describe the physical feelings in their body. Have them point to where they feel things in their body and ask them to describe the feeling. You could give the child an example, like “Sometimes when I make a mistake, I feel a scary feeling in my tummy.”
Older children may be able to better describe their feelings, and may only require a little help in naming them. They might say, “I felt really stupid having to wear that shirt to school,” and you could say, “It sounds like you were embarrassed.”

, Try to put yourself in the child’s shoes and imagine how you might feel if the same thing happened to you when you were their age. Keep in mind, you didn’t have the same level of life experience that you do now, nor did you likely have the words to describe how you felt.You could say something like, “I’m sure it’s really frustrating to be told you need to go to bed when you’re in the middle of something fun. I can see how it would have been upsetting and felt like it came out of nowhere. Next time, I’ll give you a warning first.”

, If the child is struggling with being successful at an activity, let them know that no one was born knowing how to do everything. Acknowledge that you, and everyone else in the world, makes mistakes and needs to practice.


If you make a mistake, point it out to the child to normalize mistakes and diminish their power. “Oops, I forgot to put the cookies in a place where the dog couldn’t get them. I’m a little mad at myself that I didn’t remember, because now we have no cookies, but it was just a mistake.”Talk to the child about the importance of practice and working hard to achieve a goal. You could say, “I know it’s overwhelming to keep making mistakes and not know what you’re doing. But I promise, if you keep working at it and practicing, it will get easier, and you will get better at it.”

, People often set unrealistic expectations for themselves, and children are no exception. Talk to your child about what they expected from the situation that made them frustrated, and then review why that expectation was or was not reasonable. For example, if your child expected to hit a home run at their first little league outing, then you can help them understand why that expectation may have been too high.

Explain, "While it's good to set high expectations, you also need to understand that most people will fall short. It takes time and hard work to get there, so don't give up because you didn't meet your goal this time."
Say, "I like to see you aiming so high, but sometimes setting high goals for ourselves makes it hard to reach them."
Help them reform their unreasonable expectations to make them reasonable so that they will know how to do so in the future. For example, they could set an expectation to attend all practices and games for the season, as well as to gradually increase their batting average.
 One of the best ways to help your child learn to manage their emotions is to model good behavior for them. While that can seem like a challenge, an easy way to accomplish modeling is to tell your child when you encounter an issue and then tell them how you'll deal with it. Show them your problem-solving methods and let them see how it can work successfully.

If your child never sees you work through issues, they may assume that you don't face any. This can cause your child to feel that something is wrong with them.
You don't need to tell them about serious issues such as missed mortgage payments or health scares. Instead, tell them when you're frustrated that the store is sold out of your favorite haircare product or when your friend forgot about your lunch date.
Say, "I'm really frustrated that they don't have my shampoo. Now I'm going to have to make an extra trip to the store instead of getting to spend time on something else. Maybe I can try another brand this one time."

