 Unless you advertise and let people know that you are offering a mowing service in the community, your business will flounder. Advertising takes patience and a good strategy.Before making an advertising campaign, think about the purpose of advertising and what it can and cannot do for you. What are your long-range goals? Make a plan that you can measure success and failure against. Set financial goals, timelines for product updates, and increases in customer base.
How much can you invest in advertising? Too little or too much can hurt your business and wastes valuable time. Consider your income, expenses, and sales to come to a reasonable percentage of how much you can afford to spend on advertising.
 You do not have to invest significant money or resources to conduct research on potential marketplaces. Much of the information is free and will allow you to analyze trends and demographics.You can check statistics and data on income and employment. You will want to target areas where people are both employed and busy. Two factors that will place a higher demand for your services.
Searchable databases for geographic location and social, economic, household, and demographic information exist for you to generate enough information to make good decisions where to start your business.
Government websites are good places to check for economic and population trends, crime, and education arming you with data needed to find a good place to start.
All that is left is to check out the competition. Check the phone book to see how many other lawn care services are advertising in the area. Or, drive through a neighborhood you are targeting two or three times during the week and keep track of how many companies are mowing grass.
 Provide the features and benefits of your services. Will you specialize or seek out a wide audience? You will need to clearly convey the benefits of your services to your customers. Customers need to visualize the benefits and agree they need your services.Profile your ideal customer base and target them specifically for your advertisements. As a lawn mowing service, you might want to focus on neighborhoods instead of individuals.
Search who your competition is and find out what they are offering. Determine their strengths and weaknesses and use this to your advantage. This will allow you to sales pitch your services better and find a profitable niche in the market.
 As society evolves so does business. Purchasing a riding mower in today’s marketplace will make you appear outdated since zero-turn mowers provide a faster and more complete service. Modern technology will always make you appear ahead of the curve to your customers.There are many ways to conduct research without great expense. Most research for industry standards, market direction, and buying trends can be found either online or at the public library. Don’t spend a great deal of time and money on market research for this industry.
 After you establish your target audience and specialization, it is time to implement your strategies. How are you going to deliver your message? There is a wide-range of media outlets for you to utilize. Stay within your budget and stretch your funds as much as you can in the most effective way. In many ways, your audience will determine the mode of communication.Always be on the lookout for special deals or promotional coverage in newspapers, magazines, and flyers to promote your business.
Other methods include mailers, cold calls, door-to-door sales, referrals from existing customers, and making yourself visible at local or community events. A good marketing campaign could also include “referral rebates” to reward your customers for recommending your services to potentially new business.
Consider creating a Facebook or LinkedIn online site to promote your business.
Offer free promotions that, although an initial loss, would gain more permanent customers down the road.
Print your company’s name on your equipment, work clothes, pens, paper, and calendars and make them readily visible or available to the public.
Cosponsor community events and advertise your participation in these events to expand your exposure to potential customers.

