 If you live near or can visit a suitable labyrinth, this will be an ideal place to meditate or take your spiritual walk. Labyrinths are typically found in such places as church courtyards or within churches, parks, spa resorts, educational institutions and even medical facilities, such as hospital gardens. Always seek one in a reasonably quiet and unhurried place, where you can walk the labyrinth undisturbed and stay at peace.


The Labyrinth Society and Veriditas have collaborated on a website called the World-Wide Labyrinth Locator at http://labyrinthlocator.com/. Go to the website and type in the town, state or country where you are searching. You can also pick a radius, such as "within 25 miles (40 km)." A list of public labyrinths in churches, hospitals, parks, etc. with addresses will show up. There may be some private labyrinths on the list as well where the owners will allow people to walk if they call ahead.;
, If you're not able to find a labyrinth, it is possible to create your own. Indeed, doing so can serve as part of the creative process and will help you to unwind literally, as the labyrinth unfolds before you. To make one, find a suitable area of sand, dirt or other ground material in which you can draw lines. Alternatively, tape down a lot of white paper and paint yourself a labyrinth on the ground. If making your own labyrinth in sand or soil, here are some suggestions for creating it:


Draw a cross measuring about 1.8 meters or 6 feet across. Place a dot in each quadrant of the cross.
Draw four curving lines that head clockwise in direction:

Join the top of the cross to the top right dot
Join the top left dot to the right arm of the cross
Join the left arm of the cross to the bottom right dot
Circle from the bottom left dot around to the bottom arm of the cross.


For more details, see How to draw a labyrinth.
 Take note of all the things you're experiencing, including the sun or breeze on your skin, the texture of the sand or soil beneath your feet and drawing stick and notice sounds about you such as bird song, the sound or water or waves, the distant babble of human beings experiencing living and the rustling of trees. Making the labyrinth should form an act of moving meditation or spiritual reflection in itself.

