 Cough drops have cough-suppressing ingredients. They are also a great way to keep your throat moist, which helps suppress a cough even further. Cough drops are not medicinal but simply help to activate your salivary glands, which brings extra moisture to the back of your throat. Cough drops are best used for dry coughs, rather than wet.


Buy cough drops that include ingredients like honey, lemon, eucalyptus, and mint to help ease your coughing symptoms.;
, A warm towel applied to the neck or chest may help relieve congestion in the lungs and nasal passages. This is due to the increase in stimulation, which encourages mucus drainage that can otherwise cause irritation in the throat. To use this method, soak a small, clean towel in lukewarm water for three to five minutes. Wring the water out and apply it to your chest or neck for five minutes. Rewet the towel again in warm water, then repeat the additional steps for up to 20 minutes.


Do not apply heat for longer than 20 minutes unless recommended by your doctor or physician.
If you don't want to use a towel, you can use a hot gel pack or water bottle to apply heat compression. Make sure it isn't hot enough to burn the skin — some kind of barrier, like cloth between the heat source and your skin.
Do not apply heat if there is swelling or fever. Use an ice bag instead. People with poor circulation and diabetes should practice caution when using warm compression., When suffering from a bad cough, a warm shower or bath that lasts for five to 10 minutes can reduce it by soothing your throat, encouraging mucus drainage, and relaxing your sore muscles. It can help loosen up bronchial passages with increased humidity and moisture allowing for more productive cough. Make sure the water is not too hot or cold, especially if you have a fever. Keeping your body clean can also help reduce the risk of further viral or bacterial infections.


Lukewarm baths can also benefit children and infants with nasal congestion and sore throats., When you are suffering from a cough due to a sore throat, gargle warm salt water. This helps soothe a sore throat and moisturizes your sinuses, which allows mucus to drain and prevents postnasal drip that can trigger coughs. Place 1/2 a teaspoon of salt in a glass of distilled or sterilized warm water and stir until it's dissolved. Gargle the water for one to two minutes, then spit it out. Do not swallow it.


If the salt irritates your mouth or throat, you can also use plain, distilled warm water for gargles.
Repeat every few hours.