 Coffee grounds are a natural exfoliate and the caffeine can reduce the amount of cellulite in your skin. You can either use fresh ground coffee, or reuse yesterdays coffee grounds. For this recipe you'll need 1 cup of coconut oil, 1/2 cup of sugar, 1/3 cup of coffee grounds, and 2 tbs of olive oil.


Mix your ingredients in a medium sized bowl and then store in a sealed jar.;
, This is another way of reducing your food waste and maximizing your skin's vibrancy. This is also a good cost efficient scrub that doesn't require you to use oil. Simply mix these ingredients together:


1 ripe banana
3 tablespoons of sugar
1/4 teaspoon of vanilla extract or your favorite essential oil (optional)

, Tomatoes are a great cooling agent, and are especially beneficial for skin after too much exposure to the sun. For this recipe, use ripe tomatoes, ones that might be too ripe to eat. You'll need: 1 1/2 cups of sugar, 1 tomato, 3/4 cups of oil, 3-5 drops of your favorite essential oil like citronella (optional).


Chop the tomato as finely as you can and then mix the ingredients in a medium sized bowl. Store in an air tight container and keep it in the fridge.
Do not keep for more than a week because it will start to ferment. Store in the freezer if you choose to make a larger batch., Oatmeal has a wonderful exfoliating property for your skin. Your skin will feel rejuvenated with the mixture of oatmeal, sugar, and coconut oil. This recipe will yield a large batch that will last for about six months. You'll need 1 cup of coconut oil, 1/2 cup of brown sugar, and 1/2 cup of oatmeal.


Mix the ingredients either by hand or by using a food processor.
Store in air tight containers.
This is a great gift if you think you've made too much for yourself., Mango's contains a natural cooling and relaxing agent for your skin. This is a great way to create a paradise retreat in your shower. You'll need 1/2 cup of sugar, 2 tablespoons of coconut oil, 1/4 cup of chopped mango, 2-4 drops of your favorite essential oil (optional).


Use more sugar to create a thicker consistency.