 Update your operating system as well as your applications. Outdated software may have exposed security holes that can open your computer up to infection.;
,,, Install both an on-demand anti-malware and an always-on antivirus. Free options include Malwarebytes (for malware) and Avast or Panda (for antivirus). Keep your security software updated.
 Check the task manager window for suspicious processes; search the names of unknown processes on the internet to see if they might be malicious. If there is a suspicious process in your computer, then it might be a keylogger or some other type of virus.
 Go to "Startup", and see if there are any suspicious programs that are configured to start up when the computer boots. If you are suspicious about a program, search for its name on the internet to see if it might be malicious.
 Many keyloggers hide themselves from both msconfig and the Task Manager. Use your reputable anti-malware to check for keyloggers on your computer.
 Look at where your keyboard cable connects to your tower. If there is a device plugged in between the keyboard cable and the tower, it might be a hardware keylogger. Please note, however, that it may also be a legitimate converter or device.
 Uninstall the program, and use an anti-malware to remove any remnants.
 With some keylogger programs, such as Logixoft's Revealer Keylogger, the installer can be used to uninstall the keylogger. Download the installer, and use that to uninstall the keylogger. Remove remnants of the keylogger using a reputable anti-malware scanner.
 Some keylogger programs, such as Refog, actively prevent uninstallation. Check on internet forums such as BleepingComputer to see how you can remove the program without breaking your computer.



Many keylogger programs hook deep into your operating system, meaning that attempts at removing them might break your computer or cause instabilities. In these cases, a reinstall might be easier and cause fewer headaches.
Sometimes, it can be hard to remove a keylogger program using antimalware alone. A reinstall would take care of the keylogger without you needing to put in as much effort.
You should reinstall your operating system if you have detected a keylogger on a computer that you plan to use for bank transactions or dealing with trade secrets, because the keylogger might not have been completely removed.

