 When you block a contact, you will not longer receive phone calls, SMS text messages, or FaceTime requests from this individual. The individual will not be aware that you blocked them.


Alternatively, you can open the “Phone” app.



If you opened the “Phone” app, click “Contacts”. Find this icon at the bottom of the screen. Then, select the contact you would like to block.
 Find “Details” in the very top, right corner of the screen. It is to the right of the contact’s name.


Skip this step if you launched the “Phone” app.
 Find this icon (a lowercase “i” in a circle”) to the right of the contact’s name.


Skip this step if you launched the “Phone” app.
, Since the individual is unaware that you blocked them, they may continue to send you SMS text messages, iMessages, MMS messages, and call you. Your phone will not store these messages and you will not be able to view them when you unblock the caller.


If you delete the conversation from your Messages inbox, you will not be able to retrieve the erased messages once you unblock the contact.



Launch the “Settings” app.
Click “Phone”, “Messages”, or “FaceTime”. You can manage your blocked contacts from all three places.
Locate and click “Blocked”.
Tap “Edit”. Find “Edit” in the very top, right corner of the page.
Find the contact you want to unblock.
Click on the red circle to the left of their name.
Select “Unblock”. You will once again receive phone calls, text messages, and FaceTime requests from this contact., This option is only available if you did not delete the conversation you were having with the contact after you blocked them.


Click on the “Messages” app.
Click on the conversation with the contact you would like to unblock.
Click “Details”. Find “Details” in the very top, right corner of the screen. It is to the right of the contact’s name.
Click on the information icon. Find this icon (a lowercase “i” in a circle”) to the right of the contact’s name.
Scroll to the bottom of the page and press “Unblock this Caller”. This will unblock the contact.

