 Maybe you feel like you spend too much time on the phone for useless reasons. Or, maybe you play too many computer games. You may want to simply "get back to the basics". Write it down, and keep it on your bathroom mirror, wallet, or any other place that you will see it daily. That way, when you have the urge to check your email and are frustrated, you can remind yourself of why you are doing this in the first place.;
, Maybe you want to be really radical, and go for a month. Maybe you want to do a shorter (more reasonable, maybe) time period like a week. Decide when this time frame will start and end. But, leave yourself 2-3 days before the cleanse in order to prepare. It's not a good idea to start immediately or the next day.
 Maybe you are going all out; no cell phone, no computer, no mp3 player, zippo! Maybe you'd like to just give up one thing that is particularly distracting you i.e. your phone, your blackberry, etc.
 Remember, you may be the only one doing the cleanse during the time period you have chosen. That means that there are people out there who depend on you to answer your email right away, or who will assume they can contact you immediately on your cell phone. You will need to contact the people you normally communicate with using these various forms of technology and let them know your intentions. This will prevent someone from sending you an important email and expecting an immediate response. For example, if you are an avid Facebook user, update your status with your dates of the the cleanse and what it will entail. You may also want to send a reminder message to your friends on Facebook the day before your cleanse and give them an alternate form of contact in case of an emergency. Or if you are a constant "texter" you may want to send out a mass text to your contacts in your phone letting them know that they will not be able to contact you in this form for your specified time period. Again, give them an alternate form of contact in case of an emergency.
 Take a look at your calendar during your proposed cleanse time-frame. Make sure that there isn't anything you are required to do using the technology you are cleansing yourself of during that time. Maybe someone will be expecting an email from you during that time, or a phone call. Are you backed up on email responses? Take the time now, before your cleanse, to take care of these items ahead of time. Either do these tasks now, or let that person know when they can expect them to be done. This will allow your mind to be free of to-do's during your cleanse. And, it will keep people from being mad at you for ignoring deadlines.
 Now you are almost ready! Plan what you will do instead of using technology. Lets say you are planning on ditching your mp3 player that you normally listen to in your car on your way to work. In this case, find a book you've always wanted to read and get it on audio CD or tape and listen to that instead. Or, maybe you are keeping from checking your email. Plan to write an old fashioned letter instead. Find a nice card and send it to someone. Thank them for their support during your cleanse.
 Put the dates on your calendar and go for it! Your mind, body and soul with thank you for it.

