 The more evidence you can share with the IRS, the better. Look for anything that supports your claims. For example, consider the following:


If you have documents that show fraud, keep a copy of them. For example, someone might not report income from a bank account. If you have a copy of the bank statement, hold onto it.
Write down your own memories or observations. You are a witness to any fraud. Try to be as detailed as possible.
Collect the names of witnesses. Other people might have first-hand knowledge of the fraud, and you can give the IRS their names and contact information.
Avoid breaking the law.For example, you shouldn’t open someone’s mail, log onto their computer, or steal files. If you don’t have documents in your possession, you can tell the IRS where they can find them.;
, You will report suspected fraud to the IRS by filling out a form. You can download these forms from the IRS website or order by calling 1-800-829-0433. You need to use the right form, which will depend on the violation you are reporting:Form 3949-A. Use this form to report a business or individual of violating the tax laws. Common examples include failure to pay, kickbacks, false deductions or exemptions, not reporting income, and altering or falsifying tax documents.

Form 14157. Use this form to report an abusive tax scheme or fraud perpetrated by a tax return preparer or tax preparation company. Also use this form (and Form 14157-A) if you think the preparer altered your form without your consent.

Form 14039. Complete this form if someone stole your identity and used your Social Security Number for a job. Also use this form if you suspect someone could file a tax return using your number.

Form 14242. Use this form to report an abusive tax promoter or promotion.

Form 13909. Submit this form if you suspect wrongdoing by an exempt organization or employee plan.
 You should also download or request the instructions for any form you fill out. Read the instructions thoroughly and refer back to them as you fill out your referral form.
 Each form will request different information. You should complete each form as completely as possible. For example, Form 3949-A will ask for the following:identifying information about the taxpayer you are reporting
contact information for the taxpayer you are reporting
alleged violation of the law
short description of the facts (who, what, where, when, etc.)
information about the banks used by the taxpayer
whether you consider the taxpayer dangerous
information about yourself (optional)

, You have the option of not telling the IRS your name when you report fraudulent activity. However, if you do disclose your name, then the IRS will keep your name confidential.If you don’t give your name, then you can’t testify against the person should they be prosecuted. For that reason, you might want to give your name.
 The form should tell you where to submit it. Generally, you can mail the form to the IRS. Alternately, you might fax the form. Remember to make a copy of your completed form for your records.


Include copies of all supporting evidence as well.
The IRS does not provide updates on the status of any investigation.However, you may be contacted if the IRS needs additional information. Provide it promptly.

