 An EIN is an Employer Identification Number, and it’s like a Social Security number the IRS uses to keep track of businesses. Even if you don’t have any actual employees, you’ll still need to apply for an EIN, but it’s fast, free, and easy.All you’ll need to know is some basic information about your nonprofit, including a contact person, the address, the type of business entity, and what your foundation does. Fill out the online application at https://www.irs.gov/businesses/small-businesses-self-employed/apply-for-an-employer-identification-number-ein-online.
 Form 1023 is the IRS application for 501(c)3 tax exempt status. As you might expect, the IRS wants to vet any non-taxpaying organization very carefully. As a result, Form 1023 is really an application packet, and at nearly 70 pages, a long one at that. The application fee is anywhere from $400-$850.When the stringency of the application process is coupled with potential impact of a rejected application, Form 1023 is not considered a do-it-yourself type of application. It is strongly recommended you use the services of an attorney, accountant, or otherwise experienced professional to complete Form 1023. Anticipate that cost being anywhere from $2500-$5000.
Even the IRS’ very conservative estimate cautions that Form 1023 will take a layman 100 hours or more. If you do choose to complete Form 1023 yourself, be prepared to provide detailed information on your nonprofit’s purpose, financial picture, corporate structure, activities, and compensation to employees and members of the board or trustees, as well as copies of corroborating documents. You can examine Form 1023 at https://www.irs.gov/uac/about-form-1023.
 Form 990-PF (PF stands for private foundation) is like an income tax return for foundations. Even if your organization is applying for (or has received) tax exempt status, you’ll still have to complete Form 990-PF.In essence, Form 990-PF is a detailed financial report of your foundation’s activities. You will need to know anything relevant to your balance sheet and current accounts, including revenues, operating expenses, and in particular, charitable distributions and income or losses from investments.
At “only” thirteen pages, Form 990-PF is more manageable than Form 1023, and it’s more feasible for a novice to complete it. Nonetheless, it’s the type of tax form for which most people would enlist the services of an accountant. You can find a copy of Form 990-PF at https://www.irs.gov/pub/irs-access/f990pf_accessible.pdf.
 Form 5227 is a tax form applicable to trusts specifically. Both charitable trusts and non-charitable trusts must file Form 5227 (in addition to Form 990-PF for charitable trusts). It asks for much the same type of information Form 990-PF does—identifying information, gross income, investments, etc.—so it shouldn’t require much extra time to complete if you choose to tackle it yourself. 