 An electron is a negatively charged particle. It is the smallest of the main three particles that comprise an atom. Electrons orbit the nucleus of an atom which is made up of both protons and neutrons. The electrons are arranged in orbital shells in special configurations around the nucleus.The mass of an electron is extremely small: 5.48597 x 10-4 atomic mass units (a.m.u.).Because electrons have such minimal mass, the mass of an atom is determined by the masses of the protons and neutrons.;
, A proton is a positively charged particle with a much larger mass than an electron. The proton resides in the nucleus of the atom and the number of protons an atom has defines what element it is. The number of protons is also the atomic number of an atom and determines its chemical behavior. A normal atom has an equal number of protons and electrons.The mass of a proton is 1.0072766 a.m.u.Protons are themselves composed of smaller particles called quarks. There are two “up” quarks and one “down” quark per proton.
You can remember that a proton is positive because both words start with “p”.
 A neutron is a particle with no charge that has a mass slightly larger than that of a proton. Neutrons are also present in the nucleus of the atom. The number of neutrons present in the nucleus determines the isotope of an element.The mass of a neutron is 1.0086654 a.m.u.
Like the proton, the neutron is composed of quarks, but it has one “up” quark and two “down” quarks.
You can remember that a neutron has no charge because the beginning of the word is similar to neutral.
 The nucleus of the atom contains almost all of its mass because it is composed of protons and neutrons. You might think that the nucleus would not be able to hold together with so many positively charged molecules repelling each other. The “strong force” overcomes this electrical force to hold everything together.The arrangement of the protons and neutrons within the nucleus is unknown., Also called orbitals or energy levels, electron shells are the current predicted model for how electrons circle the nucleus of an atom. Each electron shell has a maximum number of electrons that can reside in it. The first shell can only have two electrons, while the next two shells have a maximum of eight electrons. The third shell is capable of holding up to 18 electrons if necessary.You will never see more than 32 electrons in any of the outer shells.
An electron shell “feels” full if it has eight electrons in it.
The innermost energy level (closest to the nucleus) is K. The rest of the energy levels are labeled L, M, N, O, P, Q, with Q being the farthest away from the nucleus.
 Suborbitals describe the way the electrons actually orbit within the energy level. They are labeled with the letters s, p, d, f, g, and h. The letter denotes the shape of the suborbital: s is spherical, p is shaped like a figure eight, and the configurations get more complicated with d, f, g, and h.Each energy level has its own suborbitals. For example, an electron in the first energy level in the s suborbital would be said to reside in 1s1. An electron in the second energy level in the s orbital would be in 2s1.
 When an atom gains or loses an electron, it will lose or gain a negative charge. Many atoms do not have a “full” outer electron shell, meaning they have fewer than eight electrons. Because atoms want to fill that outer electron shell, they will give away or take electrons from other atoms causing ions to form.Sodium chloride (table salt) is formed when an atom of sodium gives an electron to chlorine making the sodium a positive ion and the chlorine a negative ion. The oppositely charged ions are attracted to each other to form salt., Flashcards are always a helpful tool for studying. Making flashcards about the various components of atomic structure such as protons, neutrons, and electrons can help you learn the material quickly. You can bring your flashcards with you wherever you go and if you have some free time, you can flip through them.Make flashcards to learn the energy levels of atoms and the different forms of elements like isotopes and ions.
 Studying with a buddy or in a group can really help with your learning about any subject. Studying with a friend who has a strong comprehension of atomic structure can help you master the material. Studying in a group can be even better because you can all learn from each other.Someone may really understand one concept while someone else may have mastered another. By teaching these concepts to each other, the whole group will learn the material better.
 Your textbook is not the only resource available to you for studying atomic structure. You can also search online for more information to help with your understanding. In addition, the library may have more resources that describe atomic structure in a different way that may make it easier for you to learn.


The internet has a lot of interactive tutorials that can make learning about atoms and their structure more fun., When you are reading and learning about atomic structure, you should take good notes. Draw pictures and color code the material in a way that makes sense to you. Not everyone learns the same way, so if you find something that works for you, continue to use it.


Review your notes frequently and you will have the material mastered by test time.