 It is always important to keep yourself nice and fresh and have good hygiene. Take a shower every day while using a sweet smelling body wash. After exiting the shower, top yourself off with some lotion so that your skin can stay soft.;
, Hair is one thing that everyone looks at; wear it naturally, however, you wish to, but make sure it looks as if you walked out of the salon. The nicer it is the more compliments, but the tackier it is, the more gossip. Wash your hair every day or every other day. If you are African-American wash once a week or whatever works for you. Educate yourself on what works best for your hair. If you need to, use products that add shine, volume, and most of all can stay. Always comb and brush your hair.


Work with your natural hair texture. For example, if you got waves or curls, invest in a curl-defining mousse or cream to keep them pretty and to prevent the frizz. Or if your hair is naturally straight, use a straightener in the morning and a shine spray to keep it from becoming limp and lifeless.
 You should always wear clothes that fit you. Not too big, not too small, not too long, and not too short. If you have a slim figure, wear jeans or even if you have a curvy figure wear long skirts. And always make sure that your clothes are clean.
 Try rings, necklaces, bracelets, (etc.) to bring the best in you out. But don't try to put on too much or it will look tacky.
 The first thing people look at is your face, which means you should have great skin. Buy a body lotion for your arms and hands. Wash you face with a mild wash, tone it, and moisturize it. If you have acne try seeing a doctor if results do not show within 3 months. Don't forget to drink at least 8 glasses of water (64oz.) a day to help your skin glow and to get rid of toxins. Exfoliate at least twice a week.
 Make sure that they are healthy. If not, people will be turned off easily. If you want to hide it then get them done at a salon. A nice French manicure or whatever helps you find your inner diva.
 Last but not least, you want to keep your insides as well as your outsides clean. Eat lots of fruits and veggies. Drink water very often too. And work out 3-5 times a week for 30-90 minutes. This is very important and the golden rule to looking great.
 Don't be afraid to get bold with it! Go to the store and buy makeup items (such as mascara, foundation, lip liner, eyeliner, blush, etc.) that you are willing to wear. Each day, wear your makeup differently. For example, one day go for a natural look with lip gloss, and the next day some sparkly eyeshadow. Whatever you decide to do, keep it looking gorgeous.
 7-10 hours is best. Lack of sleep will cause dark circles, laziness, weight gain and an ugly look for you.
 A true Diva always looks her best and this can be accomplished with a single item. Lip gloss instantly makes your whole face look wide awake and makes you look good without needing a lot of makeup. Carry lip gloss and apply frequently during the day to maintain your great Diva style.
 If you can sing, sign up for a talent show. If you can model, start taking some pics. Great at dancing? YouTube, here you come! All true divas have a wondrous talent worth showing.
 You gotta strut your stuff, learn to stand up for yourself and never let any haters bring you down.
 All divas are worth thinking about. Beyoncé, Jennifer Lopez, Mariah Carey, and Jessica Simpson have manners. You know, "please", "thank you", "no thank you", "yes please", "ma'am", "sir". Stay classy in what you say.
 You have to take some pride, and show your personality. But remember to be polite to others. Don't talk back to your teacher or parents. If you have sass, when you walk down the hall at school or some place public, everyone should be looking at you.
 Look up Angelina Jolie, Mariah Carey, Beyoncé, Denise Richards, Jennifer Lopez, Paris Hilton, Jessica Simpson, Christina Aguilera, and Ariana Grande. These divas are all talented, confident, gorgeous and beautiful, but they all look totally different from one another. They don't have the same faces, bodies, skin,