 Look up the website (make sure to enter in the town too, since there are many schools with the same name) and look for pictures of students. Note what brands they wear and the seasons they are worn. Abercrombie, Hollister, and American Eagle, are very popular brands. PacSun is also popular. But since you're going to be in the suburbs, avoid the 'ghetto' brands such as Baby Phat, Rokawear, Apple Bottoms, etc. And don't come here acting like it either. (i.e. yelling every sentence, underwear hanging out of your pants, bad behavior, etc.);
, Most girls do it and it looks really good on anyone. Make sure to use a heat protectant (before straightening) and anti-frizz serum (after, even if your hair isn't frizzy, it'll add shine and prevent frizz later in the day). The key is to keep it from looking like you rolled out of bed and scrunched your hair. You can also scrunch your hair, just don't do it too often.
 Learn how to apply it, and how to apply it perfectly and quickly, since most of us only roll out of bed an hour or so before school and spend 20 minutes straightening our hair and 10 on the perfect outfit. With the ride there and breakfast, there isn't much time left for makeup.


Eyeliner, Mascara, a little blush, liquid foundation, powder, and gloss are what everyone wears. Sometimes eyeshadow, if you need a splash of color. Looking like a raccoon isn't cool so keep your eyeliner lines thin and your eyeshadow not so smokey. Lips shouldn't look like you wrapped them in plastic wrap, the key is a little bit of shine and color so apply it to your finger and dab. DO NOT APPLY MORE THAN 3 COATS OF MASCARA.
 Uggs are a must, If you can't afford Uggs, in some places, Emus are okay but don't buy them from PacSun, which is a total ripoff, they're available for $40 elsewhere. Coach shoes are very popular in most places, and the (lo-top) Converse trend is rising. Many suburban girls have several pairs of different color Converse.
 Keep it simple, a necklace or bracelet with earrings. Rings get lost or stolen easily so keep them at home. Never wear gold and silver together.
 coach is perfect, since it's designer, but not too expensive. Ask for one for Christmas or your birthday. Large Tote bags from A&F or Hollister work great for carrying your books from class to class. Vera Bradley is popular too. It's not common for girls to carry pocketbooks to classes at suburban middle schools, so totes are much more common.
 Black works best, but bright colors are so cute. You can find them at Icing by Claire's. Make sure they are footless (capri ones are best) and have a lace detail (a pair of black w/out detail is good to have too)

, It's what makes OR breaks your whole outfit. Ones from brand name stores, your school, your old school, skate/surf brands (Roxy, O'Neill), your friends schools, or your boyfriends school are great to have. Zip ups and pullovers are good.

