 This will launch the app.;
, Type in “Swype” on the search field then tap the magnifying glass to begin the search.
 Locate the correct app and tap the “Install” button beside it. The app will be downloaded to your iPhone or iPad., Tap Settings app on your iPhone or iPad to launch it; this is the app with the gear icon.
, Scroll through the menu items, and tap on “Keyboard.” Select “Keyboard” again on the new menu screen that appears.
 This will allow you to add a new keyboard to the keyboards list.
 Since you’ve installed Swype in Part 1, it should appear under the Third-Party Keyboards section. Tap on it to add it to your keyboards list.
 Swype will appear under the existing keyboards section. Tap on “Swype Keyboard – Swype.” In order to use it, you should grant it full access to your device. Tap on the toggle button for “Allow Full Access” to enable it.
 Look for the app on your iPhone or iPad and tap on it.
 Go through the instruction on the screen then tap on the “Activate” link.
 Your current keyboard will appear. Tap and hold the globe key on the keyboard and wait for the keyboard options to appear. Tap on “Swype Keyboard – Swype” from this list.


Swype is now set as your default keyboard. You can now use it.
 Open any app that will require you to type something will do.


For example, you can open the Messages or Mail app.
 Tap on the area where you need to type on. Since you’ve set up Swype as your keyboard in Part 2, you will see the Swype keyboard.


The Swype keyboard looks like your standard keyboard, with all the letters and keys.
 Draw the path of the letters to form your word on the keyboard. For example, you want to type the word “bistro.” Tap “B” on the keyboard, swipe to “I,” then to “S,” then to “T,” then to “R,” and finally to “O.”


Lift your finger after the swipe when the word is complete. A line following your swipe will be drawn across the keyboard until you’re done. Swype will then predict the word you’re typing and put it in on your text field.
 In case Swype didn’t get the word you wanted to write in the first try, you will see some other similar words closely structured to the swipe you made at the top of the keyboard. Tap the word to correct what’s written.
 Repeat Step 3 for all the words you want to write. Swipe on the letters and lift your finger at the end for every word.


You can also use the Swype keyboard by tapping on the individual keys, the same way as how you normally do with the ordinary keyboard.
You don’t need to manually insert a space in between the words. Swype automatically puts one for you after each word.

