 Generally, five months is the length for a goat pregnancy.Figure around 145 to 155 days as normal for the gestation period., Realize that this eyeballing test doesn't work with all goats and in fact, some does can look wide and therefore pregnant, and not actually be pregnant.However, in some cases, the size of the doe will indicate that pregnancy is well underway and, along with other pregnancy signs, can confirm pregnancy.


Note that the doe's abdomen usually won't look larger until around three months of gestation., This refers to checking the area of the doe's vulva and anus to see a shape change.Lift up the tail to check. It does help if you've checked either pre-pregnancy or in the first month, so that you know what looks "normal" and have a comparison image (yes, do take a smartphone picture to help you). About two to three months after conception, check this area again. If the doe is pregnant, the anus will drop away from the tail area and the vulva will appear longer, like a teardrop.However, as with looking at the goat's belly size, this is subjective and based on good observation skills.
 The vet can do a blood test to check. However, goats can show a false positive and this may be accompanied by an increased belly.If you want absolute certainty, ask the vet for an ultrasound. Since this is costly, not many breeders indulge in this unless absolutely necessary.
 The doe may act up and seem grumpy or cranky when closer to the due date for kidding., Some does produce this, some don't. If you see it coming out of the back of the doe, this suggest that labor may occur any time within a few hours to a few days., This tends to increase in size close to kidding time.It may only do this several hours before kidding, depending on the goat as an individual and its breed. The udder may seem very solid and shiny when the kids are close to arrival., This is an innate action of looking for the kid or kids, even though they're yet to be born.If the doe is wandering around bleating either softly or loudly and looks as if she's looking for something, it's time to get her ready for the birthing.


Note that twin kids are normal, as opposed to a single kid., A pregnant doe must not be stressed; if she experiences any stress, she may abort the kids.,


First three months: Maintenance rations are fine.
Near full term: Supply half as much feed again.
Give vet approved concentrates for extra energy, especially if the doe needs to stay warm., This is especially important if it's winter.
 Use an appropriate worming paste or formula your vet has recommended to you.

