 This will help you determine what you need to buy. If you are making an animal, decide what color will best resemble the animal's fur. If you are making a person, decide what color skin you want your puppet to have.
 You will need various colors of felt, something to draw on the felt, scissors or an exacto blade, and a thread & needle. You should also purchase any decorations you would like to have, such as googly eyes or sparkles. If you cannot or do not want to sew, be sure to also have a hot glue gun.


The color of the felt should match the color of the fur or skin of your creation.
Be sure to purchase plenty of felt. It is easy to make mistakes so give yourself some room.
 Put your finger or your child's finger on top of the felt. Trace about a quarter of a centimeter around the perimeter of the finger with tailor's chalk or any marker that will show up on the felt. If you want the puppet to have arms, draw some while tracing the finger.









If you traced your finger on the edge of the felt, you will not need to cut a straight line because the edge serves as a straight line.
 Be sure to trace the line exactly so that it later fits your finger well. Cut a straight line across the bottom of the trace to finish it off. This will be where your finger goes later on.
 Since you need a place to put your finger, do not join the two pieces of fabric at the bottom, flat-end of the puppet. Sew around the perimeter of the finger puppet close to the edge using an overcast stitch or a blanket stitch. Again, sew fairly close to the edge so there is lots of room for the finger, and use small, neat, and even stitches for a professional appearance.You may need a pin or two to hold the felt in place while you sew. Refer here if you need to learn to sew.









If you are unable to sew, or do not have a lot of time, use a hot glue gun. Remove the top layer of felt and carefully apply the glue in a thin line around the puppet. Make sure the glue is close to the edge of the felt, and that none gets in the middle of the finger puppet. Press the top layer of felt back onto the bottom layer. The felt should be aligned and not crooked; the finger puppet could easily get messed up if this step is done incorrectly. Let the puppet sit for a while after this step.
 At this point, you should be able to open up the two pieces of felt at the bottom, flat end. Now you can let your imagination run free to really make the puppet your own!









If you have decided to create a person, create clothing out of the felt and hot glue it on to the puppet. The correct size for the clothing can be determined by tracing the body of the puppet and cutting the felt.
If you have decided to create an animal, glue fur from string or light wool onto the animal.
Use any other materials you think would help with the puppet such as sparkles or pipe cleaners.

