 In biology, evolution is the change in the inherited traits of a population of living organisms through successive generations. In sexual reproduction, every individual is supplied with hereditary material in the form of genes that are received from existing life, their parents; then, half the genes of the new born are from each parent, passed on to their offspring, introducing variations each time. More fundamental changes among offspring are a result of either the random introduction of new genes called mutations (perhaps broken or fused genes) or the slight rearrangement of existing genes during reproduction.


What this means is that every creature is slightly different and each new generation has an overall slightly different mix of genes to the previous one.;
, Organisms tend to have more offspring than their environment can support, which means the offspring will have to compete for resources including food, shelter and mating partners. The organisms which are better adapted to their environment (e.g. faster organisms won't get eaten by predators) will be able to fulfill its basic needs and thus reproduce, effectively passing on their genes. Their offspring will inherit these "effective" genes, albeit with slight differences due to mutation. The offspring with mutations which make them even better adapted to their environment (e.g. a mutation which makes them even faster), have a higher chance of survival, more reproductive success and thus more offspring with more adapted genes.


This means that traits which make organisms better adapted to their environment have a higher chance of being passed onto the next generations, and becoming more common in the population over time.
 God would have created the environs and His system of genes that contain specific DNA, as coded plans for various systems in His living creation. So each expression of a gene involves communicating definitive coded information within the living cell. Those highly specific genetic "blueprints" tell the cells which proteins, mineral compounds, DNA, RNA and enzymes to make and manufacture each cell in a certain orderly, interdependent manner for each system to work as planned by God (or was origin of, by and for nothing with no guide or plan?). And even nutritionally essential trace elements and vitamins can profoundly affect their interdependent processes that only function well as designed/planned. So how, why and where did even the simplest life with exquisite genetic instructions, come to be (as the origin of life) with reproductive, inheritable traits. So expressing millions, billions, trillions,... of instructions defining individual, personal traits, and the recognizable racial, tribal and family traits are from what origin? They are from the all powerful God, outside of time, beyond some supposed, universal limits -- by the knowledge and power of The Creator/God. The God who can not go away -- but is "eternal" -- gave life its origin, its potentials, with physical and other laws, basic rights and freedom.
 If we think about how human beings create or make things, we first design them and we build them. Production was first done by hand, as society progressed and developed, basic machines were used, then as civilization developed further we had the industrial revolution and high-tech machines began doing much of the production. As technology continues to improve the methods we human beings use to make things improve further, we have teams, software to help use design, more advanced robotics to help develop prototypes, and make big buildings. So if we humans can easily see how our own creative process changes and grows, lets think about how much larger things are created.


If we wanted to create every animal, plant insect, tree, fungus, fish on Earth would we sit and design each one and fashion it, or would we create a system that creates every living creature and more?
If we think this way than we raise God higher by understanding that God as Creator, has made the laws of physics and space and time and chemistry and evolution. Its such a simple thing to think one level higher about a process of creation rather than creation one-by-one. There is no need to create individual animals, when the world itself is created to make life in all its forms and refine it and spread it and allow intelligence to develop right up to the human species.
As human beings of higher intelligence it is now more important than ever to understand how the environment works by carefully and scientifically studying it. There is no need to ignore science the Human Brain is naturally inclined to be curious and science is merely the systematic use of our curiosity.
With science, the increase in our collective knowledge, will then allow us to shape our environment and With the guidance of all religions, for understanding our role, can allow us to care for every living creature.

