 Unless it’s marked “compostable,” plastic is made from petroleum. It can linger in the environment for hundreds of years and never break down completely, polluting the soil and ground water. When plastics are not disposed of properly, they kill animals who mistake them for food.You can help to prevent this from happening by:


Buying or making reusable bags. Leave a couple in your car/on your bike for shopping. Tuck a small one into your purse for unplanned trips to the grocery store.
Asking your local grocery store to replace plastic bags with recycled paper bags or cardboard boxes. Even “biodegradable” plastic bags can end up in landfills, where they don’t break down properly. This makes them just as dangerous as regular plastic.;
, Use old hummus tubs and coffee jars to store dry goods. Make sure the resin identification code (the number inside the recycling arrows) is 2 or 5. You can usually find these codes on the bottom of the containers. Plastics with these codes are generally safe to be reused for storing food. Any other number is either unsafe or not durable enough for reuse., Take the time to examine product packaging when you go shopping. Avoid goods packaged in plastic (including polystyrene) whenever possible. If your grocery store sells products in bulk, take advantage of it and fill up using your own containers., Food and other household goods often travel in fossil fuel-powered vehicles over 1,000 miles (1,600 km) from their points of origin to store shelves. If possible, buy food from your local farmer’s market, join a community-supported agriculture (CSA) program, or grow your own food., Making new containers and paper products uses more fossil fuels than recycling old ones.Check online for the guidelines of your local recycling center. Search for what they will and won’t recycle. Check their sorting requirements, as well.


For example, most recycling plants won’t recycle tissues, wax paper, or polystyrene. Unless they offer single-stream recycling, you’ll likely have to separate paper, plastics, glass, and metals.In some cities, recycling plants pay money for aluminum cans. Search online to see if your city offers this service. If it does, look for what kinds of aluminum cans are accepted. For example, some centers accept beverage cans but not pet food cans.