 Because of the budget, don't expect this movie to be the greatest thing in film history. However, in spite of technical limitations, your imagination has none, so be open minded about what you can do. As long as it isn't extremely boring, your movie will be hilarious because of how "bad" it is.;
, Horror/action/mystery movies are always fun. Make up some random collaboration of aliens, zombies, ghosts, vampires, murderers, cops, superheroes, spies, etc.


Select the characters. Most every film has a star (or a few), a villain (or a few), a comic relief person who might also be a bit dimwitted, annoying or vain
Bonus: The movie can even have a plot; this will take a bit longer to work through but can make it more enjoyable to watch.
 Root through your old clothes from Halloween, or just look in your dresser.


Sheets can make good ghosts and capes.
If you don't have a full body suit made out of aluminum for an alien, just wear some pants on your head and shoes on your hands.
Cardboard boxes can be cut and colored to look like all sorts of things from robots to crocodiles.
Ask adults for their clothes (but make sure they know what the clothes are being used for, in case the clothes get damaged).
 Big parks with forests work well as they have plenty of space and lots of possibilities. The garden or back yard of your own home can also be suitable.


If you want to shoot inside, you'll need to know how to control the lighting well. This requires a bit more learning but can be a good idea, especially during the colder months or when it's raining.
Crowded cities aren't always great because people can walk in front of you. Or, they might distract your actors too much by staring.
If you have scenes where people a beating each other up or having a gunfight, bystanders might call the police. Choose a private place to shoot such scenes, or place big signs up saying "filming in progress" to reassure people.
 The director shouldn't come into the shots. In the case of lack of helpers, this person should control the camera.


The director should know exactly what they want the actors to do and be the one calling (and filming) all the shots.

