 There are a number of medicines that are available to purchase over the counter that will help stomach aches. However it is important that you take the right medicine for the right symptoms. Before purchasing a medicine, consult a doctor or pharmacist and follow labels exactly. Child versions of medications are safest for teenagers as well.


Note that if you experience daily stomach pain for several days in a row you should call your doctor and schedule an appointment to be seen. Prolonged stomach pain could be a sign of a serious health problem.;
, Aspirin-based pain relievers can be harsh on the stomach and even cause bleeding, so avoid taking aspirin specifically. Ibuprofen and naproxen can be irritating as well. Instead of these options, take acetaminophen to relieve stomach aches.


For general stomach pain, call your doctor if it persists for several days or begins to worry you.
Aspirin should never be given to children or teenagers unless prescribed by your doctor due to the risk of Reye's syndrome, which can be dangerous.
 Heartburn will feel like a painful burning sensation in the chest. It will usually occur after eating or while you are lying down. It is caused by acid build up in the stomach. An over the counter antacid or acid reducer will cure most cases of heartburn.If you continue to experience heartburn for more than two weeks while on over the counter medicine, or if your pain is severe, you have vomiting, or you are unable to eat due to pain, call your doctor to schedule an appointment.
Note that antacids containing aluminum can cause constipation. Also, antacids containing magnesium can cause diarrhea.
Read labels carefully. Adult Pepto Bismol, Kaopectate, bismatrol, and and some other drugs marketed for heartburn contain bismuth subsalicylate. Like aspirin, this drug can cause a dangerous condition called Reye's syndrome in children and teens. Do not take it without a prescription, especially if you might have the flu or another virus., Generally this means less than three bowel movements per week. Constipation is relatively common, but for some it can cause stomach pain and discomfort. A laxative or stool softener can help relieve discomfort.Check with your doctor or pharmacist on which medication to try.


If your constipation continues for three weeks or longer call your doctor to schedule an appointment. You should also call your doctor if you begin to lose weight or see blood in your stool., Chose one of these medicines and begin taking it, as instructed on the bottle, as soon as bleeding or cramping starts.If these medicines do not work, your doctor will be able to prescribe a stronger medicine for you.
 There are several options to chose from. You can drink a cup of herbal tea after each meal to help settle an upset stomach. The following three types are worth trying:


Chamomile tea contains an anti-inflammatory agent that can help settle an upset stomach. You can pick up chamomile tea at almost any supermarket. Try having a cup of tea after meals to settle your stomach. You should drop the tea bag in hot, but not boiling, water, so as not to destroy chamomile's active ingredient.
Mint tea is a useful remedy for gas, bloating, and indigestion because it works to relax stomach muscles. Peppermint tea is available at most supermarkets, but you can also use fresh mint leaves. Simply drop the leaves in hot water and let them sit for five to 10 minutes. Enjoy this drink after meals for best effect.
Make yourself a rice tea. Rice tea is simply rice, water and honey. Boil half a cup of rice in six cups of water for 15 minutes. Next strain the rice out of the water, saving the water in a bottle. Add a small amount of sugar or honey to the water and drink warm. Rice tea has been shown to help settle upset stomachs., Yogurt can help speed up digestion because it contains active cultures. Mix yogurt with fruit juice for a healthy snack that will aid digestion. Try one part yogurt, one part juice.


Carrot, apple, and peach drinks work well for indigestion. Avoid acidic fruits such as orange juice, as they can be harsh on an upset stomach.
Yogurt labels will note if they contain active cultures. Be sure to only buy those with active cultures if you are using it to help with a stomach ache.
 Try mixing a tablespoon of apple cider vinegar with one cup of warm water and a tablespoon of honey. This will help to reduce cramping, gas, and even heartburn., Ginger has been used for thousands of years to settle stomachs. Studies have shown that it is the anti-inflammatory properties in ginger that are so effective. Ginger can be taken fresh, in ginger capsules, ginger chews, or as ginger ale., For maximum effectiveness the pad or bottle should be around 104 °F or 40 °C. The heating pad or hot water bottle works by activating heat receptors deep in the body which, in turn, cause your body to not feel as much pain.This treatment is particularly recommended for menstrual pain.
 Each body is different, so it can be difficult to give general advice about what foods should be avoided. When you eat a certain food, pay attention to how you feel afterwards. By doing this you will soon be able to pinpoint what food or foods are causing problems. Talk to your doctor to see if you may have an allergy to a certain food, gluten sensitivity, or celiac disease. Be particularly mindful about the following foods:


Processed foods, including fast food, white bread, sausage, donuts, hamburgers, and potato chips.
Dairy products can cause stomach aches in some people, especially if they are unknowingly lactose intolerant. Try staying off dairy products for a week to see if there is improvement, or try a soy based milk.Spicy and greasy food can irritate the stomach and should be avoided if you are experiencing stomach pains.
 The best foods to help with a stomach ache are high in fiber. Your stomach aches may actually be caused by a lack of fiber in your diet. It is also important that you drink water, approximately two to three liters per day (nine to 13 cups) is the recommended amount.Foods high in fiber include fruits like bananas, vegetables like broccoli, and many whole grains. Prunes, cherries, raisins, and apricots are particularly effective. These foods will help with regular bowel movements and prevent constipation.
 Healthy foods like beans, broccoli, cabbage, and yogurt make gas in your stomach and can cause stomach pain. Eat these foods in moderation. To help prevent gas chew these foods (and others) thoroughly, and do not swallow too quickly.


Drinking ginger ale can relieve stomach aches caused by gas. After you drink, you can try to burp or pass gas to relieve pressure. Over the counter Gas-X may also help.
 Overeating can cause discomfort and stomach pain, even if you eat too much of a healthy food. Try not to get all of your calories in one or two big meals; instead, spread out your calories in three meals and one to two healthy snacks. To ease the load on your stomach, here is a detailed breakdown of how many calories should be consumed by teenagers daily.14–16 year old male should have 3,100 when active or 2,300 when not active. Females should have 2,350 and 1,750, respectively.
17–18 year old male should have 3,300 when active or 2,450 when not active. Females should have 2,400 and 1,750, respectively.
 Teenagers should not be drinking alcohol, but if you are it could be a cause of stomach aches. Alcohol increases the amount of acid your stomach produces, and can lead to ulcers, acid reflux and other issues. Alcohol can also cause vomiting and diarrhea., Stomach aches can be caused by stress, anxiety, or depression. Try to reduce your stress level. Try exercising for 30 minutes each day with a long walk or jog. You can also reduce your caffeine and sugar intake, which can both lower anxiety and help your stomach feel better.


Consider talking with a counselor if you are dealing with a lot of stress or anxiety.
 If your stomach pains are caused by menstrual cramps, you will want to have plenty of rest. In addition, you will want to avoid alcohol, caffeine and smoking., The use of medicines, herbal remedies and/or lifestyle changes are not substitutes for medical care. Given that stomach aches can point to serious problems, it is vital that you know which symptoms to take seriously and know when to see a doctor.
 If you are experiencing severe stomach pain that makes you unable to sit still, or if you need to curl into a ball to find relief, you need to visit the emergency room. This is especially true if the pain is on the right side of your abdomen. You should also visit the emergency room or see your doctor right away if you have any of the following symptoms:


Stomach pain with bloody stool, persistent nausea and vomiting, skin that appears yellow, swelling in your abdomen, or tenderness in your abdomen.If you have stomach pain after an injury or car accident.
See your doctor right away if you have stomach pain and suspect you may be pregnant.a

, If your stomach ache persists for a few days or begins to worry you, it is time to see a doctor. You should also call your doctor is you have heartburn that lasts for several weeks with no improvement from over the counter medicine. Also, call your doctor if the stomach pain is accompanied with fever and headache, poor appetite, weight loss, or pain with urination.
 You should also call your doctor if cramping is severe.