 Visit google.com/alerts.


Google no longer indexes the Craigslist sites, meaning that your alerts will not be instantaneous. Setting up a Google Alert will still inform you of listings, but will not substitute monitoring the Craigslist site manually.;
, You will need a Google account in order to create an alert.


You will need a free Google account in order to create alerts.
 Enter in the the item that you want to be notified about. For example, if you are looking for new listings of Honda Civics, type honda civic. Try to keep the search term broad to ensure you get as many results as possible.If you want the search engine to exclude words from your search, use a minus sign in front of the word you wish to exclude. For example "chair -antique."
Remember that a broad search term like "car" can generate more results than you need while a more specific term like "sapphire blue Ford Focus" may not generate very frequent results.
If you want Google to only tag your exact words and not include spelling variations and synonyms, then put quotes around your search term. For example, "boar" in quotes will exclude "board" from popping up in your search.
 After you type in your query, enter in the Craigslist address for your city. Make sure to enter your city's specific address, otherwise you will get results from all of the Craigslist sites.


To enter in the Craigslist search address, type site:cityname.craigslist.org. Replace cityname with your local Craigslist city page.
For example, if you wanted to search for Honda Civics in Seattle, your "Search query" field would look like honda civic site:seattle.craigslist.org. You will see a preview of matching results in the right frame.
If you are unsure what Craigslist address you should use, go the the Craigslist.org homepage and browse the list for the closest site to your location.
You can create multiple alerts for multiple cities if there are several cities in your region.
 This will open a list of settings that you can change to adjust your alert.
 Use the top drop-down menu to select how often you want to be notified at alerts. By default, this will be set to "At most once a day". If you want alerts as soon as they appear, select "As-it-happens"., Select either your email address or "RSS Feed". If you select RSS Feed, the results will be added to an RSS feed, which you can then access with an RSS reader.
 You will receive updates at the interval you set to your email address or RSS feed. You will be taken to your list of Alerts, where you can choose to create more or modify any existing ones.

