 Fill a one-quart pot with water and boil it for a minute. Add one to two drops of essential oils (or use 1/2 teaspoon of dried herb for every quart of water). Using essential oils can help your body quickly reabsorb blind pimples or draw them out so they heal faster. Some essential oils can even prevent pimples. Boil the water for another minute after adding the essential oil. Choose one of the following oils:Spearmint or peppermint: these contain menthol which is an antiseptic and can improve your immune system. Since some people find mint irritating, start by using one drop for every quart of water.
Calendula: this plant accelerates healing and has antimicrobial properties.
Lavender: this herb is soothing, calming and can help with anxiety and depression. It also has antibacterial properties.;
, Since essential oils come from plants, you should test for skin sensitivity to the plants before you steam your face. Place a single drop of the essential oil on your wrist and wait 10 to 15 minutes. If you have a sensitivity or allergy to the oil, you'll probably see a mild rash that may or may not be itchy. If you have no sensitivity, you can steam your face. If you do have a sensitivity, continue testing for a different oil to use.Remember that you can develop sensitivity to an herbal oil that you didn't used to react to. This is why it's important to always test an oil for sensitivity.
 Turn off the stove and move the pot away. Tie your hair back so it's out of your way and cover the back of your head with a large, clean cotton towel. Bend over the steaming pot so that the towel falls around the sides of your face, trapping the steam. Close your eyes, breathe normally and relax for 10 minutes. Rinse your skin with lukewarm water and pat it dry with a clean towel.


Be sure to keep your face at least 12 to 15 inches (30.5 to 38.1 cm) away from the water so you don't burn yourself.
To repeat steam facials throughout the day, simply reheat the water till it starts to steam. Steaming will open up your pores to clean out deep debris and facial oil. This can draw out the blind pimple., Seal in the moisture from the steam facial by applying a moisturizer. Select a non-comedogenic moisturizer. This won't clog your pores or contribute to acne. Moisturizing also helps prevent damage to your skin while keeping it soft and flexible.


If your skin is sensitive to products you use, look for a moisturizer that doesn't contain fragrance or perfume., Since the blind pimple is deep under your skin, it will take longer to come to the surface before it heals. To speed this process along, use a warm compress to draw the blind pimple to the surface. Soak a cotton ball or cloth in hot water and apply it to the blind pimple for a few minutes. Do this up to three times a day until the blind pimple comes to a head.You can also soak a cotton ball in a hot herbal tea that contains peppermint, lavender, calendula, or thyme.
 If the blind pimple is causing your skin to feel red, inflamed, or painful, apply an ice pack for up to ten minutes. This can reduce swelling and make it easier to apply concealer if you're getting ready to start the day. It also reduces the pain of a blind pimple.Always wrap an ice pack in a thin cloth. Avoid applying ice directly to your skin since this can damage your skin's delicate tissue., Use a lotion that contains 2% green tea extract to reduce your acne.You can also soak green tea bags in warm water and apply them directly to the blind pimple for several minutes. The tea can act as an astringent which will make the pimple reabsorb or bring it to the surface where antibacterial herbs can kill the bacteria.


Studies show that green tea is useful in treating a variety of skin conditions., Dip a cotton ball or cotton swab in undiluted tea tree oil. Apply the oil directly to your blind pimple. Don't rinse off the oil. The tea tree oil can reduce the inflammation that's causing your blind pimple, making it heal faster.Studies suggest that tea tree oil also has antimicrobial properties.More research is still needed to determine how effective topical tea tree oil applications are in treating bacterial or viral infections.
 Create an all-natural mixture with antibacterial, astringent, and skin healing properties.Combine 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of honey, 1 egg white (which binds the mixture together), and 1 teaspoon of lemon juice (which acts as a bleaching agent). If you don’t need or want a bleaching agent, substitute witch hazel which can reduce inflammation.Add ½ teaspoon of any of the following essential oils and stir well:


Peppermint
Spearmint
Lavender
Calendula
Thyme

, Spread the mixture over your face, neck or wherever you have blind pimples. Let the mask dry on your face for 15 minutes. Gently, rinse the mask of completely using lukewarm water. Avoid rubbing your skin when removing the mask. Pat your skin dry with a clean cloth and apply a non-comedogenic moisturizer.


If you want to use the mixture like a spot treatment instead of all over your face, dip a cotton swab in the mixture and spread it just over the blind pimples.
 Look for a gentle, non-abrasive, plant-oil based product that's labeled as "non-comedogenic." This means the cleanser won't clog your pores, a major cause of acne. Many dermatologists recommend using glycerin, grapeseed and sunflower oils. You should also avoid cleansers that contain alcohol. Alcohol dries, irritates, and can damage your skin because it strips away your skin's natural oils.Don't be afraid to use an oil to clean your face. Non-comedogenic oils can be used to dissolve your skin's oils.
Wet your face with lukewarm water and gentle use your fingers to apply cleanser, rags or scrubs maybe too abrasive. Resist the temptation to scrub the face, pat dry with a soft towel, and apply a moisturizer. Limit washing to twice a day and after sweating., Apply the cleanser to your skin using your fingertips. Don't use a washcloth or a sponge since these could irritate your skin and worsen the acne. Gently rub the cleanser into your skin in a circular motion, but take care not to scrub. Scrubbing and exfoliating your skin can cause tiny tears or scars. Wash your face twice a day. Pat your face dry with a soft clean cloth.


Never pick, pop, squeeze or touch your pimples. You could cause flareups, scarring, and delay healing., There are many skincare products and treatments on the market, but not all of them are gentle on your skin. Avoid irritating skincare products like astringents, toners, and exfoliants. You shouldn't use products containing salicylic acid or alpha hydroxy acids which dry your skin. Be wary of over-the-counter treatments like dermabrasions. Only trained dermatologists should perform certain skincare treatments to prevent skin damage.Makeup can make blind pimples and acne worse. It can clog the pores or cause irritation probably because of the chemicals or the mixtures of chemicals used., You should be in the habit of washing your skin every day by taking a bath or a shower. If you sweat a lot, wash more frequently. You should shower or at least rinse your skin after exercising.Excessive sweating can make blind pimples and other forms of acne worse, especially if you don’t rinse off right away. This is because sweat can become trapped underneath your skin.

