 Most people aren’t used to seeing themselves naked. In order to work up the courage to go uncovered outdoors, you first have to be confident in the way you look and feel. Take some time to get reacquainted with yourself in your most natural state, without judgment or self-consciousness.Learn to love and accept your body. Everyone is made differently, and there’s no reason to be ashamed of the way you look.Don’t rush yourself. It may take weeks, months or even years to get accustomed to going nude.;
, If you’re not used to going without clothes, it may feel strange at first. Take your time and build up to a level of nudity you’re comfortable with. You might walk to the bathroom naked to take your morning shower, or take a little longer before getting dressed after you’re finished.Learn to be more relaxed about nudity by gradually wearing fewer clothes. If you usually lounge around in sweatpants and a t-shirt, try switching to shorts and a tank top.
Once you get over the initial feeling of vulnerability, you may find nakedness to be very freeing., One natural way of going naked for longer periods of time is to get undressed before you go to bed. That way, you’ll still be covered up while you learn to let your body breathe. Some people actually prefer to sleep naked because there are no clothes to get tangled up in.If you share a room with someone else, make sure they’re okay with you going naked before exploring your new habit.
Sleeping naked is more than just a personal preference—it actually has health benefits, too., Perform routine tasks like making breakfast, reading the paper or answering your emails in the buff. Before long, you’ll begin to associate nudity with everyday activities and it will be less intimidating. And since you’ll be in the privacy of your own home, you can concentrate on relaxing and enjoying the feeling of freedom.This is only recommended for people who live alone, as it’s inappropriate to force others to see you without clothes.
Make sure the blinds are closed and the curtains are drawn so that others nearby don’t get an unwanted eyeful.
 Before you put yourself on display for the world to see, you should make an effort to learn a little bit about the laws in your area related to public nudity. Even if it’s not illegal to be naked out in the open where you live, it may be considered lewd by those around you. Knowing the risks will keep you from getting yourself into trouble or accidentally offending someone.It’s not a good idea to go nude outside in public areas, especially if there are families or children nearby.Should you decide to practice nudity outside, you should be ready to accept whatever consequences come your way.
 Don’t venture too far from your home right away. Instead, stick to spots that are out of sight from the neighbors, like a screened-in porch or behind a tall fence or hedge. This will allow you to remain hidden while you take your first steps beyond your living space.Enjoy a nude romp may be difficult if you live in an apartment or a crowded neighborhood that doesn’t allow much privacy.
 Going out when it’s dark will give you a chance to move further out into the open without fear of being seen. And, even if you are spotted, it won’t be as obvious what you’re doing. For most people, this will be a great way to take the plunge and go fully naked outside of their home for the first time.


To avoid any awkward situations, it will be safest to go out during the early morning hours when everyone else is asleep.
Stay away from streetlights, floodlights, passing cars or anything else that may make you plainly visible.
 Once you’re totally at ease, you can start soaking in the great outdoors in all your natural glory. Embracing nudity is all about innocence and freedom from shame. You’ll feel much more in touch with the world around you when you let go of social norms and return to the way man was meant to be.


Take care of your gardening or practice yoga without the burden of hot, restrictive clothing.
Remember to keep yourself concealed from neighbors and passersby as much as possible. If you get reported, you’ll have a tough time explaining yourself., You generally have a right to do whatever you please in the place you call home, as long as you’re not hurting anyone else. That means there’s no better place to shed your clothes than your own backyard. If you have enough well-screened space, you might even be able to do some sunbathing or go for a pleasant stroll.A wooded grove or field set far back from the road can make a perfect place to strut your stuff.
In most countries, it’s almost always against the law to be in public places, like the park or the local convenience store, without clothing.
 There, you’ll be free to roam around at will without fear of judgment or legal repercussions. You’ll also have a chance to speak with other nudists and gain some insight into their way of life. They may even be able to offer you useful pointers on how to go naked in more places and situations.Many towns have resorts that are specifically designated for practicing nudists. Run a quick internet search to see if there’s one of these sites near you.Always be respectful of others who have chosen to live as nudists. It takes a lot of courage to be naked in front of others, and there’s no room for harassment or ridicule., Plan your next vacation for somewhere like the South of France or Australia’s Samurai Beach, where nudity is not only permitted but encouraged. You’ll save room in your suitcase by not having to pack a swimsuit, and by the time you leave you’ll have the most even tan of your life. Just don’t forget to bring sunscreen!Nude beaches can be found on almost every major continent, and may be worth the trip if you have a desire to bear it all somewhere more interesting than your backyard.Be certain that your destination allows public nudity before you strip down.

