 Try to get the embroidered or crocheted kind with the scalloped or zigzag edge. The fancy edge will become the fancy points of your crown. Avoid getting thin, fabric lace or ruffled lace; those are not stable enough to make princess crowns.


Don't worry if the lace is not the right color. Choose the lace for the shape. You can always paint it.
 Because lace trim is so short, it usually shorts better as a mini crown. You can try making it as a regular crown; to do this, cut the lace a little bit longer than the circumference of your head.
 Place the crown down onto a sheet of paper, then paint it. Once the paint dries, flip the crown over, and paint the other side. Most acrylic paints and spray paints will be dry to the touch in 20 minutes, but some may require up to two hours. Refer to the label for more specific drying times.


If you are using acrylic paint, dab it on using paint brushes or foam brushes. Be sure to get the paint into all of the nooks and crannies.
If you are using spray paint, be sure to paint outside or in a well-ventilated area.
 Cover one side with Mod Podge or fabric stiffener and wait for it to dry. Then, flip the crown over, and cover the other side. Allow the Mod Podge or fabric stiffener to dry completely before moving on.
 You can decorate the lace crown however you want, but you might want to keep the lace's original pattern/design as a guideline. Here are some decorating ideas:


Outline the crown with glitter. You can draw on the crown using white school glue, and then shake glitter over the glue. You can also use glitter glue instead.
Attach rhinestones to the crown using hot glue or fabric glue.
Glue a line of tiny rhinestones or pearls all along the bottom edge of the crown.
 Overlap the ends by at least ½ inch (1.27 centimeters), or until the first point on either side are aligned. Secure them with a line of glue. You can use hot glue or fabric glue to do this. If you are using fabric glue, you might want to secure the ends with some clothespins until the glue dries.
 If you made a little crown, you likely won't be able to fit it over your head. You can still wear this dainty crown if you attach it to a headband or a hair comb. Start by placing two drops of glue onto your headband or hair clip; the drops of glue need to be the same width as the crown. Press the bottom edges of the crown into the glue; try to keep its round shape as you do so.


You can also loosely stitch the crown to the headband or hair comb once the glue dries. This will make it even more stable.

