 Any time you are out, identify a place that you can breastfeed if you need to. Once you notice that your baby needs to eat, you will know where to go.Find a place where you can sit comfortably with some back support. Good places to feed in public include:Dressing rooms
Secluded booth in a restaurant
Your car
A bench that is next to a large planter
A window seat on a bus
Lactation room or lactation lounge
If there is not an obvious place you can go, ask a worker if there is anywhere private you can go because you need to feed your baby. People are often accommodating and will find a place for you.
 Most of your skin will be exposed when your baby is latching on. If you are not in a completely private area, turn away to latch for more privacy. Once your baby has latched on, you can turn back in the other direction. Do this for latching and unlatching.For example if you are in a booth in the back of the restaurant and facing other customers, you would face the wall to latch and unlatch.
 It is normal for one breast to leak while nursing on the other or leak when you see another baby or hear a baby cry. Wear nursing pads in your bra to protect your clothes. You can also place a towel or burp cloth over your other breast while you are nursing.If you do not want to buy nursing pads, fold cotton handkerchiefs and place them in your bra.
Avoid using plastic lined pads because they do not allow your nipples to breathe.
Patterned clothing also conceals leakage better than solid colored clothing.
 If you cannot find anywhere else to nurse, you can always go back to your car. The parking lot is semi-private, and pedestrians rarely notice the baby because they are positioned just below the line of visibility through the car window.


Keep a small pillow in the car. This helps with positioning, although resting the infant in the crook of your elbow in the cradle position is stable enough if you do not have a pillow to prop up under your arm.
 In crowded situations, sit next to a window or against a wall. Position your body towards the wall with your opposite shoulder so your chest is somewhat shielded from the rest of the passengers or crowd. Expose only your nipple to the baby and you should be able to maintain discretion even in close quarters.


This method works well in airplanes or busses.
 Breastfeeding in public becomes easier the more you do it. Remember that breastfeeding is natural, and you are doing what is best for your baby. If someone makes eye contact with you smile at them. Your smile shows that you are confident and not embarrassed.Talk to other breastfeeding moms about their experiences and to get some tips.

