 First you have to decide which Tifa outfit you want, one from the games, or the one from advent children. When you’ve decided this, start researching. Look up pictures, get screen shots of her clothes from various angles that highlight the different elements you want to incorporate into your piece.;
, This will keep you from going overboard when you aren’t really ready to commit $200 into this. You have a variety of options for making the outfit.
 Or, you can find the patterns you need, and sew it yourself, only buying accessories such as earrings, shoes and gloves.
 The pros to this are that it usually saves time and money. However, it tends to look fake.
 Find someone you know that sews. In some cases professional tailoring services may do this as well, but will be more pricey. Find the fabrics you want, threads, etc. and offer to pay for your friends time spent. Those that love to sew usually are just thrilled with the opportunity and the free fabric and may do it as a service. Don’t count on this though.
 You can make the difference just by getting realistic and varied fabrics for each part of the outfit. For example, in FFVII AC you should notice that she has a sort of woolen apron in the front, with 6 buttons, attached by a belt to her back skirt that is made of a stiffer, smoother fabric. It cannot be stressed enough how much it helps if you really look like the character. With that said, we’ll turn to the second part: Details.
 If you have short blond hair and blue eyes, reconsider. You’ll end up with a wig and contacts. Though you can’t do any thing about your facial features, see if you have a triangular face, but if not, find a way to create that effect. For makeup, Tifa has thick eye shadow, and medium long lashes, with a pale brown shadow across the eyelids. Her lips are very pale, and not glossy at all, so don’t try lipstick. If you have brunette hair, try a dye that only darkens it, but for paler hair, go with a brownish-black dye or a long wig with that color. The style of it is a side-sweep bang across the left eye, and longer bangs on the right that are half tucked behind her ear. The rest of it can either hang down, or be put into a red ponytail that is towards the end.
 It should be noted in your research that her Advent Children boots have white heels, and a significant tread. (They are best seen during the fight scene)

, Tifa is a mature young woman who does care a lot about her comrades and beloved ones. Besides her revealing appearance, you will never hear a bad word from her. She is very gentle and shy, and speaks with her doings rather than her speech. Also, she takes problems much to heart, and often feels grief or sadness. She has difficulties showing her feelings to others, and because of her taciturnity she doesn't get well along Cloud, who is very withdrawn, too.

