 Every day, remember things that you admire and respect about yourself. Over time, you'll begin feeling positive about yourself because of these self-affirmations, positive statements that help you feel encouraged. Self-affirmations can also make you more compassionate and caring towards yourself, combating any negative thoughts you may have.Examples of positive affirmations include:


I am capable and equipped to get things done today.
I have the power to overcome this bad circumstance and turn this around.
I am a strong and resourceful person, and I can keep going.;
, Use your positive affirmations to make a list of qualities that you appreciative. Ask yourself what you enjoy about yourself most and write these down.You can also add in skills and accomplishments that you are proud of.For example, you might write down "resourceful," "capable," or "finished my education."


Use your list to remind yourself of all of your positive qualities. You may want to read them every day so these positive thoughts about yourself really sink in.
 It's easy to fall into the trap of negative thinking when you don't enjoy what you're doing. Maybe you're overwhelmed by work or your home life. Take some time out of your day to do something that brings you joy. It can be as simple as having a coffee break with a friend or soaking in the tub at the end of the day.


Studies have shown that doing something that makes you smile can actually help you alleviate pain., Building confidence and self-esteem can be thought of as a form of positive thinking about yourself. Studies have shown that feeling grateful can give you a sense of well-being and increase your own feelings of self-esteem.Gratitude can also promote positive feelings towards othersand will help remind you of the good parts of your life.Feelings of gratefulness have also been linked to higher levels of empathy, which help you feel more connected to others., Instead of meditating to clear your mind, focus on being present in the moment and fully aware of your experiences.Find a quiet comfortable place and spend some time focusing on your thoughts. This will sharpen your mentality and make you feel prepared, both of which can help you stay positive.Tell your mind to be still and do nothing other than think from moment to moment.Researchers have shown that mindfulness can reduce stress. This improves positive thinking by decreasing anxiety, low mood, and low energy associated with stress., Begin focusing on your breaths. Notice how you feel emotionally and physically as you inhale and exhale. Make yourself focus on what is going on around you.While taking thoughtful breaths, use your senses to notice what you see, hear, and feel in the room or space.Ask yourself if your body feels tired, relaxed, or stiff. Pay attention to your thoughts and feelings.


Deep breathing is a good way to revisit what consumed most of your thoughts and influenced your feelings throughout the day.
 Consider working with a therapist trained in CBT. This therapy can help you change your current ways of thinking.Since thoughts strongly influence your outlook, begin to change your negative thoughts into positive ones. To do this, you'll need to start noticing your thoughts. Stop yourself when you begin to think a negative thought and reframe it to become positive.For example, if you're stuck waiting for a bus, appreciate the time you have to unwind or have a conversation with someone else waiting for the bus.


It can be helpful to write down these thoughts in order to help you reframe them. For example, you might write down a negative thought (like disliking driving in the rain) to something positive (like getting more practice driving in the rain).
 Part of being positive is feeling hopeful about the future. Setting goals is a good way to focus on the future. You'll also benefit from a boost in self-esteem when you achieve goals. To improve your chances of successfully meeting goals, make sure the goals are:Written down (Studies shows these are more detailed and likely to be met)Detailed
Realistic
Created with a timeframe or deadline in mind
Worded positively

, While being positive all the time may sound like a great idea, you need to be realistic with yourself. There will be times in your life when you simply won't feel positive. In fact, situations may come up that make you legitimately sad or angry. However, you can use a positive outlook to deal with painful emotions and give yourself a sense of hope or acceptance.


For example, if you just lost a loved pet, you'll probably feel sad or upset. You can still use positive thinking to remind yourself what you have to appreciate, like the time you had with your pet. Or, you can use positivity to remind yourself that this painful time will pass.

