 If you and your brother have been fighting a lot lately, or if he has been doing things that annoy you, you should have a conversation with him to let him know how you feel.


Make sure that you don't make him cry. Try not to talk down to him in a bossy way, or tell him what to do. Let him participate in the conversation and tell you how he's feeling as well.
Try using "I-statements" to explain how you feel. Instead of blaming him by saying things like "You are always so nosy and rude!" you might say, "I feel frustrated when you come in my room without knocking. It makes me think you don't respect my privacy.", You have probably picked on your brother or yelled at him when he was annoying you. Tell him you are sorry for those times and that you want to have a better friendship with him.


Try saying, "I'm sorry that I've been mean to you and yelled at you. I don't know why I do that sometimes, but I want to try to be nicer to you."

, You both are probably guilty of annoying and being mean to each other. Write down what you wish your brother wouldn't do, and ask him which things he doesn't want you to do.


Keep the list short and focused on the most important things-- try for two or three things each. You might ask him to not interrupt when you have friends over, knock before coming into your room, and not borrow your toys without asking.
Agree with him that you will both work on not doing the things that annoy each other.
 It can be hard to have a serious conversation with a little brother. If he is making rude noises or making faces while you talk, simply stand up and say quietly, 'I tried to talk but...', and walk away.


If he calls you back look at him (without saying anything) and wait until he speaks. When he does, sit down beside him and finish your conversation.
 When he is done talking, hug him and remind him that you love him, even if you two fight sometimes.
 Even if you sit down with your brother and agree to get along better, you will still have some fights in the future. If you think you will start yelling at him say: "I'm not going to fight with you."


If you do start arguing, let him win sometimes. That can surprise him and cut the fight short. Say, "You're right, I'm sorry. I'm going to go in my room and read for a while."
If you're really mad at him just walk away and tell him that you don't want to be mean so you want to get away from him. Tell him you don't want it to end with you two fighting.

