 Most coffee makers will have a water reservoir which you'll need to fill before brewing. Only pour in as much water as you'd like to brew, since the machine will continue to brew until the reservoir is empty.


Always use clean filtered water for the best taste. Filtered water can also prevent mineral deposits from building up on the machine's tubing.;
, Use the filter that comes with the machine. Your machine may have a flat-bottomed plastic reservoir for you to put a paper filter in. Or, your machine may have a reusable metal mesh filter that is shaped like a cone.


If you use a paper filter, be sure to use one that's large enough to fit your pot.
If you use a reusable filter, take care to clean it in between brewing., Use medium to medium-fine ground coffee that you've preferably ground yourself. Grinding the beans immediately before brewing will give your coffee more flavor. Use 1 heaping tablespoon of grounds for every 5 ounces of water. Place the grounds in the filter. You can always adjust this ratio, using more or less coffee or water to get your desired coffee strength.Store unused ground coffee in an airtight container away from light, heat, and moisture. Try to use it within a week., Your coffee maker should be clean and ready to go. Make sure the machine is plugged in and the empty carafe is on the burner plate. Some coffee makers have an automatic start feature which you can set at this point. If you do, you can program the machine to start brewing coffee at a certain point during the day, so long as it's prepared.


At this point, water and coffee grounds should already be in the machine.
 Turn on your coffee maker. For many simple coffee makers, this just means pressing a single button. But, some coffee makers allow you to customize how much water you'd like to brew, how strong you want your coffee, or how long you'd like to brew it. Read your machine's owner's manual to learn about it's brewing capabilities.


Avoid leaving the carafe or pot on the burner while the machine is on for a long time after your coffee has brewed into it. This can continue to cook the coffee, giving it a burnt taste., Don't leave old coffee to sit in the pot or leave grounds in the filter. If left long enough, they'll mold and make the coffee machine smell. Instead, toss or compost your used coffee grounds. Wash out the coffee pot or carafe and don't forget to rinse out the filter or filter holder.


Follow the manufacturer's instructions for deep cleaning the machine on a regular basis. This usually involves alternating brew cycles of hot water and vinegar which can prevent mineral buildup in the machine.