 There are many different formulas and variations you can use to make this hair perfume mist, but all of them feature three basic ingredients – pure vanilla extract, essential oil(s) and rosewater.Most commercially made products are made with artificial fragrances and harmful chemicals, but this botanical recipe is all-natural, smells great and provides health benefits. To make 4 fluid ounces (120 ml) (1/2 cup) of this hair perfume mist, you will need:


1 teaspoon of pure vanilla extract;
20-25 drops of essential oil(s);
4 ounces of rosewater;
One 4 oz spray bottle (glass or plastic).
 Measure out these ingredients and put them directly into the 4 ounce spray bottle. Gently swirl the spray bottle around so that the vanilla extract and essential oils blend together. 15-20 swirls will get the job done.Use any combination of essential oils that you wish. However, if you’re stumped and unsure which ones to use, try this successful blend: 3 drops patchouli, 4 drops ylang ylang, 3 drops rosemary, 4 drops cedarwood, 5 drops lavender, 4 drops grapefruit, and 4 drops bergamot.Feel free to adjust the number of drops to your liking and omit any oils that you dislike. Make sure you end up using 20-25 drops of essential oil total.
 Fill the spray bottle up almost all the way to the brim, stopping about an inch before the brim. Screw the nozzle back on tightly and recap the spray bottle. Shake the bottle for about 60 seconds until the ingredients are blended well. Your hair perfume mist is now ready to use!The spray bottle you use can be new or used, that’s up to you. If you are re-purposing a used bottle, be sure to clean and disinfect it thoroughly first.
Dark bottles are the best choice, since even minimal exposure to light can diminish your scent., Style as usual for gorgeously scented locks. This spritz is also great for reviving hair that hasn’t been washed for 2 or 3 days. Spray a little onto your hair to freshen it up.
 This will preserve the integrity and shelf life of your hair perfume mist. After using it, try to put it immediately back in the fridge. Make sure your bottle is airtight and keep the cap on it at all times when it’s not in use.

