 In order to absorb the iron, you must consume it through food or supplements. Vegetarians, young children, pregnant women, and individuals with certain chronic illnesses may be at increased risk for poor iron absorption or inadequate iron levels.Certain foods are naturally high in iron and can be regularly incorporated into the diet to increase the amount of iron you absorb.


Even vegetarians who eat high quantities of fortified grains and iron-rich vegetables can still suffer from iron deficiencies. The form of iron found in plants is more difficult for the body to absorb, but combining them with foods or drinks that contain vitamin C can increase absorption levels.The daily value (DV) for iron is 18mg for most adults and children over age 4. Pregnant women need more iron (27mg daily).;
, Most animal proteins provide iron, and red meat is a particularly good source of dietary iron.Even small portions of animal proteins on a regular basis can help many individuals obtain healthy levels of iron in the blood.
Eat oysters and other shellfish. One serving of oysters provides 44% (8mg) of the recommended daily iron intake for most adults.
Eat organ meats. Organ meats such as beef liver can also be very rich in iron. 3 ounces of beef liver provides 28% (5mg) of your daily iron intake.,, Many breakfast cereals are fortified with iron. In some cases, a single bowl of fortified cereal can provide sufficient daily iron intake, but not all cereals are fortified to the same degree.Check cereals, breads, pastas, and other grain products for iron content to get an accurate estimate of how many milligrams you consume each day from products you already eat regularly.
 Spinach and other dark leafy greens often contain several milligrams of iron – a 1/2 cup of cooked spinach can provide 17% (3mg) of the recommended daily intake for most children and men.Spirulina seaweed is another very rich source of iron., In addition to heart-healthy omega-3 fatty acids, many nuts provide a healthy dose of iron.Try cashew nuts, pistachios, almonds, or pine nuts (actually a type of seed).


Sunflower seeds and pumpkin seeds also provide iron.
, Oranges and grapefruits are excellent sources of vitamin C. Whole or as freshly squeezed juice, they are helpful for increased iron absorption., Bell peppers, broccoli, kohlrabi, cabbage, sweet potatoes, cauliflower, and kale offer vitamin C and are easy to incorporate with other vegetables that are iron-rich.