 Also known as an "overheating bath," this centuries-old technique works by stimulating the body's natural immunological response.You can take a bath at a professional Schlenz centre, but the process is simple enough to do at home. Before the bath, drink one or two cups of hot herbal tea, such as ginger, lemon balm, peppermint, elder, or goldenrod tea. If you have a weak heart, add several drops of Crataegisan to the tea to reduce the potential risk brought about by the hot bath.


Fill the bathtub with hot water. Keep the temperature between 97 and 98째F (36 and 37째C).
Submerge your entire body. If you cannot fit your entire body into the tub, bend your knees so that you head is submerged. Make sure that your nose and mouth remain out of the water so that you can breathe without any problems.
You should not allow the water temperature to drop during the process. Add more hot water, as needed, to maintain the heat. Allow the water to reach a temperature of 100.4째F (38째C) with each addition.
Remain in the bath for about half an hour. Have another person help you out of the water if you feel faint or dizzy getting out., Aside from the traditional Schlenz bath, there are other hot bath therapies you can use to induce a fever. One technique, which has been claimed to have cancer-fighting qualities, requires you to draw a hot bath, making the water as hot as you can comfortably stand. Do not scorch yourself. Mix in 2-1/4 lbs (1000 g) Epsom salts. Soak as much of your body as possible in the bath. Stay in there for a full 20 to 25 minutes, adding more hot water as needed to maintain a constant source of heat. Sip on ginger root tea during the bath to heat the body from the inside as you heat your body from the outside using the bath water.


Be careful when getting out of the bath. If you feel faint or dizzy, ask for someone else's assistance.
Dry off naturally instead of drying yourself with a towel.
Spread a sheet of plastic over your bed to protect it from getting wet and lie down, covering yourself with as many blankets as possible.
Stay there for three to eight hours. You will sweat a lot and should stay in bed until the fever breaks.
Usually, the fever will go away after six to eight hours.
You can repeat this once a week for as many as six to eight weeks., A specific kind of meditation associated with Tibetan monks has been cited as a way to increase body temperature and potentially induce a fever. Scientific analysis has shown that g-tummo meditation can help raise body temperature to the temperature zone of a slight or moderate fever. The rise in body temperature has been observed during the Forceful Breath vase breathing element of the meditation, and the length of time the temperature can be sustained appears to depend on the neurocognitive element (meditative visualisation) of the meditation.Find an expert instructor and ask him or her to guide you through the practice.
The Forceful Breath vase breathing technique can be practised at home to help to regulate your body temperature.Vase breathing is essentially breathing in clean air and then exhaling around 85% of that air. This breathing helps create a vase shape in your lower abdomen.
It can be coupled with visualisation, such as picturing flames travelling up your spine.
 Exercise and strenuous physical activity increase your core body temperature. Doing a tough workout on a hot day, or wearing layers of clothing will make it harder for your body to cool down and lose heat. Your core temperature could rise by a few degrees.You should take care when exercising or you could induce a number of heat-related illnesses, including heat cramps and heat exhaustion.


Some athletes, wrestlers for instance, wear extra layers of clothes even plastic bags and do cardiovascular activities like running and lifting. These athletes also go into the sauna with this apparel on in order to elevate their body temperatures and lose water weight while flushing out their systems.
Be sure to drink plenty of fluids to avoid becoming dehydrated.
Be aware of symptoms of heat-illnesses such as dizziness, nausea, heart rhythm problems, and visual problems.
If you experience any of these symptoms stop immediately, cool down and recover.