 Get a towel or a washcloth wet with lukewarm water. Applying a warm compress to the outside of your ear may help to relieve some discomfort.Be very careful not to get any water into the ear canal. This can aggravate an ear ache.
Make sure to use lukewarm water and not hot water to avoid burning your skin.;
, If a hot compress does not work, try a cool one. Get a washcloth or towel wet with cool water. Gently press it to your ear for 20 minutes at a time. This may soothe the pain caused by an ear ache.Do not use freezing cold water or an unwrapped ice pack. This could cause frostbite.Instead, use cool water or wrap the ice pack with a towel.
 Over-the-counter medications, such as ibuprofen, can help soothe an ear ache. Make sure to take the recommended dose. Talk to your doctor or a pharmacist to make sure over-the-counter medications do not interfere with any existing medications you're taking.If you think your ear ache is caused by clogged sinuses or allergies, try over-the-counter sinus or allergy medications.
If you're treating an ear ache in a child, make sure the medications are safe for kids. Aspirin is not safe for children under 16., Drinking plenty of water can help heal your ear ache. Have water on hand and sip it throughout the day.If you have to go to work or school, bring a water bottle with you and sip it periodically.
If you get tired of plain water, add things like fruit to enhance your water's taste.
 Over-the-counter ear drops can be purchased at most pharmacies. In some cases, a few drops of an over-the-counter ear drop can help with ear pain.If you have symptoms of a perforated eardrum, however, you should not use ear drops. Symptoms of a perforated eardrum include a spinning sensation, drainage from your ear, hearing loss, and ringing in your ears., Ear ache is often caused by clogged sinuses. The steam from a warm shower can sometimes loosen mucus in your ears, causing the pain to pass. Try taking a warm shower while keeping the door to your bathroom closed. This may lessen the pain in your ear., Getting lots of rest is an important part of recovering from an ear ache and ear aches can also cause sleep disturbances.Aim for seven to nine hours of sleep every night to ensure that you are getting enough rest.

