 A magic ring is a type of adjustable loop, and it will serve as the base for the top portion of your heart.


Form a loop with your yarn so that the tail of the yarn lies to the left and the working yarn lies to the right.
Insert the crochet hook into the loop from the front and catch the working yarn from the other side. Pull the yarn back through the ring.
Chain stitch once to secure the ring. A chain stitch can be made by wrapping the yarn around the top of the hook once and pulling that portion of yarn through the loop already on the hook.
This completes the magic ring.
 Work six single crochets into the center of the magic ring to complete your first round.


For each single crochet, glide your hook through the stitch and catch the yarn on the other side.

Pull the yarn back through the stitch, and wrap the yarn around the top of the hook again.
Pull the top portion of yarn through the two loops on your hook to complete the stitch.
 Go back around the ring again. This time, work two single crochets into each of the six stitches made in your previous round.


This completes a second round.
Note that you should make a total of 12 single crochets this round.
 For your third round, make one single crochet in the next stitch followed by two single crochets in the stitch after that. Repeat this for all 12 stitches of the previous round.


This completes your third round.
You should have 18 single crochets in this round.
 To complete the first top half of the heart, make a slip stitch in the next stitch of the series and cut the yarn, leaving a 10-inch (25.4-cm) tail. Pull this tail through the last loop to secure it.


To make a slip stitch, place the hook through the next stitch of the chain, wrap the yarn over the hook, and pull this portion through all the loops on your hook.
 You need to create a second heart half that is identical to the first, but instead of cutting the yarn at the end, leave it connected to the ball or skein.


Make a magic ring.
Make six single crochets in the center of the ring.
Crochet another round by working two single crochets into each stitch from the previous round.
Single crochet once in the next stitch, then twice in the stitch that follows. Repeat all the way around for your third round.
Make a slip stitch to secure the top half.
 For your fourth round, make a series of single crochets in the next nine stitches of your second top half, Top B.
 Insert the hook into the first stitch after your slip stitch in Top A. Make a series of single crochets in both Top A and Top B to join the two halves together, according to the following pattern:


In Top A, make one single crochet in all 18 stitches of the previous round.
Insert the hoop back into Top B.
Work one single stitch in the next nine stitches of the previous round. Note that these nine stitches should be the nine you left alone from the previous round when single crocheting Top B prior to connecting it with Top A.

Pull on the tail from Top A to close the gap between both halves.
 Make one single crochet in each stitch all the way around both joined halves, resulting in 36 stitches total.
 Single crochet in the next four stitches of the previous round, then make a single crochet decrease in the stitch after that. Repeat this pattern all the way around the previous round, creating 30 stitches total.


To make a single crochet decrease, insert the hook into the next stitch and wrap a loop around it.

Insert the hook into the next stitch after that and wrap yet another loop around it.
Yarn over the hook and draw this portion through all three loops previously on the crochet hook.
 For this round, single crochet in the next three stitches, followed by a single crochet decrease in the stitch after that. Repeat all the way around.


You should have a total of 24 stitches in this round.
 For this round, single crochet once in the next two stitches of the previous round before single crochet decreasing in the stitch that follows. Repeat all the way around.


You should make a total of 18 stitches for this round.
 Single crochet once in the next stitch of the previous round, then single crochet decrease in the stitch after that.


This will give you a total of 12 stitches for this round.
 Gently stuff the heart with fiberfill, making it as full as possible so that the heart maintains a correct form.


Make sure that the tail used to close the gap of the two top bumps does not get stuck inside the heart. You need this tail later on.
 For the next round, making another single crochet followed by a single crochet decrease. Continue all the way around until only five stitches of the previous round remain.
 Cut the yarn, leaving about 10 inches (25.4 cm), and pull it through the last loop. Pull the tail from Top A tight to help shape the heart.
 Use a tapestry or darning needle to weave the tail of Top A into the heart. Weave the tail at the ends through the last five stitches and pull tight to close the heart up. Weave the end into the heart to hide it.


This should complete your heart.

