 Once of the most common mistakes young photographers make is that they leave the light -- whether it's the sun, a lamp, or a window, behind their subjects (ie, you). This will lead to washout at best and overly dark, under-lit faces at worst. If your photographer has most of the light shining on your back, turn them around and get the light to come from the front or side for better shots every time.


Natural lighting is almost always best, and avoid the flash at all costs.
Turn on more lights as necessary-- good photography requires good lighting., The rule of threes is the most basic photo composition trick in the book, but it never gets old. Simply imagine that the photo is cut into thirds both vertically and horizontally, so that there are two lines coming in each direction to break the frame up. The rule of thirds says that the most interesting elements should be roughly on these lines.


This even works for close-up portraits: keep your eye line on the top third line, and your face over to one side for a more compelling shot.The horizon, or a similar background line, usually looks best along the bottom third line.
If you're somewhere with a great background, place yourself on one of the thirds to the sides, using the other two-thirds of the frame to fill with your background., "Focus" determines whether or not you are blurry, and bad focus can ruin even the best-staged photographs. If you're asking a friend to take pictures for you, ask them to pay attention to your eyes and face. If this is in focus, the rest of the picture will come together around it.


Most cameras have an auto-focus mode that will solve any issues. You simply hold the button halfway down and it will find focus. Press all the way to get the shot off.
 If you're taking headshots, promotional materials, or just want to be sure you'll get one perfect shot, you should take a lot of photos. Even if the shot looks good on the camera screen, you never know if some issues will show up once you load it onto a big computer. Keep the camera snapping to ensure you get at least a few great shots to work with., There are some people who argue that any photo editing is "cheating," but this ignores the history and art of photography. Before computers, photographers used different developing techniques and chemicals to adjust brightness, contrast, and color, which is exactly what you should be doing on your computer to look the best you possibly can. Be sure to look up basic tutorials online if confused -- there is a lot of specific information out there for editors.


Use brightness and contrast to ensure strong, deep shadows and gentle, natural highlights.
Touch up the saturation to add or subtract some of the color vibrancy -- it usually wants to be kicked up a few points.
Play with some of the oranges and reds in Color Balance to bring out a rosier skin color. If the camera catches your skin as slightly flat or pasty, bring in a little extra red or orange. Of course, you can also use this to remove reds when needed.