 Choose from an Associate degree, a Bachelor's degree, or Master's Degree. The degree you earn will determine how much work experience you need to accumulate before you can sit for your licensing examination.However, it usually won't determine your starting salary., Look for an accreditation statement noting the Council for Interior Design Accreditation (CIDA). This group develops rigorous standards and guidelines for interior design education. A Bachelor's or Master's degree from a CIDA-accredited program will provide a smoother path to your licensing exam than degrees from non-accredited programs., Set up in-person meetings or video chats with instructors from the schools you're considering. If possible, make appointments with department heads or program chairs. Ask them about the classes in the program, the teaching philosophy of program faculty, and the job placement rate for graduates., Many schools require scores from the Scholastic Aptitude Test (SAT) or American College Test (ACT). Check the websites of your prospective schools for the minimum acceptable score in each subject area. Download the study guides online and aim for the scores required from the schools you're considering.For example, the New York School of Interior Design admits students who average a composite score of 1100 on the SAT or 22 on the ACT.If English isn't your mother tongue, you might have to demonstrate English proficiency with the Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL) or similar exam., Interior design programs are often highly competitive. Some admit less than 50 percent of all applicants. To improve your chances of getting into a program, choose at least three to five that fit your budget., Pay the application fee and order your high school and/or past college transcript(s). Ask past teachers and/or employers for letters of recommendation. Finally, write a compelling short essay (usually 300-500 words) as outlined in the application instructions. Writing prompts vary by school, but some questions to address include:

Why are you applying to the school?Why do you want to become an interior designer?How do you develop your ideas?, Create a physical album of your work for paper photographs. Save digital files on a CD, flash drive, or professional website. If your prospective school requires a portfolio, get clarification on the size, resolution, file type (jpeg., tiff, etc.), and whether you can upload it as a zip file. To build your portfolio:

Include a brief introduction of yourself and/or your résumé.
Add sketches of your ideas.
Include photographs of your most impressive projects., Look into scholarships that your prospective schools offer. Complete your Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) to apply for the Pell Grant, federal student loans, and federal work-study opportunities.Search online for non-profits and/or for-profit businesses that offer scholarships or grants., If more than one school accepts you, weigh your decision carefully. Visit the campuses if you live close to them. If that's not possible, consider which school offers you the best financial aid package and fastest time to graduation., Expect to take general education courses even if you're attending a school of art and design. Try to take these courses in the first half of your studies so that you can focus on your major courses for the rest of your education. Follow the recommended degree plan as closely as your schedule will allow you.