 Do not search up animal jam guides - anything on the Internet about that is usually outdated and inaccurate anyways. For example, about 62 den betas, 4 good longs, or 6 bad longs and add small is worth a black long. Here is a list of the bad longs and good longs:


Bad longs

Yellow long
Orange long
Green long
Pink long


Good longs

Purple long
Blue long
Red long
Black long (cannot be traded for another black long though)



, If you are rare, people will be more likely to make a deal with their black long collar with one of your items.
 More than one den beta are worth rare spikes, and people will probably accept if you make a fair deal for them. Go on adventures and get den betas from them, or trade for den betas themselves. Put them up on trade and say something such as "My list for , jag or go to my den if deal." You may even get an acception.
 Some examples are multiple neon bows and arrows, other spikes, large numbers of den betas, etc. Trade for those items first, or get them in adventures. Try the Forgotten Desert adventure a few more times. Top hats, den betas, neon bows and arrows (this a rare non member item that is worth a red short collar - you might get lucky and be traded a black short or an orange long), and clothing betas (mech angel helmets, non member rares, etc.) can be rewarded from there, as well as a number of other spikes and rares.
 Go to Jamaa Township and dance to get their attention. Say something such as "Betas and glitched items on trade," or "My list for a black long."

, Go to the Coral canyons and call out for trades there. Frequently, jammers go there to trade betas for spikes, and you might as well do it too. Say things like "My den if you will trade me long black collar for my list," or something similar.
 Ask if they have an extra black long or if you can trade them something to get one. If your buddy says, if I get another one I'll give it to you, then you're probably sure to get one. Do adventures with your buddies to get a black long collar, and you might just be able to win one, or trade them if you'd like.

