 An intramuscular injection (IM) delivers medication directly into a muscle. Choose an injection site that has easy access to muscle tissue.There are four primary sites recommended for administering IM injections. Those include the thigh, the hip, the buttocks, and the upper arm.
Alternate between injection sites to prevent bruising, soreness, scarring, and skin changes.
 The vastus lateralis is the name of the muscle that you will be targeting for your medication delivery site.Visually divide the thigh into three sections. The middle section is the target for the IM injection.
This is a good site if you are giving yourself an IM injection since you can easily see and reach the target area.
 This muscle is located in the hip. Use landmarks on the body to find the location where you want to inject the medication.Find the proper location by having the person lie on his or her side. Place the heel of your hand on the upper and outer part of the thigh where it joins the buttocks.
Point your fingers toward the person’s head and point your thumb towards the groin.
You should feel a bone along the tips of your ring finger and little finger.
Form a V shape by moving your pointer finger away from the other fingers. The injection is given in the middle part of the V shape.
 The dorsogluteal muscle is the area where you want to inject the medication. With practice the target area becomes easier to locate, but begin by using physical landmarks and divide the area into quadrants to be sure you have the correct area.Draw an imaginary line, or actual line using an alcohol wipe if available, from the top of the crack to the side of the body. Locate the midpoint of that line, and move up three inches.
Draw another line that crossed the first one, forming a cross.
Locate a curved bone in the upper outer square or quadrant. The injection should be given in the upper outer square below the curved bone.
 The deltoid muscle is located in the upper arm and is a good site for IM injections if there is adequate muscle tissue. Use an alternate site if the person is thin or has little muscle in that area.Find the acromion process, or the bone that crosses the upper arm.
Draw an imaginary upside down triangle with the bone as the base and the point of the triangle is the level of the armpit.
Give the injection in the middle of the triangle, one to two inches below the acromion process.
 Allow the alcohol to dry before administering the injection.Do not touch the cleaned area with your fingers or any other material before giving the injection.
Hold the syringe firmly with your dominant hand and remove the needle cover with your other hand.
Put pressure on the skin where you are giving the injection. Push down gently and pull the skin so it is tight.
 Use your wrist to inject the needle through the skin at a 90 degree angle. You will need to force the needle deep enough to be sure you deliver the medication into muscle tissue. Selecting the correct needle length helps to guide you in the injection process.Aspirate by pulling the plunger back slightly. Look for blood that is pulled back into the syringe as you pull back on the plunger.
If there is blood, then carefully remove the needle and find a different spot to administer the injection. If no blood is seen then continue with giving the injection., Push the plunger down until all of the fluid has been released.Do not push too hard on the plunger as this forces the medication into the site too fast. Push the plunger in a steady but slow manner to reduce pain.
Remove the needle in the same angle in which it was injected.
Cover the injection site with a small gauze pad or a cotton ball and a band-aid, and check on it regularly. Make sure it looks clean and the injection site is not continuing to bleed.

