 Do you see golfers hitting insane tee shots with bad technique? Do you see Major Leaguers hitting towering home runs with bad technique? Do you see swimmers carving through water at breakneck speeds with bad technique? We didn't think so either. The right punching technique will not only make your punches harder; it will make them more efficient, meaning less energy gets packed into a bigger punch you will have to practice;
, Your feet and legs are the anchors of your weight. They keep you balanced, but allow you to transfer power from your lower body to your upper body, right through to your fist. Here are some quick tips for you to consider when using your feet and legs.


Place your feet a little wider than shoulder-width apart. When in doubt, place them apart a little further.
Lift your back foot heel up, and keep it lifted. Don't be "flat" footed.
Point your toes in the direction of your punch. Pointing your feet away from your target will deliver a less forceful punch.
Keep you knees bent. When you punch, your knees can then extend, giving your punch extra power.
 Try it: hitting an object without moving your hips or your torso. It's not a very strong punch, is it? Now try moving your hips and torso when you punch. It's at least twice as forceful as the first punch, right? Think about it: professional golfers, tennis players, and baseball players all use their hips and torso to generate extra power. There's no reason why you shouldn't, too.









Use your hips to swing your torso back. Think of it like cocking a gun. Then unload by reversing your hip movement, swinging your torso towards the target.
 Breathing out, or exhaling, will help loosen your muscles right before contact. If you're having trouble exhaling before you punch, make a noise as you punch. Martial artists do this all the time to ensure that they've exhaled.
 You lean slightly and tuck your head so that your head is out of the way from counterattack; keeping it still would just make it easier to target. Keep your target in sight to direct your hand to punch. This is a natural guiding method for your hand.
 Aside from the power you generate from your hips, proper arm and fist technique is the most important part of a successful punch. Here are some tips you can use to make sure you're getting the most out of your arm and fist.









Keep both your arm and fist relaxed until immediately before contact. As you feel contact with the opponent, tighten your fist. A relaxed fist will travel better through the air, but a tight fist will deliver more of a punch.
Punch straight with your arm, not with an arc. You might be tempted to trace a long arc with your punch, but don't: Remember that your power comes from your hips and torso, not from the path of the arm.
Don't cock back your hand or arm. This is called "telegraphing," or showing the opponent what you're going to be doing before you do it.
 If you're going to aim, it's best to aim for the right places — places where you'll inflict the most damage:


Chin
Temple
Solar plexus
Ribs

, Boxing and Martial Arts are good to help make yourself move faster and be more flexible and stronger.