


If desired, you could lightly coat the baking sheets with nonstick cooking spray instead of using parchment paper. Aluminum foil can be used, as well, but the bottom of the bread may brown quicker with foil.
 In a large mixing bowl, stir the five ingredients together until evenly mixed.


You can substitute half to all of the oil with melted butter if you prefer the taste. Other cooking oils, like canola oil, may also be used instead of standard vegetable oil.
Press on the yolk of the egg with the mixing spoon to break it before mixing the ingredients. Doing so will make it easier to blend the yolk into the rest of the mixture.
 Add the flour to the rest of the ingredients 1 cup (250 ml) at a time, mixing well after each addition to fully incorporate the flour. Continue until you've blended in at least 4 cups (1 L) of flour, then knead the flour in the bowl until it forms a stiff, cohesive, and elastic dough.


Bread flour and all-purpose flour will both work for this recipe, but note that bread flour will create a denser product.
You can add up to 5 cups (1.25 L) of flour total if the dough seems too sticky with less, but adding too much can make the dough too dense.
 Then, separate each half in half again, forming quarters. Divide each quarter into three equally sized balls.


Alternatively, you can separate the dough into three or four large portions and cut these portions down to size after rolling the dough flat. Either option will work, so stick with whichever feels easiest for you.
 Pat each ball of dough in between your hands, forming it into a flat patty. To make the dough even thinner, roll these patties out using a lightly floured rolling pin.


Your hands should be lightly coated with flour, oil, or cooking spray before you handle the dough. Otherwise, the dough will likely stick to your fingers, creating a mess.
If working with large portions instead of individual portions, you'll need to use the rolling pin.
Ideally, the dough should be rolled out to a thickness of about 1/4 inch (6 mm), but you can leave the dough as thick as about 3/4 inch (2 cm) if desired. Note that thicker bread requires a longer cooking time, however.
 Using the tines of a regular fork, poke even rows of holes across the surface of each dough portion, leaving no more than 1 inch (2.5 cm) of space in between rows.


If you left the dough in large portions, use a sharp knife or pizza cutter to divide the dough into about 12 evenly sized rectangles at this time.
 Bake the bread for about 10 to 11 minutes, or until lightly browned around the edges and over the surface.


If the bread is 1/4 inch (6 mm) thin, it should be ready within 10 to 11 minutes. For bread 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) thick, bake it for about 13 to 14 minutes. Bread as thick as 3/4 inch (2 cm) may need 15 to 20 minutes.
Watch the bread carefully as it bakes. If it cooks for too long, it can easily become hard and unpleasant.
 Remove the finished bread from the oven and transfer it to wire racks until cooled to room temperature. Enjoy it while it's fresh for the best flavor.


You should be able to store this bread in an airtight container or plastic bag for several days.

