 Piano lessons are a dime a dozen. To make your lessons seem more promising, aim them toward a certain group. If you specialize in beginning lessons, say so. If you have a flair for jazz improv or classical adaptations of contemporary songs, indicate your ability and desire to instruct students in the same way. You do not have to base your lessons solely around your niche, but focusing your advertising campaign on something unique is a good way to make your business stand out.
 Many people, even those who have no present interest in taking formal lessons, will be willing to attend something free. Conduct a live demonstration and review a few basics. Focus on information or skills that are less common. By the end of a successful workshop, you will likely have a few participants who will begin considering formal lessons. As long as they know you offer lessons, you will probably be the first person they think of when they take the plunge.
 While fairly uncommon, some hotel lobbies, cafes, and other establishments have a piano as part of their decorations. If the piano is in operable condition, ask if you can play it. Offer to play it on a volunteer basis to attract customers. In return, ask if you can offer a business card to anyone who seems interested in taking lessons.
 While you certainly cannot make every lesson free, the occasional free lesson is a good way to draw students in. You can offer to make the first lesson free or you can provide a free lesson to a current student for each new student that he or she refers to you.
 Write an article about music or piano and look for places to submit it. Local newspapers and magazines are best, since they provide you with a means of advertising locally, but even non-local journals and websites can provide you with a way of proving your expertise. Potential students may feel more inclined to take lessons with someone they feel is an expert in the field.
 The trick to a good testimonial is knowing whose to use. Your nephew and your mother might be huge fans of yours, but they are also biased, and people who see your advertisement will think as much, too. Choose testimonials from past and current students as well as other instructors or members of the local music community. Be as specific as possible, giving out names and photos when possible. Writing that the comments came from "a former pupil" or "an expert in the field of teaching piano" will only make people doubt the legitimacy of the testimonial. However having something like an autographed photo from a well known pianist who taught you probably won't hurt. Pictures of piano contests you won won't either, accompanied with the certificate or plaque.

