 You can speculate all you want, but you’ll never get to the bottom of why your spouse feels they are owed something unless you ask. Understanding why your spouse feels this way may give you insight to their behavior and make you better understand it. The key to getting your other half to open up is to stay respectful and to avoid negative comments about how they feel.


Say to your spouse, “I feel like you believe I owe you something or that you are entitled to a certain behavior or action. Am I right? If so, can you tell me why you think that?” Coming from a positive place that is genuinely concerned about your marriage will encourage your spouse to be forthcoming with their thoughts and how they feel., Learning exactly what your spouse feels they are entitled to can help you understand their feelings. It could be that they just want acknowledgement of their efforts. It may be that they simply want some alone time because of how hard they work. Once you get this out in the open, you may be able to come to an arrangement that makes both of you happy.


You could say, “What do you need that I’m not giving you?” Opening the lines of communication in a way that says you want to help, rather than coming off as defensive or critical, can make your spouse more receptive to talking openly with you., You may feel more comfortable having a third party present when you try to talk to your partner about your or their sense of entitlement. Depending on your partner, they may be more open when a person is around, or they may shut down. You’ll need to take this into consideration if you go with this option.


Don’t make going to a therapist a surprise for your partner. Simply showing up at the office and telling your spouse you’re going to therapy is a surefire way to cause a big fight. Instead, say, “I think we have some entitlement issues we need to work on. We haven’t been able to figure out the root of the problem on our own, so I was hoping you would agree to speak with a therapist and see if they can help us.”