 For most guys, a quick once-over with a comb after getting out of the shower in the morning is all they’ll need to keep short hair under control. Pay particular attention to cowlicks and flyaways, and use a little mousse, gel or pomade to smooth problem areas. A few quick swipes and you’ll be ready to head out the door.A quick and painless combing can do the trick for guys with fairly straight, easy to style hair, but it may not be enough to get other hair types, textures and lengths looking good.
 Hair that is slightly longer has a tendency to lay in a certain orientation, and when your hair starts going in different directions, you have a disaster on your hands. Prevent that tousled bedhead by neatly parting your hair down one side. Just wet a comb, or use a nickel-sized dab of pomade, to keep hair slick, smooth and looking sharp.Part your hair in the direction it tends to lay naturally.
The parted, slicked hairstyle on men was popular with classic movie stars, and has made a comeback in recent years.
 Perhaps you prefer to look a little rough around the edges. If this is the case, make sure you’re doing it right. Work a little gel or pomade into your locks and brush, shake and pull like a madman until they look perfectly disordered. Using a product will help hold your hair in place so it doesn’t go from intentionally messy to unintentionally chaotic.A little messiness goes equally well with casual or dressier outfits, and will tell people that you’re the confident, carefree type.
 Guys with wild hair should avoid brushing or messing with their locks too much after showering. Too much dry-styling can cause longer hair to become frizzy and stick out. Instead, let your hair air dry so that it keeps its natural shape and make sure you use a strong conditioner to give it some extra weight and moisture. Brush your hair lightly with your fingers when you need to make adjustments.Blow drying and brushing removes moisture from hair and breaks up natural curls.Leave-in conditioners and other moisturizing products are available for guys with dry, uncontrollable hair.
 This is the equivalent of pulling your hair back for guys. Don’t feel like bothering with styling your hair anymore? Just buzz it off. Problem solved! Your morning routine will be no-maintenance from now on, but that doesn’t mean you’ll be short on style. Try out a fade or military-esque crew cut to get a clean, tidy look that requires little to no work and goes with almost anything.Hair can be buzzed to different lengths, giving you more options.
You should only shave your head if you're confident that you can pull it off. Most people have no idea how they'd look with no hair, or the condition of their scalp underneath, and once you it's gone it'll be too late to change your mind.

