 CPS is supposed to intervene if a child is exposed to domestic violence or to physical or sexual abuse. Also, CPS should step in if a child is not given proper nutrition or medical care. Common signs that a child is suffering from these mistreatments include:bruises or other injuries in multiple locations or on both sides of the child’s body
frequent or unexplained injuries, especially in a distinctive pattern (such as grab marks)
a child’s fear of returning home
the child’s lack of personal hygiene (dirty and/or torn clothes)
the child exhibits sexual knowledge that is inappropriate for his or her age
the child is in pain and has difficulty sitting or walking
consistent hunger (the child steals or begs for food)
untreated serious illnesses
a child is inappropriately left alone or unattended;
, If possible, you may want to document the abuse. You can take photographs or video. Or you can simply write down what you observed on the child’s body, such as the location of bruises or cuts.


You can also take down information on who caused the injury. If you observed the abuse but do not know the adult’s name, then write out a description of the person.
Alternately, if the child tells you who has touched him or her in an inappropriate manner, then you should document that information as well.
 Every state lists a group of people who are required to report suspicions of child abuse to CPS. The list may vary by state, but it typically includes:teachers, principals, and other school personnel
doctors, nurses, and other healthcare professionals
mental health professionals (such as counselors and therapists)
child care providers
social workers
law enforcement officials

, Eighteen states currently require all persons who suspect child abuse to report it. This requirement is not limited to professionals. The states are:Delaware
Florida
Idaho
Indiana
Kentucky
Maryland
Mississippi
Nebraska
New Hampshire
New Mexico
New Jersey
North Carolina
Oklahoma
Rhode Island
Tennessee
Texas
Utah
Wyoming

, You may not want to give CPS your name out of fear of being involved in the investigation of child abuse. Perhaps you are afraid of the abuser. Or you may have been told of the abuse by a child and do not want the child to get in trouble for having told someone. Accordingly, you should consider if you want to remain anonymous.


You should be able to report anonymously in every state. However, agencies may discourage anonymous reports because they may want to interview you as part of the investigation into the alleged abuse. If you do not want to be identified, then you should remain firm and insist on anonymity.
With the general disappearance of pay phones, it is more difficult today to guarantee your anonymity. If you are afraid that CPS might pressure you to reveal your identity, you can think about calling from a friend’s phone. Also, some states have online reporting, which you could access from a library computer.
 When a child is in imminent danger of harm, you should contact 9-1-1 instead of CPS.Once the police arrive, they will contact CPS if they cannot fully resolve the issue right away.
 Most states maintain a child abuse hotline.The person on the other end of the hotline will gather information from you and then forward your concerns to the local Child Protective Services. Search for your state’s child abuse hotline online by typing “your state” and “child abuse hotline.”


You can find a list of state numbers to call by visiting the Child Welfare Information Gateway website at https://www.childwelfare.gov/organizations/?CWIGFunctionsaction=rols:main.dspROL&rolType=custom&rs_id=5. This list is continuously updated.
 When you call, be prepared to answer questions about the child and the reason you are reporting. Try to be as concrete as possible. If you know the child’s name and the parents’ names, then you should report that information.


You do not need to be absolutely certain that abuse is occurring. You only need to have reasonable cause to be suspicious.Child Protective Services will review the information you provide and determine whether to open a full investigation.
 Some states may allow you to report online. Florida, for example, has this option.After navigating to the reporting screen, you will be asked various questions, such as your contact information, whether the abuse is of an adult or child, and where the abuse is taking place. You will also be asked for the victim’s contact information.


In Florida, you have the option of reporting online anonymously.
 Some states will require mandatory reporters to follow up an oral report with a written one. CPS may have a form for you to use. In any event, the report should include the following information:the name of the child
the child’s whereabouts
the names and addresses of the parents or guardians
a description of the child’s condition

, If you documented the abuse or neglect, then you can offer to share your documentation with CPS. Be sure to make copies of any documentation that you have. Realize that although CPS may strive to keep your identity anonymous, you could be called into court if parental rights are terminated.

