 Before you get started, it can be helpful to organize or change your environment to make it a more pleasing place to complete your task. This can be as simple as tidying up your workspace, or putting on a movie in the background.


Try making yourself a cup of tea, lighting a candle, and putting on a favorite movie or TV show, such as Harry Potter or something else that you find comforting. Make sure to choose something that won’t be too distracting, but that will offer you opportunities to look up and take breaks now and then.
Going to a neighborhood coffee shop may also help to make your task more enjoyable. Order yourself a special drink and choose a cozy table to complete your task.
Even opening a few windows and putting on some music can help to brighten your environment and make the task seem less daunting.
 If there’s one part of a task you don’t mind doing, use that to ease yourself into the less enjoyable parts of the job. Doing this may give you just the push you need to get started.


For instance, try starting a new exercise routine by taking walks at a park, where you can enjoy the fresh air and the beauty of nature. If you’ve stalled on a creative project, think back to what inspired the project in the first place, and see if you can use that inspiration to re-motivate yourself.If you hate a task through and through, it’s unlikely that you’ll stick with it for long, especially if it’s a recurring task like working out. Instead of trying to force yourself into doing something you can’t stand, look for alternate ways to accomplish the same thing.
 A big, intimidating task is much easier to approach when you look at it as a series of smaller steps. Think about your end goal and ask yourself, “What do I need to do to make this happen?” Figure out the first thing you need to do, and then take action.When you’re breaking down a big project, to-do lists can be a helpful tool for sorting and organizing all of your smaller sub-tasks.
For example, if your task is “Pack the apartment for moving,” you may start by packing your off-season clothing, memorabilia, and décor. Then, you can gradually pack a few things each day to progress towards the overall goal.
 The Pomodoro technique can help you power through unpleasant tasks by improving your focus and boosting your productivity. To get started, set a timer and work for 25 minutes, then reward yourself with a five-minute break. After four 25-minute work sessions, give yourself a 25-minute break.Adjust the Pomodoro technique to your liking. Some people might find that they get better results working in time intervals of 15 minutes or 40 minutes, for instance.
 Even your least favorite chores can become more bearable if you make an effort to focus on the task and find something to appreciate about it. Look for better ways to do that project you’ve been putting off, or put all your effort into doing the very best job you can, even if you’re just vacuuming the rugs or folding laundry.Trying to get through a task as quickly as possible can actually make you dislike it more. Slow down and you might find it’s not as bad as you thought.
For example, maybe you have to prep your meals for the week ahead--a long and boring task that you do not look forward to on Sundays. You could add creativity and excitement to this task by finding fun, new recipes to try. Looking forward to cooking something novel may help you get through a long evening of meal preps.

