 To make a photo clock, you will need the following materials: 2 sheets of 18”x24” newsprint or poster paper, tape, a pencil, 12 pictures frames measuring 2”x3”, 12 photos measuring 2”x3”, a clock mechanism kit, a ruler, a sheet of cardstock measuring 8.5”x11”, scissors, blue painters tape, a hammer and nails.Try mixing and matching different colors and styles of picture frames.
A larger clock mechanism kit measures approximately 1 1/8" and costs around $10. This can be purchased online or in craft stores.
 Place the two sheets of newsprint or poster paper on the floor, then attach them to each other using scotch tape. Place the clock mechanism kit in the center of the sheets, then arrange the picture frames around the clock mechanism.Experiment with positioning some of the frames vertically and some of the frames horizontally.
Play around with the layout until you find a design that works for you.
When you’re satisfied with the layout, use a pencil to trace all of the frames onto the sheets of paper.
 Place the photos you’ve selected for this project inside the frames. Have fun choosing photos for this project. Try to come up with a theme for your clock and choose twelve pictures that fall under that theme.Try choosing photos of twelve places you’ve been on vacation.
Choose twelve different photos of you and your significant other during key points of your relationship.
 Use a pencil, ruler and some scissors to cut the cardstock paper into a square or rectangle that is large enough to cover the clock mechanism.If the clock mechanism is small enough, cut the cardstock to be 3.25”x3.75” – the same size as the picture frames.
Use scissors or an Xacto knife to cut a hole in the middle of the cardstock. This is where the metal portion of the clock mechanism will go.
Follow the instructions on the clock making kit and put the clock mechanism together.
Use the cardstock cover you made in place of the “clock face” that the instructions will call for.
 Find a blank wall where you want to hang the clock. Use scotch tape to hang the newsprint tracing you made in step one on the wall. Use the frame tracings as a guide and hammer in the nails for each of the frames on top of the tracings you made.After you’re done hammering, pull the newsprint off the wall. The nails should stay in place and the paper should slide out easily.
Hang up all the frames and clock piece.
Place a AA battery in the clock piece and set the clock to the correct time.

