 Before you commit time and money toward fulfilling requirements, research what being a CSI actually entails to make sure this job is for you. Search online for accounts written by CSIs to learn the difference between the reality of the job versus how it is depicted in films and TV shows.Ask yourself if you are ready and willing to:Be on-call to work irregular hours at any time, weekends and holidays included.
Work in all environments, conditions, and locations, which may be unhealthy and/or life-threatening.
Face disturbing images and offensive smells on a continual basis.
Work efficiently and calmly under extreme pressure.;
, Expect the exact nature of each CSI position to differ from to the next. Search for openings online. Compare the job descriptions of all positions that are currently open to gain a better sense of the variety of work offered.Duties may include, but are not limited to:Documenting a crime scene through extensive measurements, photographs, sketches, and diagrams.
Handling evidence, which includes: collecting it from its origin; documenting its origin; packaging it securely to avoid tampering; labeling it precisely; following the legally mandated chain-of-custody when removing it from the crime scene.
Witnessing and documenting autopsies.
Preparing detailed reports on findings.
Testifying in court.
 Note that some agencies employ “civilian” CSIs, while others require their CSIs to be sworn police officers.Also note that certain specialized positions may require additional qualifications, while others may require less.Evaluate your own interests, qualifications, and ability to obtain additional qualifications to determine which avenue of pursuit is best for you.


Specialized fields within crime scene investigation include crime laboratory analysts, forensic engineers, forensic psychologists, and medical examiners.
Agencies that demand CSIs be sworn police officers often require those officers to serve for a minimum number of years before they can become CSIs. After that, those officers may still be expected to perform their old duties in addition to their new ones.Agencies that hire CSIs from within usually provide those officers with the necessary education and training upon promotion.
Civilians receive training when they are hired, but must meet educational requirements on their own before applying.Civilian CSIs are rarely offered full-time employment. Additionally, they typically receive less pay, fewer benefits, and less opportunity for advancement.
 Be aware that each agency (whether it is federal, state, or local) determines its own requirements for candidates. If you are determined to find work within one region, research the qualifications demanded by each agency that you intend to apply to.Otherwise, be flexible in where you intend to work, so you have a wider range of potential employers whose prerequisites match your own qualifications.


Areas with very small populations, such as rural communities with little crime, may have less stringent requirements.
More populous areas, like cities with large agencies and demanding workloads, are more likely to require higher levels of education and specific degrees.
 Understand that CSIs have a high rate of turnover due to the unique stresses they face on the job. Anticipate reaching a degree of “burnout” due to the physical and psychological strains that it will place on you. Although you may be the exception and continue this work for years and years to come, assume that you won’t. As you decide on which qualifications to pursue, keep an open mind on how they can be applied elsewhere, too.For instance, if you are pursuing a position as a forensic photographer, those skills can be easily transferred to another form of photography.

