 It is always important to ask for permission first before you start using the kitchen for cooking. You never know what plans the adults might have, or if mom thinks you're not yet old enough to be cooking without her supervision!;
, This means reading it all the way through and possibly more than once. Make sure that you understand it. If there is anything in the recipe that doesn't make sense, ask an older person for help.
 Wash your hands before you begin, as you are cooking and handling food, and at the end. It is also important to wash your hands every time you touch the garbage bin, compost container or when you pick up anything off the floor.
 It is important to have all of your ingredients and equipment assembled before you start cooking. Get all the things like baking trays, flour sifter, double boiler etc. out and all of the food ingredients. This will help you follow the recipe more easily and prevent any messing around looking for ingredients and equipment that you didn't realize you needed—or maybe don't even have!

, When you are a beginner cook, you should follow the recipe exactly. As you cook more, you will become more at ease with making changes to a recipe and still create successful dishes.
 Always be aware of hot surfaces. Keep saucepan handles turned inwards so that you don't accidentally knock them. Use oven mitts or pot holders to remove things from the oven after cooking. And turn off the stovetop plates when not in use. Warn others in the kitchen that there are hot areas cooling down. Also be careful of steam - it can also burn, so do not put your hand or any other part of your body over steam as the food or water is cooking.
 It is easier if you can clean as you go but don't worry if this doesn't come naturally at first. After a while, you'll work out that this is easier than cooking in a mess! Just make sure that you clean up after yourself when you have finished cooking, and don't forget any spills on the floor or cupboard doors.
 Cooking is fun and a creative activity. When you feel a little more confident, start experimenting with different ingredients and come up with your own creations.

