 These tops are notoriously difficult to wear bras with, since the strap of a traditional bra will show through. Women with flat chests can don these tops while going braless. They can opt for a strapless bra. Some women with larger busts may not feel very supported in a strapless bra, but the support often proves plenty for women with smaller busts.;
, These dresses do not look good with bras since you can see the wearer’s side. For the same reason, these dresses do not often suit women with larger busts, since so much of the chest is exposed while wearing the dress. Women with flatter chests, however, can get away with exposing a little of what they have without needing to worry about looking inappropriate doing so.
 This works especially well with Hermes scarves and other large square styles. Women with smaller busts can pull this look off easily since tops made out of scarves are often delicately tied together, whereas women with larger busts may worry about "falling out" of such tops. Many of these tops often require the wearer to go braless, which is another reason why it is more suitable for women with flat chests.


Wear a scarf as a fitted halter. Fold the scarf in half so that it looks like a triangle. Tie the two tail ends around your waist and tie the two layers of the top point around your neck.
Alternatively, wear it as a sleeveless top. Fold two opposite corners of the scarf to the scarf's center. Tie the scarf around yourself, keeping the folded edges at the top and bottom.
 A bandeau top is a strip of cloth that ties around the breasts, exposing the stomach. The bandeau is not appropriate for all settings, but you can wear it for a stroll on a beach boardwalk or while on an island vacation. You can also wear it beneath an open sweater or jacket for a slightly more appropriate option that works in more settings.
 As another notoriously difficult top to wear a bra with, strapless gowns are perfect for women with flatter chests.
 Instead of fighting against your lack of curves, roll with it. Think “men’s style” jackets, fitted graphic t-shirts with traditionally tough, masculine images, and “boyfriend” jeans. Pull the look together by accessorizing with gunmetal jewelry and thick-banded watches. This is a highly chic type of style that flat-chested women are in the perfect position to take advantage of.
 Many of these garments end just below the bust line, accentuating the bosom. These jackets do not suit women with larger chests well, since the style often makes the chest look fuller.

