 Insert plant spikes, forks, chopsticks, or similar materials (approximately ten inches in length) every eight inches in the soil to thwart cats.


Make sure that the sticks or equivalent materials are inserted to a depth of a few inches into the soil so that they will stay upright.
The points on these utensils are not sharp enough to cause any real damage, but they can be enough of a deterrent to discourage your feline friends from lounging about.;
, Plants can usually grow in between the gaps, but cats will find the texture of the wiring unpleasant to walk on. The chicken wire will be soft enough not to hurt the cats, but strong enough to discourage them from digging in your garden.


If the plants need additional room to grow, you can use wire cutters to cut larger holes directly above the plants needing more room.
As an alternative to chicken wire, you can lay plastic sheeting designed for use in gardens., Lay the lattice fencing over your soil before you even plant your seeds. The gaps in the fencing will make the area unappealing to wandering cats.


Press the lattice fencing into the ground gently so that it is partially covered by the soil.
Transplant seedlings and plant seeds into the soil exposed by the gaps of the fencing. Over time, many common garden plants should grow around the fencing without much difficulty.
 Cats will not like to dig in or play on rough surfaces. You can cover areas of your yard with a thin layer of safe materials like:Rough-textured mulch
Prickly pinecones
Pebbles and stones

, Scat mats (available at garden supply stores) are plastic mats covered in flexible plastic spikes.The spikes are soft enough not to hurt cats, but they will not like the texture and will keep away.


Depending on the brand, you will usually find the mats in packages of two to five mats. Generally, these mats are cut into four pieces, making it easy to fit the mat to size according to the size and needs of your garden.
Do not merely lay the mats on the surface of the soil. You need to press the mats into the soil so that the mat itself is covered, leaving only the spikes exposed. Otherwise, a clever cat can paw the mat up.
 However, a six-foot high chain-link fence, with two-by-two inch mesh can be effective at keeping cats out of your garden. A two-foot overhang can provide additional protection.
 As long as it is low-voltage, it will not harm the cats, only drive them away. The fence can be raised about 4 inches from the ground and still discourage them from entering your garden.


Look for electric fencing at hardware or home supply stores. Carefully follow all installation and safety instructions.
Keep children away from electric fencing.

