 If you have experienced a cold sore before, you may be able to get a sense for when an outbreak is going to occur. You may experience itching, burning, or tingling around your lips about a day before the cold sore appears.If you believe you are about to get a cold sore, you can begin treatment right away and potentially shorten the duration of the outbreak. You can also make sure you don't accidentally spread the virus to anyone by refraining from contact.


Outbreaks commonly occur when you experience a great deal of stress, are overly tired and fatigued, or when you have a viral infection or fever (cold sores are also known as "fever blisters").;
, There are a number of antiviral creams that you can get over the counter without a prescription to tackle cold sores. These are designed to speed up the healing time for the sore, they will not actually get rid of the herpes simplex virus nor will they prevent you suffering from future outbreaks. They will generally only be effective if you apply them soon after the sores appear.


The antiviral creams to look out for include acyclovir, penciclovir, and docosanol.In a study penciclovir was reported to have the highest antiviral effectiveness.You will need to apply these creams for four or five days, and up to five times each day.When you apply the cream be sure to use a cotton swab or wear a disposable rubber glove so you don't contaminate your hands., For many of these creams, there are alternatives in pill form. You can take these orally if you prefer that to a topical cream. Oral medications may be more effective than topical creams.They will certainly not require to touch the sores in any way, which can help limit their spread. If you are uncertain, ask your doctor or pharmacist for advice.
 As well as the antiviral treatments, you can consider taking some painkilling medicine to ease the pain and lessen the irritation the sores are causing you. If you find yourself battling to avoid itching or scratching the cold sores, try using a non-antiviral cream to lessen the irritation. These will not treat the cold sores or make them heal faster on their own. Ask for pharmacist for a recommendation.Regular painkillers such as ibuprofen and paracetamol can be taken to ease the pain of sores., Applying something cold to the area where you have a sore can also help to relieve the pain and irritation. Lightly hold an ice cube against a sore, or place a cool damp cloth on your face.A cool compress can reduce redness and encourage the sore to heal.Try placing a cool towel on the sores three times day, each time for twenty minutes., Although natural remedies are unreliable compared to medications, there are a number of things which have been reported as helping tackle cold sores. One of these is L lysine, an amino acid that you can buy as a supplement and as a cream. Modest application to the cold sore may help. Alternatively, propolis, sometimes called synthetic beeswax, is thought to shorten the duration of a cold sore outbreak if applied to the relevant area early and frequently.


A cream of rhubarb and sage has been cited as a homemade alternative to acyclovir cream.
Stress has been linked to cold sore outbreaks, so lowering your levels of stress could help.