 When you have the opportunity to confront someone, talk it out. Make sure you communicate your needs and feelings, while respecting the needs and feelings of the other person.Allow the conversation to be 50/50, talking and listening. It’s important for the other person to feel understood and heard, just as you want him to understand and hear you.
 When you are engaging with someone else about a situation that made you angry, don’t let yourself call the other person names. It’s not constructive, and often actively works against you. Remember your purpose in discussing the situation: you want to try and patch things up with the other person, not make them more angry.Take turns talking. Don’t interrupt while the other person is speaking.
Know when to let things go if you’ve made your point.Sometimes you have to agree to disagree, and drop the issue instead of allowing an argument to go around in circles. .
 Sometimes you want to express your anger to someone but you cannot. You may be upset with a politician, the person who cut you off in traffic, or the person who stole your bag. In these situations you cannot express your anger directly, so create an outlet that allows you to do so.


You can talk to a friend and share your feelings of upset, frustration, and anger.
Write a letter to the person who angered you, describing your feelings. Once finished, burn it, releasing the anger with it.
Sometimes anger can fuel social action.If you’re upset with climate change, for instance, your anger can fuel you to make changes in your life that show your stand such as becoming a lobbyist, signing petitions, and making lifestyle changes like selling your car and choosing to bike instead.
 If it was something that another person did that made you angry, talk about how it made you feel, not their actions. Be sure to give yourself enough time before you talk to the person that made you angry so that you can collect your thoughts and consider what you might say. Some examples of ways to focus on your feelings are:Instead of saying, “I can’t believe you told Wendy about my ticket!”, say “When you talked to Wendy about me like that, it made me sad and angry. I told you those things in confidence.”
Instead of saying, “You’re a hateful person for talking that way!”, say, “I felt small and angry with the way you talked to me last night. I deserve to be talked to with respect, even when you don’t agree with me.”

, If you hold onto anger, it can eat you on the inside. When you feel angry, try to resolve the anger as quickly as possible. Angry at a person? Talk to him about it. Angry about a situation? Create solutions. Do what you can to express the anger, learn from it, then let it go.


Practice radical acceptance: sometimes there are situations that you strongly dislike but cannot control. Learn to radically accept where you are at, even when it’s unpleasant.Instead of pitying yourself, say, “Even though I am uncomfortable in this situation, I accept that this is my current reality.”
Some situations can be more difficult to let go, such as long-standing anger against a deceased family member. Realize that it’s up to you to let things go, even when the other person isn’t there to discuss it with you. You can’t control people who have rejected you or hurt you in any way; you can only control your response.