 You should try to pick out a face cleanser that is specifically designed for acne-prone skin. These sort of cleansers will regulate how much (or how little) oil your skin produces, and will be less likely to irritate sensitive skin. They also help to get rid of dead skin cells, a place that germs thrive and cause acne to form.Try lipid-free liquid cleansers. These sort of cleansers don’t contain soap, so they are gentler on your skin. They also don’t contain oils or fats, so you are less likely to break out when you use these cleansers. Cetaphil and Aquanil are two different lipid-free cleansers.
Use synthetic detergents to wash your face. These cleansers have a pH that is very similar to your skin so it is less likely that they will irritate or dry out your skin like some soaps do. An example of a synthetic detergent is Dove Sensitive Skin Bar.;
, Wash your face at least two times a day to keep your skin from excess oil that can create acne. When you wash your face, use warm water, rather than hot or cold water. Both hot and cold water can dry out your skin.


To apply your cleanser, rub your fingers in a gentle, circular motion over your whole face. You want to be careful not to be too rough with your skin because when acne is present your skin can be damaged pretty easily.
 Your fingers can collect a lot of bacteria by touching things during your daily activities. When you touch your face without washing your hands first, you are unwittingly spreading germs and bacteria on to your face that could ultimately lead to a breakout.


If you do have to touch your face, try to wash your hands before doing so. Even applying some hand sanitizer to your fingers can help keep your face from breaking out.
 While you may see a pimple and immediately want to pop it, it is important to remember that pimples contain bacteria. When you pop a pimple, that bacteria can land on other parts of your skin, creating more pimples.Your fingernails can also pose a bacterial threat. When you pop your pimple with your nails, any bacteria that is under your nails could get into the now open pimple-wound, causing further infection.
 Many cosmetics contain oils that can actually make your acne worse. While you may want to cover up your acne, it is best to avoid oil-based cosmetics. If you would prefer to use cosmetics anyway, buy cosmetics that say they are oil-free.
 Salicylic acid is an exfoliating substance that helps to control dandruff and get rid of dead skin cells. When your dead skin cells are removed, they cannot clog up your pores and cause a pimple.Exfoliating agents like salicylic acid also help to keep your pores open by helping your body to shed mature, superficial skin cells that can also cause acne.
 Benzoyl peroxide helps to reduce the inflammation caused by acne and prevents future acne by reducing the amount of oil that you skin produces. Before applying the cream to your face, wash your hands and face so that your skin is clean.Spread a thin layer of the cream on to your acne. Do this once or twice a day unless you were given specific instructions from your doctor.
Benzoyl peroxide can also come in gel and wash forms.
 Topical retinoids like vitamin A cream work by unplugging clogged pores. When your pores become unclogged, other topical medicines, like antibiotics, can enter the hair shaft and fight underlying infection. Topical retinoids come in cream, gel, and liquid forms.


You should apply the medicine to your skin once a day, usually at night. Generally you should wait to apply the cream until at least 20 or 30 minutes have passed after washing your face.
 When your hormones get thrown off, be it because of stress or some other life event, you become more likely to develop adult acne. See your doctor about ways that you can correct your hormone balance.For example, if you are a woman who notices that her period is not normal and you have developed adult acne, it is very likely that your hormone levels are messed up. Talk to your doctor about ways that you can correct them.
 Dermabrasion, or planing the skin, is a treatment that is used to remove superficial scars created by acne. Revolving wire brushes or sandpaper tools are used to remove these scars.


This should only be done by a licensed dermatologist.

