 This will ensure that it's not smeared with fingerprints, and you'll have better accuracy when using the screen. Some of the older generation iTouches come with a cleaning cloth, but if yours did not, then a glasses cleaning cloth works just as well. To use either, just breathe on the screen, then rub till the fingerprints are gone.;
, There are many different options for both of these items, for example with screen protectors you can get: clear, anti-glare, mirror and a few more. With cases, there are ones that just snap straight onto the back, and ones that you slip the iTouch into. Also, when buying a case, it is important to ensure that all buttons and ports (USB/audio jack) are exposed or at least can be used WITHOUT removing the case.
 Otherwise, the screen will crack and you might get cut. Also, make sure you clean it more regularly, especially the screen, as your fingers are coming in direct contact of the screen.
 don't leave it in the sun or attempt to cook it) Water/Extreme Temperatures + iPod Touch = iPod's Death.
 If you keep it in your back pocket, there is the possibility of it either getting bent, or you sitting on it. And if it gets bumped, you could break the screen, scuff or even chip it.
 You still need to take care of your earphones, as without these your iTouch is basically useless. Some tips on looking after your earphones are:


Don't wrap them around things tightly. Constant bending of the wire inside the plastic casing can snap it . Plus when you want the earphone's wire extended (eg. if you put the iTouch in your pocket and run the wire up under your shirt to your ears) then it will want to coil up.
Don't leave knots in your earphones wire.
Don't dunk your earphones in water or snow, and don't freeze them or let them over heat. Same as the iTouch, this will kill them.
Don't have the volume up to loud! Not only is it bad for the earphones, it can also affect your hearing.
Clean them. Sometimes your earphones will have earwax and stuff from your ears on them, not only is that gross but it's not good for the earphones. Just wipe it off with a soft cloth (being careful, of course, not to push it into the speakers).

