 If you don't want to tell your parents you have lice, the easiest treatment options involve using items from your own kitchen. Keep in mind home remedies don't work as well as medical treatments and may not be effective. However, you should start with at home treatments if you want to hide your lice from your parents. Vinegar, which your parents may have in the kitchen, is sometimes successful in removing head lice.


Vinegar may dissolve some of the glue that lice use to attach their nits to your head. If you apply vinegar to your hair prior to brushing, you may end up removing some of the lice with your comb.Apply enough vinegar to your hair to get it thoroughly wet. Then, use a small, fine-toothed comb to comb out your hair. Look for lice or lice eggs as you go.Lice are small brown-colored bugs that can jump very long distances. Lice eggs are small and round and coffee-colored.
Soak any comb you use remove lice in soapy water for an hour. If you don't have an hour, dispose of the comb. Place the comb in a plastic bag and throw it away in an outdoor garbage can.;
, Olive oil, which your parents may use for cooking, can work by smothering lice. When applied to the scalp, olive oil may plug the lungs of lice and cause them to die.Apply olive oil to your hair. Use enough that your hair is covered in olive oil, the way it might be when using leave-in conditioner.
In order for this method to be most effective, you must keep the olive oil on overnight under a shower cap. This may be difficult if you're trying to hide your lice from your parents.There are some ways you can use this method without your parents knowing you have lice. You could say you heard olive oil is good for the hair and that a friend at school is trying this method. Or, you could wait until your parents are asleep, apply the olive oil cap, and then set an alarm so you wake up before your parents to remove it.
 Your parents may have petroleum jelly or hair styling gel somewhere in the bathroom cabinet. Both of these substances may kill lice by smothering them.


Much like the olive oil method, you should coat your hair with gel or petroleum jelly and then put on a shower cap.As with the olive oil method, you can claim you've heard this is good for your hair or wait until they go to bed to put on the gel or jelly.
Keep in mind petroleum jelly is very difficult to remove. Give yourself extra time to shower in the morning after using this method. You may have to shampoo and condition your hair more than once to get out petroleum jelly., Mayonnaise is another home remedy that may be effective for removing lice. Much like the using hair gel, petroleum jelly, or olive oil you'll need to apply mayonnaise to your scalp, put a shower cap over it, and then leave it on overnight. Apply enough mayonnaise that your hair is thoroughly coated, working it into your scalp in order to smother the lice. You'll have to once again think of an excuse for wearing the cap to keep your parents from becoming suspicious. People who use this method often report that full fat mayonnaise works best., Dish soap does not kill lice. However, it's more effective at removing things like olive oil and mayonnaise from your hair after treatment. If you don't want your parents to get suspicious, you can put dish soap in an old bottle of the shampoo you use. You can also hide a small bottle of dish soap in the bathroom and take it out when you shower.