, That shape (like a formula) uses fingers "5, 3, and 1". The other 3-note major chords use the same fingering shape:

find the fundamental note (C or F or G), and






go across the ivory keys to the third note using the third finger and
to the ivory fifth note using the fifth finger (the thumb).


So, the formula for those three chords is simply left to right on the left hand (5, 3, 1).






"D" Chord:
"A" chord: Notice that D chord is exactly the same shape (same spacing of fingers) as A in the photos... but D shown as three notes on lines of sheet music does not show that idea. The shape of the hand for A or D chord is almost the same as C, F, or G -- but A or D has the middle fingered-note "sharped" ("sharping" or "flatting" is really only a half step between notes). So, they both have a black key for the middle finger -- left to right on the left hand (5, 3#, 1) where the "#" symbol means "sharp" which is most often the black key "up", toward the right, on the keyboard...






But, where two ivory keys are together (without a black one between them) then a white key is the sharp in some chords and scales.
Flats work the same way but are moving downward (leftward on the keyboard) in the flow of the music.


The combination for a chord of three or more notes sounded together at certain distances between the notes (like one step) are based on a pattern (or formula) for the chord like "5, 3, 1."







,


Play the same chords on the right hand with the same kind of shape with the thumb and fingers again numbered left to right "1 through 5" but now you're starting from the thumb (1) to the right little finger (5);and though hands look opposite -- just ignore the thumb and finger switching, and so it is still the same shaped tripod (Note: both hands left to right are "5, 4, 3, 2, 1 and 1, 2, 3, 4, 5.")

So you can think of the numbering with right hand: "1, 3, 5" while the left was "5, 3, 1" (of course, also "1, 3#, 5" compared to "5, 3#, 1", follow this kind of shape pattern).



