 An unhealthy relationship with food is not just restricting calories. You can also develop an unhealthy relationship with food by overeating. Some people may think that they are never going to get the food again, some people may need to clean their plate of everything, or some people continue eating out of habit or anxiety.Continuing eating after you are satisfied or full and ending up feeling stuffed or sick is a sign there may be a problem.
For example, if you are satisfied, but there is food in front of you, you may eat it. You may go for a second bowl of ice cream even if you know it’s too much just because you feel you need it.
 One symptom of an unhealthy relationship with food is sticking to strict and rigid rules about eating. These rules may seem healthy, but eliminating food groups or not allowing yourself any flexibility can result in problems and unhealthy relationships.For example, rigid rules may include never eating sugar, pasta, or grains. You may go out of your way to carry food with you to avoid eating certain foods while travelling.
Due to these rigid rules, you may never allow yourself a treat or the flexibility to enjoy food in special circumstances, like while on vacation or at a special occasion dinner.
 Some people don’t feel like they are in control if they do not stick to a strict food structure each day. This may be a food schedule where you eat at the same time every day, eating only certain foods, eating within a certain amount of calories, or some other meal structure.For example, you may not be able to go out to eat without knowing exactly how many calories are in the meals or how many ounces of food you are eating.
 If you have an unhealthy relationship with food, you may do anything to avoid foods that you cannot control yourself around. You may avoid certain restaurants or social gatherings, you may have rituals or rules about eating a food, or you may do extreme things to destroy the food so you can’t eat it. These extreme actions point to a problematic relationship with food.For example, you may pour something unappetizing on cake to make sure you don’t eat it or ask a friend to not let you have more than a few bites of a certain food.

