 Many colleges offer scholarships and grants to their students. To find out the types of aid that are available to you and how to apply, schedule a phone call or an appointment with the financial aid counselor of the colleges you are considering. Be sure to ask about deadlines for applications as well!


Some colleges and universities may require you to fill out the Financial Aid PROFILE. This is an application for non-federal financial aid, which is used by almost 400 schools. The PROFILE application can be filed here: https://student.collegeboard.org/css-financial-aid-profile.
 If your preferred school has not offered you sufficient aid, you can ask for more. To do this, write a personalized letter in which you ask for a "professional judgment review." Explain that the school is your first choice, but that you need more aid in order to be able to afford it. Gather evidence so you can make a strong appeal:If your FAFSA makes it look like you or your parents have more money than they do, provide documents that show this. For instance, you might document serious medical bills or a recent job loss.
Don't be frightened of sharing potentially private information. If you have a parent with an addiction (to drugs, gambling, etc) this can present costs that will not be reflected on your FAFSA. Financial aid advisors have seen it all, and won't be shocked.
 Some schools will offer you more money if you have been given a better aid package at a rival school. If you have better-paying options, document them and include this in your letter.Send your appeal before you confirm attendance at the school. Schools will be more eager to meet your requests if they are afraid of losing you.
Ask for "second chance aid." Some schools will raise your merit-based aid if you bring your grades up in the last few months of high school, for instance. Others will improve your aid for the following year if you do well your freshman year.
 Some schools receive federal or state funding to offer jobs to students in exchange for tuition remission. Ask the Office of Financial Aid if your school offers work study funding. This is determined by your FAFSA, and does not require a separate application.To qualify for work study, turn in your FAFSA as soon as you can.

