 A conversation shouldn’t be a struggle to see who gets to talk about themselves, or does the most talking. Think of it this way: when you were a kid, you took turns on toys or games. A conversation is the same thing. If it’s your friend's turn, let him talk. You'll have your turn, since a conversation is a two-way-street, but allow your friend equal time to talk about himself, giving him your full attention.


Don’t approach it as if trying to convince the person that your idea or way of seeing/doing things is right. Instead, try to learn and grow from what he's saying.
Don't manipulate the conversation to serve your own agenda and steamroll your counterpart.
Consider this approach: you’re on the same team, trying to find an answer. Conversations like sports are more fun when you’re interacting with each other, rather than against each other., There's an old saying, "you can’t learn anything new if you’re talking." You already know your perspective. To broaden, change, or confirm that point of view, you must let others state theirs.


For example, when discussing dinner, you might say: "I prefer ordering tapas to entrees, because I get to taste a variety of the chef’s offerings. Which do you prefer?" (Then, let them respond.) "That’s interesting; why do you think that is?"
Obviously your responses would depend on what the person says, but you can continue to probe her reasoning, so that you get a thorough understanding of why she thinks, feels, or believes what she does.
 You can’t talk about yourself if you’re asking well-thought-out questions. It requires the other person to be the focal point. This takes “look for what you can learn, not say,” to an entirely new level. Not only does this keep your conversation partner as the focal point, it allows him to delve more deeply into his knowledge/feelings/beliefs which, in turn, strengthen the connection.
Be in the moment, listening, when he answers your question. Invariably, this will lead to a mindset allowing further questions, resulting in a very positive experience for all involved.
 This may sound like the exact opposite of what you’re trying to learn, but there's a difference between talking about yourself and your world view.


Try stating your opinion, such as "I see the two-party system as limiting our choices and narrowing the potential for alternative voices and points of view in our political system." Then follow this with something like: "How do you see this working in our government?"
Once you’ve put your unique point of view out there, use what you’ve learned in your conversation thus far to get your conversation partner to expound on his viewpoint. Then probe his point of view with questions geared to learn more. This is how to converse about ideas on a higher level.

