 Even if you can't hit notes like Justin right away, you can learn the words to his songs. A big part of singing a Justin Bieber song like Justin Bieber is knowing the lyrics.


If you aren't a singer, you may want to start with a voice lesson to help learn the basics of singing. Once you have the basics down, you can move on to learning more of the advanced singing techniques used by Justin.
Try singing some of Justin's earlier songs first. For example, "Baby" is a catchy pop song, and it has repetitive lyrics that are easy to memorize.;
, Arpeggios are the individual notes that make up a musical chord. Practice singing them from lowest to highest, then highest to lowest. Don't worry about your speed, but focus on keeping your tone and volume even through the notes. Record your performances and then assess your progress. Work on different vowel sounds. Build speed as your skills improve. Practice melismas. Melismas are also commonly referred to as vocal runs. It is the ability to hold one syllable and change the pitch of your voice to hit many different notes.
Try singing songs like "Beauty And The Beat" by Justin Bieber. The song features a number of vocal runs and really shows off Justin's range and vocal agility.
 Justin has a vocal style that switches often between the chest, or normal singing range, into falsetto. Falsetto is higher pitched and tends to come through your throat and nasal passages. When you sing in falsetto, it may often sound like you're making a little boy voice. This will help to hit some of the high, soft notes in Justin's music while being able to quickly shift back to singing from the chest.


Try singing the chorus on "As Long As You Love Me." Notice how Justin switches from his chest voice to falsetto and back to his chest voice while saying the word love.
 Justin's voice has a husky quality that gives him a bit of a rough edge.Keep your neck muscles tense and exhale a lot of air while you sing to create a little raspiness to your voice. You shouldn't try to do this all the time, just try adding it here and there on certain songs. Listen to "Sorry" and notice where Justin's voice becomes a bit raspy in the chorus, then transitions back into a smoother tone.
 If you are young then you have a better chance at improving your voice. You will want to practice improving these techniques for an hour or two a day to make the most progress possible. Justin has been singing almost his whole life, so if you want to develop the talent to sing like him you need to be committed to working hard on a regular basis.


Be confident. Practice until you can hit the notes confidently and sing them with the same ease as Justin.

