 When you go through a traumatic experience, it might feel easier to avoid anything that reminds you of the incident; however, confronting the memories head-on is actually the healthiest way to deal with the trauma. If you have PTSD, you may go out of your way to avoid anything that reminds you of the ordeal that you went through. Symptoms of avoidance include:


Refusing to think about the situation.
Staying away from people, places, or objects that remind you of the event.
Not wanting to talk about the experience.
Throwing yourself into a distraction, becoming obsessed with that activity rather than thinking about the event you experienced.
 Intrusive memories are memories that you can’t control--they suddenly pop into your head without you actually telling your brain to access those memories. You might feel helpless and unable to stop them. Types of intrusive memories include:


Vivid, out-of-the-blue flashbacks to the event.
Nightmares that focus on what happened.
A ‘slide show’ of images of the event that you can’t seem to stop from playing in your head.
 Some people with PTSD react to a traumatizing event by denying that the event ever occurred. They might act completely normally, like their life has not been disturbed in any way. This is a form of shock and self-preservation; the mind shuts down the memory and understanding of what has happened to keep the body from pain.For example, a mother may go into denial after the death of her baby son. She may continue to talk to him like he is sleeping, rather than accepting that he is gone.
 People can have changes in opinion all the time. However, with PTSD, you will suddenly find yourself thinking about things--including people, places and things--in a way that you have never done before the traumatic incident. These changes in thought can include:


Negative thoughts about other people, places, situations and yourself.
Indifference or a feeling of despair when thinking about the future.
Inability to feel happiness or pleasure; feeling numb.
Inability or severe difficulty to relate to others and maintain relationships.
Memory problems ranging from forgetting small things to large memory gaps about the event.
 Like with changes in thought, emotional and physical changes that you should take note of should be those that you never experienced before the event occurred. It is important to remember that these changes might happen every once in a while--it is more important to take note of them if they are constantly occurring. These changes can include:


Insomnia (which means an inability to sleep).
Loss of appetite.
Getting angered or irritated very easily and demonstrating aggression.
Not being able to enjoy things that you found engaging before.
Feeling overwhelmed by a strong sense of guilt or shame.
Exhibiting self-destructive behaviors such as driving too fast, substance abuse, or making careless or risky decisions.
 After a frightening and traumatizing event, you might find yourself feeling very nervous or jumpy. Things that normally wouldn’t scare you send you into a panic. A traumatizing event can cause your body to develop a heightened state of awareness that is not necessary, but feels necessary because of the trauma that you experienced.For example, if you experienced a bomb going off near you, you might find yourself jumping or panicking at the sound of someone dropping their keys or slamming a door.
 A psychologist or therapist will be able to help you determine whether or not what you are experiencing is a normal reaction to the event or if it is PTSD. Your health provider will help you determine which treatments may be best for your case. Treatment options for PTSD may include:Traditional talk therapy has shown effectiveness in helping treat either the symptoms of PTSD or helping sufferers cope with family, life or career problems that arise as a result of PTSD.
Psychotherapy may be in the form of exposure therapy, which focuses on slowly talking about the traumatic event more and perhaps visiting places and/or people you have been avoiding, or stress inoculation training, which helps you to build healthy coping mechanisms to stressful or anxiety-provoking life events.
A psychiatrist might prescribe you medications that may alleviate symptoms of depression, anxiety, or help to eliminate sleep disruptions.

