 Italy’s ancient cities are invariably exciting, gorgeous, and mysterious, but they’re also perpetually besieged by flocks of tourists. Fortunately, you can limit the amount of camera-toting, street-clogging tourists disrupting your tete-a-tete time by booking your stay during the spring or late autumn.The peak tourist season is from June to September. Avoid August in particular, as native Italians join the hordes of international tourists on holiday, and temperatures linger consistently in the 90s.;
, Just because you’re going to the bright lights, big city, doesn’t mean you have to book a big, generic hotel. Popular Italian metropolises, such as Venice, Florence, Milan, and Rome, are overflowing with boutique hotels where you’ll feel all the charm of an Italian villa. For example, the 16th-century Ca Maria Adele in Venice boasts only twelve rooms and its own, private entrance to the Grand Canal.You can also check out alternate accommodation sites, such as Airbnb or vrbo. You and your partner will be all alone together, but you’ll also be responsible for such prosaic chores as buying groceries, cooking, and cleaning up after yourselves.
 Once you’ve selected a hotel for your getaway, contact guest services and ask about any exclusive, couples-specific rates or packages. Even if they don’t offer any discounts for romantic retreats, they might provide special extras, such as flowers or champagne delivered to the room, spa or massage services, or custom keepsakes from your stay., You’ve probably heard of such legendary establishments as Harry’s Bar in Venice, the Camparino in Galleria in Milan, or the Antico Caffe Greco in Rome. While these historic dining and drinking venues are worth a glance, the packed, noisy atmosphere is less-than-conducive to an intimate evening, so plan instead on eating and drinking at local alternatives.


For example, pop into Harry’s Dolci for a bellini in Venice, spend an evening at Fonderie Milanesie in Milan, or have a glass of wine at the Vintage Bistrot in Rome., Browsing quaint Italian shops and finding unique gifts for each other—be they vintage knickknacks, sumptuous jewelry, or Italian designer clothing—can be a great way to create memorable romance. In addition to the upscale shopping streets such as Via Monte Napeleone in Milan or Mercerie in Venice, you can check out quaint, bohemian boutiques in Milan’s Brera district, the San Polo neighborhood in Venice, or the Campo de Fiori neighborhood in Rome.Check exchange rates ahead of time so that you know exactly what that price tag—as part of the European Union, Italy uses the euro—means in your native currency.
 Just because you’re looking for an intimate vibe to your urban wanderings, doesn’t mean that you have to skip the famous sights and landmarks entirely. Simply wait until nightfall—9 p.m. or after—to stroll notoriously crowded places such as St. Mark’s square or the Accademia Bridge in Venice. You’ll find these gorgeous spaces not only nearly empty, but also filled with romantic lighting and mysterious atmosphere.The same goes for any museums or galleries you’re hoping to visit. Many popular tourist attractions offer late-evening or nighttime hours on specific days during the week, so check out the late-night options before battling the throngs., When thinking about famously romantic activities in Italy, you probably envision floating down Venetian canals in a gondola, sipping wine on a sidewalk café, or surveying the cityscape from La Pergola restaurant in Rome or Campanile di San Marco tower in Venice. Unfortunately, the long lines and steep prices of these attractions can drain the romance right out of your day.


Avoid these popular pitfalls by planning to visit less-famous alternatives to these tourist traps. For example, check out the San Giorgio Maggiore bell tower in Venice rather than the Campanile di San Marco, or venture to the couples-friendly, local-favorite Gianicolo Hill vista rather than jostling for a table at La Pergola.