 If you have a problem with a vendor, your first course of action should be to contact the vendor directly. You may be able to resolve the problem quickly in this way. For example, if you purchased an item that you do not believe matches what was advertised, you could take it back to the store and ask for a refund., If your first attempt at resolving the problem does not lead to a successful result, you should document your problem in writing. This will serve two purposes. It will give the vendor another opportunity to satisfy your concerns before the problem becomes bigger. It will also give you some documentation of the problem, which you will be able to use when you file your online complaint with the BBB.In your written letter, you should clearly identify the problem and the resolution that you would like. For example, you might say, “I am writing because the Acme Widgets that I bought do not glow in the dark, as the advertising claims. I would like to return them for a full refund.”
Summarize your prior efforts to resolve the problem. You should provide the dates and locations of any contacts you made with anyone from the company. For example, you might say, “On October 1, 2016, I returned to the Acme store in Anytown, USA, and I spoke with the manager, Mr. Smith. I asked to return the widgets, but he told me he would not refund my money.”

, In most cases, if your first effort to resolve the problem was not successful, you are not going to change the result just by putting your concerns in writing. The purpose of the letter is to provide documentation for your BBB complaint. Make sure that you keep a copy of the letter. If possible, you should print and sign the letter, and then save a scanned copy of the letter so you can upload it into your online BBB complaint., The BBB will accept certain types of complaints and will attempt to help you resolve the dispute with the company. However, there are several types of disputes that the BBB will not accept. These disallowed issues include:Employee/employer disputes
Discrimination claims
Matters that are/have been litigated/arbitrated
Complaints against individuals not engaged in business
Issues challenging the validity of local, state, or federal law
Complaints against government agencies, including the postal service
Matters not related to marketplace issues

, The Better Business Bureau (BBB) has many offices throughout North America. Nevertheless, there is a single, centralized website that you can use for filing your online complaint. You can begin your complaint by visiting www.bbb.org. From that home page, select “Contact” at the bottom of the screen. On the new screen, select the link to “I want to file a complaint.”, The first screen of the complaint form asks you to select the type of consumer problem that is the basis of your complaint. When you select one of the options, you may be prompted to answer additional questions. You will need to select one of the following options:Vehicle
Cell phone or wireless carrier
Business product or service
Business advertising
Business privacy policy or practices
Charity.
 You must provide the name and address of the company that you are having a problem with. The online complaint form has a search feature that lets you search for the company by using its full name or part of the name. You can also search by location, using the name of the city, state or zip code.You are required to identify the specific location for the store. If you cannot provide this information, you will have to find it or you will not be able to proceed with the online complaint form.
After you identify business and its location, you may be redirected to another screen. Your complaint will then be handled by the local or regional branch of the BBB where the business is located. You will need to proceed by answering the questions that are presented.
 The BBB will not accept anonymous complaints. You must complete the next section of the online complaint form by providing your name, address, telephone number, and other contact information. If you leave any of the required information blank, you will not be allowed to proceed with filing your complaint., The next section of the online complaint form provides you with a blank screen to explain your complaint. You may write as much as necessary to explain your complaint. When completing this section of the online complaint form, remember the following suggestions for best results:An exact copy of what you write will be sent to the business.
The text of your complaint will be posted on BBB websites. Therefore, you should not include any personally identifying information in the text that you write. Do not include names, telephone numbers or account numbers.
Remain professional. If you use any insulting, derogatory or profane language, your complaint will not be processed. You are also not likely to get results that way. Focus on the details of the problem.
Keep it brief. Provide only the relevant details. You do not need to repeat every single part of the transaction or any subsequent conversations. Focus on the relevant details of your dispute.
 After you present the details of your complaint, you will be asked a series of questions about yourself. This is a brief survey conducted by the BBB so they can better understand the people who use their online complaint service. Your participation in this survey is optional. If you choose not to answer the questions, just click “Next” at the end of the screen.
 As the final stage of submitting your online complaint to the BBB, you will be redirected to a screen that contains all the information you have just submitted. You should review this information very carefully to make sure that it is complete and correct. Check that all the address information is correct, both for yourself and for the company. Review your written statement, both for clarity and completeness.If you wish to revise any part of your complaint, you may do so by selecting “Previous” at the bottom of the screen.
When you are satisfied that the complaint is accurate and complete, then submit it by clicking on “Submit Complaint” at the bottom of the screen.
If you have changed your mind and wish not to submit your complaint at all, you can select “Cancel.”

, The BBB will process your complaint as soon as you submit it. Within two business days, they will forward your complaint to the business that you have identified. The business will be expected to reply with fourteen days. If the BBB does not receive a reply within that time, they will make a second request., When the company responds to the BBB, you will then receive a copy of that response. If the company does not respond, then the BBB will send you a notice that no response was received. If the BBB does not receive a response within 30 days after the filing of your complaint, the complaint will be closed., If the company submits a response, you will receive a copy of it. The company may agree with your complaint and consent to your requested remedy. Alternatively, the company may stand on its earlier decision. In either case, you should review the company’s response carefully. You may need to take some action, such as returning to the store for a refund.Even if the company continues to deny your complaint, you may wish to use their response in any future action that you choose to take.
 Most local communities have a chamber of commerce. This is an organization of the businesses in the community, which provides a variety of services for both the businesses as well as consumers in the area. You may wish to contact your local chamber of commerce to find out if they have a formal complaint process.
 In most states, the attorney general’s office may contain a consumer affairs bureau or department. You should check your state’s official website to find contact information for this office, and then contact them with the details of your complaint. The attorney general does not always get involved with individual complaints, but if your concern indicates a larger consumer problem, the attorney general may take legal action.For example, in Indiana, the attorney general website contains a link for you to file an online complaint directly to their office.The Massachusetts attorney general has a Consumer Advocacy and Response Division that accepts and responds to consumer complaints., Although you may not resolve your problem this way, you can warn other consumers and perhaps exert some pressure on the company. Post your concerns on Facebook or Twitter. You may also use a source like Yelp.com to post your complaint., If the amount of money involved is substantial, and you still have not received satisfactory treatment, you may wish to take legal action in court. For this, you should consult with a local attorney. An attorney can help you review the details of your case and determine if you have a valid claim that can be satisfied in court. An attorney can also help guide you through the legal process with drafting and filing a complaint, and taking the case to settlement or trial.If the amount is within a particular dollar amount, you may be able to file a complaint in small claims court. This is a division of your local trial court that has simplified procedures and generally easier paperwork. For information, you should contact the trial court in your county.

