 Using a chronological layout can be useful to highlight career progression and development.List your resume in a reverse chronological order, starting with your most recent experience.
This layout highlights your experience more than any other section.
It can be helpful to show your progress and promotions for the multiple positions you may have held.;
, Try a skill-based layout for a very specific position that requires certain technical skills.This layout type focuses less on your experience, and more on your individual skills.
Be careful before you decide to use this layout, as this has the propensity to elongate your CV and many employers are not familiar with it.
 Use a resume that is based on specific keywords to raise your chances of being selected by a scanning machine.Many companies are now scanning for keywords in electronic resumes, which allows them to scan for certain nouns instead of action verbs.
These keywords are usually traced back to the job description that the company advertised.
There are many recruiting firms you can use that can create this type of resume.
 In case you are looking for a job that is outside of your own country, select a layout that suits the country, industry, and job you are applying for.There are certain countries that are quite particular about handwritten cover letters, formatting, photographs, and much more.
You should check these elements when deciding on a layout.
 Decide what information you want to include towards the top of the page, as this will determine where your recruiter's eyes land first.No one likes to read something that is completely haphazard, where every piece of information is just stuffed into columns randomly.
Your resume has to be legible and organized so that the recruiter has no difficulty locating the information he/she is looking for in the document.
The closer your important information is to the top of the page, the better you will be able to draw your reader's eyes to it.
Information that is far down on the page may not be read, as recruiters have a limited amount of time to dedicate to each resume.
Highlight the section that you feel the strongest about and use a layout that maximizes the impact of your CV.
 Make sure to go through your CV and remove extraneous information that could clutter your page.


It should not look like every available space has been occupied by words, because this will make your resume look cramped and will drive away the interest of the employer.
Only give detail about your current and previous employer to make sure you don't waste paper space.
Early career details should be compressed into short descriptions that are not visually distracting.
You can try condensing them by simply giving the company name, job title, and employment dates.
 It is very important to describe your content in a precise manner so that your CV doesn’t look like a long essay.


If you keep only essential details, it is easy for the hiring manager to identify the key points that relate to your skills.
This will help structure your CV and create a sense of visual balance.
Ideally, your CV should span only 2 pages.
 Using different techniques to save space can help you condense your CV length to a significant extent.


Mention your contact details in single line instead of putting them in separate lines.
If you have presented the content with double spacing, shift to single spacing.
Present the details as bullet points using short sentences.
Keep the font small, i.e. 10 points instead of 12, to avoid unintentionally elongating your CV.
You can also consider decreasing the side, top, and bottom margins.
Remove unnecessary spaces between sections.
 Dividing your CV into particular sections will help you present pieces of information independently from one another, and create visual appeal.Use lines, dots, or small white spaces to break up sections of your CV and ensure that they are viewed as separate parts.
Dividing things into sections so that everything has its place and will make your resume easier to use for the employer.
You should use sections to highlight your education, work experience, achievements, and more.
 Choose a conventional font style that is professionally acceptable, such as Times New Roman or Arial.


Do not try to be creative with your font; using a fancy font is not advisable and can seem childish.
Choose something that is easy to read and gives a professional look to your CV.
The standard size of the fonts should be 11 or 12.
Use of bold should be limited to highlighting key areas of your CV.
Try to restrict yourself to only one font size.
 Leaving a lot of white, empty space on your resume can throw employers off, making them think that you don't have enough skill or work experience to fill up your CV.


Although you should avoid letting your CV run beyond two pages, make sure that it fills each page fully.
 A CV skills matrix is a table that provides an opportunity to speak more about yourself within a limited space.


By using short phrases, tables, and bullet points, you can use the space in your CV optimally.
 PDF is the preferred CV format nowadays, so make sure to submit your CV as a PDF to your employer.


The clarity is much better in a PDF, as compared to a Word file.
Nobody can alter the contents of your PDF format CV.
Getting a printout of the PDF format CV offers great clarity.
 When you come across a job, research a little about what it entails to tailor your resume to the position.


Call the recruiter and get some details about the position.
Once you have jotted down the skills and abilities that the job calls for, write your curriculum vitae with them in mind.
You can write down all the skills you have and then elaborate on the ones that you think the employer is specifically looking for in a candidate.
This can include your qualifications, work history, skills, etc.
Your knowledge about the company and its recent events will show the employer how committed you are to getting the job.
Tailoring your CV shows that you have a professional attitude and are not just jumping head first into something without thinking.
 These are the details that identify you, and are usually placed at the very top of your CV.


This section includes your complete name, address, email, mobile phone, and LinkedIn ID.
Depending upon the type of job or industry you are trying to get into, you might consider adding your photograph, and a link to your website or blog.
 This section illustrates the job roles you have had or currently have, including any projects or key assignments that you have worked on.


It may also list your volunteer work and your non-professional achievements as well.
It shouldn’t be a huge laundry list of information, but should be a concise description of facts, such as the start and end date of your job/projects, your job title, the company/organization you worked for, and a brief description of what your job's duties included.
 In this section, list your special skills and proficiencies .


You can also include the relevant courses you have completed, such as a course in MS Excel.
This section can make you stand out in terms of your specific technical skills.
 In this section, outline the educational institutions you attended, the years you were there, your majors, grades, special awards, and extracurricular activities.


Always start with your highest and most recent education and move in reverse order from there.
Keep the information restricted to the college or university name and avoid writing the address and other details.
 It's not necessary to include a section dedicated to individual references.


Rather, to save space, only include a statement that says “References shall be available upon request”.
 Your CV should follow a logical structure and should tell your professional history as a story.


The proverbial dots should connect, and if there is any gap, you should mention what you were doing during that time period.
If your presentation of the information and its appearance are inconsistent, then you lose your chances of grabbing the recruiter’s attention.

