 A tenant association is designed to give tenants more leverage when negotiating with landlords, ensuring you get the best possible home in exchange for your rent.As tenants, you have the right to a safe and habitable home. Other rights may vary depending on the state where you live, but at a minimum your landlord must make any major repairs that deal with water and plumbing systems or the structural integrity of the building.
Generally, the tenant association has more power than an individual tenant because of the amount of the combined rents. A landlord can more easily ignore a single tenant complaining about something such as a leaky faucet than a group that represents a majority of tenants.
Consider the situation from the landlord's perspective: He may shrug his shoulders about a single tenant's complaint, figuring he can deal with losing just one unit's rent. However, a group of tenants threatening to withhold rent that represents half or more of his monthly income is a different matter altogether.
Tenant associations also enable you to create a tighter sense of community with your neighbors. Social events sponsored by the tenant association can help build relationships.
You might also consider creating an online forum or social media page so tenants can offer services, such as babysitting or dog-walking, and help each other.
 Depending on the condition of your building or complex and how negligent your landlord has been, you may have some angry residents in attendance.Be sure to allow everyone a chance to talk. Allowing people to let off steam may be essential to maintaining a general sense of order.
Allow anyone to speak who wants to do so, but don't pressure anyone to come forward.
You may want someone to take notes so you can get a feel for the general concerns that are presented. Making a list of categories such as "maintenance concerns" and "rent increases" and making a tally mark under the category each time it's mentioned can help you prioritize later on.
 After getting a feel for the residents' concerns, you should all come together to decide which problems should be addressed first.Put problems that affect the most residents at the top of your list, followed by problems that fewer people have to deal with but that have a severe impact on their quality of life.
You also should consider dealing with a few smaller problems that seem easier to handle – and easier to get landlord agreement on – first. If the tenant association is able to chalk up some early victories, no matter how small, it will strengthen the association's unity and encourage other residents to join.
 Depending on the size of your association, you may want to designate specific groups of people to consistently keep on top of issues in a particular area.Try to choose residents to lead committees who have experience in the issues likely to come up in that category. They typically will have the familiarity necessary to prioritize individual complaints.
For example, if you have a committee in charge of maintenance requests, you may want people leading that committee who have experience in maintenance or construction.
Especially in the early stages of forming your association, don't neglect recruiting and welcoming new members. You also may want to form a social committee to arrange community events such as cook-outs or pot-luck dinners to build connections between residents.
 Coming together as a group may give you a more powerful voice as tenants, but if your landlord still won't cooperate you have to be willing to take action.In many states, you have the right to withhold rent if there are significant health or safety issues that affect all or most tenants.
You also may want to call your state or local building inspectors to come out and look at the property.
If your landlord is ignoring the tenant association's demands and you are considering taking action, make sure you check your state law and follow the correct procedures. Typically you can find this information out by talking to someone who works at your state or local housing agency, but you might also want to consult an experienced landlord-tenant law attorney.

