 If you are pressed for time, it's tempting to rush, but you need to speak thoughtfully for these techniques to work.Pay attention to your audience. If they are irritable, don't "bark" orders--instead adopt a cooperative voice. If they respond more to assertive attitudes, speak with more volume and make direct eye contact.
If you are using these techniques for a distraction-type stall, you may want to practice these some to get confidence using them so your body language does not betray your goal.
 This is a negotiation of sorts, you are bargaining time with your words.Whatever your subject is asking or doing, you need to offer to sacrifice time elsewhere simultaneously.
This usually should be done during or right after the subject of the stall is occurring.
An example of this might be your boss needs you to meet a work deadline, but you are working on other projects. Offer instead to speed up those projects instead of meeting the first deadline.
Another example might be you are asked by one relative to pick up another relative at the airport, but you offer to drive around the first relative's children to and from school instead.
 This reorganizes the time so your subject is distracted by the change and not focused on the overall passage of time.Divide the time you originally had to work with into manageable blocks stretched out over a longer period. For example, if you are stalling a task that was originally given a day--break its components into hour-long segments that can be done in different parts of subsequent days.
If this is a substantially longer stall--perhaps an assignment due over months--then offer to re-organize the time of the assignment's components along more stretched-out and manageable deadlines. This way you are giving something concrete to the subject, but also workable by you.
 This is can be a way to distract your subject from the passage of time more thoroughly.This can take more time than some of the other steps because it will require considerable original thought. You will need to have an alternative suggestion ready in relatively short order when the stall tactic is called upon.
An example of this would be during a business meeting when your boss asks you if your proposal for a new project is ready, and you need to buy time, so you have a new idea entirely to direct the discussion.
Another instance of this technique might be where you are running a concert and one of your acts does not show up, so you announce an alternate form of entertainment to your fans--another act or contest, etc.
 This is somewhat of a last resort as it is the hardest form of stalling to disguise and can be interpreted in many ways.


There are a lot of techniques that fall under this method including excusing yourself from the situation--asking to go to the restroom, feigning illness, attending to a cell phone, etc...
Don't be so abrupt that you insult the subject and immediately alert them to the stall tactic. For example, if they are a teacher asking you about your homework, don't start talking about the weather.
Do use words that shade off the original subject. For example, if you are stalling for time for meeting a friend at a restaurant that is some distance away by car--you can talk about how bad the traffic is.

