 In some cases, someone might make a comment about being an attention whore or you could suspect you might be too “visible.” These can be signs that you’re an attention whore. Take some time to have an honest conversation with yourself about the possibility that you are an attention whore.Be brutally honest with yourself about your behavior. Some typical ways that attention whores behave include: faking illness, acting in overly dramatic ways, causing harm to others to look like a hero in the situation, putting yourself as a leader in any situation, acting overly busy and very important, pretending to be a victim at the smallest situation.Think about specific situations where you were the center of attention. Ask yourself, “Was I doing or saying things that made sure that others saw and heard me?”
Look over your social media accounts, which are often the site of behaviors of an attention whore. See if you are making ridiculous statements or posting inappropriate photos. Reading people’s reactions or checking how many “likes” you have can help you figure out if you’re an attention whore. Also ask yourself, “Do I constantly check how many people liked and commented on my post?”;
, If you’ve realized that you’re an attention whore, it’s important to know why you act this way. Think about if there are specific situations that you are or feel like you need to be center of attention. It could be things like wanting to get a guy’s attention or you feel like you are less successful than others.Asking yourself the following questions may help you pinpoint patterns in your attention seeking behaviors:


When do I seek attention?
Is there someone in particular I want to impress?
Do I feel insecure and then try to make someone else look or feel bad?
Do I feed off of people reacting to my behavior, even if it is mean or inappropriate?
Are my attempts to get any kind of attention successful?
Is the type of attention I’m getting the kind I want?

, How others respond to you in any situation is a good sign of their feelings about you. Listening to what they say or paying attention to their body language can cue you into whether or not you’re an attention whore.Watch how people respond when you start talking. Do they move away? Do you notice that some are rolling their eyes? These can be good signs that you’re seeking too much attention and turning off others with your behavior.
Listen to what people say when you speak. If you hear a, “Come on, Avery,” or “We can all see and hear your, Avery,” people may think you’re an attention whore. Some people may even make remarks like, “Why do you always have to be the center of attention, Avery?” or “OMG, you’re such an attention whore, Avery.” These are good signs others think you are an attention whore.
Watch people’s body language when you are in a group and the center of attention. Some physical signals you may be annoying them with your attention whore ways include: crossing arms, huffing or sighing, looking at anything but you, turning away from you, rubbing their faces in exasperation, giving you “death stares,”

