 Electabuzz's evolution, Electivire, is not around in earlier versions of the game.


You cannot move Pokémon from Generation I or II to later games. You'll need to start fresh on Generation III or later instead. Remember, you can only evolve Electabuzz in Generation IV or later.
In Generation IV games, you'll need to beat the game and then you can transfer in your Generation III Pokémon at Pal Park.;
, Electabuzz needs this item to evolve into Electivire. The location of the Electrizer depends on the game. You cannot find an Electirizer in Generation III or earlier.Game
Location
Details


Diamond
Pearl
Capture wild Elekid
Click for details


Platinum
Valley Windworks
Capture wild Elekid
Click for details


HeartGold
SoulSilver
Cerulean Cave
Amity Meadow
Click for details


Black
White
Route 13
Click for details


Black 2
White 2
Join Avenue Antique Shop
Plasma Frigate (W2)
Click for details


X
Y
Battle Maison, PokeMileage Club
Click for details


Omega Ruby
Alpha Sapphire
Capture wild Elekid
Click for details


Sun
Moon
Seafolk Village
Capture wild Elekid or Electabuzz
Battle Tree
Click for details


, It will need to be holding the item to evolve.
 Electabuzz needs to be traded to evolve. Find someone that will trade your evolved Electivire back to your after it evolves. Electabuzz will evolve as soon as it is traded.


You can only trade with someone playing a game from the same Generation as you. In each of the Pokémon games, trading won't become available until after you complete a gym or two.
In Generation IV and V, trade using the Union Room in any Pokémon Center. You can also trade using the IR feature in Generation V. See this article for a guide on trading.In Generation VI, online and local trading is performed by using the Player Search System.
In Generation VII, online and local trading is performed by using the Festival Plaza.
 Your friend will have the Electivire in their party after the trade, so make sure they trade it back to you.


The Electirizer will disappear after Electabuzz evolves.
 You'll need to capture a wild Elekid which may be holding an Electabuzz. The major challenge here is that you'll need to have a Pokémon FireRed cartridge inserted into the DS in the second slot (This won't work on a DSi, 3DS, or 2DS). You'll also need to have completed your National Pokedex in your current game, but you don't have to have beaten the Elite 4. Once you have met all of these requirements, you'll have an 8% chance of finding an Elekid on Route 205 and at Valley Windworks.
 You can find an Electirizer in Valley Windworks by surfing off the right side of the bridge before Valley Windworks and then getting off by the windmill that you can't normally reach behind the fence. You may also find one being held by a wild Electabuzz, which you can find in the grass on Route 222.
 You can find an Electirizer on B1F in Cerulean Cave. You'll need the Surf, Flash, and Rock Climb abilities to be able to get to it. Go to the upper-right corner of B1F and you'll see a rocky wall you can climb down. Continue moving to the right and then use Rock Climb again to climb back up. The Electirizer will be on the ground nearby.


If you have the Pokewalker pedometer and got the Amity Field area during a special event, you can use the Pokewalker to get a chance at an Electirizer after 2550 steps.
 You can find an Electirizer in Black and White on Route 13. This Route only becomes available after you have beaten the main game. You'll need to bring along a Pokémon with the Cut ability. You can get to Route 13 from the north of Undella Town. Continue along the path until you get to the stairs down to the sand. Head straight down before the stairs and use Cut on the tree. Just a little further past the tree, you'll find the Electirizer.
 You can find an Electirizer from the Antique Shop on Join Avenue, but getting it is based on chance. The Electirizer is one of the possible rewards for the Small, Ordinary, Big, and Super Big Boxes as long as Agata the Pokémon Breeder or Jane the Parasol Lady is running the shop.


In White 2, you can find an Electirizer in the cafeteria on the Plasma Frigate. The frigate moves to different locations during the game, but will be permanently docked outside of the P2 Lab after you defeat Ghetsis.
 You can get an Electirizer by obtaining 32 BP from the Battle Maison. This facility only becomes available after beating the game. you'll be faced with tough battles and limits on the items and Pokémon that you can use. You normally get 1 BP per successful match, but streaks will grant bonuses.


You can also play the Balloon Popping game in the PokeMileage Club. You'll need to play Level 2, which costs 100 Poke Miles. These Miles are earned by walking in the game, trading with other players, and battling online. Pop 10 Balloons to tally your score and attempt to win the Electirizer.
 You'll need to capture a wild Elekid, which may be holding the Electirizer. You can only find wild Elekid on the Mirage Mountain that appears south of Route 129. You'll need to ride your Latios or Latias to the the mountain, as there is no other way to reach it. The mountain appears randomly on a daily basis.


The Mirage Mountain can appear in different locations. Elekid will only be on it when it is located south of Route 129.
 You can get an Electrizer from a man in the Huntail hut of Seafolk Village. He will also give you a Magmarizer (to evolve Magmar into Magmortar) along with the Electrizer.

You can also get one by capturing a wild Elekid or Electabuzz, which may be holding the Electrizer, or by buying one in the Battle Tree for 32 BP. Wild Elekid and Electabuzz appear on Route 12 and Blush Mountain. Wild Electabuzz can only be found by having a wild Elekid call one as an ally.

