 Some models of glucometers offer basic readings but do not store records over time. Others include memory storage that maintains data about each reading, including the date and time for several months. There are models that require only a small sample of blood to successfully complete a reading, something that diabetics who must monitor blood sugar once daily or more will find helpful. Even a factor such as size may be important for choosing the right machine.


To narrow down what you need, make a list of the top 5 most important aspects that you’re looking for in a glucose meter. Number them from most to least important. Consider price, memory storage, type of strips needed, how much blood is needed, size, or any other element that is important to you. ;
, Often times choosing a glucose meter is based on personal preference, but some doctors may be able to make recommendations for you. Endocrinologists, who specialize in treating people with diabetes, probably have a lot of knowledge from other patients about what brands are the most accurate and easy to use. Ask your doctor if they prefer any specific meter over others., Investigate the ratings of any blood glucose monitor that seems like a good fit. As with most products, some meters are more reliable than others in terms of readings, integrity of data archived and other attributes. By taking the time to check into consumer ratings and comments, you can avoid investing in a glucose meter that fails to live up to the promises made by the manufacturer.


This is especially important for measures of accuracy. See what people have to say about how accurate their brand of machine is, versus what the company reports.It is also a good idea to consult with a buying guide, such as the one put out by Diabetes.org., Most models today are easy to use, requiring nothing more than placing a small blood sample on a test strip and inserting one end of the strip into a specific slot on the meter. A few are somewhat more complicated, requiring you to press keys to adjust the settings or reset them each time. Consider ease of use - if you want something simple and easy, go with models that require no more than 2-3 steps to obtain a reading.

