 Having a high vertical jump will enable you to be a more formidable player, giving you an advantage over your opponent. Achieve high jumping with plyometrics, which are movements that are completed with a lot of force very quickly.Measuring your current jump height will give you a good indication of how much you are improving. To measure your height:


Ask someone to observe you. Jump up as high as you can next to a wall while reaching your arms upward. Have your observer mark on the wall how high you jumped and measure the height.
You can also put a bit of chalk on your hands. As you jump up against a wall, extend your arm upward and touch the wall at the highest point you can reach. Measure that height.
 Use a surface that is about 2 feet off the ground, such as a jump box or bench. Face the box and jump on it with both feet landing flat and balanced. Do 3 sets of 20 repetitions every day. When this height becomes easy for you, add more height and challenge yourself further., Stand with your legs shoulder-width apart and hold 10-pound weights in each hand at your sides. Bend your knees and jump up in the air. At the same time, shrug your shoulders to help lift the weights. Land back down with both feet firmly balanced on the floor. Complete 3 sets of 25 repetitions every day.When this weight becomes easy, increase your weights in 5-poumd increments.
Alternately, use a medicine ball instead of weights. Lift the ball above your head as you jump up. Bring the ball back to your chest when you land on the ground., In between other exercises, jump rope as quickly as possible for 30-second intervals. This will not only improve your ability to jump quickly and with height, but it will also improve your endurance and cardio performance.
 Training your leg muscles will help you jump higher with more force. Do squats, deadlift weight training, and other strength training for your legs 2-3 times a week., After spending two weeks on these types of jump training exercises, re-measure your jump height to see how much you have improved. If you haven’t improved as much as you’d like, keep working at these drills.

