 Here are some things you may want to consider: Age: Would you like to help a young child or a teenager who might be having a harder time finding a sponsor? Gender: Would you rather sponsor a boy or a girl? Location: Children International operates 17 sponsorship agencies on four different continents. Every country we work in has its own unique set of challenges. Visit our Country Pages for an overview of each area.Our website, http://www.children.org, is one of the few that allows you to look through the files of children who are currently waiting for sponsorship. This allows you to choose a child whose situation compels you the most. When you choose the child you would like to sponsor, your bond of friendship grows stronger and has a more positive impact on that child’s life…and yours.When you’ve chosen the child you wish to sponsor, make a note of the child’s ID# and move on to Step Two.;
, You’ll be able to view current and past pictures of your sponsored child, write letters to them, make donations, and learn more about their daily life through your online account. If you have any questions about setting up your account, please call us at: -800-888-3089, Mon-Thurs 7 a.m. - 9 p.m. CT, Fridays 7 a.m. -6 p.m. CT

, Be sure to respond to their letters. Answer their questions, tell them about yourself, and send them pictures. These children are so excited to receive letters and photos from their sponsors. You can also stay engaged by asking your child specific questions about their life. Mark their birthday and other special days on your calendar and keep them in your thoughts when those days approach. Think about how you might be able to help your child achieve his or her goals. The more you and your sponsored child know about each other, the easier it becomes to develop a friendship. And when you see the positive changes you’re making in your child’s life, that friendship will turn into one of the most rewarding experiences you’ll ever have.
 The answer is easy: by recruiting more people to sponsor a child through Children International. Visit our Lift One Project site and see how you can create your own webpage to tell your friends and family about your sponsorship experience and urge them to get involved. We make creating your own Lift One webpage easy and fun, with step-by-step instructions to guide you through the process. Creating your own webpage allows you to multiply the amount of children you can help.

