 First things first, friends are probably the most important thing a girl can have in high school! But making the right friends is even more crucial. So, find people that share the same interests as you like liking the color pink for matching days or loving the same music to win the talent show. Whatever you do, just don't change yourself for anyone! There's plenty of people that will be good for you, be patient.;
, Believe it or not, every year counts in high school and you definitely don't want to get behind. Some good tips for staying ahead in high school is getting plenty of rest before school days so that you can be focused in class, doing ALL of your homework, asking your teacher for help when you need it (don't be shy), and making sure you check your averages in your classes weekly.
 They can be a blessing or a huge heart break. Unfortunately, there's no way to tell you how to have a good love life. The best advice when it comes to boys is age and personality. Don't dress or act a different way to get a boy's or girl's attention; be yourself and they should come without saying. Which is an even better point, DO NOT be clingy. Don't text/call someone several times a day if they barely know your name. People hate annoying girls just as much as you. Playing hard to get is not a reliable strategy- generally, friendliness is much more appealing.
 Drama, oh no. This is probably the hardest part of a teenage girl's life. When you're in high school, people get bored and say things that can be hurtful. The best way to avoid it is to not participate/create it. If the girl in your science class has ugly shoes, keep it to yourself instead of telling every person you know. The more you judge others, the more they judge you. And you might even find yourself in a fight. Be polite, and remind yourself that you can only be you and that's something that no one else has the pleasure of being.
 Parties, drugs, alcohol, are all-around trouble. Parties and going out on the weekends is teenage paradise, but you may find yourself in a nightmare if you're not careful. So remember this, getting drunk/high when you're too young is illegal and damages your life. Just because other people do things doesn't mean they're cool. It means they're taking a risk of doing stupid and self-harming things. Many upon many teenagers are killed in car crashes with drunk drivers or driving drunk. The best advice when it comes to being naughty in high school is, stay away from trouble and be sensible. Your future is in your hands, keep it safe.
 Sex can be very scary to a young person, but it can also be very pleasurable if done properly. Make sure the person you have sex with respects you, and always stay safe.

