 Open your favorite browser, type http://www.hiretheworld.com into the address bar, and press Enter.;
, Once you’re on the main page, click on the “Sign In” button at the top right side of the screen to open the login page. Once it does, enter your username or email, and your password into the two text boxes in the middle of the screen. Click on “Sign in” to load your main profile page.
 On your profile page, you will see your username at the top right side of the screen. Let your mouse hover over it, and a drop-down list will appear. Click on Settings from the list to load your Personal Information settings.
 Once your Personal Information settings are loaded, you will see the Username field. Click inside it, and type in a new username if you don’t like the one you have at the moment. You can get as creative as you want after all you’re a designer!


If you change your username, remember to log in with it the next time you sign in to your account.
 The next text boxes are for your first and last name. It is better to use your real name if you are trying to make a name for yourself as a designer.
 The fourth text box is for your country, while the fifth is for your state. Both country and state are selected from drop-down menus.
 Next in line is your phone number. That is, if you want it to be listed. If you do, simply click inside the box and type it in, area code included.
 Of course, this only applies if you want to change your present email address. If you do, click on the blue “Change” button right next to your current email address, and a pop-up window will appear.


Type and re-type your new email address into the two text boxes in the pop-up window.
To verify that your account security isn’t being breached, you will be asked to enter your password before your new email address is saved.
Finally, click on the “Change” button below your password to save your new email address.
 Below your profile photo box is a gray button that says “Choose file.” Click on it if you want to add or change your picture. A pop-up window will appear showing the pictures saved in your computer. When you find a photo you like, double-click on it, and it will then be displayed on your profile.
 Just indicate your preference by checking or unchecking the “Show real name” option. If you don’t want people to see your name, click the check box so that it is empty.
 Just check the tick box next to “Private Profile,” and your profile will be hidden from logged-out users and search engines.
 Once you’re done editing your personal information, scroll down to the bottom of the page and click on the blue “Save settings” button.

