 They will be a great source of encouragement and equipment/method opinions plus be in a position to help solve the problems you may encounter.;
, Are you lifting your daily driver a few inches to accommodate larger tires and make it more trail worthy or are you building the ultimate trail rig that you will trailer to events? This is the most important step as it will dictate what you do during the remaining steps. Think about the need to get your vehicle inspected, how high of a lift do you want, what's involved with installing the lift (1-2 is fairly simple not requiring much; higher and you may need to adjusted/drop other parts on the vehicle - parts that may not be included in the lift kit), and most importantly your budget.
 The kits will range from a few spacers costing less than $100 to large groups of parts such as springs, shocks, track bars, control arms, steering components, extended brake lines, etc. for several thousand dollars.
 It is assumed here that you have the mechanical skills and tools to accomplish the job safely. If you have any doubt about this consider having your lift kit professionally installed.
 Depending on the extent and type of kit, the directions will most likely begin with "support the front end of the vehicle on sturdy jack stands on a level surface and remove the wheels and tires." This is an essential step for ensuring your safety during the installation and allows access to the suspension parts.
 Depending on the kit you may also replace or modify control arms, brake lines, track bars, and the Pitman arm steering part. Again stick to the kit manufacturer's directions as they vary too much to be more specific here.
, Solve any problems before attempting to operate the vehicle.
 Repeat the left to right steering test for any signs of interference. Do this both on the ground as well as with each side jacked up (separately) to maximum suspension flex to check brake lines and for tire rub on suspension or body parts.
 The lifting of a vehicle will change the suspension geometry and proper alignment is essential for safe operation and good tire wear.
 Have fun but be safe and tread lightly to protect the environment so trails will remain open and Jeepers will keep their good name.

