 Cutting or other acts of self-harm (i.e. burning, scratching, picking at skin, etc.) are red flags that your child needs professional help. However, even if your child hasn’t actually hurt themself, stay alert for threats of them harming themself. This may be clearly spelled out, such as “I want to die” or more subtle like, “I need to punish myself.”, Statements your child makes can help clue you in that something isn't going right in their inner world. Children can't express their thoughts and feelings in the same way adults do. But, they may offer hints that they are having problems.Listen to comments that hint at anxiety or other problems, like "I'm scared to go to sleep at night because images of the accident come into my head." Or, "I don't want to go to school because the other kids don't like me."

, Common behavioral signs that your child may benefit from therapy include acting out behaviors, such as angry outbursts, uncontrollable tantrums, aggressive behaviors, or extreme crying episodes. Your child may also exhibit hitting, biting, or kicking behaviors towards you or others., Any major, yet unexplained, shift in your child’s behavior or functioning should be considered when making your decision. There are various ways underlying problems may manifest. Bedwetting, sleeping problems, sudden clinginess, eating changes, and bullying incidents may all point to a bigger issue., Before deciding to go to therapy, you may determine the extent of the problem by reaching out to others. Oftentimes, problem behaviors are not unique to the home. Your child may have declining academic or athletic performance, too. Others may also note changes in their attitude or self-esteem.You might talk to your partner or co-parent to see if they have spotted any alarming behaviors. You might also ask your child’s teachers, coaches, school counselors, or childcare professional for their honest assessment.
 Addressing your concerns about the behavioral and emotional health of your child is not always easy. It is important to address these concerns in a way that your child understands or in a way that will allow you to help your child. To better understand what is happening in your child’s world, take steps to open up the lines of communication. You can do this by:Connecting with your child before you direct them to do things and make requests of them.
Keeping your language simple and at a level that your child understands based on their developmental level.
Maintaining a positive attitude.
Showing concern for your child rather than disappointment, anger, or frustration.
Avoiding threats or judgments.
Giving your child time to finish their thoughts and sentences before you speak.
Asking open-ended questions to get your child talking more.

