 In getting out of a text fight with a friend, it is important to communicate immediately that you are not going to fight with them over text. It will only make things more difficult for the two of you. Be clear, kind, and firm in telling them that you will not continue to communicate this way with them.Try sending the following messages.


”It seems like you are upset. I'd rather not fight about this over text message.”
”I'm not going to fight with you over the phone.”
”It's not going to be helpful to do this over text.”;
, After informing your friend that you will not fight over text, ask them to speak with you in person. Speaking in person will allow you both to get a clearer picture of how you are feeling and what's going on.Schedule a time and a place to meet with them to talk about what is going on. You may have to repeat the request to meet instead of fighting over text. Try the following.


”Let's talk about this face to face instead.”
”I want to make sure I give this the attention it deserves. When can we meet to talk about it?”
”I'm confused, let's meet up and talk.”
”Let me know when you are ready to talk about this in person.”

, It can be very easy to react emotionally when a friend is fighting with you. Try and remember that getting out of a text fight with your friend should include the minimal amount of text communication possible. Try texting just logistics or plans to meet up only.Along these lines, avoid actions that will make the argument worse. Try and take a few minutes before you respond to anything over text to give yourself time to make a more rational decision. Avoid the following.


Sending meme reaction pictures.
Responding with only emojis.
Name calling, cursing, or blaming language.
 After you have made requests to not fight over text and to meet up to discuss in person, your friend may keep sending you messages. If they keep trying to contact you, do not respond. It may be difficult, but stick to your word in saying you will not fight over text.Responding will only show the friend that you will engage with them or continue to fight with them over text.


If it becomes distracting or begins to interfere with you life, consider blocking their number for a while., If you are a teenager, college student, or just prefer texting, chances are most of your communication is over text messages. Using text messages as your main form of communication may result in text fights being a reoccurring problem in your friendships. Fights occur more easily over text as well due to being unable to see reactions to texts or reading tone of the speaker.Try incorporating the following into your friendships to avert any future text fights.


Don't start text fights yourself. If you instigate a text fight with a friend, that sends the message that fighting over text is okay. If something upsets you give yourself some time to process it, and talk to them about it in person.
Set up a “no fight over text” rule in your friendship. Talk to your friend about it. Make an agreement that your friendship is too important to let text fighting get in the way. Remind each other of that rule when necessary.
If you have a friend who repeatedly fights with you over text or who does not respect your wishes to talk in person, consider the future of your friendship. Not everyone is ready to be mature about their relationships. You may have to scale back on your friendship with them until they are able to maturely talk about problems that pop up.

