 See if your high school has an LGBTQ club or group, and join in! Often times, these organizations are open to both LGBTQ members and to allies, so if you are unsure about being out or not, this may be a good place to start.If you are sure, then joining in will help you find potential dates. Additionally, you'll be able to find a support network among the group of others who understand what it is like to be LGBTQ and date while in school.If there is no LGBTQ club or group at your school, start one! Speak with an advisor, counselor, or teacher about starting a club or group. Being a leader is a great way to be attractive to others!
If you are hesitant about joining an LGBTQ group, still try to find a community at your school. It could be a different club, or it could be the music, art, theater, or sports programs.;
, Joining a group online will help you with a sense of community and a place to network within the community.If you are cautious about exploring through your school, or you live in an area that is less accepting, the online community may feel like a safer place to start. Share your experience, ask questions about dating or coming out, get inspired, and inspire others. Make your safety your number one priority. Never agree to meet someone you met online in real life by yourself.


LGBT Chat & Forums
Empty Closets
Daily Strength
It Gets Better

, In addition to joining groups online and through school, access resources in your local geographic areas. Joining groups in your local area and accessing what they have available will also provide you more networking opportunities and possible dating partners. Local groups will also provide places for you to go if your home environment is not as accepting as you would like it to be.LGBT Community Centers
PFLAG Chapters
Search your nearest city for non-profit organizations or centers for LGBTQ youth.
 Keep your old friends, but make new ones, too. Pick a friend, someone you're close to, but someone you can also talk to openly about what you are going through. Make friends with people in the community that you admire and that you'd like to be more like. In this way, your new friends can help mentor you around the dating world.


Find friends in the activities that you like to do, or the hobbies and interests you have.
Smile. It's remarkable how much easier it is to make friends when you are smiling.
Be helpful. Another good way to make new friends in engaging in community service.
 Many people will be judgmental of both you and your lifestyle, unfortunately that thinking is still alive in the world. Remember that people are fearful of what they do not understand. Tell them that they have no right to condemn you, the way you choose to live your life, or who you choose to have a relationship with.Be too busy discovering your new community and getting yourself out there to care what they think.

