 This herbal remedy is usually used as a home treatment for digestive disorders such as Crohn’s disease.


It is classified as a demulcent, which is a substance that defends the irritated and inflamed smooth muscles of the digestive tract, promoting its recovery and healing.
The therapeutic range of slippery elm is 60 mg to 320 mg a day. The slippery elm powder can be mixed with a glass of water and can be taken 3 to 4 times a day.
 This is not the same marshmallow that kids love. It is a medicinal perennial herb that is used to treat ailments of the stomach and the intestines, such as those caused by Crohn’s disease.


This herb is classified as a demulcent like slippery elm, which protects the inflamed tissues and facilitates their recovery. At the same time, it is also an emollient (a substance that provides lubrication) which soothes the mucous membranes of the digestive system.
This herb is taken as a tea by steeping 2–5 grams (0.071–0.18 oz) of dried leaf or 5 grams (0.18 oz) of dried root in a cup of boiling water. The tea is then strained and allowed to cool. It can be taken 3 times a day.
However, marshmallow is to be avoided if you have diabetes, since it can increase blood sugar levels. It might also interfere with other drugs taken orally so it is best to take it one hour after taking other oral medications.
 Turmeric is a spice that is closely related to ginger. It is found in abundant amounts in curry.


Research has shown that Crohn’s disease patients who took turmeric reduced their symptoms and lessened their need for other medications.Therefore, due to the strong anti inflammatory and antibacterial properties of turmeric, it has been used as an herbal remedy to treat Crohn’s disease.
The usual therapeutic dosage of turmeric is 1 to 2 grams (0.035 to 0.071 oz) per day. Increasing your consumption of food such as one serving of chicken curry or curry rice is enough to meet your daily intake of turmeric.
 Folic acid and iron must be naturally present in our body at normal levels to ensure that our body is producing the healthy blood cells needed to distribute adequate amounts of oxygen and nutrients to other organs in our body.


Unfortunately, people with Crohn’s disease naturally steer clear of cruciferous vegetables and nuts, which are rich sources of folic acid and iron.
A good remedy would be to take an iron + folic acid supplement of 60 mg of iron and 400 micrograms of folic acid in a tablet at least once a day to supplement your deficiency of these minerals.
 This is because vitamin D serves as a powerful anti-inflammatory agent that acts to normalize the function of our digestive system.


The best source of vitamin D is sun exposure (at least 15 minutes a day) because sun exposure acts as a catalyst to synthesize vitamin D in our body.
Vitamin D supplements are also available by taking at least one gel capsule of 1000 IU of vitamin D supplements a day to prevent the symptoms of Crohn’s disease.

