 Geminiani said in 1751 that “the violin must be rested just below the collarbone, turning the right-hand side of the violin a little downwards” . Give it a go. If you push the violin against the body, you'll find a quite stable position.;
, Once you have mastered a position below the collarbone, you might also want to try to rest the violin above the collarbone where you can more easily perform music from later time periods. Experiment with banging the violin against the collarbone so that you know exactly where it is. There are two possible positions: 1) more horizontal, directly on the collarbone. 2) more vertical, slightly further up and pushed against the neck, with the button of the violin pointing at the middle of the neck., You can use your thumb quite low, or you can rest the violin in your hand. In any case, you need a flexible and independent thumb that can adjust to the needs of your fingers!

, The bow is part of the chin-off equation! Believe it or not, it actually helps stabilizing the violin. Let’s do this little experiment: Glue the bow against the strings and move the violin in the air with the help of the bow.
 Depending on the angle of your violin, you might have to adjust your bow arm by moving the elbow further back if the violin is more in front of you. You will also have to adjust the level of your arm if your violin is more horizontal/vertical.
 Shifting does become a little bit more adventurous when you play chin-off, but it will also make you get to know your violin better.  There are a few different things to think of when shifting:



 When possible, do half-step shifts and gradual climbing, rather than big jumps.  
Secondly: It is possible to move the whole hand for large upward shifts, but not for large downwards ones (you might end up dropping your violin!). Instead, you can shift downwards like this:  Squeeze the violin a little between 1st finger and thumb. Put on the 2nd and 3rd finger and slide down while keeping the thumb in the same position. When you have reached your destination, rest the violin the hook of your 1st finger while you move your thumb back. Go back to your normal grip.  Voilà! You have now mastered shifting as a chin-off violinist.
 Read about and watch videos of violinists playing chin-off, find help and comfort amongst your historical colleagues!