 Shop for pieces that you can easily add on top of your current fall outfits. Cardigans, long-sleeved button-downs, hoodies, lightweight jackets, tuxedo shirts and dress shirts are all light and portable choices and can be layered relatively effortlessly. These flexible garments can be removed when you’re indoors and wrapped around your waist or tucked discreetly away in your bag.To get the most mileage out of your cardigans and jackets, opt for classic styles and solid colors. These can be mixed and matched with countless outfit combinations.;
, Most people don’t associate t-shirts and tank tops with winter, but these pieces are essential for layering. As you go through your fall wardrobe, don’t pack all of the basic pieces away. Keep the items that are classically cut and in solid, neutral colors. For example, black tank tops, short-sleeved black and white t-shirts, black pants, black leggings and tights, regular jeans and skinny jeans are always in season.Retire garments with colorful patterns and stick with wintery neutrals like black, cream, gray, brown, maroon and navy blue.
Pack away bright-colored t-shirts and anything pastel.
 The weather is getting colder, but that doesn’t mean you have to pack away all of your dresses and skirts. Basic shift dresses and pinafores can be made winter-ready by layering pieces underneath them. Long-sleeved shirts and simple turtlenecks can be worn underneath dresses to keep you warm. Tights in dark colors, especially black and navy blue, can also help you keep some dresses in your winter wardrobe.


If you live in a particularly cold climate, basic tights might not be enough. Opt for leggings in thicker materials to keep your legs warm under a dress.
In general, short, brightly colored skirts and dresses with spaghetti straps should be retired for the winter season.
 Denim jackets, leather jackets, peacoats, sharply tailored blazers, puffer jackets, down vests and trench coats are very versatile and can help you make almost any outfit winter-ready. How much bulk you need in winter depends on your particular climate, but these staples can be layered on top of basic long-sleeved shirts and jeans to protect you against most cold temperatures. You can get a lot of mileage out of these pieces, especially if you stick to classic cuts, since these never go out of style.Opt for neutral colors and solids. Dark colors are the most seasonal but white is also popular in winter.
Go for quality over quantity and you can wear these winter staples for years.

