 As only one piece can occupy a house at a time, you will sometimes be in a situation where a house is blocked by another player. There are ways to capture blocked houses when playing Senet. There are also ways to protect your own pieces.


If you land your move on a house occupied by another player, you can capture the piece. The other player's piece will be moved back to the house your piece was on at the beginning of your turn.However, if two or more of another player's pieces are next to each other, that house is protected. It cannot be captured and you will not be able to complete your turn., On a senet board, there are six houses with special pictures on them. If you land on one of these houses, there are special rules you have to follow.


The House of Happiness or Pretty House is marked by what looks like three upside down stick figures. All of your pieces need to pass through this house to win. You must land on the house exactly. If, for example, the House of Happiness is located on square 26 and you're on square 25, if you do not roll in such a way that you'll move exactly one house you have to stay in place until your next turn.The House of Water is marked by three zigzagged lines. If you land on the House of Water, you have to move straight back to the House of Rebirth. The House of Rebirth is marked by three sideways stick figures. Your piece remains on the House of Rebirth until you choose to remove it again.The House of Three Truths is marked by a drawing of three birds. If you land on this house, you can throw your sticks again. If you have three color sides up, you can automatically remove this piece from the board.The House of Re-Atoum is marked by two dancing stick figures. If you have land here, throw your sticks again. If you have two colored sticks facing up, you can remove your piece from the board.The last house on the board is marked by a leaf-like drawing. When you reach this house, you must toss your sticks again. You cannot remove your piece until you toss your sticks and only one colored stick is facing upwards., The object of senet is to move all your pieces off the board. The first player to do so wins.