 Google is your friend. If you have a question about something or need to research a certain topic, search using Google.;
, Find info about computers. Info can be in E-books, on websites, or even in books you can find at your local library. As it says in the last tip use Google to find them. Also you might want to use Usenet to find some info about computers.
 For example, you may never need or want to pick up a digital camera or be able to answer questions about it but it is worth your while to get an understanding of what a digital camera is because it increases your know-how. Everything you learn will come in handy at some point in your life.
 What is something technology-related that interests you and that you enjoy? Say it's blogging using Wordpress; research the topic and get to know how to use things first hand.
 Some great Anti-Virus/Spyware programs are Avast, Malwarebytes, Spybot, AVG, and Spyhunter. There are many Anti-Virus/Spyware programs out there, and some are free.
 Programming is one of the most important skills in technology, if no one could program there would be no world wide web or even Windows! We wouldn't even have video games, Mp3 players, or just about anything else electronic. (We would still have lights, of course.) Some programming languages are Python (Recommended for beginners), C, C++, C#, Java and PHP. You can learn some programming at websites all over the web. If you want to start programming, try HTML. There are some very nice tutorials at http://www.w3schools.com/

, This family of operating systems is free, in there price and you are free to view the source code used in them. In these families of operating systems there is also better programming tools and better technical tools than what you can find on windows. An easy distribution of Linux for people who are new to Linux is the Ubuntu Linux Distribution, It can be found at http://www.ubuntu.com

,, this way, you can get face-to-face knowledge or a wonderful jump start putting you in the right way.

