, Wash each leaf well; they must be clean, as well as safe.,

You could also use white or dark chocolate. Dark chocolate should be tempered before using, otherwise it will appear dull when it sets.
 Place each leaf so that the back of the leaf is facing upward, as this will produce a much more interesting pattern effect on the chocolate when completed., Paint the backside of the leaf with the chocolate. Aim to keep a smooth and even layer across the leaf.

Avoid dripping chocolate onto the underside of the leaf. If this happens, wipe it off with your finger. Chocolate stuck on the underside of the leaf will make it harder to peel the chocolate leaf off later.
 Repeat until you've made as many leaves as you wished to make., This can be done in one of three ways:

Let sit in a cool and dry area of the kitchen until set.
Place in the refrigerator and allow to set.
Place in the freezer and allow to set.
 Start with the stem end, as this is the strongest part you'll be able to grip. Simply peel the leaf away from the chocolate, carefully.

If you find that the leaf veins did not transfer as well as you'd have liked, etch in additional veins with a toothpick.
 If you need to keep the leaves to serve later or to decorate a cake with, place them back on the parchment covered tray and put into the refrigerator. This will help them to retain their shape and they won't melt., Look for leaves that are of a decent size, unblemished and without rips or bumps. Wash and dry the leaves before proceeding.

You can often buy organic mint leaves at the supermarket or fruit and vegetable stores if you don't grow your own. Some places also sell live mint plants for culinary usage.
, Leave space between the leaves to prevent them from sticking together.

Use tweezers or small tongs to help you hold the leaf by its stem, if wished.
 Parchment paper can be used instead, if preferred., They will set during this time. They can be left in the freezer for up to 5 hours if needed. Don't leave longer or they may get freezer burn and won't taste as good., Remove from the wax paper (use tweezers to help). Arrange on a lovely, dainty platter for decorative effect. These are wonderful on their own or as a beautiful garnish to any dessert.


Serve direct from the freezer; the frozen texture is part of the eating experience.

