 This means comfortable underwear, a step above what you'd lounge around in. Stockings or hose are good, if you want. If you're wearing a low cut shirt find a good singlet/tight shirt to wear underneath it in a contrasting or matching colour to add more flair.;
, Bondage pants are okay for pleasant weather, but if it is very cold you should layer something underneath if there are metal parts that touch the skin, as this can become an unpleasantly chilly feeling after some time. However, easier options would include a simple skirt in a good colour, or any other, comfortable and still attractive pants.
 Pick a band tee for something that isn't completely mall goth- for example, please wear your E Nominee tee instead of- or, over- your H.I.M. shirt (wear your HIM tee if you feel like it, just because you like a certain band does not make you any less 'goth' than a person who doesn't like said band. Also, can I just add that liking HIM does not make you a 'mall goth', that kind of thing just creates a divide in people who should really be sicking together). Or go a little more "mainstream friendly" with The Cure or Nine Inch Nails. If you choose a particular character tee or cartoon character, you might want to choose a major colour from the image and use it with your accessories. For example, a GIR tee may warrant your horrible acid green earrings. By matching/or contrasting your outfit and accessories, you can pull together a simple look to make it more unique.
 If you want to look striking but not completely overdo it, then accessorizing is a good idea.
 A simple style like a ponytail or left loose can work, though if you're wearing quite a "quiet" outfit then you may want to play it up with your locks. In any case, brush, smooth/spike/straighten and then fiddle around with it. Girls may want to add any hairclips/bows/pieces to go with their outfit and add some extra flair.
 Be careful with fine tuning this step - wearing a down-tone outfit and outrageous makeup doesn't actually look so attractive. For example, if you're simply wearing a skirt and band tee, then powdering your face white and applying rings of liquid eyeliner and shocking eyeshadow might just make you like a child who was playing around with magic markers. Assess the conditions of your outfit and apply your makeup accordingly. The basics, however, may include:


Some simple eyeliner work - if you're going for very casual, then just a simple pencil lining should do. If you want to play it up a little, try liquid eyeliner with a darker/thicker application.

Lip gloss/Lipstick. A simple shade of subtle lipstick or gloss should do.

Foundation/concealer is optional, if you're currently suffering from a "bad skin" day, to cover/smooth over any blemishes. However, white foundation may not be the best idea for the casual look, as you may look stupidly overdone.
You may also want to paint your nails - a simple solid colour, such as black, purple or red should do for a basic outfit, though for something that needs a little added flair, you could do multiple colours or practise your nail art skills.
 Boots are great, though you can pretty much wear anything comfortable. Make sure it goes with your outfit and doesn't look out of place.

