 Although the physical illnesses your loved one thinks he or she has aren't real, the anxiety he or she feels is very real. Do not tell your loved one that he or she is crazy or that what he or she is experiencing is not real. Instead, let your loved one know that you understand that what he or she is feeling is real.


Yelling at your loved one or putting him or her down will only serve to hurt your loved one and make him or her not want to spend time with you.;
, When your loved one starts to change his or her behaviors, reinforce this behavior. Tell your loved one that you are proud that he or she is not focusing on any symptoms he or she may be experiencing. Also encourage your loved one when he or she accepts that he or she isn't sick.


This will make your loved one feel supported and loved, which will help him or her get better., When your loved one is having a hard time, let him or her know that you are there to listen to what he or she is feeling. Let your loved one open up to you about his or her fears, worries, and anxieties. Even if you can't help your loved one get over the hypochondriasis, you can let him or her know that someone is there for him or her.Try to verbalize that you are still listening to your loved one by saying "Yes" or "Uh huh" when he or she is talking.
You can also call your loved one periodically to provide him or her an outlet for his or her feelings.
 When your loved one is in the middle of an anxiety filled episode, be compassionate. However, do not encourage your loved one's thoughts about any purposed illnesses. Never tell your loved one that he or she looks sick or that his or her fears are probably right.


This kind of encouragement will only make your loved one's condition worse., When your loved one has hypochondriasis, he or she may be hesitant to go out and socialize. Try to encourage your loved one to take part in more social and family activities. Invite your loved one along when you do things with the family or encourage him or her to get out more.


This will keep your loved one's mind off of any possible illnesses he or she may have and help reduce his or her anxiety.