 Begin your preparations for your new kitten by drawing up a list of all the essentials you need to have ready for the arrival. You can organise this list into toys, food, and litter tray supplies. A new kitten will want to play a lot so it's important that you provide plenty of toys for her. You don't have to buy expensive cat toys. Something as simple as a shoelace can be great fun for a kitten to play with.


Before you buy food, you should speak to the breeder or the place you are adopting the kitten from. It's best to give her the same food to make her more at home and avoid a potential upset stomach.
If you decide to change the food, do it gradually over about a week. Mix the two types of food together and progressively alter the ratio.Ensure you are providing food that is meant for kittens. Kittens use a lot of energy, so they need protein-rich kitten kibble until they are one year old.Get a litter tray that she can easily access, and place it somewhere quiet and easy to find.;
, When you get your kitten home you need to keep in mind that she may be frightened and overwhelmed. Start out by putting everything she needs in one room (litter box, toys, food, hiding place, scratch posts) and keep her confined there for a few days while she adjusts. One she seems confident, leave the door to the room open so she can explore the rest of the house.


Try not to overwhelm the kitten. Make sure you have provided her with a hiding place where she can retreat if she gets scared. If you have children, they should sit on the ground and allow the kitten to approach them.
If you are bringing her home from a shop, breeder, or rescue centre, ask if there is a blanket which she has been sleeping on. If so, you can ask to take this home so she has something familiar to sleep on., Part of making your house and garden safe for your new kitten, is checking that do you not have plants that can be poisonous, within reach of your kitten.You should also make sure that there are no plants treated with pesticides, or slug pellets lying around.Common plants that can be poisonous when ingested by an animal include the following:


Lillies, and Lily of the Valley. Cats are particularly sensitive to lily poisoning.
Anemone, Aloe Vera, Amaryllis, and Asparagus Fern.
Daffodils, Philodendrons, and Jade Plants.
Chrysanthemums, Cyclamen, and Cycads.