 Let the vaccine heat up to room temperature 12 hours before the vaccination process. Before preparing the mixture, double check that the vaccine you have is meant to be injected subcutaneously. Subcutaneous means that the needle only gets inserted into the chicken’s layer of skin and does not go all the way down into the muscle below the skin.


To prepare the vaccine, follow the instructions that come with the vaccine package.
 SC injections can be given in two spots on a check—the dorsal (or top) part of the chicken’s neck, or in the inguinal fold. The inguinal fold is the pocket created between the abdomen and the thighs.
 It is easier to give an injection if you have both of your hands. The way you hold the chicken will depend on where you are injecting the vaccine.


Neck: Have the assistant hold the chicken so that the chicken's head is facing you. Your assistant must grasp the wings and feet to make sure the chicken is secure.
Inguinal fold: Have your assistant hold the chicken in such a way that the chicken is upside down with her chest facing you. It should look like the chicken is lying on her back in your assistant’s hands.
 While this might sound odd, doing this will help you to insert the needle. Grasp the chicken’s skin at the injection site and lift it up with the fingers and thumb of your non-dominant hand.Neck: Lift the skin midway on top of the neck area using your middle finger, index finger, and thumb. This will create a pocket in between the neck muscles and skin.
Inguinal fold: Again, the inguinal fold is the pocket created between the abdomen and the thighs. Lift the inguinal fold using your fingers, and feel the pocket or space created.
 Inject the needle into the pocket created. Initially there will be resistance, but once the needle has penetrated the skin and entered the subcutaneous space, the needle will pass through very easily. You should feel this initial resistance, followed by smooth movement.If you still feel resistance (like there is something blocking the needle), it means that you may have gone to deep and inserted the needle into muscle. If this is the case, remove the needle and change the angle of your needle so that it goes more shallowly into the chicken’s skin.
 Once you have inserted the needle correctly, press down on the plunger and inject the chicken with vaccine. Make sure that all of the vaccine gets injected and that the needle has not come out on the other side of the fold of skin you are holding on to.

