 Even though yoga, especially aqua yoga, is a low impact and low intensity exercise, it's still important to talk with your doctor about participating in this form of exercise.


Aqua yoga is specifically designed for those that cannot do exercise with any impact or raise their heart rate. In addition, its recommended for those with joint issues or pain.
If you fall into this category, you always want to make sure that your exercise routine is appropriate and safe for you.
Talk to your doctor about any health issues you're experiencing and your desire to do aqua yoga. Since it's a newer form of exercise, you may need to explain how it's done so your doctor can be an informed decision whether or not it's appropriate for you.
 Aqua yoga is only done in the pool. In order to find a class, you'll need to locate a pool or fitness club with a pool that offers this class.


If it's during the summer months, look online or in the newspaper for pools - either outdoor or indoors - that offer exercise classes. Aqua yoga may be a class that is offered.
If it's during the colder months, look for gyms, fitness centers or recreation centers that have indoor pool classes and exercise classes. They may also offer aqua yoga.
If you have a pool at your home or have access to a pool, you can perform aqua yoga alone. There are online videos and DVD's that you can watch and copy those sequences on your own.
 Like any specialty fitness class, there will most likely be a cost associated with going to an aqua aerobic class. Make sure this fits into your budget.


When you're looking into locations that offer aqua aerobics, also look into the cost of the class.
If you find a class offered at your gym, the cost of the class may be included with the cost of your gym membership. Double check to make sure.
If you need to pay a separate cost, see if the cost fits into your weekly or monthly budget. You may only be able to afford one class a week instead of 2 or 3.
In addition, look to see if there are any discounts. You may get a better deal if you're a student, military personnel or if you buy a bundled or packaged set of classes.
 If you haven't ever been to an aqua yoga class, it might feel a little intimidating to go alone. To help boost your confidence, bring someone with you.


Going to any new aerobics class may be a little intimidating to start with. You may be unsure of how the class works, the level of difficulty or if you'll be able to follow along.
In addition, since aqua yoga is in the pool, you may be feeling a little self conscious about being in more fitting clothing or wearing a bathing suit.
To help mitigate this, bring someone with you. Ask a friend or family member to sign up with you. You're more likely to go and stay consistent if you bring someone along.