 Before the fight starts, you’ll typically see your cat and/or another cat hissing menacingly, each with its hair bristling along its back and its ears pinned down. At this point, move to take your cat out of the situation before a tussle begins.If the cats seem determined to fight, confine one or both cats to separate rooms.
 Has one cat recently reached sexual maturity? Is your cat in a new home where it needs to establish its territory and tussle with other cats to do so? Think about recent changes in your cat’s lifestyle or biology to figure out why it might be fighting.


Once you’ve figured out why cats are fighting, you can take steps to prevent it. For instance, if a cat has recently reached sexual maturity, it’s probably experiencing a tidal wave of hormonal changes. Spaying and neutering your cats can reduce or eliminate this cause of cat fights., The cat that stays inside is the cat that never engages in a cat fight with other cats (unless the other cat also lives in your home). Keep your windows and doors closed. Stay mindful when opening the door. If necessary, have a family member close the cat in a certain room before you or another family member leaves the house. Then, let the cat out to resume its normal activities around the house. This will ensure your cat never gets the chance to escape outside and fight another cat.


If your cat fight is between two of your cats, confine them to separate rooms until they’ve calmed down., If you’re fawning over a new cat or kitten, your existing cat might resent that. Certain breeds (such as Siamese) are more susceptible to jealousy than others. Spend time praising and playing with all your cats to lay their fears of being replaced to rest.
 When the two cats are present in the same room, give each some tasty treats. Feed them their treats at the same time out of separate bowls placed reasonably far apart so that they don’t feel threatened. Be sure to give each the same amount of treats and attention, or they will only become more jealous of one another.
 Provide each cat with its own food and water bowls, and provide adequate space between each bowl. Similarly, provide multiple cat scratch posts, cat houses/perches, and litter boxes if you have multiple cats.


The general rule is that however many cats you own, you should have that many litterboxes, plus one.For example, if you have two cats, you should have three litter boxes.
 Introducing a kitten -- especially a kitten of the opposite gender as your current cat -- will minimize the possibility that the cats will engage in conflict. Cats of the same gender will see the other as competition for potential mates, and their likelihood of conflict will increase.You could decrease conflict among cats of the same gender by spaying or neutering your cats.

