 Since a bear crawl is essentially a moving plank, you should have the plank mastered before you start adding bear crawls to your routine. Having a strong plank can keep you from damaging your back or putting unnecessary stress on your shoulders while you're doing bear crawls.To do a plank, get on the floor on your stomach, with your arms bent at the elbow and your hands under your shoulders. Raise up until your arms are straight. Your legs should be out straight behind you so that the only parts of your body that are touching the floor are your toes and your hands.
When you are in plank position, your entire body should form a straight line (a flat plank) from your heels to your shoulders.
For beginners, you can do planks on your knees rather than your toes. You also can do elbow planks, in which your upper body is supported by your entire forearm and hands on the floor.
You probably shouldn't attempt bear crawls until you can hold a plank in perfect form for several minutes. This ensures you have the core and shoulder strength necessary to perform bear crawls correctly.
 Crab walks work some of the same muscle groups as bear crawls, but since you are on your back those muscles have to work together differently. Doing crab walks in addition to bear crawls can give you more well-rounded muscle development.To do a crab walk, start in a sitting position with your feet on the ground. Your legs should be bent and spread slightly. Lean back a little to put your hands flat on the ground behind you, with your fingers facing towards your body.
From that starting position, lift your body up until you are entirely supported by your hands and your feet. Then you can scuttle along the floor (like a crab) by moving your hands and feet.
You can do crab walks in any direction.
 Army crawls involve upper body strength almost exclusively, and will build strength particularly in your shoulders, upper arms, and upper back.An army crawl starts in the elbow plank position. This is similar to a regular plank position, only you are on your elbows with your forearms and hands touching the ground. Your body should be straight and flat, like a plank of wood.
Then you pull yourself forward, using your shoulders and arms. Your arms should stay in the elbow position with your forearms making contact with the ground as you move forward.
Your core should be locked, so that your hips and pelvis do not sway or rotate. Make sure your legs and feet aren't moving or doing any of the work. Rather, you should be dragging them with your upper body.
 The inchworm combines a crawl exercise with a forward bend, increasing your overall mobility as well as the strength and flexibility of your core muscles.To do an inchworm, start in the standing position. Do a forward bend, placing your hands flat on the floor, close to your toes.
Slowly walk your hands forward without moving your feet. Eventually you'll be in a plank position with your arms extended in front of you.
From this position, walk your feet forward to meet your hands until you find yourself again in a forward bend. Stand and repeat the exercise between 5 and 10 times to make a full set to incorporate into the rest of your workout.

