 Never surprise the cat or make a grab for him.The cat is far more likely to be relaxed in your arms if you speak to him nicely beforehand and tell him your intentions in a soothing, soft voice. The American Humane Society recommends approaching cats from their left or right sides since they are less likely to feel threatened then if you approached them directly head-on.Cats are astute judges of character and once he realizes you don't mean to harm him, he will be much more likely to co-operate.;
, Even though the friendly cat is very affable and will likely just be happy that he's being picked up, you should still try to use good form when picking up this type of cat to ensure his safety.


One of the best ways to hold a cat is head up, legs down and with his body parallel to your chest and pressed against it. In this position the cat feels well-supported and is not in danger of falling, which means he's less likely to struggle.
 Carefully lift the cat so that he is standing on his hind legs. Wrap one arm around your cat, supporting his front legs, and continue to carefully lift him.As soon as the cat's hind legs leave the ground, slide your free arm underneath the cat so that his hind legs and body weight are supported. This will make the cat feel safer.
Make sure the cat's hind legs are supported at all times and lift your cat evenly on both ends to ensure safety.
 This will make him feel supported and vulnerable. It also ensures less risk of the cat falling out of your arms. Your grip should be loose but still able to feel any tension from the cat., Use your bottom arm to rotate the cat so that he is facing you with his front paws on your shoulder. This makes it easier to hold the cat securely without hurting him. You could also rotate the cat and then place him into the cradle of your arms with his feet up in the air like a baby.However you elect to hold the compliant, cuddly cat, make sure to always support all of the cat's weight and never her hold her just by the legs. Again, the combination of his body weight and a sudden movement is a recipe for a broken leg.
 You should really only carry a cat around if you are in a safe environment, such as at home, in a carpeted room. If you are in a vet's office or anywhere else where there may be obstacles or obstructions in the way, you should avoid walking around with your cat in your arms. The difference in environment might heighten his defences and he may be more likely to accidentally scratch you or jump out of your arms if he is scared, thus potentially hurting both you and himself.Ideally, if you want some one-on-one time with the cat, grab hold of him and then sit down. Let him cuddle across your chest or in your lap.In this way, he will be closer to the ground, which reduces the risk of falling or other injury if he suddenly decides cuddle time is over and he leaps off of you. If you're sitting, there's also less chance of you tripping or falling and thus dropping the cat. Everyone wins.
Note that some cats are sensitive not only in how they carried but also where they are carried. A cat is more likely to panic, for example, if he is carried on stairs, where his escape route is a very long (and dangerous) way down. Since it's not safe to carry cats on stairs anyway, due to the potential of falling, it's best that you stick a cozy and comfortable space that the cat enjoys., Put your cat him down safely by putting his front paws on the ground and supporting his hind end as he steps out of your arms. If the cat ever struggles in your arms, don't fight to keep him there. Instead, try to get low to the ground and let him hop out safely., In general, the friendly cat is no problem; he will purr not matter what you do or how you pick him up, and he will just be happy to have the attention. However, you must remember to hold and carry the cat gently, even if he is squishy and friendly. Cats have fragile bones and they can easily be injured if you are rough with them. If the cat shows signs of pain, stop carrying him immediately.


Never let the cat's hind legs dangle. Cats find this uncomfortable and may start to squirm if their bottom end is left unsupported.
Don't pick a cat up by his legs or tail.

