 Try to operate with a clear schedule and goals in mind for each day. Share your work burden with others and discuss successes and setbacks. Take advantage of flexible work conditions whenever possible, such as flex hours. Incorporate a relaxing ritual into your work day, like a five-minute office yoga session.Even a quick neck massage can relieve some of your tension. Stress is a major cause for both regular headaches and migraines.Be particularly watchful of your stress levels during periods in which your work schedule is disrupted, such as holidays.;
, Aim for at least eight hours of undisturbed sleep per night. Adjust your bedtime so that you have plenty of sleep before getting up to go to work. If you are sleep deprived, you might even try to get a quick nap in over your lunch break. However, be warned that even naps can trigger migraines for some people., Drink water throughout the day. Aim for a total of 8 eight-ounce cups. Reduce or eliminate your caffeine intake, as it can contribute to dehydration and the development of migraines. Use water trips as an excuse to stretch your legs and walk over to the cooler instead of staying at your desk., Eat a snack or full meal every 2-3 hours. Don’t ever skip meals or snacks, as this can drop your blood sugar levels and trigger a migraine. Avoid high-sugar snack foods for the same reason. Instead, stash healthy fruits and vegetables in your office fridge.Once you identify any trigger foods, do your best to avoid eating them. For example, certain aged cheeses can cause a migraine to develop for some people. Eliminate suspicious foods from your diet and see if your health improves., Step outside and get some fresh air every few hours, even if just for a couple of minutes. Walk around the office and talk to your coworkers. Read a paper magazine to get your eyes away from the computer screen. Close your eyes and lean back in your chair for a few minutes.It has been shown that office building air can contain a number of toxins that can injure your health. Getting fresh air can reduce these health concerns.