 Letting them know about your travel plans is a good idea for several reasons. They can help you plan what services you'll need to continue and which you can temporarily suspend while you’re traveling. They can also help you access services at your trip location.


For example, you might say, “I’m going to be traveling soon. Could we talk about how I should handle my treatment plan while I'm gone?”
Or, you may want to ask, “Are there parts of my treatment plan that I can take a vacation from while I'm traveling? Which parts should I continue?”

, If you're currently taking medication to manage a mental health issue, it’s important that you continue taking it as prescribed while you’re traveling. The novelty, excitement, and even relaxing feeling of travel can have you feeling you don’t need your medication. But changing your medication could cause mental health issues or other negative side effects.Plan for things like changes in time zone or being in transit when it's time for you to take your medication.
Make sure you refill any needed medications before you leave for your travels.
Check airline and other transportation policies regarding the proper way to pack and label medication.
If you are traveling abroad, check to make sure there are no border restrictions on any of your necessary medications.
 This can be an important step if you’re traveling for an extended period of time or if your mental health professional recommends it. Having access to therapy and other forms of treatment can help you prevent mental health issues while you're traveling.


Ask your mental health professional about helping you set up services at your destination. You might say, “Could you help me find a reputable psychotherapist in that area?”
Ask them to forward or provide you with any documents you might need to receive the appropriate services. You could say, “Could you send an overview of my treatments to my travel therapist?”

, This is a good way to meet people in that area, as well as help you cope with the stress of traveling and any mental health concerns you might have. The people in the support group can provide encouragement, companionship. They can also provide strategies for minding your mental health in general and while you’re traveling.Consult a website like Mental Health America at http://www.mentalhealthamerica.net/find-support-groups for information about support groups in your destination area.
Consider joining an online forum or support group if you aren't confident about navigating the area or if you’re traveling to an area without an appropriate support group available.
 When you’re traveling it can be easy to feel as though it’s okay to indulge a little in alcohol or other substances. It may be legal or even encouraged where you’re traveling to. You should be careful, though, to avoid thought- or mood-altering substances while you’re traveling. They can interfere with medications and other treatments. They can also put you in danger by altering your perception and functioning. In addition, they can cause a relapse in mental health problems


Look into ways to explore and enjoy your destination that don’t involve alcohol or other substances.
Practice politely, but firmly, declining anything that may have a negative effect on your mental health.

