 The butternut squash is the heart of this recipe, so you want to find a quality squash at the grocery store or the farmer’s market. Choose a medium-sized butternut squash that feels pretty heavy for its’ size and has no deep cuts or bruises. It is fine if there are a lot of scratches as long as they don’t penetrate beneath the skin., If you have a little more time on your hands, you might consider this super delicious butternut squash mac and cheese. You will need the following ingredients: one butternut squash; four cloves of garlic; a tablespoon of coconut oil; a cup and a half of cooked butter beans (1 can); three-quarters of a cup of nutritional yeast flakes; a teaspoon of Dijon mustard; one and a half teaspoons of sea salt; two teaspoons of paprika; two tablespoons of olive oil; a teaspoon of apple cider vinegar; four cups of your favorite gluten-free macaroni; and two or three cups of almond or soy milk., For the crumble topping, you will need one cup of sunflower seeds; a tablespoon of coconut oil; two tablespoons of nutritional yeast; half a teaspoon of sea salt; a quarter teaspoon of garlic powder; and a quarter teaspoon of paprika. Using these ingredients, make your mac and cheese topping., Prior to making the sauce and baking the mac and cheese, you will need to prepare each of the individual ingredients. In particular, you will need to prepare the butternut squash, pasta, and the crumble topping:Skin, seed, and cube the butternut squash.
Bake the butternut squash with the garlic and olive oil for fifteen to twenty minutes at 400 Fahrenheit (200 Celsius).
Toast the sunflower seeds for three to five minutes. Then, put them in a food processor with all of the other crumble topping ingredients.
Prepare the pasta following the instructions on the package.
 Use the following instructions to prepare your sauce and then bake your mac and cheese:Put the roasted squash in a blender with all of the ingredients except the soy or almond milk. Blend the squash and slowly add some milk at the end until you get a nice creamy consistency.
Pour the mixture over the macaroni pasta.
Turn the oven down to 325 Fahrenheit (160 C). Put the pasta and sauce in a casserole dish, add the crumble topping and bake it for twenty minutes.

