 If your loved one fits the criteria for many of the above symptoms, they need to seek professional help as soon as possible. This can be a challenge because many people with mental illness are in denial about their symptoms. Before discussing the issue, think long and hard about how you will approach the subject.

You might watch them for a while and conduct research on bipolar disorder to support your observations.
You might also talk with other friends or relatives to see if they have noticed the same issues.
 Be gentle and patient when you bring up the topic to your loved one. You want to send the message that you are concerned and believe that getting help is the only way they can get better. Avoid casting any judgment or coming off like you are giving the person an ultimatum. Be a cooperative problem-solver.Say something like, “Jane, I have noticed you haven’t been sleeping very much lately. This is a surprise because a few weeks ago you stayed in bed all day. I also noticed some questionable charges on your credit card. I’m worried about you, sweetie. How about you go visit the doctor for a checkup?”

, Don’t just bring up the subject and expect the person to follow through on their own. You might share some of your research or even suggest a psychiatrist in your area. Offer to join them at the appointment for moral support.For instance, you might ask, “What can I do to help you? If you want I can help you find a doctor, or go to an appointment with you. I just want to see you doing better.”

, Bipolar disorder can be managed with proper psychotherapy, medication, healthy coping skills, and strong support systems. A good psychotherapist will be able to teach the patient and family how to recognize their triggers to help avoid a relapse. Psychotherapists can teach the patient and family healthy coping skills, which may decrease tendencies toward risky and unsafe behaviors.

Coping skills may include writing in a journal, improving sleeping habits, managing stress through relaxation techniques, and maintaining daily routines.
Both formal and informal support systems--such as family, friends, and bipolar support groups-- are important to helping the individual avoid the onset of symptoms. A psychotherapist will help you identify and connect with various support systems.
Although the use of cognitive behavioral therapy will help reduce relapse, it is important that the patient and family work with the therapist to develop an emergency plan in case there is a relapse.
 As upsetting as it may be, this person may not want your help. Or, they may have trouble coming to terms with their illness. If they are not in any immediate danger (i.e. showing signs of suicide), you may need to give them some space. But don’t completely drop the issue—just wait awhile before you bring it up again.

Say, “It seems like I have upset you and that wasn’t my intention. I’ll give you some space to think about it. Let’s talk again another time.”
If the person is in danger of committing suicide, don’t back off. Call your local emergency services department or a suicide hotline for help.If you are in the U.S., call the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline at 1-800-273-8255. If in the U.K., call Samaritans at 116 123.

