 Children often follow the behaviors that they see their parents performing, and their diet is no exception. If your kids see you snacking on celery sticks, tomato slices, fresh pears, and berries, they’ll be more inclined to try those foods themselves.Eating well is especially effective if you and your children sit down to eat together. Invite them to join you over a plate of sliced tomatoes and carrots.
Kids often want to imitate their parents’ behavior, and will want to try “what Mommy’s eating” when they see you snacking.;
, Children will often decline to try a new vegetable simply because they dislike its smell or appearance, or on an abstract principle of automatically disliking anything new. Make a rule that your kids have to try one bite of any food, including chewing and swallowing the mouthful. Then, if the child genuinely dislikes the vegetable, they don’t have to eat another bite.However, if your child does not like the food, don't give up on that food forever. Try again in a few weeks, as it can take many tries before a child may decide they like a new food.
Often kids will find that the new fruits and veggies taste better than anticipated, and won’t have a problem cleaning their plate after taking the first bite of something new.
 Often kids will enjoy the experience of shopping for food, and they’ll find the vegetables’ and fruits’ bright colors and fun shapes appealing. Let your kids pick out a few new fruits and vegetables that they want to try, and allow them to watch as you prepare the food in the kitchen.If your kids are old enough, they could even help pick out a vegetable-based recipe or help you prepare the meal.Depending on your location and the time of year, you could also take kids to pick fruits and veggies in their natural environment: for example, an apple orchard or berry patch.
After you bring the produce home, let your children taste fresh, uncooked fruits and vegetables to show them that there’s nothing wrong with the produce in question.
If you are able, start a garden and grow some healthy vegetables and fruits with your kids.

