 You may feel that you don’t need support or that you don’t need to talk with a crisis or mental health professional. However, therapists, counselors, and other similar professionals have strategies, techniques, and experience that can help you accept that you’re suffering from trauma.They can help you cope with what is going on and move past it.


If the traumatic event happened recently you can contact a crisis hotline like the National Youth Crisis Hotline at 1-800-442-4673 or other crisis services like the Samaritans (UK) 116 123, Rape Hotline, National Domestic Violence/ Child Abuse/ Sexual Abuse Hotline at 1-800-799-7233 or your local police department.
Ask your school counselor or the human resources representative at your job for information about counselors and therapists that can support you.
You can also ask your physician for a recommendation. You might say, “I’d like to talk to someone about something that happened and the effects it’s having on me. Is there anyone you can recommend?”
Talking to a therapist may worsen some symptoms at first as you confront the underlying trauma, but stick with it. Remember to practice your coping exercises and treatment plan even when you are not in your therapist's office.
 Turning to close family and friends is a good idea when you may be suffering from trauma.They can let you know if you are showing any signs of trauma and help you accept what’s going on with you. They can also support you as a cope with and heal from the trauma.


Talk through what happened to you with someone you trust. Just talking about it can help you accept it and feel better.
Ask someone close to you if you’ve been showing any signs of trauma. For instance, you might ask your brother, “Have you noticed me acting differently? Do I seem withdrawn or irritable lately?”
Be honest with your support team. You might tell your best friend, “I didn’t think the attack was affecting me at first, but now I do. Could you help support me while I try to accept this and heal from it?”

, Talking to people who have been through similar experiences can help you accept that you’re experiencing the effects of trauma.Hearing their stories may help you understand what happened to you. In addition, they may be able to offer suggestions and strategies for accepting that you’re suffering from trauma.


PsychCentral at http://psychcentral.com/resources/Post-traumatic_Stress/Support_Groups/ has a list of support groups that can help address several different types of trauma.
If you are seeing a counselor or therapist you can ask them about support groups in your area. You might say, “I would like to see how a support group can help. Can you recommend any nearby?”
Consider joining an online support group or forum if you can’t attend an in-person support group.

