 The monorail has two stops, Downtown Disney (across from the LEGO store, near Rainforest Cafe) and Tomorrowland Station (inside the Disneyland Park, between the Finding Nemo Submarine Voyage and Autopia's tracks).
 At Downtown Disney, a bag check is performed.

"Selfie sticks", used for cameras, or long stick attachments are prohibited from the park.However, camera handles that you can cover with your palm are acceptable.
 The Downtown Disney entrance is treated as the main entrance, and you will be required to show an admission ticket or card.

If you are experiencing the "Extra Magic Hour" or "Magic Morning", you will also need to show your hotel room key (if applicable) to use the monorail.
If you have entered the park earlier that same day, you will need to show your ticket along with a hand stamp.
 The normal wait can be anywhere between 10 and 25 minutes, as peak traffic hours and two hours before closing can result in a longer wait, depending where you are at. Please be advised the monorail may shut down during special events, such as parades and fireworks, so plan your time accordingly.

Like the park rides, there will be park employees to control the amount of people riding each monorail. Each depot will have a "waiting area" and a queue line. Remember these are two separate "groups", so the people in the waiting area will be allowed to board the monorail, and thereafter people in the queue line will be able to enter the waiting area after the monorail leaves the station.
 There's about five to six "sections" at each depot., The typical wait for a monorail is about five minutes., Moving trains may injure people. The monorail will keep the gates closed until they are ready to have members board. But just in case their safety systems fail (for some reason), just keep away from the train until the doors open and the exiting people stop exiting.
 Never run into the monorail.
, All passengers must be seated and stay seated for the entire trip duration.
 The announcements will signal safety concerns in both English and Spanish.
 The train will then begin moving slowly onward (forward).
 It'll explain what part of the journey you're seeing underneath the monorail car.
 You'll be surprised at what you see out the window. You'll see most of the exterior portions of the attractions leading up to the station as it circles around the inner portions of the park, and even includes a trip through Disneyland California Adventure Park.
 Wait for the instructions and exit the monorail.

