 There is a specific mindset that is most conducive to learning how to be a successful entrepreneur, and aligning yourself with this way of thinking will provide you with the foundation upon which you can build your education in entrepreneurship.


Develop a positive perspective when it comes to mistakes. You must be prepared that, to be an entrepreneur, you will inevitably make some mistakes along the way. Mistakes are only failures if they prevent you from trying again. Mistakes that serve as lessons for learning are successes that propel you forward. Accept that you will make mistakes, and commit to pushing through them.
Become your own cheerleader. The critical voices in your head will only hold you back. Every time you find that you are having a negative thought about your ability to be an entrepreneur, stop that thought immediately and counter it with a positive affirmation. Eventually, it will become a habit to be optimistic about your potential.
Avoid excuses for why you can't move forward with your idea right away. If you are inspired toward an idea, then start working on it. Don't put it off until the "right" or "perfect" time.;
, A mentor can show you the ropes and offer the encouragement you need to develop your entrepreneurial skills. Any successful (and willing) entrepreneur may be a good mentor. Find mentors through school, networking, searching online for mentors for hire and/or placing a classified ad.
 Many colleges today offer graduate and/or post graduate degrees in entrepreneurship. Babson College and the University of Arizona are 2 such schools that offer top-ranking entrepreneurship programs of study. Additionally, you may opt to enroll in an online training program offered by schools like the University of Houston and Boston University.
 Join networking clubs and online social networks, and attend trade shows and seminars in order to find a group of like-minded individuals that can support, inspire and challenge you to further your education in entrepreneurship. Other entrepreneurs are also a great source of information, as you can learn from their mistakes and successes.

