 It may be just 5-10 minutes that you have to spare, but crack a book open at least once a day. Try to anchor your reading habit to something else you do every day: read while you eat or have a cup of tea. Reading before bed is also a great way to keep your reading habit. If you can, read at the same time every day so your brain starts to associate that time as “reading time”.If you sit down for just ten minutes, four times a day, that’s 40 minutes of reading every day!
If you travel a lot, read on the plane instead of watching a movie.;
, If you are not engaged by the book that you are reading, it can make reading feel like a chore. If you’re really into what you’re reading, you won’t be able to put it down and reading will actually be fun. Choose books that seem interesting to you.If the book really doesn’t grab your attention, it’s okay to walk away from it. Put it down and pick up something better. Use the 50 page rule and if you’re not interested, move on!, This is an easy task in today’s world when you can carry a book on your phone or on a small e-reader. The size and weight of books are no longer a hindrance to reading on the go. Make sure you have a book with you at all times and you can take advantage of free time you may have randomly during your day.If the bus is running late or you’re waiting to meet up with a friend, open your book and read.
 Being part of a reading group gives you some accountability for your reading. Joining a book club could be just the thing to spark your reading habit. You could also start a club of your own with your friends. Make sure the club is committed to finishing and discussing the books each month.Join a group that reads books that you know will be interesting. If you really like fantasy books, join a fantasy book group.
 Setting the scene for reading will make it even more fun for you. Make a space that you will love going to for reading. It could be a comfy chair or a bunch of pillows on the floor, just make sure it is comfortable and inviting. It is also essential that the space has good lighting so you don’t strain your eyes.Have a plate of snacks and tea/coffee nearby to nibble on while you read.
 It will be easier to maintain your reading habit if you know what you are going to read when you finish a book. Sometimes the only reason you stop reading is because you don’t have another book in the queue waiting for you. Having a list you can refer to will help you with this so you’ll always know what to read next.Look at reading lists such as the bestsellers or lists specific to genres you enjoy for ideas.
Ask friends and family if they have suggestions on what to read.
 Writing down the books as you read them is a fun way to track how much you have read and the different types of books you’ve gone through. The website GoodReads is a great way to track your reading and get suggestions on new books to read. You can also share what you have read with friends and family and see what they’re reading.Write down when you started and finished the book along with a few thoughts about the book when you finish it.
 Another great way to find new books to read is to browse through lots of books. Used book stores are a great and inexpensive way to find some new and interesting books. The library is a free way to get new books which is even better!If you don’t want to buy a bunch of new books, browse the book store and write down the titles that you want to read in the future.
 The best way to maintain a new habit is to make it fun and set some goals. Set a goal to read a certain number of books each year (start small with 25 or go all out and try to read 100!). You could also set a goal to read all the books from a certain book list. Setting a goal gets you in the mindset to accomplish it and will help remind you to read every day.Achieving a reading goal is extremely satisfying and will make reading even more fun.

