 By making bath-time a comfortable place, water will seem less scary. Show young kids, even at age 1, how to get used to water. By starting to teach them skills even during bath-time, they'll feel more confident in when learning how to swim.Get your young child comfortable with water on their face. In the bathtub, get the baby wet, let water go over their head, and get into their ears. Keep this up, so that the baby is introduced early on.
Teach bubble blowing. This can help to teach your young child how to clear their nasal passages when they don't have their hands free. It helps to teach certain ways of breathing when around water.
Have bath toys and pool toys available to make time in the water seem more fun.
Teach them about unassisted floating in the tub. Help to hold them back in a floating position by sitting behind them at their head, and holding them underneath the arms.;
, You may not have learned to swim, or have some fears of your own about being in the water. Children will likely pick up on those fears. Make them feel safe by putting away your fears. When you're less anxious, they'll be less anxious.If you're having trouble with being in the water, consider taking swimming classes on your own to help reduce your fears.
If you're watching your child in swimming classes and have anxiety from the sidelines, pay attention to what those anxieties are actually about, or consider having another partner or caregiver present to watch over.
 Having a fear of water is a common occurrence for children. They may have experienced a time when they couldn't catch their breath in the water and panicked. It will take time for them to feel safe and secure.Take an active role in encouraging and reassuring them. Be present , if possible, to help them feel safe in the water. Get in the pool with them, and build a bond with them in the water. Say things like, "You're doing great" or "Awesome job."
Don't snap at them or make them feel like their fears are unfounded. Respect their fear as real to them. Avoid saying things like, "You just have to get used to it. It's for your own good." Instead, say things like, "I understand what you're feeling. I'll be here with you the whole time."
Gradually immerse them in the water, even if it starts with the feet, then legs, then hips, and neck. Take it slow and steady, if that's their pace.

