 It will make your room look better instantaneously!;
, it will make everything more fun!

, If you have a bunch of stuff laying around on the floor, and books under the bed, push-pins on the carpet (ouch!), and maybe some empty candy wrappers all over the floor, you need to pick all this up. Where do the books go? The bookshelf. Where do you keep push-pins? In a container. Where do candy wrappers go? The trashcan.


Dirty clothes don't belong on the floor, either! Put these in your laundry bin so your mom can wash them and give them back to you, and the clean versions of the dirty clothes go in your dresser!

, Put all the clothes' tags, candy wrappers, and lollipop sticks in it. You don't need the garbage on your floor! Your floor needs to have wide, open space so you can have some decent furniture in it.
 It doesn't need to be all over floor, and you don't want it to be an eye-sore for your friends!

, If you do, reach under there and retrieve the items that are under there, then put them all the proper places. All the books onto the bookshelf, all of the garbage, into the trashcan. All the old crumpled-up magazines, into the trash.
 They aren't attractive, and they are unnecessary. Just take your duster and dust them away.


Alternatively, you could take your vacuum, grab the hose, turn on the vacuum, then start sucking up the cobwebs with it! It is that simple!

, It will probably have tons of dust on it, so take the vacuum hose to it and suck up the dust. When you shake out the rug, remember to not shake it towards your bed. You will be sleeping on a dusty bed, and that is never fun.
 Your floor deserves a good vacuuming every once in a while.
 Remember, short side tucked under the pillows. The long side drapes over the sides of the bed. Shake out the pillowcases, as they can get dusty, and then fluff the pillow. Everybody loves a fluffy pillow!

, It could be alphabetically, or just by what it is: Paperback or hardcover.
 If you have a bunch of books up there, get them off! They go on the bookshelf, remember?

,, Now give yourself a reward. Maybe some Coke or a huge Hershey's bar!

