 Some drafts can be caused by loose hinges, so before you seal the edges of your door, you should take a few minutes to tighten any hardware.









Lift the door by the doorknob. If you can move it upward, the the hinges are probably loose. Use a screwdriver to tighten the screws holding the hinges in place.
If the hinge screws spin but won't tighten, you will need to replace them. You may also need to fill the holes with wood plugs and re-drive the new screws into those plugs.
Similarly, if the doorknob itself moves when you lift it, you should tighten or replace it.;
, If your door had weatherstripping previously installed, it might be damaged or deformed. Check by running your hand around the perimeter of the door while the door is closed.









If you can feel a draft while checking the seal, you will need to remove the old weatherstripping and replace it with a new seal.
To remove old weatherstripping, simply peel or slide it away.
 Use a damp rag to wipe away any visible dirt and debris from the door frame and the edges of the door itself.









Drag the edge of a paint scraper along the top, bottom, and sides of the door and door frame to remove any stuck debris from these surfaces.Check the threshold (the bottom of the door frame). If there are grooves along the threshold, run a large nail through the grooves to scrape away any gunk that has gotten itself lodged in there.
 There are several different types of weatherstripping available, so you'll need to decide which one you wish to use.









For the top and sides of your door, wrapped foam weatherstripping is durable and works well with gaps of various sizes. Weatherstripping with a wooden shell is durable yet easier to work with than metal weatherstripping, so it makes a good choice for someone who has no prior experience sealing doors.
If purchasing a weatherstripping kit, note that most kits only contain weatherstripping for the top and sides of your door. You will need to purchase a separate door sweep.
For the door sweep, consider using a metal door sweep with a flexible vinyl flap for greater durability. This type of sweep is also fairly easy to install. Brush or auto-lift vinyl seals are usually the most versatile and easiest to work with, especially when you've never sealed a door before. More advanced options include storm-proof seals and roller door seals.Note, however, that rigid door sweeps will not work if the carpet is higher or even with the threshold. When rigid door sweeps won't work, use flexible bulb weatherstripping made of vinyl.
 Close the door and measure along the top of the frame using a tape measure.









Note that your measurements for the top and sides of the door will need to be made along the door frame and not the door itself.
 With the door still closed, measure along both sides of the frame with a tape measure.









You should measure both sides separately and cut the weatherstripping accordingly. Both sides will usually be the same length, but errors in construction are common enough, so there can be some slight variations in length. To achieve a tight seal, you will need to measure cut pieces of weatherstripping that are tailor fit to each side, which means that you will need to know the precise length of each side.
 Open the door, then measure the bottom of it using a tape measure.









Unlike the measurements you took for the top and side seals, you will need to measure for the bottom seal by measuring the bottom of the door itself.
Make sure that you face the inside of the door as you take this measurement.
 Use a tape measure to measure out each length onto the weatherstripping you purchased.









Mark each length using a sharp pencil or marker. Make sure that each line you draw is clear and sharp.
When using a weatherstripping kit, you should be given two long pieces for the sides and one short piece for the top. Make sure to draw your top measurement on the short piece and your side measurements on the long pieces.
 Cut the weatherstripping at the marks you just measured out. Keep your cuts as clean and even as possible to ensure a tight seal.









The foam and vinyl portions can be cut using sharp scissors, but you will need a hacksaw or similar tool to cut any wood portions. When cutting any angles into wood weatherstripping, use a coping saw.
You'll also need to make sure that one end of each side piece is angled to fit into the top piece of weatherstripping. You do not need to angle the bottom end of your side pieces, however.
 Position the top piece of weatherstripping along the top of your door frame, then loosely nail it into place.








This seal must be installed along the door frame and not onto the door itself.
Use 1-1/2 inch (3.75 cm) nails. Place the nails 2 inches (5 cm) in from either side to prevent splitting. Nails should also be 12 inches (30.5 cm) apart.
When you place the weatherstripping, the foam should completely fill in the gap at the top of the frame. It should only compress slightly, however, and not too tightly. Tight compression may prevent the door from latching.
Only hammer the nails enough to hold the weatherstripping in place. Do not finish driving the nails until you add the side pieces.
 Position the side pieces of weatherstripping along the sides of your door frame. If the top angle does not fit into the top piece of weatherstripping, file it down.









As with the top piece, your side pieces will need to fit onto the door frame instead of the actual door.
You can use a metal file, sandpaper, or sanding belt to fine-tune these top angles.
Make small adjustments and check the fit periodically until you reach the proper angle.
 Place each side piece along the sides of the door frame and tack them into place with a hammer and nails.









As with the top piece of weatherstripping, use 1-1/2 inch nails and place them 2 inches (5 cm) from either end. Nails should be spaced 12 inches (30.5 cm) apart from one another.
Make sure that the foam completely fills in any gaps along the sides of the door frame. The foam should only compress slightly, however.
For now, only hammer the nails in enough to hold the weatherstripping loosely in place.
 Open and close the door several times to make sure that the weatherstripping seals properly.









The weatherstripping must completely seal against the door as it closes, and the door must be able to latch and lock.
Remove and adjust the placement of your weatherstripping as needed to achieve a proper seal.
 Once the weatherstripping along the top and sides of the door seals properly, you should finish hammering in the nails.









Note that it is also a good idea to test the seal once more after you finish hammering in the nails. Open and close the door to make sure that the seal still holds.
 Place the door sweep along the bottom edge of the door, but do not screw or nail it into place yet.









The flexible portion of the door sweep must touch the top of the threshold, but it should not rub against it too tightly.
Metal door sweeps will already have screw holes in them. Mark the position of these holes onto your door using a pencil or marker. Remove the door sweep temporarily, then drill pilot holes into these marked portions.
Note that vinyl door sweeps are installed on the threshold instead of the door, however. Align one end of the strip with one end of the threshold. Using your hands, firmly press the flanges into the grooves of the threshold.
 Push the door sweep against the bottom threshold of the door. Use a screwdriver to screw the sweep in place.









Insert the screws into your previously drilled pilot holes.
When using a vinyl door sweep, place a wood tapping block over the weatherstripping. Strike the block with your hammer to drive the flanges of the weatherstripping deep into the grooves of the threshold.
 Open and close the door several times to test the bottom seal.









Once the sides, top, and bottom portions of weatherstripping are properly installed, the process is complete. Your door should now be sealed.

