 Open a new file in the spreadsheet application on your operating system. Type in a title over each column to stay organized. Use the first column to write the name of the activity. The second column should become the points you earned for the assignment. The third column will be the total points possible.


For example, your columns might be: Activity name, Points earned, Points possible.
 Write out each activity name in the first column. Then write each score in the second column. Write the total points possible in the third. If the grade is calculated on a basic percentage, that means the total possible points was 100.
 Write “TOTALS” below each activity name in the first column. Then tab over in that row one space to the right so that you are directly below the last grade you recorded. Write sum, then equals, then open parenthesis. It will look like this: “ sum=( “ then select the first score in the column above, and drag your cursor to cover every grade in the column. Release the mouse button, and close the parenthesis. It will look something like this: “ sum=(B2:B6) “Repeat the sum=( method with the third column, the total points possible.
You can alternately manually type out the range of cells you want to add up. For example, seeing that the values you want to add up are B2, B3, B4, B5, and B6, write out “ sum=(B2:B6) “

, Stay in this row and tab over to the fourth column. Write equals, open parenthesis: “ =( “ Then select the total points you earned over the semester, put in a forward slash, then select the total points possible over the term, and close the parenthesis: “ =(B7/C7) “


Hit enter when you are done. The total should automatically show up.
 This is also easily done in a spread sheet. Tab over to the next column. Type in equals, open parenthesis, select decimal grade average you just calculated, then type in an asterisk, type 100, and then close parenthesis. It will look something like this: “ =(D7*100) “


Hit enter for the score to show up.
 Now that you know your total percentage for all the weighted activities, compare that percentage to your course grading scale to identify the letter (ex. A, B-, D+, etc…). If it is a number scale (3.75, 2.5, 1.0, etc…) you should multiply the decimal total by the perfect score.


For example, if your decimal average was .82, and you are graded on a 4 point scale (as GPAs are), multiply the decimal by 4. This will give you your grade on a 4 point scale.

