 Many health professionals recommend taking at least 20 minutes to eat your meal. This gives your body enough time to feel satisfied which may help you pass up on additional servings.The 20 minute rule comes from the fact that it takes about 20 – 30 minutes for food to travel from your stomach to your intestine. It's here that your intestines send a variety of chemical signals to your brain that it's satisfied and had enough food.
If you eat faster than that 20 minutes, you're more likely to eat more than you need and eat until the point you're feeling too full.Try setting a timer or watching the clock to help you meet that 20 minute guideline.
Drink a few sips of water between bites, put down your fork or talk to friends and family members to help slow you down.
 Chewing your food thoroughly and taking your time with each bite is an important part of mindful eating and can help you feel more satisfied with a smaller portion.Take your time with each bite. As you chew think about the flavors, the textures and the smells of the food. Use as many senses as you can to analyze each little bite of your meal.
The concentration on your food and each bite can increase your satisfaction and let your brain enjoy the meal.
When you take big bites and don't chew well, your brain doesn't get any signals of enjoyment or satisfaction which can cause you to eat more.
 Many people will try to restrict foods or strictly limit treats for a diet or to aim for better health. However, overly restricting your diet can backfire.


Remember, the body can not and will not naturally lose (or gain) weight quickly. Changing your diet drastically, eating very few calories or limiting many foods isn't a healthy way of eating.
Never allowing yourself a treat or special indulgence can lead to overeating of that food or binge like behavior down the road.
Schedule in a special treat or indulgence every now and again. It can be once a week, twice a week or every Friday night. Find a schedule that works for you and that can keep you at the healthy weight you desire.

