 This is designed to restore blood flow. In a CPR course, your trainer will teach you to properly do chest compressions on adults and infants. You will learn:


Put the victim on his back.Kneel at the victim’s side.
Put the heel of your hand in the proper position on the victim’s chest (between the nipples). Stack you hands on top of one another. Keep your elbows straight and your shoulders squared and directly above your hands.
Use your upper body weight and press straight down. Push hard at about 100 compressions per minute.
 After chest compressions, you should learn how to clear a person’s airway. Generally, you do this by the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver. To do this:


Gently lift the victim’s forehead with your palm. Then, gently tilt the head back.
With your other hand, tilt the chin forward.
Check for normal breathing and look for chest motion.
Begin mouth-to-mouth breathing if the victim is gasping or not breathing normally.
 In your CPR course, you will learn how to properly give mouth-to-mouth breathing. To do this:


After the victim’s airway is clear (using the head-tilt, chin-lift maneuver), pinch his nostrils closed.
Cover the victim’s mouth with your own to create a seal.
Prepare to give two rescue breaths. Give a one-second breath and watch to see if the chest rises. If it does, give the second breath.
If the chest doesn’t rise, repeat the airway clearing maneuver (head-tilt and chin lift) and try again.
After giving rescue breaths, give thirty chest compressions.
Continue CPR movements until there are signs of movement or medical personnel arrive.
 A recovery position is designed to keep the victim’s airway open.This will also ensure that the victim will not choke from fluids or vomit. In a CPR class, you will learn to:


Get down on the ground near the victim.
Place the victim’s arm, the one nearest to you, at a right angle toward his head.
Tuck the victim’s other arm up toward his head so that the back of his hand is touching his cheek.
Bend his knee, the one furthest from you, in a right angle.
Carefully roll him on his side by pulling his bent knee. At this point, his arm should be cushioning his head.
Tilt his head back slightly; this will ensure his airway is open.
Stay with the person and monitor his condition.

