 The domain is the part of the blog URL that comes after the www. It is descriptive of the kind of content your blog provides and should be easy to remember. Keep the name short and try to choose a keyword. For example, if your business is about sewing, www.planetsew.com or www.diamondsew.com is an informative link.Keep in mind that you’ll want this domain to be permanent. When you start over with a new domain, you have to start over with no ranking in search engines.
Use a search website such as Lean Domain Search to find available domain names.;
, Your business blog needs a place to store the all of your uploads, including images and blog posts. Some services and blog hosts, such as Wordpress, offer limited space for free. As your blog grows, you’ll need more storage space. Bluehost is one such site that offers hosting services for cheap and may help you easily link your account to your actual blog., Now you’ll need somewhere to display your blog posts. Sites such as Wordpress, Blogger, and Tumblr have different features and costs. Wordpress for example is highly popular, offers the most customization options, and is free to set up, making it good for small blogs., A good blog must look appealing to readers. If you or someone you know has graphical and coding expertise, you can make the design yourself. Otherwise, consider buying a custom design from a site like Creative Market or using a premade one from the blogging platform. Customize it to your liking.The design should be easy on the eyes and allow for all images and text to be easy to read.
 The bigger your business, the more you’ll want to have a logo. It should be prominently displayed at the top of your page. This logo needs to be easily recognizable so that viewers know who you are and can identify your brand. Sketch out designs on paper before you settle on one. You can even ask your blog readers for their opinions.For example, a cake designer may want the logo to look colorful with a cake or frosting incorporated into it. Italic, black letters on a white background may appear sophisticated and artistic.
Many designers make a logo out of their initials.
 The about page will tell your readers about you. What is your business about? Why did you start this business? What experience do you have in your industry? What do you offer? It is a good idea to add a personal photo and contact information to give your business blog a personal touch. This information may also be incorporated on the front page under the blog’s title..The personal photo can be used in the blog’s header in place of a logo.
 Once the blog is set up, it’s time to initiate it. The first post you make can be a test run, simply introducing yourself and your brand, but keep in mind what you want this blog to be. Start thinking of what you want and need to talk about in your posts to make your business successful and keep your readers coming back.Remember to always check your posts for grammatical and spelling mistakes.
Content for your blog might include stories that illustrate your passion for your chosen field, news about your business, and images of your products.
 Once you’ve initiated your blog, keep updating it with new posts. Talk about personal stories you have, such as learning your craft, your experiences opening a business, or how you developed your passion for that craft. Show pictures of your products and talk about how you made them. Talk about your values or trends in your industry. Write about business updates, promotions, news of new products, and giveaways.

It’s up to you how you update the blog, but remember that the end goal is to promote your business.
 In order to keep your blog fresh and at the top of search engines, you need to write content consistently. It’s a good idea to keep your blog updated at least once a week. Always try to introduce topics you wish to discuss and don’t forget to promote your brand by sharing yourself and your products.Making a content schedule may help keep you on track.
Consistency is key to building readership, so don’t delay writing until you’re sure you’ve got the perfect topic.
 Email lists are the easiest way to gain repeat visitors. Look at your blog service for ways to do this. On Wordpress, you can install a plugin or sign up for a service such as MailChimp. Your blog should have a box that your readers use to input their email address. Once the addresses are collected, you can easily send out updates to your readers.It is recommended that you send your emails using a service or official email address. Mail sent through your blog may end up in the spam folder of your readers’ inboxes.
 While email lists serve as open reminders to current readers, advertisements attract new readers. Set up an account on social media sites including Facebook and Twitter. Pinterest is important since it is a site about sharing creative products.Social media provides an opportunity to connect with people who will be interested in your business.
Remember to publish news of your blog posts along with a link when you update your blog.
 Your readers will leave comments on your blogs. Take the time to respond to them in a positive way. By doing this, you can answer questions and provide more of a personal connection with your readers. They may even give you useful feedback or new ideas for your blog.

This gives you an opportunity to build a customer base and develop relationships with people who can help your business, including other bloggers.

