 Infused oils tend to be a lot cheaper than essential oils because they don't require the same extraction processes. (They don't require a hard-to-extract oil to make up the bulk of the product.) If the oil you are buying seems very cheap, it is probably infused rather than essential oil.


Essential oils will typically cost $8-15 for 0.5 ounces (15 ml).
Infused oils will typically cost $4-15 per ounce (30 ml).;
, Essential oils are highly concentrated, while infused oils are much more mild. Essential oils are so powerful that they should almost never be applied directly to the skin, but rather diluted in a carrier oil. Infused oils, on the other hand, are gentle enough to be used on bare skin., Essential oils must always be packaged in dark glass bottles, as they can be easily damaged by bright sunlight. Infused oils are not damaged in the same way, and as such, may be packaged in either dark or light containers.Essential oils are generally packaged in 0.5 ounce (15 ml) dark glass bottles. (An extremely popular oil, such as lavender oil will sometimes be available in 1 ounce bottles).
Infused oils are generally packaged in 1 ounce (30 ml) bottle or larger. These bottles may be either dark or clear glass.
 If you are familiar with popular types of both essential and infused oils, you more easily be able to identify each. Be aware that some plants can be used to create either type of oil.


Popular essential oils include: lavender, oregano, patchouli, peppermint, and lemon.
Popular infused oils include: calendula, st. johns wort, mullein, and comfrey.
 You may choose to use essential oils and infused oils in combination. If you want to create a massage oil for example, you may begin with lavender infused in jojoba oil (for stress relief). Later you may choose to add a few drops of tea tree oil (for antiseptic purposes), citrus (for boosting mood), or oregano (for immune function). In this way, the already infused oil serves as your carrier oil, carrying with it many additional health benefits.