 You can use any video on YouTube or Vimeo. As you're remixing the video, you might notice certain things that frustrate you, like wanting to add a written tip in a scene, but the scene is too short, or there is no room to add text without obscuring the video. Having the perspective of a Popcorn Maker user, you'll be better able to make a video that will be easier for others to remix.;
, If you want to add broad verbal introductory statements though, like the title of the video, that should be fine as long as it's something that you don't foresee changing as the accompanying wiki article grows.
Text instructions: These can be added with Popcorn Maker, and can then be edited by remixing. If, for example, a step is edited to be more accurate, the same edit can be made on the video.
Making yourself a prominent part of the video. Since the focus here is on making a wiki video, you'll want to avoid making it seem like the video is the work of a single person. In the wiki world, this tends to discourage people from wanting to improve it, because they see it as "belonging" to the person who made it. Also, if you're a prominent part of the video, people will associate the content with you no matter how much it changes (and you don't have control over how people remix the video).

If you want to give the video some kind of stamp of where it came from, a watermark makes better sense.
 There should be sections in your frame where you could foresee text being added in a way that doesn't interfere with the usefulness of the video.
 That doesn't mean you should avoid it altogether, since otherwise you'll have a very quiet video, but the loop, skip, and pause events will break of up the music if they are used in remixing.
 You'll want the person watching the video to have a chance to read the instructions that are added in Popcorn Maker.
 A good way to end an instructional video is to show the person watching it some other how-to projects they might enjoy. These can be added later with links and images, and they may change as cooler projects are written about.

