 Consider the relative bias of sources and make notes throughout. Some primary sources include;



Ten Days that Shook the World by John Reed(Number 7 in New York University's 1999 list of the most important works of journalism ever).

History of the Russian Revolution by Leon Trotsky, often described as the definitive work although it was not written until 1930.

Voices of Revolution, 1917 by Mark Steinberg has documents selected from the State Archive of the Russian Federation in Moscow and other Russian collections and letters from individuals to newspapers, institutions, or leaders; collective resolutions and appeals.

What is to be done? by Leo Tolstoy.
"The Foundations of Leninism" by J V Stalin.;
, Consider the relative bias of sources and make notes throughout. Some secondary sources include



The Russian Revolution from Lenin to Stalin 1917-1929 by E. H. Carr is the definitive account.

From Tsar to Soviets: The Russian People and Their Revolution, 1917-21 by Christopher Read.

A People's History of the Russian Revolution by Kevin Murphy (2009).

The Origins Of The Russian Revolution 1861-1917 by Alan Woods.

The Crisis in Russia by Arthur RansomeThe Russian Revolution by Rosa Luxemburg.
 Original locations were used and even some of the original revolutionaries played themselves. Although the role of Trotsky was heavily biased and censored on Stalin's orders. Battleship Potemkin was also by Sergei Eisenstein and was about the 1905 revolution. It is considered the most influential propaganda film of all-time and is sometimes described as the greatest film of all-time.
 The causes included popular dissatisfaction with the autocratic Tsarist regime, the perceived influence of Rasputin on the Tsar, the unpopularity of World War I and brutal suppression of popular demonstrations. Lenin wrote the classic pamphlet/manifesto What is to be Done in 1901 and wrote extensively throughout the uprisings in 1905 and 1917. The effect of the successful revolution was the rapid industrialization of a feudal society and the formation of the Soviet Union until its dissolution in 1991.
 Such as the American Revolution (1776), the French Revolution (1789) (both of which overthrew colonial monarchies), the Hungarian Revolution (1956), the Cuban Revolution (1959), the Carnation Revolution (1974), the Velvet Revolution (1989), the Rose Revolution (2003), the Orange Revolution (2004) and the Tulip Revolution (2005). The defeated Russian Republic forces in the October Revolution basically deserted so there were no casualties when the palace was stormed by the Bolsheviks in October 1917.
 Learn about the popularity of the Tsar, Rasputin, World War I which preceded it and the Russian Civil War which immediately followed the revolution and lasted until 1923. The belligerents basically belonged to three different sides;


Communist forces including the Bolshevik Party, the Red Army and the Black Army (of Ukraine).
The Russian Republic (until November 1917), White Movement and Allied Intervention (during World War I).
Central Powers (during World War I), the Green Army and various local nationalist movements.
 Some contemporary book clubs, history societies or communist groups offer study groups you can get involved in to further your knowledge and share knowledge with experts.

