 For a roast dinner, buy the whole chicken and buy the chicken in pieces for other small things. It is generally cheaper to purchase the whole chicken but it takes a lot of effort to cut the whole chicken into pieces. This chicken must be stored in the refrigerated area.

Cooked chicken: This chicken is for a quick and convenient meal at home. You will not have to prepare much for a meal when buying this chicken. It should be consumed as soon as possible so consider purchasing it carefully. This chicken must be stored in an oven-like area.

Frozen chicken: This chicken is great if you plan on using the chicken for future use instead of now. It can come either in whole or pieces. Usually the pieces have a breadcrumb coating over them (e.g. chicken nuggets). This chicken must be stored in the freezer section.;
, Fresh, raw chicken must be stored at or below 4°C (39°F) at all times. Look at the fat carefully on the fresh chicken. The fat should be a white to deep yellow colour and definitely not grey.Cooked Chicken: Buy cooked chicken that is over 60°C (140°F). While you probably aren't allowed to bring a thermometer into a supermarket, you are able to check the temperature by touching the chicken. The chicken should feel very hot; if the chicken doesn't feel very hot, don't buy it. Cooked chicken should be stored in a plastic bag while resting at a consistent temperature of 60°C (140°F) or higher. Ask a shop assistant what temperature the cooked chicken is resting at.

Frozen Chicken: Buy frozen chicken that is very cold and hard to touch. Press down on the chicken to see if it is hard. The chicken must feel as hard as a rock. If the chicken feels the slightest bit softer than a rock, do not buy it. Frozen chicken must be stored below 4°C (39°F) at all times.
 If there are any cracks and/or dents in the packaging, don't buy the chicken. Packaged chicken must also be sealed properly. Alert a shop assistant if a seal has been broken. Fresh, raw chicken with leaking juices coming out must be avoided.
 Tags are usually placed because the packaging has been damaged or the use-by date of the chicken is nearing. Although the tag may say "still fresh", it is best to buy chicken without any tags to ensure that you are safe.
 There should be two dates printed on the packaging: the date the chicken was packaged and the date the chicken should be used. If you see a chicken that is past the use-by date, notify a shop assistant and get him or her to remove it to prevent others getting sick.


Fresh, raw chicken must only be on the supermarket shelves for 2 to 3 days.
Cooked chicken must only be in the supermarket for one day. It is best to buy the cooked chicken earlier in the day as it will be much fresher.
Frozen chicken can be stored in the freezer sections of the supermarket up until the use-by date on the packaging.
 Look out for these labels:



Free-range: This label does not necessarily mean that the chicken lived outside for its entire life. The chicken just had been granted access to outside.

Certified Organic: This means that food given to the chicken was free of chemical fertilisers, pesticides, animal by-products and other non-organic additives. The chicken also had to be free range.
 Chicken must be stored at either below 4°C (39°F) or over 60°C (140°F) to prevent the salmonella bacteria multiplying. Avoid buying too many groceries if you are going to buy chicken. The longer the chicken has to wait, the more dangerous it can get.
 A cooler bag is best if you are going to buy raw chicken. If can't find a cooler bag, try placing ice packs at the bottom of a strong shopping bag.
 If the chicken is cooked, place in the fridge or consume immediately.

