 Bonding is important in any relationship, and the stronger your bond, the stronger your long-term relationship.Sharing an inside joke is a way to revisit times enjoyed in the past, which will remind your girlfriend the good experiences you have shared.
 Wash the hoodie she left at your house, buy nail polish in her favorite color, or bring her a favorite flower. Random acts of kindness will make her feel great, and have the added bonus of enhancing your own happiness., Even something as simple as offering your hand while she empties a rock out of her shoe will indicate that you love her enough to help with any problem, big or small.
 Your sense of smell is linked very closely to memory.Giving your girlfriend an article of clothing with your scent will keep her thinking of you even while you're away.
 Checking your phone every five or ten minutes during a date can leave your girlfriend feeling not only unimportant, but also frustrated.If you've planned a special day with her, set a firm boundary limiting distractions beforehand. Some effective boundaries are:


Promising yourself you will not use your phone unless there is an emergency situation.
Letting your friends know ahead of time that you have special one-on-one time planned with your significant other.
 This is also an important part of bonding and can promote a healthy relationship.Listen together to her favorite music, play a team sport like tennis, or take up something entirely new.


Do not sacrifice your own happiness for that of your girlfriend. This can lead to resentment, and do more harm than good. In the event you don't hold the same interest, encourage your girlfriend to pursue it while finding a suitable activity to engage yourself.
 A common complaint in relationships is a lack of communication. While conversing, attempt to maintain eye contact, give feedback through body language (nods, smiles, expressions), and provide feedback that summarizes what she has said in your own words.Active listening can be especially difficult for men, as it is at odds with typical male communication strategies.If you would like to learn more about active listening, why not look into how to Actively Listen?

, Or, better yet, make her something! The investment of your time for her sake is a clear sign that you care. These intimate gifts often carry great emotional value and can turn into valued mementos later in your relationship.
 Even if her quirks amuse you, be sensitive enough to recognize areas she is self-conscious. Take time to explain your perspective, and gently inquire about the root of the problem.


Respect her boundaries at all times, but by regarding the thing she is self-conscious about with tact, you will convey that it is important to you.
 Pet names are a social cue in a relationship; your terms of endearment can boost your relationship satisfaction.Keep her opinions in mind as you explore nicknames.


Choosing a nickname that upsets her will only do damage, especially if you follow the offending name up with laughter.
 Change is something that comes from within, and no matter how hard you might try, you cannot force your girlfriend to change if she isn't ready. If there is a particular issue that bothers you, work together to find an mutually acceptable resolution.
 You don't have to go to an expensive movie or a picnic, but a change of pace and scenery will allow for new experiences you can share together.Sometimes going to the place you first met can be romantic, or a walk around the park might give you time you need to truly appreciate each other.

