


Shop for gluten-free beer at local beer and wine shops. Because select national distributors are now making gluten-free beer, it is often available at local retail stores and even supermarkets. Look in the beer section of your local market. If the store has a specified gluten-free section, check there as well.
Purchase gluten-free beer at organic markets. Many stores specializing in organic merchandise offer gluten-free beer, in addition to other gluten-free products.
Buy gluten-free beer at microbreweries. Some microbreweries are branching out into gluten-free products. Because microbreweries brew smaller amounts of specialized beers, it is typically more cost effective for small breweries to offer gluten-free beers than large distributors.
Purchase gluten-free beer online. Several websites offer listings of domestic and international gluten-free beers, and some include reviews of the beers. Search for "gluten-free beer" to access several lists of online distributors.;
, Avoid any beer that contains wheat or barley. Several beer products that are advertised as "gluten free" are actually low in gluten, not 100% gluten free. Some brewing companies claim their filtering processes make gluten undetectable. However, if the product contains even small amounts of barley or wheat, it is not gluten free. The only way to be sure that the beer is truly gluten free is to carefully examine the list of ingredients.
 Beer distributors who brew low-gluten and gluten-free beers are required to test and record gluten levels in each batch of beer. The levels are recorded in parts per million (ppm). There are no international standards for gluten-free products, so the ppm records provide a comparison for products. For example, in Australia, only a beer with no detectable gluten can be advertised as gluten free. However, in England, a beer with less than 20 ppm is considered gluten free.
 Buckwheat and sorghum are the most common substitutions for barley and wheat in gluten-free beers. Other gluten-free ingredients used in beer may include corn, maize, rice, sunflower, flax, quinoa, millet, soybean, amaranth, tef and raggi.

