 While not all signs of sexual activity are obvious, there are some signs and clues that should leave no doubt that your teenager is having sex. Don’t overlook the obvious hints, instead trust what you see and what your instincts tell you.


For example, if you find a used condom wrapper, pack of birth control pills, or pregnancy test among your teen's dirty clothes and clutter, it’s most likely a sign that they're having sex.
 The numerous and various apps and social networking sites available today give teenagers more access to sexual content. It also makes it easier, and sometimes seems to encourage them, to share personal information about their sex lives. While you may not want your teen sharing sensitive and potentially damaging information through text, posts, or emails, examining these outlets can give you an indication of what your teen is doing.You don’t have to become an internet troll or break into their electronic devices, but you should regularly review what they're posting to see if anything is inappropriate or gives you a hint about their sexual activity.
You should also be on the lookout for sexts (sexual texts) to and from your teen. These may include sexual text messages with or without images included.
 Teens will be moody and temperamental whether they're having sex or not, but changes in typical attitudes and behaviors might indicate that they've become sexually active. Do they seem more secretive, or unwilling to share where they're going or who they're hanging out with? These aren't sure signs of sexual activity, but they might raise red flags.


Keep an eye out for indications of unusually obsessive or aggressive behaviors related to sex, or signs that sex is viewed as a means of validation or building self-esteem. These could point to a more significant mental health issue that should be medically addressed.Be aware that how your teen dresses may also indicate that they are thinking about sex. For example, if your teen dresses provocatively, then they may be considering sex.
 Accusing your teen of doing something that you find inappropriate will only make matters worse. By accusing your teen, the may be unwilling to talk with you or confide in you in the future. They may also feel like you are judging them. Even if you have strong suspicions, do not accuse your teen of anything.