 Everyone makes mistakes or has times when they're feeling low. The important thing is treat yourself with compassion, just as you'd treat a good friend. Don't beat yourself up for every little mistake. Instead, use it as an opportunity to learn and move on.For instance, you could say to yourself, "Yes, I made a mistake, but it's not the worst thing in the world. I'll do better next time."
Increasing your self-esteem overall helps you become less competitive. Often, if you're a very competitive person, your self-esteem may be dependent on you doing well. If you fail at something, your self-esteem also falls. Learning to hold on to your self worth no matter the situation can help you become less competitive., Often, people with low self-esteem interpret situations in ways that continue to suppress their self esteem. They often take a negative approach, when in reality, many people around them are looking at the situation differently.For instance, you may blow things out of proportion; you make a mistake, and think that everyone sees you as a failure. Instead, try to put that in proportion. Was the mistake really that big a deal? Did anyone actually say that you are a failure or not up the job?
Other times, you may take your successes and turn them into failures. For example, you might say, "My boss praised that report, but it was only good because I used the numbers from accounting." Instead, it's important to celebrate your successes when they come.
You might also think that what you're feeling is absolutely fact. If you're feeling like an idiot, you may think everyone else sees you that way, too, when in reality, they all likely have respect for you.
Another way you may interpret situations negatively is to take small, non-relevant indicators as proof that something is wrong. For instance, if you text someone and they don't text back for a few days, you may think, "My friend must hate me at the moment," when in reality, there are plenty of reasons they might not have replied, including they may not have seen the text.
 With every mistake you make, you may want to kick yourself. However, remember that no one can achieve perfection. You have to realize that everyone makes mistakes. When you realize that, it makes it easier to live with your own, knowing that perfection is impossible.Don't forget to adjust your vision of yourself. You change and grow over time, and so do your abilities. That means that you can't judge yourself by a past version of yourself. For instance, maybe you were once stellar at science, but you've let those skills slide in favor of other ones. That's fine, just keep in mind you're not the scientist you once were, but now you can make a killer omelet or write an amazing article., If you have low self-esteem, you probably notice what's wrong in every situation or how you could have done better. However, you also need to pat yourself on your back for what you did right. Focusing on what you did right can help build your confidence and remind you how far you've come.For instance, maybe you wrote a paper for class. You may find yourself focusing on all the mistakes you made. Instead, think about how far you've come. Read a paper from a year ago, and you're bound to see how you've improved.

