 The form is the wooden mold into which your concrete will be poured, and will give the concrete its final shape. The form you use depends on the needs of your project.All forms are made by simply nailing wooden boards together into the shape you wish the concrete to assume.
If you’re interested in creating a concrete walkway, for instance, you will probably make several small concrete squares of similar size. Therefore, you will need to turn four equally-sized two-by-fours on their edges so that the narrow part of the board is on the ground. Nail the boards together at their corners.
If you’re pouring concrete for the foundation of a home, you will use a single, much larger form.
 If you’re pouring concrete into an area of the ground that you want it to remain in, try to flatten the ground as much as possible. Use a rake and back hoe to achieve a relatively even surface on the area you will be pouring concrete onto., The method by which you pour your concrete depends on the mixer you used to create it. If your concrete is in a dump truck mixer, for instance, your job is easy, since you can just back the truck up to the appointed spot and press the dump button to pour the concrete from the truck. If your concrete is in a drum mixer, you will have to manually rotate the drum to pour the concrete out., Once the concrete has been poured, you’ll need to level and finish it. First, run the screed across the surface of the concrete, pulling it toward you. Discard excess that comes off the back end of the form. Then, sweep the darby across the surface of the concrete in overlapping arcs. This will fill voids, push down lumps, and flatten the surface.Two passes across the surface of the concrete with the darby should be enough.
After leveling out the concrete, water will pool on the surface. Wait for the water to reabsorb into the concrete before proceeding.
 Run an edger around the edges of the concrete to loosen it from the form and smooth the sharp edges. Next, if you want to subdivide the slab (as you might if you’re pouring concrete for a sidewalk, for instance), use the straightedge and groover to push cracks into the concrete slab to a depth of at least 25% of its total height.

Finally, smooth the concrete over one more time with the floater. Lift the leading edge of the floater and sweep over it in overlapping arcs, just as you did with the darby.
After the concrete has dried and hardened somewhat, repeat the smoothing-over process with your steel trowel. Make two or three passes with the trowel to get a smooth finish on your concrete.
 Once the concrete has assumed the proper form, leave it alone. Set up a sign alerting people not to step on the wet concrete if such a possibility exists.It’s impossible to tell how long it will take for the concrete to dry. The time it takes for concrete to dry depends on local environmental conditions. In hot, dry weather, concrete will dry faster. In cool or shaded areas, it will dry more slowly.
 Curing the concrete will produce a stronger and more durable slab. Cover the concrete with plastic and sprinkle it with water several times each day for about one week.After the concrete is completely dry and cured, remove the form.
 If you’ve added pure iron oxide to your concrete, it will not fade. However, after being poured and set, the concrete will collect dirt and debris that make the concrete appear faded. Every few months (or as needed), spray the concrete with a pressure washer.