 When you're talking to the girl you like, you want to make her feel special. People like it when others take an interest in them and the girl you like is no different. Showing that you care about her thoughts will make her more interested in you, as a result.


Ask her opinion on things, even if it's something silly. For example: say you're wearing a shirt that your friend doesn't like, ask for her opinion on whether the shirt is silly or not. Tell her she's the final judge. It'll make her laugh and feel important.
Pay attention to the things that she does and says, so you can ask questions about it. For example, if she mentions going rock climbing, ask her how she got started rock climbing and what she enjoys about it. People like talking about themselves, so before you jump in with stories of your own, ask her another question about what she thinks.
 In this day and age people have really lost the skill of listening (Really listening) to one another. Real listening is when you take the time to absorb what someone is saying rather than thinking about the next thing you're going to say or what you're going to have for dinner.


For example: even if you're at a loud party, when you're having a conversation with her, maintain eye contact, ask questions and if your mind strays, ask for clarification (you can use the loud party as an excuse: "Sorry, it's really loud in here. Can you repeat what you just said?").
To this end, when you're having a conversation with her, don't fidget with stuff, or keep looking all around the room, or keep checking your phone. She'll feel that you don't really care what she has to say.
 Laughter is a great way to bond with someone. This doesn't mean that you need to be the class clown (Actually, it will probably work best if you aren't). All this means is that you make her laugh and say a few entertaining things. Now, everyone has a different sense of humor and you know her best, but if you're not sure there are a few things to do that rarely fail.


Gently poke fun at yourself. You don't have to do a big self-deprecating speech (in fact that will make you seem not confident), but a few jabs at yourself will get her laughing and show that you don't take yourself too seriously. For example: talk about how you got hit in the head with a soccer ball that day when you weren't paying attention, or that time you went to the wrong class because you forgot what day it was.
Bring up something funny that you saw that day (or within the previous week). It should be something a little out of the ordinary and funny. For example: ask her if she's ever ended up entangled with a bunch of zombies and then tell her about the zombie walk you accidentally ended up in the middle of.
 Flirting can be very hit or miss and is to be used with caution. Since everyone is different, there is no one-size-fits-all approach to flirting with someone. Humor and eye contact are the two big ones, but you can subtly flirt in other ways.


Unless she's made it explicitly clear, flirting really obviously can be off-putting to some girls. Keep that in mind when you're hanging out with her. If you aren't a good flirt, eye contact and humor will probably be your best bets.
Flirting over text, however, can be a great, non-threatening type of flirting. Of course, you want this to be only supplementary to your interactions in person. Keep texts short, sometimes a picture is worth more than a hundred words (especially a funny picture; do NOT send explicit pictures unless she has actually asked for them!). It's good to have a reason to text. You could say something like "saw this and thought of you" (and then send a picture).Giving her the right compliment can be a great way of expressing interest and flirting. Don't do something basic like "you're the most beautiful girl I've ever met" (it comes across as insincere). Instead, say something like "Did you realize your sweater matches your eyes? it's a beautiful color," or "of course you aced that test, you're super smart!"

, In the end, the best way to act around the girl you like is to tell her how you feel. She might otherwise never know. It can seem super intimidating or scary to bare your feelings like that (and it is a very brave act!). But, otherwise you both will be in this uncomfortable holding pattern.


Don't do it in front of everyone. Choose a time and place where you're both sober and in your right mind. Simply say "Hey, I really like you and I was wondering if you'd like to go on a date sometime."
Don't do this over the phone or text or social media, because you will come across as a coward and most girl's don't find that a particularly attractive quality.
Respect her decision, even if she says "no." It can hurt when someone says no, but remember that it isn't about you as a person, it's simply that your proposal didn't work for her (because she isn't interested, or because she already has a boyfriend, or she's into girls, etc.). You can ask why if you must, but if she simply says "Because I'm not interested" that's your answer and leave it at that.
If she says "yes," then yay! Now you two can get to planning a super fun first date. The relationship might not work out, but you proved your bravery by asking her out and your worth by treating her with respect.

