 Indoor water features can cost anywhere from tens of dollars to several thousands of dollars.;
,


Tabletop fountains are relatively small, portable and convenient for those who don't have a large space to devote to a fountain and/or who may want the option of experimenting with the placement of an indoor water fountain. They come in a wide variety of shapes and visual aesthetics, and are considerably less expensive than other fountain varieties.
Floor fountains are freestanding indoor water features that do not require installation and, therefore, can be moved. They come in a variety of sizes, and are generally the shape of an upstanding rectangle.
Wall fountains are the most expensive of the indoor water fountains. They come in the form of flat, rectangular panels, and must be firmly mounted to a structural wall.
 If you have pets or small children, then it may not be practical to purchase floor or table indoor water features. You also need to consider traffic flow and furnishings when determining which type of fountain is best suited for you and your lifestyle. For example, it may not be a good idea to place a table fountain on the same desk that houses a personal computer, and a narrow hallway may not be ideal for a large floor fountain.
 The type and size of the space you are filling will be 1 of the biggest determinants of which indoor water fountain you choose.


Consider the purpose of your fountain. A focal point fountain should be large and dominant in the space, as a large wall panel would be, whereas an understated trickling effect can be accomplished with a small table fountain.
The indoor water fountain you choose should be relatively proportionate to the space it is to occupy. It should not overwhelm the area, nor should it disappear into its surroundings.
Keep in mind the design aesthetic of your interior space and choose a complimentary fountain. For example, if your space is full of copper accents, then you may want to forego indoor water features made of aluminum in favor of copper models.
 It is possible to purchase fountains with lights, water-purification systems, self-cleaning capabilities, jets that propel water at different pressures for different effects and 5-year pump warranties.
 Explore a variety of sources and compare prices in order to find a fountain that best suits your lifestyle, interior space and budget.


Home improvement stores and chain retailers carry a variety of less-expensive, ready-made indoor water features.
Browse the Internet for businesses that specialize in selling hand-made, custom-made and ready-made water fountains at both retail and discount prices.
Consider purchasing a custom-made indoor water fountain through an artisan or a retailer who specializes in handmade fountains.
Bid on a variety of indoor water features on Internet auction sites.
Purchase second-hand. You may be able to find used indoor water fountains at bargain prices by searching online classifieds, garage and estate sales and auctions.

