 You will need to know both in order to find the correct replacement ink cartridges. If you can’t find the model number, check the documentation that came with your printer.;
, The cartridges should slide to the center of the printing area. You may need to press the Ink button, which may have a “drop” icon, in order for the cartridges to slide out.


Do not pull the print head out of its housing. It should move out automatically, either when the lid is opened or a button is pressed.
 The numbering and labeling systems vary by printer manufacturers.
 Use the numbers you wrote down to buy either at an office store or online, or take your cartridges to an ink refiller. If you are unsure, take the cartridge to the store and ask an employee to help you find the right match.


Make sure you get cartridges from the correct manufacturer. They are not compatible between different brands, and often within the same brand.
 Depending on the model printer you have, there may be multiple cartridges to choose from. The cartridge’s ink color should be displayed on its label.


Grip the cartridge. Some cartridges have clips that can be pressed in to release them from the ink tray.
Pull it at an angle away from point of attachment.
Do not remove your cartridges unless you have replacements ready. Leaving a print head empty for too long can dry it out, making it unusable., Shaking will help the first few print jobs come out looking better. Be sure to shake before opening the bag to prevent leakage.
 These differ by brand, but almost all cartridges will have a protective sticker or piece of plastic over the dispenser that needs to be removed before installation.
 Insert it in the reverse way that you remove them. Keep the correct angle, and it should fit in with little effort. Most newer cartridges will lock into place automatically with a little pressure.
 This will make sure that the cartridges have been installed correctly, and will get the ink flowing before your first real document.
 If you are noticing streaks, lines, or smudges, your print heads may be out of alignment or in need of cleaning. Check your printer’s documentation on how to do this for your model.

