 If you are growing a small patch of vegetables, using a tiller or hoe is probably more efficient and practical.;
, Moisture is essential for good cultivation, and the cooler morning hours are often more pleasant for this work.
 For newly emerging plants, you will want to cultivate fairly close to keep moisture near the plants' roots, while also keeping weeds from coming up in the furrows. For larger plants, the plows can be re-spaced so they don't damage the spreading root systems of your plants.
 Since plows are ganged on the cultivator tool bar, each one needs to be set so that it works in a complementary manner with the adjacent plows. Often, the middle plow, which plows the center between rows, is set ahead, or forward, of the sweeps, which run alongside the crop being cultivated.
 This is the angle the plow point engages the soil, and having it pitched forward will throw less soil in the planting furrow. Having it pitched back will throw more, piling a hill of soil around the base of your plants.
 Tractor wheels can be adjusted for different widths, so for plowing rows at 36 inches (91.4 cm) on center, the width of the tires should be 72 inches (182.9 cm), so you don't track too close to the roots of your plants.
 For fixed frame tool bars, any turn of the tractor's wheels will cause the tool bar to react in the opposite direction, and will result in the plows entering the row of your crop.
 For soil that becomes tightly compacted, you need to allow the plows to run deep enough for the soil at the root level of your plants to be loosened. This allows moisture to percolate down to the roots and makes it easier for the root system to develop. For light, sandy soils, plowing too deeply will allow the moisture to percolate too quickly, and also allow fertilizer to be leached away from your plant's roots.
 You will want your plants to be large enough that the soil displaced into the furrow will not cover them, but the greatest benefit will be gained when weeds are still small enough to be covered or plowed up (pulled from the soil by the plows) and killed.


Make sure there is sufficient moisture in the soil before plowing. The hilling effect of plowing will help build up soil over the plant's root system, keeping more moisture available to them, but plowing in very dry weather will break soil crust and loosen the soil, so any moisture present will evaporate quickly. Plowing just before a rainfall will not kill weeds as effectively, either, since the rain will likely give them an opportunity to re-root before they die.
 Just as pitching the plows causes soil to be thrown at varying amounts, speed also effects this process. Faster speeds will cause more soil to be thrown in the furrow.
 Many farm tractors have a guide point on the frame so the wheels travel in such a way that the plows are spaced correctly between the furrows.
 Planting perfectly straight rows on level ground is the ideal way to do this, but if you have curving rows, or simply planted carelessly, paying attention to steering the tractor will prevent losing part of your crop.
, Many people garden and farm on a small scale simply to enjoy the benefits of being outside in the fresh air and sunshine. You may be surprised by the wildlife and wildflowers you see while out in the garden.

