 The concept of pain seems quite simple—something hurts. But there are different types of pain with different causes such as from heat, pressure, or inflammation. Figuring out the source and cause of your pain can help you choose the best OTC pain relievers for your needs.Some common types of pain include:


Tension headaches, which feel like a tight band around your head and react well to all OTC pain relievers
Migraines, which cause throbbing pain, and respond best to aspirin and acetaminophen in combination with a small amount of caffeineArthritis pain, which is often caused by inflammation, responds well to non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugsMuscle pain, which responds well to most OTC pain relievers;
, It’s important to figure out the source of your pain and what type it is. But you should also consider any other physical symptoms that you may have. This can also help you make a more informed decision about which OTC pain reliever to choose. It may also minimize any side effects you may experience from the medication such as an upset stomach.Recognize that some OTC pain medications, such as ibuprofen, are good for helping to relieve the discomfort from swelling, muscle and joint injuries or conditions, and even fever. But they may not be ideal if someone has other symptoms such as nausea. For example, if you have a migraine and are vomiting, consider taking acetaminophen with a small dose of caffeine. This can provide similar pain relief as an NSAID without the potential of upsetting your stomach even more.Recognize that you should choose specific OTC pain relievers if you have certain health conditions. For example, people who take blood pressure drugs or have kidney problems should avoid ibuprofen, aspirin, and naproxen sodium. These can interact with other medications or make your condition worse., Over-the-counter pain relievers are generally safe to use. However, some people may have allergies or sensitivities to OTC medications. These individuals should avoid OTC pain relievers. Considering possible allergies and cross sensitivities can make it easier to narrow down your choices of the best OTC pain reliever for you.Recognize that you may have allergies or sensitivities to certain drugs that may make you more sensitive to OTC pain killers. For example, people who are allergic to aspirin may have a cross sensitivity with other NSAIDs (non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs) including ibuprofen and naproxen sodium.People with allergies to other pain relievers such as opioids should also avoid NSAIDs.Ask your doctor or a pharmacist if there are any OTC pain relievers you may want to avoid because of potential cross sensitivities.
 People with certain health conditions such as kidney disease or pregnancy may not be able to take some OTC pain medications. Ask your doctor what medication may be best to manage your pain if you have any of the following or other health concerns:Kidney disease
Heart disease
Pregnancy
Nerve conditions
Asthma
Liver diseaseAlcoholism
Ulcers
Stomach or intestinal bleeding
Bleeding disorders

, In addition to allergies and conditions that may affect your OTC choice, you should also consider any other medication you take. Some drugs, such as blood pressure medicine, can interact with pain relievers. This may make them more or less effective and/or come with other side effects.Tell your doctor that you want to take a pain reliever. Ask if there are any you should avoid with your other medications.
If you have been taking OTC medication, make sure you tell your doctor at every appointment. Knowing everything you are taking or have tried is very important to your care and developing a treatment plan.
Recognize that some of the following drugs may have interactions with OTC pain relievers: blood thinners, ACE inhibitors, diuretics, and lithium., Pain relievers are grouped into classes of drugs. One such group is non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs, or NSAIDs. Ibuprofen is one of the NSAID drugs that you may choose to relieve your pain. Ibuprofen is a great choice for headaches as well as joint and muscle pain. In addition, it can also lower a fever.Use ibuprofen if you have any swelling or inflammation with your pain. It may help minimize both while relieving your discomfort.
Take 200 mg or 400 mg up to four times a day after a meal if you are an adult. Always follow dosing directions for yourself or others, such as children, to minimize your risk of an overdose.Recognize that ibuprofen can have side effects such as abdominal pain, bloating, belching, heartburn, flatulence, nausea or vomiting.Avoid ibuprofen if you have kidney problems.
 Aspirin is a good general analgesic that also falls into the category of an NSAID. It can relieve headaches, muscle aches, joint pain, and fevers.Take 300 – 600 mg of aspirin up to four times a day after food if you are an adult. Follow dosing or your doctor’s instructions for yourself and others, such as children, to minimize the risk of overdosing.Recognize that aspirin can come with side effects including diarrhea, constipation, headache, nausea, vomiting, stomach gas, and heartburn.Avoid giving aspirin to children under the age of 19, as it could cause a serious condition called Reye's Syndrome. You should also avoid aspirin if you have asthma, as it can make it worse and may also cause an allergic reaction that results in hives., Naproxen sodium is another NSAID that is great and relieving pain and inflammation. It’s especially effective for treating pain associated with inflammation such as arthritis, sprains, sunburns, and menstrual cramps. You may also want to choose naproxen sodium because its effects are longer lasting than other NSAIDs. This means you have to take it less often.Take one 250-, 375-, or 500 mg tablet of naproxen sodium twice each day in evenly spaced doses if you are an adult. Ask your doctor which dosage is best for you if you are unsure or giving it to someone other than yourself.Be aware that you may have the following side effects with naproxen sodium: stomach pain, constipation, diarrhea, gas, heartburn, nausea, vomiting, and dizziness., Another type of analgesic that doesn’t fall into the category of an NSAID is acetaminophen. It is also a great OTC choice for relieving pain, but doesn’t come with anti-inflammatory ingredients. This makes acetaminophen less effective on muscles or sprains; however, it can be quite effective for osteoarthritis, especially in the elderly, and can also treat nerve pain or stomach issues.Take acetaminophen at regular intervals with water. Follow dosing on the bottle or your doctor’s instructions.Speak to your child’s pediatrician before giving them acetaminophen because you may need to take certain precautions or avoid the drug altogether.Recognize that you may have side effects such as headache, nausea, or upset stomach from taking acetaminophen.
 It is possible to unintentionally overdose on OTC medication if you are unaware that two brands have overlapping ingredients, or that they are in the same drug class. For instance, if you take Motrin and Advil — these are both ibuprofen, just with different brand names. Or you might take an Alka-Seltzer for indigestion and aspirin for a headache without realizing that Alka-Seltzer contains aspirin. Or you might want to take both aspirin and ibuprofen, but these are both NSAIDs, and should not be taken together, as this can lead to an overdose. You can take the NSAIDs class and alternate with acetaminophen (Tylenol) every four to six hours for a limited time.


Always check the active ingredients on your OTC medications to ensure you are not overdosing.
Avoid aspirin, ibuprofen and naproxen at the same time. The only exception is if you are taking a daily baby aspirin for heart protection.
 If you are unsure of which OTC pain reliever you chose or may want to choose, ask a pharmacist or your doctor. Either can advise you why one specific medication may be preferable over another for you.Make sure to let the pharmacist know about any underlying medical conditions you have or medication you take.

