 The tip of the scissors should be small enough to fit comfortably into your nostril, and the blades should be sharp enough to sever a hair cleanly with a single snip. Avoid using shared or communal scissors. Avoid using wavy "craft scissors", and avoid using dull, rounded children's scissors. You don't want to wrestle with your nose hairs, nor accidentally pull them out; you want the trimming process to be as neat and as smooth as possible.


Use special trimming scissors, if you can find them. Trimming scissors have a rounded tip that's designed specifically for safely trimming hair in sensitive places like noses and ears. You can find facial hair trimming scissors in the cosmetics section of many drugstores, department stores, and personal-care stores.
Clean the handles and blades of your scissors with water and antibacterial soap, and towel them dry before you use them. Consider using antiseptic to sterilize the scissors: if they have been used before, especially by other people, they might carry germs and bacteria that you don't want to inhale.;
, Make sure that your nose is clean and dry. Blow your nose beforehand, if need be, to remove any gunk. If you're battling a cold, a flu, or any other sinus-related infection, wait until the sickness subsides before you try to trim away your nose hairs: if you clear too many hairs, you may give new contaminants an easy passage into your already-compromised immune system.
 Make sure that you have a place to dispose of the hairs that you snip--a sink, a waste bin, or a disposable towel will do. Make sure that the lights are bright enough to clearly see into your nostrils: good lighting helps you see the lighter hairs that may be sticking out of your nose.


You may need to get close to the mirror to see enough detail. Try using a magnifying mirror or a hand-held mirror to get the right angle.
Nose hairs may stick to the scissors as you trim, and you don't want to wipe them directly back into your nostril. Keep a tissue, napkin, or towel on hand to wipe the scissors down. If you have access to a sink, you can rinse the tweezers clean of any clinging hair after each snip.
 Try to snip only the most visible hairs: the hairs near the rim of your nostril, and any large hairs that noticeably protrude from your nose. Smile at yourself in the mirror--or push your nose straight up with your finger--to reveal nose hairs that don't poke out otherwise. Trim only what you absolutely need to trim. Your nose hairs serve an important function by protecting your body from infection, and removing nose hair completely could have negative side effects., Line the tip of the scissors up with any thick bunches or particularly long hairs, make sure that your skin is clear of the blades, and snip with a gentle but decisive motion. Find the roots of the longest hairs, and trim them closely so they'll take longer to grow back. Only cut the hairs that people will notice: the hairs that stick out directly from your nose. Resist the urge to completely clear out your nostrils.


Be gentle when sticking the scissors into your nasal canal. Never shove the trimming scissors into your nose: you can do a lot of damage--and put yourself at further risk of infection--if you slice open your nasal passage. Watch your hand and the scissors closely, even if the scissors are rounded at the tip.
Trim until you're satisfied with your appearance. Smile at yourself in the mirror, again, and trim any hairs that stick out. If you look at yourself straight-on in the mirror and you can't see any obvious nose hairs, then you've probably done enough. Bear in mind that you may judge your appearance harshly than others do.
Dispose of the nose hair trimmings as you go. Hairs may stick to the scissors blades. You can rinse the hairs down the drain with water, or you can wipe them off of the scissors with a tissue, napkin, or towel.
 Throw away your nose hair trimmings, or wash them down the drain. Blow your nose to expel any clinging hair trimmings--and consider cleaning out your nostril with a tissue, a sanitary wipe, or a nasal spray. Clean up any stray trimmings that have fallen onto the sink, the counter, or the floor. Wipe the scissors with antiseptic before you put them away, or at the very least wash them with soap and water. This is especially important if you used communal scissors: would you want to use scissors that had just been up someone's nose?

