 Your partner won’t automatically know how to help you. If you have flashbacks, get angry, or have nightmares, you should tell your partner what you need from him or her to help you through these times. Giving your partner the details about what will help you or how to act when this happens can make everything easier for both of you and eliminate any accidental problems.For example, you may need space if you are having a flashback. You may need your partner to hold you during a flashback. Letting your partner know what is helpful for you can help him or her provide the support you need.
 Telling your partner about your PTSD may be only the first step in recovery and relationship building. You may decide that couples or family therapy may be helpful to help strengthen your relationship with your partner and help both of you learn how to communicate and deal with your situation.Ask your partner to go to therapy with you. For example, you may tell your partner, “I value you and our relationship. As part of my therapy/treatment, I think that the two of us should go to therapy together. I want to work on our relationship because I love you.”

, Because of your trauma, you may not fully trust your partner or share an intimacy with him or her that you both desire. This doesn’t mean the relationship is over. Once you tell your partner about your PTSD, you and your partner can work towards solving the trust and intimacy issues in the relationship.For example, both of you may need to use listening skills to really understand each other and communicate. If you are having trouble listening to one another, you may consider therapy to learn how to listen to one another.
You may also need to consider therapy for problem-solving skills to help you both solve problems associated with trust and intimacy. For example, you both need to search for solutions to the problems instead of rehashing the same subjects over and over again.
Try to solve problems from the past and focus on the relationship in the present and the future. You can’t change the past, so you should move past previous hurts and problems.
 You and your partner may both feel hurt, betrayed, or rejected because of your PTSD. You should listen to one another share the way you have felt hurt. Try not to get defensive. While you may explain your side or why you may have reacted this way, don’t blame or accuse each other of things.Remember, you are both hurting. You both mean a lot to each other, and accusing or blaming each other will only cause more hurt and pain.
When your partner talks, really listen to what he or she says. Though it may hurt you or you want to get defensive, try to acknowledge your feelings and tell yourself something like, “It is okay to feel defensive, but feeling this way will not help our relationship.” When it is your turn to talk, say something like, “Thank you for being honest with me. I am sorry I hurt you. This is what was going on at the time/what I really meant/why I said what I said/etc.”

, When you tell your partner about your PTSD, you should share any triggers with him or her. This helps your partner be able to help and support you, along with keeping you safe. Your partner can help you manage your symptoms and triggers when he or she is aware of it.When you tell your partner your triggers, you both should come up with ways to cope with the triggers. You may desire help from a therapist to come up with coping strategies for PTSD.
Identify your triggers, discuss what could possibly happen, then figure out a way to cope with that situation if it occurs. For example, breathing exercises or meditation may be helpful for you.
 Just because you have PTSD doesn’t mean your relationship has to always be different or about the PTSD. Make sure that you do things that have nothing to do with the trauma you experienced or with your PTSD.You should do things that other couples do, such as go on dates, spend time together, and take trips together. You should plan outings together. Have fun together, relax, laugh, and enjoy spending time together.


Enjoying your life, your relationship, and your partner can help you with your recovery.
There may be times you cannot do regular things or may be going through a rough time, but those times should be temporary and not rule your life.
 You and your partner may decide to create routines that can help you manage your PTSD. A schedule that is comfortable and predictable can help you find stability in your life and relationship. Together, you and your partner should come up with a schedule that suits both of your lives.For example, you may come up with times for meals, dates, paying bills, buying groceries, or doing housework.

