 Sangria, which originates in Spain, is a classic wine punch that tastes delicious and will add a flair of the exotic at your next party. The classic combination consists of wine, chopped fruit, and brandy, but you can easily leave the brandy out for a quick combination to make at home. When pressed for time, you can leave out the sweetener and sugar and rely on the tart but fruity flavor of cranberry juice to give your drink sweetness and body. All you need to add to that is red wine and your favorite fruit. The best ratio consists of:


1 bottle of your favorite red wine. No need to splurge on expensive wine, because the flavors will be heavily masked by the juice and fruit. White wine can be used instead, in which case the result is often called sangria blanca. White wines tend to be sweeter and, therefore, you can adjust the mixer to taste.
1 - 2 cups fresh fruit pieces, such as orange, lemon, lime, apple, peach, melon, grapes. Cube the fruit into about half an inch pieces so it mixes well with the liquid while still keeping its substance. Experiment with different types of fruit and how they flavor the sangria. Fresh fruit will hold up best after long saturation in the liquid, maintaining a bit of crunch to keep the drink interesting.
2 cups of a mixer to dilute the wine. Any fruit juice or carbonated beverage can work, but be careful to consider the sweetness vs. the flavors of the fruit and wine.
For an even more festive treat, add a carbonated beverage, such as 7 Up or Sprite, or seltzer water to give your drink a pleasant fizz. If you’re going to use a carbonated beverage, be sure to wait until just before serving to mix this in, as the bubbles will quickly dissipate.
 Empty the bottle of wine into a large container, and add the fruit pieces. Combine with the mixer to taste; it should maintain the taste of the wine, but be less noticeably alcoholic.
 Immediately before serving, add ice to your carafe so the drink stays cool. Because of the fruit pieces, your choice of container is slightly more important than with other punches. A lid or other strainer will help you regulate the ratio of ice and fruit pieces in each glass. In Spain and other parts of Europe, sangria is often served with a wooden spoon to help get fruit out of the bottom of the punch bowl.

