 Signing up is free and you can achieve this by:


Visiting the site http://www.dienstencheques-rva.be

Filling in a file that you can download at http://www.dienstencheques-rva.be/ and fax it to+32 02 547 54 96

Send it via mail to :Sodexo Cel dienstencheques Charles Lemairestraat 1 1160 Brussel


By calling Sodexo: +32 02 547 54 95
When you are signing up you need to tell if you choose to use electronic or paper service vouchers. Please be aware that the accredited company of your choice are accepting electronic vouchers if you choose for the electronic vouchers. If you choose for the electronic vouchers you need to have a telephone or cellphone available for your housekeeper so he or she can call in his or her working hours.
After signing up you get a confirmation and all information on how to order the service vouchers.;
, Usually there will be many advertisements in local newspapers, internet or TV. Ask friends or family if they know a trustworthy company. If you want a list with companies in your neighborhood head over to dienstencheques and fill in the zip code of your area to get the list. Beware of fraudsters if you are unsure you can always check the RVA website or call them for more information of the company. The companies are having regularly inspections of the RVA to rule out any fraud.



Cleaning of windows
Washing and ironing
Mending of laundry
Preparing meals
You can not use the service vouchers to pay for jobs like babysitting, painting walls, watching your pets, looking for sick or elderly people and so on. Use the service vouchers only for private practices. In short this means you can't use them for professional businesses like a doctors waiting room, your store, a rented out room and so on.
 Most companies expect that the housekeeper works for at least 4 hours.


If you have a big house don't expect that the housekeeper can clean it in 4 hours but don't let things slip. Remember that housekeepers are just human and that they aren't super humans everyone can have a bad day.
Give the company enough information if possible like:

If you have animals (dogs should stay another place or locked in a cage when the housekeeper is cleaning)
How big your house is. Maybe you will need more than 4 hours of help.
Ask if the housekeeper is a smoker or not. This is especially important if you don't allow smoking inside your house. Make an appointment with your housekeeper if necessary.
If you are working while the housekeeper is cleaning ask if you can see the housekeeper beforehand so you can see him or her and show them around your house and tell them what you expect. Make proper appointments with the housekeeper on how you let them in your house and how to leave your house.
 For each hour that the housekeeper worked you give one service vouchers. You fill in the date of the work performance and your signature with dark blue or black ink. Don't forgot to check the sort of activity too.


When using electronic service vouchers the housekeeper has to call in the hours worked. After the work performance, he or she calls with your phone to Sodexo +3280040089 for free in his or her preferred language. This service is an interactive speech service. The housekeeper has to give an access code and password, the type of performance + the hours worked. Afterward, he or she hears a summary of it all. The housekeeper then can choose to confirm or deny. The interactive speech service keeps a record of the day of the performance. After the confirmation of the housekeeper only the accredited company can read the performance.

