 To say "hello" in Balinese you should say "om suastiastu."The Balinese language has a different alphabet to Western languages, so this transcribing of the phrase for hello is written as it is pronounced in Balinese. This is a kind of pidgin version of Balinese that makes it easier for people to speak certain phrases without learning the Balinese alphabet and script.Pronounce the phrase as it is spelled. It might help to think of it in three parts "Om Swasti Astu." Place a slight emphasis on the "Om" and the repeated "ast" sounds. "Om SwASti AStu."
You can listen to a recording of someone saying "om suastiastu" online to listen for the pronunciation.The greeting translates as "peace and greetings from God."The person will reply with the same phrase "om suastiastu.";
, In Balinese culture you traditionally accompany words of greeting with a gesture. To be as polite and respectful as possible to the person you are greeting, you should hold your hands in front of your chest, in a praying position with the palms together and fingers pointed up.


This is a traditional Hindu greeting, which has in recent years become more commonly used.
Many people will greet you with a light handshake. Some people may touch their chest afterwards, as part of a greeting ritual.
 You can also try out some alternative Balinese greetings, which enable you to say things such as good morning and good evening. Having a slightly wider repertoire of greetings will help you feel a little more in tune with your Balinese hosts.


To say good morning, say "rahajeng semeng."
To say good evening, say "rahajeng wengi.", Another very common language spoken in Bali is Bahasa Indonesian, so why not learn some basic greetings in this language too? It is common to just say "Halo" or "Hi" to greet people. It is also common to greet someone by saying "how are you?" which translates as "Apa kabar?" Other commonly used greetings will depend on what time of day it is.


Good morning translates as "Selamat pagi."
Good afternoon is "Selamat siang."
To say good evening, say "Selamat sore."
For goodnight, say "Selamat malam."You can practice your pronunciation by listening to the phrases spoken correctly online.