

Twist off the cap to the vodka and place it on the lengthwise side of the watermelon (the oval shape of the watermelon should be horizontal). Position the vodka cap in the center of the watermelon. Use a serrated knife to “trace” around the edges of the vodka cap, creating a circle.

Stay as close to the actual cap size as possible, because you will eventually place your vodka bottle inside the hole that you’ve carved, and you want the fit to be snug so there are no leaks.;
,

Take the vodka cap off the watermelon, and use the knife to cut and follow the traced circle you just made. Place the knife point down on the edge of the circle and insert the knife about halfway. Cut out this piece as if you were carving a pumpkin.Continue cutting around the traced circle until the entire circle is carved around.


Use the knife to pry at the plug by inserting the knife at the cut edges, and bringing the knife down, underneath the plug, to create a 45-degree angle.

This will create a wedge that can pop the watermelon plug out of the carved hole.
Refrigerate the watermelon plug in a re-sealable plastic bag so that you can reinsert it later.
Save the vodka bottle cap to seal the vodka later.


Scoop out enough watermelon flesh with a spoon or melon scooper to create a hole deep enough that the vodka bottle neck can fit fully into the watermelon.

Be careful of watermelon juice and pulp splashing. This can make your workspace wet and sticky.


Stand the watermelon upright so it’s length is perpendicular to the surface space you are working on. Carefully tilt the watermelon on its side to meet the opened vodka bottle, and insert the bottle into the hole in the watermelon.The entire bottle neck should be able to fit in the watermelon hole.

If you have a friend nearby, they can hold the watermelon up and in the air a little bit and guide it to meet you, holding the opened vodka bottle.
Your vodka bottle will be at about a 90 degree angle to you, and parallel to your work space when you insert the bottle.


Rotate the watermelon until it is back on a resting position on your work space, with the vodka bottle now upright and centered. Leave the watermelon to absorb the vodka for at least 12 hours.The vodka should absorb about half, to the whole bottle of vodka.


Remove the bottle of vodka once the watermelon has absorbed all the alcohol. Insert the watermelon plug back into the hole and place in the refrigerator (with the vodka hole facing upward), if you are not planning on cutting and serving the water immediately. If you are planning on using the watermelon immediately, cut up the watermelon, and serve.

You can cut the watermelon into wedges, or peel it and cut it into cubes.

