 Remember what they like to do and what they like to talk about. You don't have to act like you love their hobbies, but at least try to understand why they're such a fan. If they love a band, try to understand why. If they just love to be playful and immature, remember that it might just be their way of releasing stress. In learning to accept their unique way of being, you'll also be learning more about yourself and ultimately whether you could see yourself spending the rest of your life with this person.


You don't have to take an interest in all of their interests. If they enjoy watching baseball but you just can't get into it, that's fine, too.
Just asking about their interests and talking about the things that matter to them can be enough.
 As in any healthy relationship, you'll experience your share of conflicts, some tiny, some big. Remember to be true to yourself and try to abandon any significant selfishness. A relationship is a matter of teamwork and a symbiotic relationship, not a parasitic one, where a party gives and the other one just takes without giving enough back. In a team, you have each other's back, you don't undermine one another and you openly cherish each other in front of others.


In times of hardship, a team approach can help you to work through problems in a less emotionally attached way, in that both of you assume responsibilities for fixing things rather than expecting one or the other to fix things.
Avoid having a "one track" relationship in which the bond revolves around one thing. Keep your relationship strong by bringing variety and diversity into the relationship. Try different and new things together. Relationships are about having fun together, learning together and growing together.
 If everything you say around them is a criticism or an attack, they won't look forward to seeing you and they'll start reconsidering being with you. All the same, you don't always have to agree with them just because they are your partner. Tactfulness is a better strategy in mature relationships and establishing boundaries and making compromises are important relationship strategies to learn and adopt.


Though you can bring up a valid criticism when it feels right, you should say at least four positive things about them for every negative thing you say.
Don't nag them just because you're in a bad mood or things aren't going perfectly.
 If you want to be a good girlfriend, then you have to learn to compromise instead of fighting or being angry the second you don't get your way. To compromise well, you both have to be able to calmly and rationally discuss a situation while understanding the other person's perspective. Try to understand where your significant other is coming from instead of blindly focusing on what you think you need.


You don't want to be that girl who always gets her way just because your partner would rather give in than stand their ground because you get so angry and upset whenever things don't go your way.
 You should support your partner, but you should also be able to "be there" for them in spirit when you're not actually around. If you want to be a good girlfriend, then you have to make time to do your own thing, to hang out with your girlfriends, and to see your partner. They should know that you're thinking of them and rooting for them even if you're not around. If you feel insecure and doubt the strength of your relationship the second you're apart, then you have a problem.


You should support your partner if they just want to have a night out with their friends instead of trying to intrude. It's important to allow your significant other to have time to spend with their friends and hang out without you.
If you feel entitled to all of their time and attention, learn how to not be an obsessive girlfriend. Don't be an overly protective girlfriend; let them go out without them feeling watched.
Remember that they don't need you for everything and that you are separate people as well as a couple. When they need some space, don't take it personally–recognize it for what it is–their time to rejuvenate and to share different interests with others. But do make sure they know that you're always there for them.

