 Divorce is a new experience for you, so it makes sense that you might feel confused. One of the best ways to cope is to talk to your parents. They can help you figure out what's going to happen. Don't be afraid to ask any questions that you have.Many kids blame themselves for divorce. It's not your fault. Ask your parents to explain why they got divorced.
Ask specific questions. If you're worried about who is going to pick you up from school, ask.
Getting answers will help you feel better. It can make you feel more calm and confident.
 Remember that your parents are there to help you. But they are also going through a tough time, so they might not be as attentive as usual. Take some time to explain to your parents exactly what you need. They will listen.Make a list of things that you need. For example, if you are uncomfortable when your parents argue around you, let them know that you need them to stop.
Explain to your parents that you need some structure. Ask them to come up with a schedule of when you will be seeing mom and when you'll spend time with dad.
 Divorce is an intense life change. It is normal to feel a wide range of emotions. Let your parents know how you are feeling. They can listen, and help you figure out the best way to cope.Remember that it is normal to feel scared, angry, frustrated, confused, and sad.
Expressing your emotions is the first step in the healing process. By voicing what you feel, you can begin to figure out what will make you feel better.
If you feel scared that you won't see your dad anymore, tell your parents about that feeling. They can help you figure out a way to make a schedule that will make you feel better.
 It's important to ask questions and express your emotions. But it's just as important to listen to your parents when you talk. The key to good communication is that everyone involved listens to each other.When you ask a question, listen carefully to the answer. If you ask why your parents are getting divorced, listen when they tell you that it is because they have grown apart. They are telling the truth.
Listening shows that you respect your parents. If you demonstrate maturity by listening, your parents will treat you with respect, too.
Ask questions if your parents answers are still confusing. Tell them you need the situation explained differently.
 There are a lot of things you can do to make dealing with this divorce easier. However, it is important to remember that it is not your divorce. Although it affects you, you are the child. These problems are not your fault, and they are not your responsibility.Divorced parents can be very frustrated with each other, and they might say bad things about one another. Try saying, "Mom, I understand that Dad hurt you. But it hurts me to hear you say negative things. Please stop."
Don't blame yourself for your parents problems. Divorce is not your fault.
 Although it's important to remember that your parents are the adults, sometimes during a divorce, you'll find that you need to take on extra responsibility. Tell your parents that you would like to set some clear boundaries and guidelines. Have this conversation with both parents, separately or together.For example, set a boundary establishing that you will not listen to either parent say negative things about each other. Make it clear that you are not taking sides, and they should not try to persuade you.

