 Not getting enough sleep and oversleeping can leave you feeling groggy and less alert. Medical experts recommend 7 to 9 hours of sleep per night.To feel more alert, establishing a routine is also important. Try to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day., If it’s too cold in your room or too warm, you can start to feel sleepy and foggy. To be more alert, try increasing or lowering the temperature in your room.Researchers have concluded that the optimal room temperature for sleep is about 65 degrees Fahrenheit, so adjusting the temperature a few degrees in either direction can help you wake up and feel more focused.
If you are in a work environment or place where you do not have control over the thermostat, bring a sweater or jacket with you so you can easily warm up or cool off to feel more alert.
 Houseplants filter out chemicals and allergens that drain our energy and cause us to be less alert. Try bringing a plant to keep in your workspace or at home to feel more awake., Sitting in a darkened room can make you feel less alert because it interferes with the body’s circadian rhythms. Open the curtains or blinds and let the sun shine in.If you live in a place where it is seldom sunny or it’s currently dark outside, research indicates that turning on lights can also help you feel more alert.If you are in a meeting and need to feel more alert, select a seat by a sunny window.
 Although it’s best to talk with your doctor before introducing any herbal supplements or vitamins to your daily routine, you may want to consider trying some of the options below that have been shown to make people more alert:A vitamin B-12 deficiency can cause memory problems and low energy. The recommended dosage for people age 14 and older is 2.4 micrograms per day. Many multivitamins already contain B-12, so unless you have been diagnosed with a vitamin B-12 deficiency, you may already be getting sufficient levels.Ginseng, according to some research, may elevate your mood and energy levels, which will make you more alert. There are no standard dosages, so talk with your doctor or a pharmacist about how much to take. Make sure you purchase ginseng from a reputable health food store or online retailer because it is expensive and many retailers add filler ingredients to their supplements.Guarana is an herb high in caffeine that some people believe can help improve mental focus. Check with your doctor about the right dosage for you, but many people trying to be more alert take 200 to 800 milligrams of guarana per day. If you already consume a lot of caffeine, you should use this cautiously because it may disrupt your sleep.Many pharmacies and health food stores also sell specific energy or alertness vitamins and supplements.
 Drugs and alcohol slow your reaction time, dull your responses, and make you less alert. Avoid these substances if you want to focus, concentrate, and be on your game., If you are having a hard time staying alert, it’s a good idea to talk with a medical professional as soon as possible. There may be an underlying condition causing your symptoms that is best diagnosed and treated by a doctor.