 It seems everybody has a yard to mow and as the world becomes a busier place, people just don’t have time to take care of their yard, hence the opportunity to start your own lawn mowing service. There are many things to consider before entering into this line of work. Taking time to consider the pros and cons before purchasing equipment, advertising your services, or dreams of expansion is a good idea.Pro: Stable and repeat business. As long as grass grows, customers will need to cut and trim it at least once a week.
Pro: Most people do not like weeds or bugs on their lawns so they need special fertilizers and treatments every one or two months. This is a revenue-generating consumable, or reoccurring product usage, allowing you to buy cheaply in bulk while charging a premium price.
Pro: Many opportunities exist for expanding your business with inside sales. Offer to mow the lawn and then build on top of that with landscaping, sod installation, gardening, weeding, or tree trimming. Once you are trusted, customers will have no issue expanding into other areas when they are ready.
Con: It is seasonal work in most places. You will most likely have to venture into snow-removing services of some type and that will add to your expenses for only seasonal work. In other words, the snow plow or lawn mower sits in the garage for half the year unused.
Con: This is a competitive market because it is so easy to get started. You will have to offer competitive prices and probably have to specialize to gain new business.
Con: The economy. Lawn mowing is considered a luxury service. As long as people have expendable income, they will pay for this service. When times are difficult you can expect this to be one of the first expenses cut (no pun intended).;
, Visit the local city government or Chamber of Commerce to inquire about the laws regarding a business license and insurance requirements. There are several rules and regulations that you need to be aware of to run your business legally.All states have different requirements. Some states require that you register your business no matter what type it is while other states only require corporations, non-profits, and limited-liability companies. Make sure you check your state’s specific requirements.
If you decide to register as a sole proprietorship, then the state government usually requires you to file under your own name. This is called Doing Business As (DBA).
Insurance coverage exists for just about every business risk possible. The biggest difference is cost and amount of coverage. Choose among general, product, and professional liability; commercial property; and home-based business insurance. Check with your local insurance agency representative.
 If you do not already own the necessary equipment, you will have to prioritize which equipment and supplies best fit your immediate needs. Plan this step carefully because equipment costs can derail your small business before it gets started.


Focus on what specific services you are offering. If you only want to start by mowing grass, then check for local wholesale rates on consumables and other necessary tools. Start small and then expand once you gain capital.
Instead of purchasing equipment consider leasing it. Leasing provides several advantages such using modern equipment, tax benefits, minimal maintenance, and time to evaluate your needs.
To start a lawn mowing business on your own, save around $500 to buy a push mower, trimmer, and leaf blower. If you prefer to buy into a franchise, it could cost approximately $80,000.