 One of the most important things to feel good about yourself is your hair. The key is to choose the right haircut, hair color, and so on. Firstly, get the right haircut.


An oval face can wear just about any hairstyle - from pixie short to long and full. Lucky for you, stylists say this is the most versatile face shape of all! Try to go for hairstyles that give more width to your face, like an updo or a side swept look. Be sure not to wear a hairstyle that covers you up though, such as extra heavy bangs.
If you have a square face, you will want to use your hairstyle to give the illusion of length to your face. Choose a hairstyle that is slightly longer than your chin. Avoid styles that fall at your chin or slightly above. Also, avoid bangs that are cut straight across the forehead, as this will emphasize your squareness. Shaping and softening the edges around this type of face is very flattering. Choppy layers and lots of texture help soften the sharp angles. Curls/Wavy styles also work to add femininity to your stronger jawline.
People with round faces should also seek to lengthen their face. Hairstyles should be longer than your chin, as styles that fall at your chin or slightly above will make you look heavier. Avoid any circular style, such as tapering around the face or bangs that are rounded. If you have short hair, ask your hairdresser to give you a layer cut. Also, styles which give hair the illusion of barely touching your shoulders work great, too.
A heart-shaped face benefits from a style that provides balance between the wideness of the forehead and the narrow chin. Therefore, seek out a style that makes the forehead appear smaller or makes your chin appear fuller. Bangs are helpful, especially if you have a high forehead, but should not be squarely cut across the face. Shaping along the face near the chin, or wearing a style that is layered and thick at the bottom, will provide fullness where it is needed. Avoid straight, thin styles, which cling to the face, as these will accentuate your narrow jawline. A middle parting emphasizes the pointy chin, so try a side part.;
, Pale skin suits all hair colors. Avoid shades of red or golden blonde if your skin is pink. Stick to ash tones to neutralize your coloring. Avoid yellow, gold or orange tones if your skin is yellow. Stick to deep reds. Olive & Dark skin suit darker hair colors.
 The best way to choose hair products that are right for you is to shop according to your hair type. For example, if you have oily hair, then you will want to look for products that say that they are designed for oily hair. If you have dry hair, then you should buy hair products that are designed for dry hair. No matter what type of hair you have, it is a good idea to buy for your hair type if you want the most effective results. It's also a good idea to visit the salon every once in a while to help keep your tresses in tip-top condition.
 When it comes to skin, that's your whole body! So we start taking good care of it today.


One thing that's often recommended is to drink plenty of water! Water helps to flush out toxins and give skin a clear look. Also, try to up the veggie intake! Fruits and veggies are the golden rule to beautiful, glowing skin.
Make sure to remove your makeup every night before you go to bed. Your skin needs to breathe at night and if you sleep with your makeup on frequently, you will get many pimples. Do exfoliate once a week. Exfoliating gets rid of dead skin cells on the surface of your skin, and can even get rid of some blackheads and whiteheads. By exfoliating weekly, your skin will always look healthy and soft.
Always moisturize before you go to bed and in the morning; this gives your skin a soft and smooth feel at the start of the day.
Exercise! Exercising daily helps your skin clear up and take in more oxygen-vital for keeping it healthy for life! A good reason to break out the jogging shoes, right?

, This is very important. Apply sunscreen (at least SPF 30) 20-30 minutes before you leave every time you leave your house! Remember, lighter skin tones burn easier than dark skin tones. So decide how much you need. A rough idea of how much you should use is that it takes the size of a big coin to cover up your face and neck and two tablespoons worth to cover your whole body.
 Makeup is supposed to enhance your face, not cover it. To be honest, that's exactly what many people do. You should try a good concealer on uneven spots or lighty over acne. You can easily cover red spots with eye drops made for red eyes. It works!

, You want to choose a color that will complement and enhance your eye color while not overpowering your eyes. The best place to begin is with neutral shades. Neutral tones compliment almost every skin tone, and provide an excellent palate to create highlights to focus on the color of your eyes. Here are the types of colors you would want based on eye color: Green eyes: earth tones (almost any brown, taupes, ivory, chocolate), gold, bronze, copper, plums, pink and purple. Blue eyes: metallics (gold, copper and bronze), taupe, mauve, and purple. Do not use greenish blues or aqua, as these will compete with your eye color. Brown eyes: pinks, peach, corals, golds, green, blue, plum, brown, champagne and purple. Most colors go well with brown eyes.
 4 steps to beautiful cheeks that are flattering for every skin tone/type are as follows:


Step 1. Use a PEACH cream/mousse color on the apples of your cheeks (peach is the most flattering color for any skin tone), and start from about the pupil of your eye, back to your hairline. Top that with a PEACH powder blush. Layering the two products will make the color last longer!
Step 2. Contour the sides of the face and the hollows of the cheeks with a matte bronzer or darker face powder that is 2-3 shades darker than your skin tone. Remember that you want to create the illusion that the apples of your cheeks are casting a shadow, and you just slightly want to intensify that effect. This will, not only slim down your face, but create that "healthy glow" look.
Step 3. Highlight your cheekbones first with a cream highlighter, then with a mineralized pearly highlighter (again, this is just make the effect last longer). You want to put on just enough so that the light catches the shimmer and creates a soft glow and lifted look to the cheeks, but not so much that your makeup starts to look cakey.
Step 4. Take a big kabuki brush and blend all 3 colors for a flawless finish!

, If you think you have too bushy eyebrows, too thin or whatever it is, these steps can help you. Buy an eyebrow brush; it will help you shape your eyebrows. If you can tolerate the pain and have a little money, then go get your eyebrows professionally waxed but if you absolutely cannot do this, then follow these tips. The biggest mistake people make is to tweeze too much. Avoid over plucking as it can take months for brows to grow back. Here's a simple trick to remember: The space between your brows should be equal to, or a little wider than, your eyes. The best brows have a slight arch. Cleanse your skin. Exfoliating with a gentle scrub helps prep the area as well. Worried about pain? Expert aestheticians suggest applying to the brow Anbesol, Orajel or any teething gel for babies. Brush brows up and out. You want both the bottoms and tops to be smooth. So be careful, but tweeze the top AND the bottom.
 The most flattering lip tones will be one or two shades darker than your natural lip color, according to makeup artist Bobbi Brown. To test shades, apply lipstick or gloss to one lip. If that color is just a shade or two deeper than your bare lip, then you have found your shade. But make sure before you apply anything to the lips, you use either Chapstick or Vaseline on your lips so they look good and feel moisturized.
 Decide what type of eyeliner you need. A classic pencil creates a soft line and is easy to work with. A gel or liquid eyeliner creates instant drama but requires precision and patience. A smudge proof, self-sharpening eyeliner that glides well over the lid is probably the easiest to use and is easy to find. Use white eyeliner or a soft metallic silver or gold to make your eyes look bigger and more open with any eyeliner color or by itself with black mascara. Apply the white eyeliner under the lower lid or on the interior upper and lower corner of the lid close to the lashline. Blend it with your finger or a brush into the lid for a more subtle effect. Choose an eyeliner that complements your eye color. Browns and plums compliment brown eyes, taupe, and deep green compliment green eyes, sandy taupes and deep browns make blue eyes sparkle and if you have hazel eyes, pick the color you'd like to bring out and buy an eyeliner in the same hue or choose black to bring out all the colors at once.
 Regular exercise is an important part of staying healthy. One thing most girls are concerned with is their butt! So, if you think you don't have a shapely butt here how to get one: Target your Gluteus Maximus: If you have a little butt-flab, you have to lose body fat to get rid of it. The quickest way to do that is with cardio exercise, weight training and a healthy diet. You should weight train at least 3 times a week. When you're weight training, make sure you do exercises that work your butt muscles (glutes). These exercises are hip extensions, leg presses, lunges, and squats. You should do three sets of 10 repetitions with each exercise. Eat the right foods, including: fruits, lean fish, lean meats, nuts, whole grain breads, pasta and vegetables.
 When you don't get enough rest, the body cannot repair itself, circulation is cut down and the skin receives less oxygen and nourishment. As a result, your skin may look dull and sallow, acne/zits can flare up, and dark circles can appear under your eyes. Suggestion: get your beauty sleep. But try to stay on your regular sleep schedule! Try taking naps on weekends, but don't make them 4 hours long! This can wreck your sleep hours, so you might not wake up properly for work or school! So basically, don't oversleep!

, How do you feel when you open the closet door and peek inside at the clothes hanging in front of you? Are you overwhelmed because all you see are various ill-fitting blouses, frumpy pants and outdated dresses with the tag still on? If you don’t absolutely love most of the things in your closet, it’s time to update your look. Next time you’re out shopping with your friends flipping through the latest Cosmo or watching a stylish TV show, take note of the outfits you like. Get a feel for your personal style and make a note when you see an outfit that you would absolutely LOVE to wear. Once you have a good idea of the look you want to create (e.g., classic, glamorous, artsy, sporty, etc.) you can start shopping for items that reflect your new style.
 There are very noticeable trends in belts, jewelry, bags and purses, so if you haven’t updated these pieces in a while, chances are they’re out of date. The good news is, because accessories are generally less expensive and updating them is an inexpensive way to breathe new life into your entire look.
 Shoes can make or break your look, so make sure these are updated! This can and elongates your body and gives your entire style a more feminine, elegant feel. While you’re at it, toss a new pair of bright red heels into the mix to make your little black dresses pop.

