 A large majority of LCD TVs are ready to mount, so this likely isn’t an issue. However, some early models are for use only on tabletops and you cannot mount these.


To find out if your LCD TV is mountable, check the owner’s manual to see if the television set is “VESA Compatible.” VESA, or Video Electronics Standards Association, identifies the television set is capable of fitting standard mounts.
If you don’t have your owner’s manual, look at the back of your LCD TV. If it has 4 or more threaded screw inserts where the mount can attach to the set, the television is capable of being mounted on a wall.;
,









Consider the size of your television set and the level of tilt or rotation you desire when you choose your mount. Some mounts fit up against the wall and do not allow you to move your television set after you mount it. However, other LCD TV mounts allow you to pull your television set away from the wall to rotate or tilt the angle of the television. These mounts typically cost more than the standard, fixed mounts do.










Interior walls are much easier than exterior walls because you will need to run cables through your wall. Exterior walls offer obstructions like sway braces or fire blocks that can make accessing your cables much more difficult.
 Make sure that nothing obstructs the view of your LCD TV when you determine where on the wall to place your mount.
 You can run an outlet to that location or install a clock-box, which the National Electric Code recommends.


You might also consider installing a surge protector that fits behind your LCD TV. They’re small enough to hide behind the television, but add extra electrical protection in the event of power fluctuation.
 Attaching your LCD TV mount with 2 bolts in at least 1 stud will help ensure that the mount stays in place once you attach the television. For heavier sets, experts recommend you attach the mount to at least 2 studs, positioning 2 bolts in each stud.
, Various types of mounts involve different methods of attaching to the television, so be sure you read the instructions to provide the best protection for your television.









Remember to install safety screws that help keep your television from falling off if it’s ever pulled on or bumped into.
 Most of the time, these Input connections are on the bottom of the back or on the side of the back of the LCD TV.








