 The easiest method of travel in London is the tube. For this, it is easiest to buy what is called an 'Oyster card' or a get a travelcard for all zones from one of the automated machines in a tube station. These cover buses, tubes, trams and overground trains throughout the city. This is usually the best option, especially for tourists, as you can travel as much as you'd like in one day with one flat fare.;
, If you own a smart phone, access the internet and save a copy of the tube map onto your phone. If you don't, then try to load an image to your phone from your PC before you go. You can pick up paper maps for free from the stations, but holding a large map is impractical and shows you are unfamiliar with the city and therefore puts you at a greater risk to pickpockets.
 Tourists are usually the ones that get targeted by thieves. If you take a camera, make it a small one instead of a large SLR. Avoid bumbags (called fanny packs in other parts of the world) at all costs and try to put your belongings into a more casual bag instead of a backpack. Messenger bags are often the best option as they cross over your body and you can easily have it in your sight at all times.
 The streets and transport get incredibly busy at peak times, so try to avoid these. Although London is always busy, weekdays between 9 and 5 are usually calmer than weekends and the rush hour, and therefore make it easier for tourists.
 Again, it is usually most practical to have one of these on your phone is possible (if you have GPS that is even better as it can tell you exactly where you are and where you need to go) as London has winding streets that are not in a regular grid pattern as in cities such as New York. In the centre of the city and near the largest attractions there are sometimes people wearing bright coloured t shirts that are from companies that offer free directions and information to tourists. If you are lost and can see one of these people, don't hesitate to ask, it's better than being lost! They have maps and great knowledge of the city and are a great help.
 London is a great city to find deals, but it is very easy to get carried away. Paying in cash is never wise as cash is easier to steal than a credit or debit card, so keep tabs on what you're spending during your visit. Withdraw small amounts of cash for each day and don't go over budget, especially if you're buying souvenirs or shopping somewhere like Oxford Street. Many of the biggest attractions in London are free (Houses of Parliament, Trafalgar Square, the Tate Modern, and a number of museums) so take advantage of these wherever possible.
 If you're travelling in a group, know where to meet if you get separated. Make sure all members of your group have a phone with them and never let one person who is unfamiliar with London walk around on their own for very long. If you are travelling with children, no matter how mature they think they are, you should hold on to them at all times. In large crowd it is easy to get separated. Have an action plan if they don't manage to get off at the right tube stop. The usual method is to have them get off at the next stop and wait for you on the platform, whilst you wait for the next train which is never more than a few minutes away.
 It is very tempting to just see all the big attractions in London during your visit, but there are thousands of small shops, restaurants and parks that are hidden treasures of the city. They are always less busy than the large tourist attractions and give you a real feel of London.

