 Drink plenty of water to keep your skin hydrated, moisturized, so your skin can adequately work on repairing itself. Sun exposure increases fluid loss and dehydration in skin, so it is important to replenish the lost fluids in your body after a sunburn.


You can also try drinking some unsweetened ice tea. The antioxidants in green and black tea may help repair free radical damage from the sun.;
, Spending time outdoors without protecting your already damaged skin will increase the risk of peeling, and worsen your burn. This is because the outer protective dead skin cell layer is damaged, so more harmful UV rays will pass through this layer of skin.Wear a broad spectrum sunscreen with an SPF 30 or higher if you are going to be outside with already sun damaged skin. Also wear protective clothing and accessories (hats, sun glasses) to prevent further damage., The soothing and moisturizing properties in oatmeal can help the skin retain its natural moisture and prevent burned skin from peeling. To make an oatmeal bath, stir 1-3 cups of oatmeal into a bathtub filled with warm water. Soak in the oatmeal bath from 15-30 minutes, and rinse your body with clean water when you are finished soaking in the oatmeal.


After your oatmeal soak, apply a moisturizer to your body to further add hydration to your skin.
Consider following this remedy daily before going to bed to give your skin the best chance of not peeling after a sunburn.
 Aloe vera is a natural cactus extract that has long been hailed around the world for its soothing properties. You can buy an aloe vera lotion, pure aloe vera gel, or break open an aloe vera plant, and apply the plant juices directly to your peeling skin.The aloe vera can aid healing, fight the sunburn pain, and avoid infection.


Try looking for pure aloe vera that is 98% to 100% aloe vera to avoid feeling sticky.Consider storing the aloe vera in the refrigerator so it feels even cooler when you apply it to your skin., Apply a moisturizer to the sunburned areas of your skin. There are specially designed moisturizers to for recently sunburned skin that are available in most drugstores. Avoid moisturizers that contain alcohols, retinols, and AHAs (alpha hydroxyl acids), which can dry out and further irritate sensitive skin.Apply the moisturizer throughout the day if possible, and immediately after bathing to ensure maximum moisturizer absorption.Alternative moisturizers include baby oil, coconut oil, and honey.
 The tannic acids that occur naturally in tea are a great remedy for sun-damaged skin. Steep a pot of black tea and cool it in the refrigerator before applying it to your burned skin using a compress or spray bottle.The tea will help reduce inflammation, decrease redness and promote healing.
You can also try pressing the actual tea bags onto your skin rather than using a compress or spray bottle., A baking soda bath can help restore your skin’s pH balance and help soothe the burn irritation. Add about ¾ cup of baking soda to the bathwater, and soak for 15-20 minutes before rinsing your skin with clean water.You can also add a heaping tablespoon of baking soda to a bowl of cool water, soak a washcloth in the mixture, and the use the wrung out washcloth as a compress to treat the tender, burned areas.You will know that you’re adequately hydrated when your urine color runs pale yellow., Pour white or apple cider vinegar in a spray bottle, and mist the vinegar onto your sunburn. The vinegar can help to prevent unsightly blisters and prevent peeling.If the smell is too offensive, you can mix a solution of 1 part water and 1 part vinegar, and spray that into your skin instead.
 Soak a washcloth in cold whole milk, and wring out the excess milk. Then apply the washcloth to the sunburned area of skin and leave the cloth on your skin for 10 minutes. Then wash the area with clean water.Repeat this process 2-3 times daily until your skin is completely healed from the burn.


Milk is very beneficial to burned skin because the protein in the milk has a soothing effect, while the lactic acid can reduce irritation and itching on the burned skin.
 Mint leaves can help stop the process of peeling and instead promote skin that is smooth and healthy. To use this remedy, take fresh mint leaves and crush them in a bowl to extract their juice then apply the juice directly to the part of your face that is peeling., A balanced and nutritious diet that is high in water, fruits, vegetables, and lean meats can keep your skin healthy, and reduce the negative effects of sunburn and peeling.


Eat plenty of protein, iron, and foods that contain vitamins A, C and E. These nutrients help ensure your skin is prepared to heal from a sunburn.
 Sunburned skin often itches, but scratching or peeling away your skin will only increase tissue damage on the sunburned areas, increase peeling, and promote the risk of a skin infection.If you get the urge to scratch your sunburn, try applying an ice cube wrapped in cloth or a damp paper towel to your skin and rubbing the area in small circles to offer temporary itch relief.
If you absolutely must remove some peeled skin, do not pull on the skin, no matter how tempting it might be. Instead, use a small pair of scissors and carefully cut away that section of skin., Try bathing and showering with cool to lukewarm water, rather than using hot water. The hot water will dry out your skin and promote peeling, whereas the cooler water will feel better on your skin and reduce the likelihood of peeling.Also avoid rubbing your skin dry after bathing, as you could rub off the outermost, burned layer of your skin, causing peeling.
 Soap can be very drying to skin, and when you have a sunburn, you want your skin to stay as moisturized as possible to promote healing and prevent peeling. Keep the soap use to a minimum, being sure to avoid using it on particularly burned areas of your skin.


If you do use soap, try to refrain from using a washcloth or loofa to apply to soap. The rough surfaces of those materials may irritate your skin and encourage peeling.
Also try to avoid shaving and waxing, but if you must shave, try to use a rich, moisturizing shaving cream, gel, or lotion.