 Having dinner with a friend and periodically checking the door to see who's coming in is an example of not being focused. The friend knows it and, at some level, feels insulted. Texting while in a business meeting is not being focused, nor is just sitting there and waiting for it all to be over. Focus is the act of forgetting self in favor of total immersion in the object, person or task at hand.;
, Focus is a self-less act. Using the meeting example above...many think it makes them look important to be so 'in demand' that they must text while in a meeting. Only the immature are impressed. Most observers consider this behavior a needless distraction or an insult. Much better to forget self and impress by focusing on the people and/or job at hand.
 Focus is giving one's complete attention over to something, noticing it deeply. The act of focusing gradually becomes a form of appreciation. Focusing in order to get to 'rejection' leads to failure because it leads to detaching from the object. The effective equation? Focus...appreciation ... attachment ... more focusing ... more appreciation, and so on. This is one reason why it is hard to fake the 'focused gaze'. Few can remain attached to and appreciative of something/someone that is not appealing to them.
 It is not self conscious in any way. It is not self-evaluating. This is a clear case of 'if we're thinking about how we're doing, we're not getting it done'. Concerns about how well we're doing, being 'in the zone' 'doing it right' 'doing it wrong' are indications of lack of focus. Being distracted by concerns for the thoughts and opinions of judges, bosses, audiences, others' expectations, one's own expectations, ...all of these are evidence of lack of focus. Being conscious of decisions, potential results and outcomes are a lack of focus. Every bit of attention being paid to any of these things is attention not being paid to the subject/person at hand. It is loss of focus.
 By its nature, focus requires detaching from surroundings, which may cause a feeling of vulnerability. For many, focus ultimately brings a heightened sense of connection, but that requires passing through this phase of momentary discomfort.
 Athletes, artists, and actors often want to lose themselves in the flow of the moment that focus provides. They work to heighten their focus - increase their commitment - in order to get in the zone and improve performance. This is something of an altered state. It's a normal result of focus.
 Focusing is a skill. It must be developed by practicing. Practice focusing and practice not being distracted. They sound the same, but are slightly different. See exercises in the tips below.
 It's an accomplishment. Why diminish it with such a superficial concern as whether one has adopted a 'focused gaze'. Leave behind the pretend and get real. Get focused. Get results.

