 Parents today have a lot to stress about. Raising children while juggling all the other demands of life in today’s economy and culture can most certainly take its toll. Parents can get overwhelmed and, as a caretaker of their child, you provide assistance to them and their stress as well. Youth work is all about teamwork, and helping support parents essentially is helping support their child. It can be very helpful for parents to have someone they trust and who has real knowledge about their child just listen to them talk.


Sometimes the best thing you can do to help stressed out parents is to provide a safe space for them to get their emotions off their chest and to give them the support they need., There some methods you can employ, other than simple support, that will help you actively listen to parents when they talk to you. Whether you are on the phone or in person, plant your feet firmly on the ground and remain present. Keep your breathing calm and focused, lean in to the conversation, and truly be there for the parent. Stay as grounded as possible in your interactions with them so you can stay as focused as possible on their conversation.


In order to create a safe space, you have to be safe person who is paying attention and taking their concerns seriously. Be present for them. The parents will notice if you are really engaged in what they are saying. If you are really engaged, then you can handle their need to purge their emotions and stresses. , Another active listening technique is to take notes. If you are not on the phone, ask the parent if they mind if you take notes. Explain that you just want to make sure you are fully absorbing what they are saying so that you can work with the rest of your team to help find solutions to their concerns and help take some of the burden off of them. This will let them know that you truly care about their concerns and their child as well. , Sometimes when parents are overly emotional, it can be difficult for them to stay focused. Use statements like that start with things like, "What I am hearing you say is," or, "I can hear from your voice how stressed you are." These statements will let them know you acknowledge their stress.


You can also use validating statements such as, "That must be really difficult" to help the parents truly understand you are listening and taking their stress, emotions, and concerns seriously. , Sometimes people are uncomfortable when they get stressed. The parents may also find it challenging for them to feel so emotional and want to avoid seeking help. Assure the parents that you are there to help, you are there for their child, and you are there for them. Let them know it is part of your job to offer support and ask them if there is anything you can do to make them feel more comfortable talking and expressing themselves.
 Don’t offer advice, minimize the parents stress and emotions, or suggest any kind of quick fix. The first step is to listen, and let the parent say what they need to say, beginning to end. Try to avoid interrupting them while they are describing their issues to you. Remember, they are the parents, and respect that their experience with their child may be different than your experience as a teacher or caregiver.


By withholding judgment and solutions, you can learn more about the family dynamics, other aspects of the child in question, and behaviors that may not present at school or day care. By using your listening time to also gather information about the child, the parents, and family dynamics, you will have a better arsenal of ideas of what can be done to help the parents and child. , While you are listening, after you reflect to the parent how upset and stressed they sound, encourage them to try to breathe and relax. This will help to dissolve the situation and put the parents at ease.


By reinforcing that they are not alone and you are actively listening, you can help de-escalate the parent’s emotional state so that you can better help them.

