 Find a pair of nitrile gloves (medical grade), goggles, and a mask for your safety.The batteries contain acid which can cause severe damage, so make sure you keep your face and hands covered. Once you have your safety equipment in place, move on to the next step.If you get any of the chemicals on your skin, clean it off with soap and water. Leaving the chemicals untreated can cause irritation.;
, Make sure to unhook the negative cable first, then follow with the positive cable. The negative cable is the black cable, and the positive is the red. You risk getting a shock if you touch the positive first. When putting the connection back on the terminals, connect in reverse order (positive then negative). Replace the cables and clamps to avoid future problems if damage is extensive.If you see any cracks or damage on the battery, do not touch the battery. You will need a professional to have the battery replaced.If the connections are too tight, try using WD-40 to loosen them., Check to see if there are any other issues with the battery during this process. If there are any other cracks or seepage, find a professional to replace the battery for you.
 The scoop of baking soda should be one heaping scoop. Since baking is low in pH, it will help neutralize the acidity of the corrosion. Use hot water rather than cold to speed up the process.Avoid using household "cleaners" like coke, coffee, or grease as they can run onto various parts of your engine. This may cause unnecessary corrosion on metal parts, soften rubber connections, and damage your asphalt or concrete driveway., You may also choose to pour on small amounts onto the cables. Gently brush around the connections, thoroughly getting around the base as well as cleaning the build up on the connections. Continue until the battery stops reacting to the baking soda mixture.Don't use a wire brush or reamers as they can potentially remove necessary materials. If you remove too much material, the clamp may not tighten as it should, and you will have loose connection., Ensure that all the materials and mixtures have been rinsed from the battery and connection. Avoid getting the mixture onto the battery compartment itself.



You may also put petroleum jelly or grease on the bases of the ports to prevent future corrosion., Connect the positive first then the negative. Use a wrench to tighten the connections sufficiently onto the ports. Place the red rubber boot over the positive terminal.