 If fiber is affecting your health or making you uncomfortable, it may be ideal to consume less fiber than what's recommended for an average, healthy person.


The total fiber intake recommended for women is: 25 g daily. The total fiber intake recommended for men is: 38 g daily.Keep track of how much fiber you eat throughout the day. You may find it easy to use a food journaling app to help you accurately calculate fiber each day.;
, Fiber is found in a wide range of foods including grains, fruits, vegetables and legumes. Limiting the fiber in each meal or snack can help cut down on your overall consumption and may alleviate GI symptoms.Choose lower fiber fruits or remove fibrous parts of fruits. For example: eat applesauce instead of an apple, because the skin of the apple contains a large amount of fiber, or drink six ounces of 100% juice daily. Fruits that are lower in fiber include: canned fruit, cooked fruit, and fruit without the skin or peel.
Choose lower fiber vegetables or remove fibrous parts. For example: take the skin off your potato or remove the seeds from your zucchini. Vegetables that are lower in fiber include: canned vegetables, well-cooked and very soft vegetables, vegetables without seeds, and 100% vegetable juice.
Choose lower fiber grains. For example: avoid 100% whole grain foods since these are higher in fiber. Choose lower fiber grains like: white rice, white bread, cream of wheat or cream of rice, or plain pasta.
 There are two types of fiber — soluble and insoluble. Insoluble fiber is sometimes called "roughage," as it's main function is speed the process of digestion.


Insoluble fiber may stimulate bowls more than desired causing diarrhea in those who are susceptible or have a chronic health condition.Insoluble fiber is found in the following foods: whole grains, vegetables and wheat bran.Soluble fiber absorbs water, makes stools easier to pass and may slow digestion slightly. This type of fiber is more gentle and may be more appropriate for some people.Although insoluble fiber may have negative side effects for some, in general, it's a healthy addition to your diet and can help prevent constipation.
 Many food companies now add fiber into different foods to help increase fiber intake.Fiber may be added to foods that typically have little to no fiber and should be avoided by those minimizing fiber in their diets. Examples of foods to limit include:


Orange juice with pulp and added fiber.
Artificial sweeteners with added fiber.
Yogurts with added fiber.
Soy milk with added fiber.
Granola bars or bread that have additional added fiber (these may be lower in fiber prior to processing additional added fiber).
 There are a variety of fiber supplements that are available to help people increase their fiber intake. However, these should be discontinued immediately if fiber is posing a problem for you or your health.


Discontinue the use of any stool softeners or laxatives that contain added fiber.
Do not take oral gummies or fiber capsules.
Do not add extra powdered fiber or psyllium husk to foods or beverages.
 Writing up a meal plan can help you plan out all the meals and snacks you eat in a day and provide a framework for you to follow throughout the week.


Calculate how much fiber is in each meal or snack and what your total daily intake will be.
A meal plan will allow you to change things up, make substitutions or swaps so that you don't go over your target fiber goal each day.
Take some of your free time to plan your meals and snacks for one week. Include all meals and snacks you typically eat everyday. Repeat this exercise every week or as needed.

