 If your cat is grinding its teeth, it most likely means that it is having some dental problems. This could be a loose or broken tooth, gum pain, ulcers, gingivitis, or a problem with its jaw.In response to the pain caused by these issues, a cat will often times grind its teeth.


Your veterinarian will ask you about your cat's symptoms and then give the cat an exam.
The veterinarian may need to do some tests, such as an x-ray or a blood test, to find the cause of the pain if no cause is immediately evident. Some of these tests may require your cat to be anesthetized, which means it will be put under so that the cat is still during the x-rays.Other tests, such as blood tests, do not require this.;
, If your cat's teeth pain is caused by irritated gums or periodontal disease, the first step in treating it is usually a thorough cleaning. This will eliminate all of the bacteria that is fueling the issues and will give your cat a dental fresh start.You may need to go to a veterinary dentist specialist to get this treatment.
Deep cleaning a cat's teeth requires the cat to be anesthetized. As such, it will usually require a separate appointment and will take about an hour.Some groomers, pet stores, and veterinarians offer "anesthesia free" teeth cleaning. This is just a surface cleaning, is not thorough, and does not clean under the gum line, where bacteria can really take hold.
 If your veterinarian is able to diagnose the dental problem that is causing your cat to grind its teeth, have it treated as soon as you can. The grinding is sign that your cat is in pain, so correcting its dental problems is the best way to alleviate that pain.If your cat is in severe pain, your veterinarian may give it a pain killer to make it feel better. This is just a temporary solution until the actual problem can be fixed.
In most cases, if there is a problem with one of your cat's teeth, the veterinary dentist will remove it surgically. If the problem is in the cat's jaw alignment, includes a tumor, or includes a bone fracture, that will require a more invasive surgery to treat.
 If all dental issues are ruled out, then teeth grinding may be caused by another illness. While this is rare, it is most often caused by dehydration, digestive problems, abdominal pain, or neurological issues. Your veterinarian will need to assess your cat's overall health and run tests to diagnose the problem.There are many possible causes for teeth grinding in cats. Once dental problems are ruled out, your veterinarian will probably need to start with some general blood tests. These will give the veterinarian a good place to start when looking for a non-dental cause.
 In order to prevent many serious dental infections, have your cat's teeth looked at every year by a veterinarian. This will help to keep your cat's teeth in good condition and will hopefully allow you to catch any issues that are developing before they become serious and painful for the cat.During an annual exam the veterinarian will talk to you about what dental care you are giving the cat, as well as looking at the cats teeth closely.
If the veterinarian decides that your cat needs a deep cleaning or x-rays, then that will be done during a follow up appointment.
 If you are concerned about your cat's dental health, or your cat has a history of dental problems, it is worth your while to brush your cat's teeth daily. This is the single most important thing you can do for your cat's dental health between veterinary dental cleanings.This daily brushing removes excess food, plaque, and bacteria that can promote dental diseases, such as periodontal disease.
You will need to acclimate your cat to teeth brushing. Begin by putting a small amount of cat tooth paste, which is not the same as human toothpaste, on your finger. Let your cat sniff it and lick it if it likes. Gradually transition in to rubbing the toothpaste on your cats teeth. Then, when the cat gets used to your finger in its mouth, then you can transition to a pet toothbrush. This process may take weeks, or months, to complete.
 There are several brands of commercial cat food that have been proven to improve a cats dental health. This is done during chewing the food, which removes plaque and tarter from the teeth.These foods either have a design that cleans the teeth or they have a chemical ingredient that removes tartar. However, be sure to pick a food that is balanced for your cat nutritionally, in addition to fighting dental disease. Ask your veterinarian if you need advice about what specific food to feed your cat.
Additionally, there is an additive for your cat's water that can be prescribed by your vet that will fight plaque and gingivitis. However, this additive can make your cat's water taste strange, so make sure your cat will drink it without fuss.