 Whilst navigating the maze of popularity, people, and teachers, we are told to be lovely role models for the lower grades, and for those whose middle schools only go up to eighth grade, we're not really sure how to go about this 'role model' business, since we don't quite remember ever idolizing the eighth graders. Or perhaps you remember admiring them with a kind of bemused 'so that's what they look like'.;
, On the day before school (or even earlier!), start to figure out what you are going to wear. Since it is the first day of school, try to make a lasting impression on your new classmates - even if you already know them. Remember your looks aren't everything, but, in middle school, it is very important for you to look presentable and neat.], The last thing you want is to show up to school, and have no idea where you are supposed to be going. If you are new to the school, try looking around when you go in to register. If you still don't know where your classes are, don't worry because on the first day there will always be a teacher to show you where you are supposed to be. If they have a meet the teacher, try going to that, because it will give you the chance to see where you will be sitting, and who you will be with in your classes.
 Do not pick on the younger kids; it is common for those who are at the top to pick on those who are at the bottom. Understand that just because you're "at the top", does not mean you can beat up on those who are at the bottom. Put yourself in their shoes and think about how you would feel if the younger kids picked on you.
 It's okay to still hang out with your old buddies, but try to find some new people that you get along with, so that you can be more sociable - this will help with having good times throughout Grade 8.
 Popularity is relative, and being popular isn't what it's cracked up to be.


Dress up appropriately, but to your standard of clothing, not to the kind of standard of 'wow, I look cool/cute/whatever'. After that, you can conquer anything, even the meanest math teacher who you are convinced came from the depths of Hades realm exclusively to drag you down with her algorithms and algebra.
 Sixth graders tend to give you strange looks if you ask them for a teacher's room, since they expect you to know your way around the school.


Go find a teacher without a class or another classmate who is either looking very confident or is very good at the 'try not to look like a confused lamb' strategy.
 Even if you're a girl, have a taste for skirts, and love American Girl dolls- or maybe you dislike Twilight, or love Gone with the Wind, or know lots of web games - either way, don't hide something just because it doesn't fit your 'stereotype'. Chances are, that other girl or boy might know something about it too.
 You've had time to test it out in seventh grade - you were too unsure in sixth grade, but now is your time to shine. Get some of that stick-on wallpaper (easily peel-able), cut out a strip or so, or get some pictures and tape and cover the back of your locker with Jack and Sally (Nightmare Before Christmas) or Wolverine or Colossus or whomever you want to. Whomever or whatever. It isn't like people think you don't like it - which, if they do, you can tell them otherwise.
 You are only a year away from moving on to high school! If your school offers any high school preparation classes, consider taking one. Ask high schoolers for tips on how they are getting through the year, as advice might be of help.

