 Being judgmental towards other girls will tell her that judgmental remarks are okay and normal for her to experience, both from other people and from herself. Mind how you describe other girls, and avoid comparing her to them.


If you respond judgmentally to other girls (e.g. "girls who plaster their faces in makeup are so fake"), then you'll just be increasing the insecurity of your girlfriend.
 If you’re prone to body complaints yourself, you won’t be helping your girlfriend develop a positive body image. Avoid body-shaming comments about yourself and others.For example, don’t say, “I look so scrawny. I need to get in the gym.” Saying something like this only brings the focus to things you don’t like about your body. It also reinforces negative body comments.
 Negative self-criticisms and insecurities can grow in the mind when a person is low on self-care. If your girlfriend is feeling down on herself, inspire her to pour love and compassion back into herself. Encourage her to develop a self-care practice that makes her feel good about the body she has.Suggest that she visit the spa for a massage, sign up for a yoga class, or start journaling about her feelings. You might also spend an evening cooking a healthy meal together.
 Your girlfriend may not be aware of her harsh self-criticisms. By calling her out on them and challenging them, you can help her realize that she isn't being fair to herself. This can also teach her how to reframe negative thought patterns. Become a kind and gentle voice that defends her from her self-hatred.Contradict her when she says something negative about herself. For example, if she says "Nobody wants to see this in a bikini," then you can reply, "Really? I would."
Does she think something is a flaw? Challenge that perspective. Tell her that you love her freckles, her gap teeth, her strong opinions, or the way she snorts when she giggles. Explain that because it's part of her, you think it's adorable.
Notice dangerous questions. For example, if she asks, "Do you think I'm fat?" then cut to the heart of the problem. Tell her that she's beautiful, and ask why she's asking., Girls are exposed to a lot of negative media that makes them second-guess their appearances and their bodies. Shun unrealistic images of bodies in magazines and on TV. Use a critical voice about how “real” these images are. Instead, share media with her that uplifts all bodies, no matter the shape or size.You might share a board on Pinterest, a page on Instagram, or a blog that feature body-positive women with your girlfriend.
 You can help your girlfriend treat herself well by taking good care of yourself. Practicing healthy habits will help you feel good and have the energy to be a good boyfriend. Try to maintain a balanced life, with plenty of sleep, exercise, nutritious meals and time spent on hobbies and other things you like.


When you spend time doing positive activities, you will inspire your girlfriend to do the same., Low self-esteem and a poor body image can take a toll on your girlfriend’s well-being. It can even bring down the vitality of your relationship. If, no matter how hard you try, she can’t overcome insecurities, you may need to seek professional help.A mental health therapist or counselor can determine the root cause of your girlfriend’s low self-esteem and work with her to build a healthier outlook.

