 You will find you can usually eat healthier foods in larger quantities, such as salads. A salad won't necessarily fill the craving for a Twinkie, but a salad won't make you feel guilty for eating junk food later on. If you do choose to eat junk food or foods that are less than healthy, serving sizes will help you eat a more practical amount. For example, instead of getting a gallon of ice-cream, get a small tub of frozen yogurt, gelato, or sorbet.
Pay attention to the serving size as well as the fats and sugar content to both fill the craving while maintaining a health diet., Chewing your food will help you digest better and will help prevent you from overeating. You can accomplish this by a technique called “mindful eating.” Mindfully eating will help you focus on what you are doing in the moment instead of just sitting in front of the T.V.


Mindfully eat by focusing and using all your senses while you are eating. Focus on the texture of the food (is it crunchy or soft?), the temperature (is it hot or cold?), or the smell (is it spicy or sweet?).
Pay attention to your physical hunger and satiety to know when to start eating and when to stop.
Eliminate distractions while you are eating to focus and avoid eating rapidly or overeating.
 It takes about 15 to 20 minutes after eating for the feeling of “being full” to reach your brain. As a result, it may be a good idea after eating the correct amount and eating slowly to give yourself time to digest before looking for more food. Some more tips to help you digest include:


Pay attention to your meal schedule. Having a heavy meal before having to rush out may make you feel anxious and nauseous, which can affect your emotional well-being.
In order to try and slow your eating down, try giving yourself 5 to 10 minutes between courses or putting your utensils down between bites. Go for a walk after a meal instead of sitting or laying down. Movement will help with your digestion and with your emotional well-being.
 Exercise is known to improve not only your digestion and health, but your mood as well. Your body releases the “feel-good” chemicals, known as endorphins, when you exercise, giving you a natural boost to your mood without food. Before eating, take a short walk. See how you are feeling afterward and if you are still physically hungry or if it was more of an emotional hunger.
Whether you were physically or emotionally hungry, walking or exercise will help with a wide range of emotional or mental health issues including depression, anxiety, emotional regulation, and trauma.