 Having type 2 diabetes can make meal planning difficult. There are different restrictions, eating schedules and cooking techniques. Writing a meal plan can help make everything easier to follow.


A meal plan is a guide that you create to help you get organized and visually see all of your meals and snacks for an entire week.
Include information about each meal (breakfast, lunch, dinner), snacks and beverages that you'll consume in your day.
Having this meal plan can also allow you count up carbohydrates, carbohydrate servings or calories.
In addition, your meal plan can serve as a guideline of what to buy at the grocery store. This may save you on time and money.
If you have a smartphone, look through the different fitness and dieting apps. There are many — like MyFitnessPal — that can act as a food log/diary and help you calculate your caloric intake.;
, Balanced meals are important in any type of diet;however, making sure your meals are balanced when you have type 2 diabetes is even more important.


Well-balanced meals include most food groups (protein, dairy, grains, fruits and vegetables). A well-balanced diet means that you're consuming all five food groups each day and consume a wide variety of foods within each food group.Well-balanced meals will help support more normalized blood sugar in people who have type 2 diabetes. It's the combination of foods that prevent blood sugar spikes or quick drops in blood sugar., Many people associate "snacks" with high-calorie or sweetened foods or beverages; however, a snack can be a great opportunity to add in more nutrition to your day and give you better control of your blood sugar.Snacks can be a great idea for diabetics. This is especially true if you have a long time between meals or typically experience low blood sugar in between meals. Plan to have snacks ready and available to you so you don't get a blood sugar that's too low.
Try to include a healthy source of carbohydrate (fruit, starchy vegetable or dairy foods) and protein in each snack. This combination will give you a little boost in energy, help stabilize blood sugar and keep you feeling satisfied.Examples of nutritious snacks include: 1/3 cup of hummus and 1 cup of raw vegetables, 1/4 cup of nuts, 1/4 cup of cottage cheese with fruit or 1 small apple and a cheese stick.
It may also be smart to keep a shelf-stable snack with you at all times in case of a low blood sugar. Most health professionals recommend either 100% fruit juice or regular soda so that you do not choke on solid foods if you were to get dizzy or pass out from a very, very low blood sugar.
Limit snacks to 200–300 calories per sitting.
 If you skip a meal, you run the risk of having your blood sugar levels drop to very low levels.This is very important if you taking medications that lower your blood sugar levels, as most people with diabetes do. In order to keep your body functioning properly, you must eat meals throughout the day while also taking your medications.Having your meal plan may help prevent you from skipping meals or being unprepared.
In addition, try to stick to the same meal schedule each day. To help your body regulate blood sugar and keep your metabolism working swiftly, you should try to stick to a meal plan in which you eat your meals and snacks at roughly the same time each day.
Similarly, you should also try to take the medications you are taking to control your diabetes at around the same time each day. Most diabetes medication is supposed to be taken with meals, so when you eat at the same time each day, you can also take your medication.
 When you have diabetes, it will be very helpful to meet with a registered dietitian that is also a CDE or Certified Diabetes Educator. These nutrition professionals will be able to guide you towards a nutritious diet that can also help manage diabetes.


The dietitian will review what type 2 diabetes is, how foods affect your condition and help you design a meal plan that will keep you healthy and fit into your lifestyle.
You may want to meet with your dietitian several times until you've gotten control of your diabetes and eating patterns.
Many insurance companies will cover the costs of some meetings with a CDE. Sometimes, meeting with a CDE is even required by insurance companies after you're diagnosed with type 2 diabetes.
 Protein is an essential part of your diet and important macronutrient to your body. It helps maintain metabolic function, support tissue growth and repair.Lean proteins are a great food to include in any type of diabetic diet. They help keep you feeling satisfied longer and when combined with carbohydrates will slow the release of sugar into your blood.There are a variety of lean protein options. These proteins are lean and do not contain any carbohydrates: poultry, eggs, lean beef, pork and seafood.
Other sources of lean protein include: low-fat dairy products, nuts, legumes and tofu. Although they do contain protein, these foods also contain carbohydrates and will raise your blood sugar slightly.Include a 3-4 oz serving of protein-based foods at each meal.You may also want to include 1-2 oz of lean protein at snacks to help control the release of glucose into your bloodstream.
 Both fruits and vegetables contain a lot of essential vitamins, minerals, antioxidants and fiber. Although some of these foods do contain carbohydrates, they are still a nutritious part of a diabetic diet.


Many diabetics wonder if they can eat fruit since it contains sugar (a carbohydrate). The answer is yes, you can and should eat some fruit most days.Stick to one serving of fruit at a time. Measure out 1/2 cup of chopped fruit or one small piece.Try to avoid fruit juices and dried fruit as these are more concentrated sources of sugar.
Fill up on as many leafy green and non-starchy vegetables as you like. These are very low in carbohydrate and will not spike your blood sugar. One serving is 1 cup or 2 cups of leafy salad greens.Starchy vegetables, like potatoes, yams, carrots, peas and corn, contain higher amounts of carbohydrates. These foods should still be included in your diet; however, following appropriate portion sizes is important. Stick to 1 cup of non-starchy vegetables per serving., Many diabetics try to stay away from grain-based foods as they contain very high amounts of carbohydrates. Although this is true, some grains can still be eaten as a part of a nutritious, balanced diet.


One of the most important things to remember when you're eating grains is to follow the appropriate portion size. Although they will raise your blood sugar, portion control helps to keep your blood sugar within more normal ranges.One serving of grains is 1 oz or 1/2 cup. For example, 1 slice of bread is about 1 oz or you may choose to half a 1/2 cup of oatmeal.Also try to choose 100% whole grains. These foods are higher in fiber and other beneficial nutrients compared to refined grains like white flour.The extra fiber will also help minimize blood sugar spikes.Whole grain foods to try include: brown rice, quinoa, 100% whole wheat pasta, oatmeal or 100% whole wheat bread.
 Although carbohydrates get most of the attention when it comes to type 2 diabetes, fats are another important component of your diet.


Healthy fats, like Omega-3 fatty acids can protect against heart disease, particularly when you have diabetes. You're at higher risk for heart disease if you have type 2 diabetes.These fats have also been shown to help to fight inflammation and improve your mood.Foods that are high in omega-3 include: flax seeds, walnuts, fatty fish like sardines and salmon, olive oil and olives, chia seeds and avocados.
 Higher fiber diets have been proven to be better for diabetics by enabling them to have more control over their blood sugar.When you have a high-fiber diet, the fiber may help slow or delay gastric emptying (the rate of food being digested). This blunts the amount of blood sugar or glucose that's released into your bloodstream.Eat a minimum of 20 to 25 grams of fiber each day to help slow down your body’s absorption of carbohydrates. You can even eat up to 38 g (especially for men).

Insoluble fiber: This kind of fiber helps with bowel movements and the rate of digestion. You can find insoluble fiber in seeds, bran, vegetables and cereals.

Soluble fiber: These foods dissolve during digestion and absorb water so they help to decrease cholesterol and control glucose levels. You can find soluble fiber in barley, legumes, and fruit.
 Adequate hydration is important for overall general health and wellness. Although it won't necessarily improve your blood sugar, drinking sugar-free low calorie fluids will help you manage your blood sugar better.Most experts recommend consuming about eight to 13 glasses of clear, sugar-free beverages everyday. The same recommendation is also appropriate for diabetics.Stick to sugar free beverages like: water, flavored water, decaf coffee, decaf tea and sugar-free sports drinks.
Skip or restrict calorie containing or sugary beverages like alcohol, regular soda, fruit juice or juice cocktails, sweetened coffee drinks or sports drinks.
 Just because you have diabetes does not necessarily mean that you need to cut sweets out of your diet entirely. The occasionally sweetened item can be apart of your diabetic diet in moderation.


Try to eat sweet foods with a meal. When you eat sweets by themselves, they can cause your blood sugar levels to spike.The key to including sweets or desserts into your diet is to eat small portions very occasionally. Larger portions of sweets will spike your blood sugar more quickly and to a higher level., Combining your new diet with cardiovascular exercise can help you to shed any excess weight and better manage your diabetes.


Exercising regularly helps to enhance your general health, lower your blood pressure and cholesterol, reduces pounds of weight, and helps to overcome your insulin resistant state so that you can get back to normal glucose tolerance levels.Health professionals recommend including at least 30 minutes of cardio five times a week for a minimum of 150 minutes of exercise each week.In addition, it's recommended to not go for more than two days without performing some type of aerobic activity.
You can include a wide variety of activities or exercises each week including: walking, swimming, hiking, dancing or cycling.
 If you have not done much exercise recently, it is best to start small and gradually increase how long you exercise for.


Begin with short periods (like 10 minutes) of exercise, and work your way up to exercising for 30 minutes for five days a week.You can also start your new exercise routine by just increasing baseline activity. These everyday lifestyle activities are things you're already doing — like household chores and walking to and from your car.
Increase your total steps and movements throughout the day to get you more active all day long.
 Strength training focuses on building up your muscles to help you burn more calories and increase your muscles’ uptake of glucose.


When you get stronger, your body uses more insulin, which in turn can help to manage your diabetes.Specifically, it helps lower your hemoglobin A1c.It's typically recommended to include two to three days of strength training each week. Try to work each major muscle group per session.Talk to a physical therapist or specialist at your gym to determine which strength training exercises would be best for you and your situation.
 Anyone with diabetes my experience a low blood sugar or hypoglycemia during or after exercise.It's important to be prepared to deal with this situation appropriately.


When you're exercising your body uses glucose and insulin more efficiently and is able to take up glucose more quickly.If you start to feel like you're having a low blood sugar, discontinue exercise and treat yourself as your normally would.
Have a small serving of a carbohydrate like a sports drink, regular soda or 100% fruit juice. Wait 15-20 minutes and check your blood sugar again to see if it's normalized.
 Regardless of what health condition you have, following up regularly with your doctor is very important.


Diabetes requires regular follow up and check-ins with either your primary care physician or your endocrinologist. Always talk to them prior to making any changes to your diet or exercise program.
If you notice your blood sugar levels are changing (due to diet or exercise changes), be sure to call your doctor and inform them of what's going on. They may change your medications or tell you to discontinue what you've been doing.
 In order to check how your body is reacting to specific foods that you eat, doctors generally recommend that you check your blood sugar levels before and after you eat.Do this regularly to get an idea of how your body responds to foods and medications.


It might be wise to start a blood sugar log or journal to keep track of how your numbers look each day. This can also help guide your physician when they are prescribing a medication or making changes to your dosages.
If you notice that a certain food has caused your blood sugar levels to go above the normal range, you may want to consider limiting how much you eat that specific food.
 Smoking is not only bad for your lungs, it can also damage your heart and blood vessels. Smoking combined with poorly managed diabetes can be a very dangerous mix.If you feel like you can, try quitting cold turkey or slowly tapering yourself off of cigarettes. The quicker you stop, the better.
Seek professional help if you're having difficulty quitting. Doctors may be able to give you medication or help enroll you in a smoking cessation program.
 De-stress to improve your insulin uptake. Stress and anxiety can actually increase your body’s insulin resistance.Because of this, it is important to reduce your stress levels if you are trying to reverse your diabetes. Try the following:


Light intensity exercises. Light intensity exercises like walking, are a great way to relax and de-stress.
Doing yoga can help to relax your mind and strengthen your body. It can also increase your metabolism, motion activity, muscle flexibility and mood.
Aromatherapy: Specific scents can refresh your mind and body. In particular, jasmine, lavender and peppermint are thought to be helpful when reducing stress.
Acupuncture: A specialist targets pressure spots in your body that can contain stress. The specialist uses very fine needles to relieve these pockets of stress.
Talking to a counselor or behavioral specialist.

