 Taking exercise classes can be a fun and easy way to build physical activity into a weekly schedule. If you take an after-school exercise class held at your school’s gym or fitness center, it will likely be free of charge. It will also probably be designed especially for teens like you and your friends, as you’ll be the main participants.It’s possible that some of your teachers may join an exercise class, but you should expect that your age group will be the main audience.
 People of all different ages attend exercise classes offered at gyms and centers. This means that your class will be designed to appeal to people with different levels of strength and experience. Taking a class at a gym could allow you to meet new and different kinds of people and provide a change of pace from your typical school week.


Most gyms and community centers charge monthly or yearly membership fees. You’ll need to either pay these yourself, or discuss payment option with your parents.
Some classes may only be available to gym members that are 18 and older. Check with a gym representative to see which options are open to you., Yoga combines a variety of body movements, breathing and relaxation techniques, and meditation to achieve balance and build strength. Yoga especially focuses on calming your mind and body. You may feel like a pretzel the first time you try it, but it’s a great way to stay active while also dealing with your stress., Zumba uses traditional Latin music to take students through a dance workout that makes them sweat. This can be a fun cardiovascular activity that may not make you dread going to the gym., Pilates builds up abdomen and back muscles by moving students through different body positions. It’s meant to provide lean and balanced muscular strength. If you’re experiencing any back pain from constantly hunching over your books and computer, this is a great class for you., Your community center may provide a weightlifting class geared especially to teens, or they might modify the content in their usual class for you. Bodypump introduces its students to various movements that can be used in combination with barbells and weights. The exercises typically consist of squats, presses, lunges, and curls., Spinning uses an adjustable standing bike to provide an intense and personalized cardiovascular workout. Your instructor will make a different playlist each week to motivate you with music. The group setting is also expected to introduce a little competition. Some classes may even have a board up front listing the top spinners!

