 Having people to whom you can reach out is a great way to overcome stress, whether you are seeking concrete help or just a bit of encouragement. It doesn’t need to be a huge network. Really, you might find enough support in your family, a few friends, or a church community. The important thing is that you feel they are there for you.Cast a wide net. Your “supporters” don’t have to fill all roles. You might have a co-worker that you talk to about work-related stresses, and a close friend in whom you can confide your fears and secrets.
Seek out help when you need it. If you are dealing with a particularly stressful patch of life, and your own network isn’t up to the task, consider looking for a support group where you can meet people with the same challenges.
Be proactive. Spend time with friends and family. Make time to see and talk to them.
 Physical well-being is actually closely linked to good mental health. For example, exercise and a healthy diet can noticeably improve your mental health and lead to reduced levels of stress. If you are feeling down, make sure you are not neglecting this side of your lifestyle.Exercise can be a big mood-booster, as it reduces muscle tension, increases blood flow, and releases “feel-good” chemicals. Aim for a minimum of 150 minutes per week of moderate exercise, like walking, swimming, or light aerobics.A good diet is another part of a healthy mind and body. Eating breakfast regularly and fueling yourself with healthy foods like whole grains, vegetables, and fruit will give you a steady stream of energy throughout the day, keeping you on the level.Be aware of what mood-altering substances you put into your body, and why. Stimulants like caffeine, for example, found in coffee, tea, and energy drinks, gives you a temporary energy boost but can leave you feeling anxious, irritable, or restless.
 Mindfulness is a Buddhist technique that involves living life “in the moment.” Rather than judging events as good or bad, you observe them from an emotional distance. The goal is to overcome suffering not by aspiring to be different but by focusing on what is true from moment to moment. The idea is to be present and awake to experience.Some people cultivate mindfulness through mediation. While this is a possibility, you don’t have to meditate in order to enjoy the benefits of mindfulness.
 We all have low periods. However, if you feel “down” or depressed for longer than two weeks at a time, you could have a form of mild depression and might want to talk to a mental health professional. Treatment can help you to feel better, motivated, and ready to focus again.Know the signs of depression. Do you feel fatigued most of the time? Have you lost interest in your friends or activities that you usually enjoy? Do you find it hard to concentrate on normal tasks? Are you easily irritated and short-tempered? These are all signs of mild depression.Depression can result from a host of factors. Sometimes there is a physical cause. In other cases, however, it stems from heredity, chemical imbalances in the brain, or just stresses in your everyday life. If you think that you are depressed, the best thing to do is see a health care provider.

