 HPV infections occur most commonly through vaginal or anal sex, but can be transmitted via any genital contact.


Many people infected with HPV are asymptomatic (show no symptoms); it is possible to have gone for years without sexual activity and still be infected with HPV. This lack of knowledge means that is is possible for people to unknowingly pass the infection on to others.
In very rare cases a pregnant woman with HPV may transfer the infection to her baby during delivery. If this happens, the baby may suffer from warts in the throat or larynx. This condition is known as recurrent respiratory papillomatosis (RRP).;
, If you are a female there is a vaccine, Gardasil, that can prevent 4 types of HPV infections, including the infections that cause most cervical cancers. The vaccine is recommended for the following groups:


Girls 11-12 years of age who have not been previously exposed to HPV.
Girls and women 13-26 years of age who have not been vaccinated or who have not completed the vaccine series.
 The following are ways to prevent HPV:


The surest way to avoid HPV is to refrain from sexual activity.
For those who are sexually active, using a condom properly and consistently can lower the risk.
Maintain a mutually monogamous relationship with someone who has had few or no past sex partners.
Limit your number of sex partners.
Choose your sex partners carefully.
 Around 50% of sexually active men and women will have HPV infection at some time in their lives.
 However, testing for the diseases caused by HPV is very important. Be tested for the following:


Genital warts. These appear as small bumps or clusters of bumps in the genital area. For females these warts appear on the vulva, in the vicinity of the vagina or anus, thighs, and on the cervix. For males they will appear on the penis, scrotum, thighs, or groin. The warts may appear within a few weeks to a month after having had sexual contact with an infected partner. They may not appear at all. These warts will not turn into cancer, but if left untreated they could multiply in number.
Cervical cancer. Unfortunately, cervical cancer cannot be detected until it is considerably advanced. This makes it all the more important for women to be tested regularly. The Pap test can recognize pre-cancerous changes so that they can be removed before cancer develops.
Less common HPV-related cancers. Cancers of the vagina and penis may not have signs or symptoms until they are well advanced. The same is equal for cancers of the anus and vulva. There are no approved tests to find early signs of penile or anal cancer.

