 The laws of attraction state that if you want something positive to happen in your life you need to visualize it happening. If you want your children to help out with chores at home, you can visualize it happening (even though the vision gets cloudy and unclear from time to time). In order to make that vision a reality, you need to stay calm and think positive.


Make an affirmation that you will teach your child/children lessons on how to take care of themselves. Doing so will be beneficial to their independence in the future and they will in time incorporate those lessons into routines of daily living.;
, Change is hard for children as it is for adults, however, if you keep calm and think positive that you will make the right choices for your family by starting new routines, such as cleaning with the goal of it actually getting done, then you are on the right path to a success.


If you're stressed about the changes, your children will be, too. Stay calm, stay positive, and be firm but kind as you implement any new cleaning routine.
 A major part of cleaning your home is having a plan. Getting organized by making a family cleaning chart works well when everyone does their part, and everyone is held accountable for their actions.


What needs to be done in each individual room?
Who should take out the garbage and recycling?
Who will feed the pets or walk them if needed?

, Think about what your child is capable of doing and jot it down.


Toddlers can help by putting their toys away, placing clothes in a hamper, and help dusting for example. Singing a clean up song usually will get them motivated.
Young children as old as 4 and 5 can help vacuum, dust, and help with laundry.
Older children ages 8 and up should be able to do those tasks and more, including washing dishes, filling/emptying the dishwasher, and organizing, without much assistance once they get the hang of it.
Also kids could help clean counters, bathrooms, and floors. Using an all natural cleaner might be ideal under these circumstances, such as vinegar and water (verify if the surface can be cleaned with vinegar before doing so), or even a diluted soapy solution that can be rinsed and wiped with a wash cloth.
 Try to make it visually appealing and color-coded, without making it too distracting on the eyes. You want to be able to focus when you look at it. You can do an online search for options on design. Some websites offer free printable templates or you can create your own via computer. You can also go the old fashioned route of using paper and your favorite writing utensil, if you desire.
 You may also want to decide at this time if you are going to put a reward system in place to keep your children motivated. Choose what works best for your family based on your values and what feels right. If after a few weeks it is still not working, reassess, and revise your rewards plan as needed. Whatever you decide, be consistent.


Sticker charts work well for younger children.
You may decide to use allowance.
You can also be stricter about consequences; for example, if they fail to do their chores, don't let them have friends over. You do, however, want to reward them for following through on their responsibilities and give them extra privileges such as extra time at the park, family date night, etc.
 Your family members may resist at first, so introduce it slowly and be clear and kind but firm about the guidelines. If you have family/friends that live with you and are willing to give you support and input, then take advantage of making this project an inclusive team approach.


Hold a family meeting, preferably when things are light and fluffy and not after any member has had a rough day; as kids are more agreeable when under less stress. Stick to your plan and let your child/children know that chores are a requirement and not a suggestion/option. They may or may not give you grief, but even if they do, stay firm with the decision as it will benefit the entire family as well as the individual child.
 You and your family can totally do this! Getting started is the hardest part, but once you have started you will be much happier when the chores are all done. Think of how accomplished and thankful your children will be to have completed their chores.

