 If the center of gravity you found is outside of the system of objects, you have the wrong answer. You may have measured the distances from more than one point. Try again with just one datum.


For example, for people sitting on a seesaw, the center of gravity has to be somewhere on the seesaw, not to the left or right of the seesaw. It does not have to be directly on a person.
This is still true with problems in two dimensions. Draw a square just large enough to fit all of the objects in your problem. The center of gravity must be inside this square.
 If you picked one end of the system as your datum, a tiny answer puts the center of gravity right next to one end. This can be the right answer, but it's often the sign of a mistake. When you calculated the moment, did you multiply the weight and distance together? That's the correct way to find the moment. If you accidentally added them together instead, you'll usually get a much smaller answer.
 Every system only has a single center of gravity. If you find more than one, you might have skipped the step where you add all the moments together. The center of gravity is the total moment divided by total weight. You do not need to divide each moment by each weight, which only tells you the position of each object.
 The answer to our example is 9.08 ft. Let's say you try it and get the answer 1.08 ft., 7.08 ft, or another number ending in ".08." This most likely happened because we chose the left end of the seesaw as the datum, while you chose the right end or some other point an integer distance from our datum. Your answer is actually correct no matter which datum you choose! You just need to remember that the datum is always at x = 0. Here's an example:


The way we solved it, the datum is at the left end of the seesaw. Our answer was 9.08 ft, so our center of mass is 9.08 ft from the datum at the left end.
If you pick a new datum 1 ft from the left end, you get the answer 8.08 ft for the center of mass. The center of mass is 8.08 ft from the new datum, which is 1 ft from the left end. The center of mass is 8.08 + 1 = 9.08 ft from the left end, the same answer we got before.
(Note: When measuring distance, remember that distances to the left of the datum are negative, while distances to the right are positive.)

, Let's say you see another "kids on the seesaw" example, but one kid is much taller than the other, or one kid is hanging underneath the seesaw instead of sitting on top. Ignore the difference and take all your measurements along the straight line of the seesaw. Measuring distances at angles will lead to answers that are close but slightly off.


For seesaw problems, all you care about is where the center of gravity is along the left-right line of the seesaw. Later, you might learn more advanced ways to calculate the center of gravity in two dimensions.

