 Desensitization is a method used to make your dog more comfortable with having you around its food and bowl while it is eating. Begin by walking past your dog (not too close) and tossing a treat towards the dog’s bowl. You do not need to throw the food directly into the bowl, but it should land in the general vicinity of the bowl.Always use a treat that is more appealing than the food your dog is eating. For example, a piece of cheese, chicken, or beef.
Do this multiple times throughout the feeding and over the next few meals, until your dog becomes comfortable with you walking around.;
, Now that your dog is comfortable with you walking past while it is eating, try taking a step towards the dog. Stand a few feet away from your dog and using a light tone say something like “are you enjoying your meal?” Then, take a step toward the dog, toss a treat towards its bowl, and then immediately take a step back. Continue to do this a few times throughout the meal.Practice this over a few meals, and each day try and get closer to the dog’s bowl. Once you can comfortably stand within 2 feet (0.61 m) (½ a meter) of your dog’s bowl then you can move on to the next step.
 Try standing directly over top of your dog’s bowl while it is eating and drop a treat into the bowl. Once you have dropped the treat into the bowl, turn around and walk away. You are slowly getting your dog more comfortable with you around during mealtime. Your dog is also learning that you provide a positive treat., The final step in the desensitization method, is to pick up the bowl while your dog is eating, add treats, and then return the bowl to your dog. This works best if the dog sees you add the treats. Only raise the bowl a few inches to begin with. As the dog gets more comfortable, you can raise the bowl higher.All of these steps will need to be repeated with each adult member of your household. This will help your dog get comfortable with each of you individually.
Keep any children (under 18 years of age) away from an aggressive dog while it is eating.
 If your dog is extremely aggressive and you are afraid it might bite you, then you should contact a professional. Do not attempt to train an aggressive dog that may snap, bite, or chase you away from its food. Contact a Certified Applied Animal Behavioural Specialist. If there are no behavioural specialists in your area, you can also use a Certified Professional Dog Trainer.Ask the dog trainer if they have any experience treating aggressive dogs. Find someone who has worked with dog aggression in the past.

