 The longest Harry Potter book is more than 850 pages, so spread out the number of pages throughout the 7 days.


For a huge Harry Potter book, try reading between 100-150 pages a day.






The first two Harry Potter books are about 300-400 pages, so try reading 50-100 pages per day. The Harry Potter books can be very enjoyable. Before you know it, you'll be all done with your self-assigned reading. If the number of pages just seems like too many, try dividing the number of chapters, instead. You will be doing the same amount of reading, but it will seem less intimidating.





;
, The Harry Potter books don't have a lot of difficult words in them, but if you come across a word you do not understand or know, highlight or write it down and look it up in the dictionary.
 You don't want to speed through a Harry Potter book and miss all the good, juicy material do you? Harry Potter is not very complicated to read, so don't fret. Just as in Step 1, make a reading schedule, but either read more pages each subsequent day, or read for less time to cover the same number of pages.
 This is probably the easiest method, especially for all you Harry Potter fans out there! Get all your chores, homework, or whatever you need to get done first before you start reading so you won't have any distractions or a self-nag in the back of your mind telling you to do what you have to.
 Distractions like noises, interruptions, and household activities will slow you down.
 If you have a place to prop your feet, that is even better.
 If the weather is nice, and there is a quiet space in your yard or park, you can find a shady spot to sit and read, and pass a whole afternoon with the characters in your book. If you are reading indoors, make sure you have lots of light. Some people suggest fluorescent lights, since the light is easier on your eyes.
 Some people will read through the whole book in a few hours, and that is fine, but you should pick your own speed, and read without putting pressure on yourself to finish.
 If you have a wait for the bus, a free period at school, or some other time when you get a chance, have the book with you, and dive in. Even if you only have a few minutes, you will read some pages, and if you have a long wait, the time will seem like it flew by.

