 Pour a half cup of vinegar into a bucket. Add a gallon of warm water to the bucket. You may want to double this amount if you will be cleaning a lot of woodwork or cleaning large surfaces. You can add 2 tablespoons of almond or coconut oil and 10 drops of lemon or orange essential oils into the bucket for a better smell once you have finished cleaning. Keep the solution in a bucket, or pour it into a spray bottle.Make sure you are using the right type of vinegar. Vinegars, like cider vinegar, can damage the woodwork. Test a spot of solution of the woodwork before cleaning to be sure.
Vinegar can leave behind a strong smell that lasts for a while. That is why essential oils are used to provide a better smell.
 If you are using a spray bottle, then spray a few sprays of the solution onto a cloth or directly onto the woodwork. If you decide to keep the cleaner in a bucket, dip the cloth you are using into the bucket. Make sure to wring the rag out thoroughly before washing.It is important to ring out the cloth before cleaning because excess water can damage the woodwork if it penetrates the finish.
You can use a cloth or rag to clean. A sponge can be used, but it retains water, which could damage the wood.
 Take the cloth and wipe it in a circular motion over the woodwork. It should be moist rather than sopping wet. Clean over every surface, corner, or edge. Put the rag back into the bucket and rinse it out anytime it becomes dirty. Clean until you are satisfied with the outcome.You can keep a bucket with the cleaning solution next to you even if you are using a spray bottle.
 Get a fresh, clean cloth that you have not yet used to clean the woodwork. Buff in a circular motion over all of the woodwork. This removes any excess moisture that can cause damage. Try to get the surface as dry as possible. If you see still see a spot, repeat the cleaning and buffing process until the woodwork is as clean as you desire.If you clean again, make sure to buff the surface again and allow it to dry.

