"(Hebrews 11:6) Your grasp is not to be "maybe so!" No, take hold on the promises of the Bible for salvation, for blessing and trust in the Savior, Christ Jesus.;
, As the Bible says, "by grace you are saved through faith; and that is not of yourselves: it is the gift of God: Not of works, lest any man should boast (here the Apostle speaks of works of the Old Law, not of works of the moral law). For we are His workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God has before ordained that we should walk in them." (Ephesians 2:8-10) Now you will change your priorities because you are a new creation in Christ Jesus, as "He lives in you and you in Him."


God's free gift is "faith" offered to you (anyone) to believe that God is and that the Bible--as promised--is True as anything can ever be "sure" as your firm determination and knowledge.


Romans 10:9-10 in the Bible says, "That if you confess with your mouth, "Jesus is Lord," and believe in your heart that God raised Him from the dead, you will be saved."-- The Bible says, "As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without deeds is dead." (James 2:26 NIV) This eliminates the idea that faith alone is enough (it is not), but you must receive God's provision, which includes in part the gift of faith from God to those who are receptive of The Gospel (literally: The Good News).
 In this you may place your confidence as in each and every word and promise of God and His Son.
,, Jesus please save me from the Judgment to come. I want to know and love you. I want you to direct my life. Come into my life. Give me a new heart with new desires, please change me. I believe the bible; that you were crucified for us, and that you rose 3 days later. Jesus, I know that I am a sinner and that I need you and your forgiveness. Please help me to repent, turn from my wrongs and my self-centered ways. I know I broke your Law, your Ten Commandments, and have failed to do what is right. Please help me understand and make this a reality to my heart... I am a wretch, I want to understand this "amazing grace." Thank you Lord. In Jesus' Name I pray, Amen.


Come and taste ("know") for yourself that cool spring of water (like a fountain) that Jesus promises to all of you, within yourselves, as you come to "accept" that in knowledge: and "drink"... None can staunch the flow of joy that you discern within yourself, as your thirst is quenched.
 They are Gifts From Christ to us.
 Christ is the "parachute" that saves us from the jump to come, that jump is death and judgment, and all will one day have to face. If you are on a plane and it is crashing, you wouldn't merely believe in the parachute to save you, you'd put it on and trust that it'll do its job. Christ saves us from the judgment we rightly deserve. We broke God's law, and Jesus paid our fine. If Christ is truly now your Lord and Savior, you will desire to read His word and obey what He has commanded. If you're now born again, the old sinful desires you once loved will be replaced with new desires to seek and obey God. You will go from loving sin to loving righteousness.
~ Be converted as a work of God, for it isn't merely based on your decision. Salvation is of the Lord. Instead of trusting in your self, transfer that trust to Jesus Christ. If God has begun a work in you, He will complete it. (Hebrews 12:2 and Philippians 1:6) If you trust in God and have a godly sorrow for your sins -- The Lord will lift you up and give you new life/a new beginning. You can know you have eternal life, if the Holy Spirit dwells in you. A transformed life itself testifies of the saving power of God. Has God done such a work in your life that the sin you once loved you now hate?

, Become a slave (bond servant) to righteousness, and turn from being a slave of sin.
"(2 Corinthians 5:17)

, (John 1:12-13) It is God who converts the soul and is the One who gives mercy and eternal life.
 He is The Living Word of God, and there is no other Savior apart from Him: our Salvation. He can cleanse you from all unrighteousness. Cry out to Him and don't stop until you know for sure that He has done a good work in you. In Christ, God can legally dismiss your case for breaking His Law because Christ took your load of sins upon Himself, for He cares for you.

