 Before picking probiotics and giving them to your baby, you should consult a pediatrician. This is important, as every child has a unique medical background that only medical professionals are equipped to assess.


Your pediatrician may advise you not to give probiotics to a child who is seriously ill or has a compromised immune system.
You will learn that babies as young as a few days old may benefit from probiotics.
A pediatrician might recommend baby formulas or foods that contain probiotics.
Your pediatrician may prescribe probiotics as part of a treatment.
Ask your pediatrician if they think you should give your child probiotics. For example, say "I've heard about the benefits of probiotics for babies. Do you think they are safe for my baby?";
, Cultured vegetable juice is a great source of probiotics that is easy to acquire and give to your baby. It can have the same beneficial qualities as other sources of probiotics, including supplements.


Start providing juice when your baby is a few days old.
Provide your baby with a small baby spoon full of juice.
Repeat this three times a day.
Cultured vegetable juice can also be given to your baby between 10 to 20 minutes before feeding time. This may aid in digestion.
Substitute cultured vegetable juice for young coconut kefir that has been diluted with water.
Consult your pediatrician before giving your baby, including probiotics in vegetable juice or kefir., Like adults, there are probiotic supplement products available for babies, toddlers, and children. These products come in many forms, including drops, powders, and more.


Follow the instructions on the specific product you purchase.
Consult your doctor or pharmacist for more information about providing probiotic supplements to your baby.
Some examples of probiotic supplements for babies include: Udo’s Choice Infant’s Probiotic or Garden of Life RAW Probiotics Kids., Talk to your pediatrician about the best time to introduce dairy to your baby. Dairy products are one of the most common and popular sources of probiotics. Dairy products containing probiotics can found at most all supermarkets and in any region of the world. Look for products that have "Live and Active Culture" or "LAC" on the label. Some of the best dairy products that contain probiotics include:


Kefir
Yogurt
Aged cheese like cheddar or gouda., Not only will probiotic cantaloupe soup be easy for your baby to eat, but it will also be easy for you to prepare. To create cantaloupe soup:


Blend 1 cup of cantaloupe and 1 cup of mango until the mixture is creamy.
Add 1/2 cup of plain kefir and mix vigorously for 30 seconds.
Cool in the refrigerator for 1 to 2 hours before serving., Strawberry smoothies are a fun and easy way to get babies older than six months to eat probiotics. Not only will your baby get the benefit of probiotics, but they’ll enjoy it and you’ll lay the foundation for healthy food habits in the future. To make a strawberry smoothie with probiotics:


Pour ½ cup of milk, ½ cup of frozen berries of your choice, and ½ cup of yogurt into a blender.
Blend for 2 to 3 minutes. Make sure the mixture does not become too watery.
Place the smoothie into an age appropriate cup and sprinkle some cheerios or similar cereal on top., Chicken salad sandwiches, made with yogurt, are a great way for babies who are a year or older to eat solids that contain probiotics. To make a yogurt chicken salad sandwich:


Dice or cut up chicken breast into very small pieces.
Mix it with mayo, yogurt, and diced celery.
Spread the chicken salad mixture onto a piece of bread., Sauerkraut is another great dish rich in probiotics that you can serve to your baby. Ultimately, while sauerkraut may not be the most tempting treat for your baby, it is easy to make and can be served with a wide array of dishes. To make sauerkraut:


Core and shred a medium cabbage.
Add 2 tablespoons of salt.
Place the mixture in a bowl and pound it with a meat hammer for 5 to 10 minutes.
Dump the mixture into a jar and cover it.
Keep the jar at room temperature for three days and then put it in the refrigerator.
Serve the sauerkraut to your baby as a side dish., A new study has shown that probiotics might ease the severity of colic. Colic is characterized by a stomach pain, crying, and digestive issues. Some specific benefits include:


Babies given probiotics for colic tend to cry about half as much as babies that aren’t given it.
Children taking probiotics to ease colic may vomit less than kids that aren’t given it.
Babies given probiotics tend to have more bowel movements than babies that aren’t given it.
Only provide your baby probiotics for colic under the advice of a medical professional., Doctors increasingly agree that babies given probiotics may be at a decreased risk of developing allergies as children. This is important, as most life-long allergies are developed as children.


Babies who are not exposed to good bacteria may be more likely to develop food allergies.
Studies have shown that some allergies may be linked to a baby not being exposed to enough beneficial bacteria within the first several weeks of life.
Also, probiotics may reduce the risk of developing atopic dermatitis or eczema for some babies.
If your doctor agrees, give your baby probiotics shortly after birth., A recent study has shown that babies given formula containing probiotics are at a decreased risk of developing diarrhea caused by infections or the use of antibiotics. This is important, as diarrhea can lead to dehydration and other medical problems.


Mix small amounts of probiotics into your baby’s formula.
Always follow the directions when providing supplements.
Consider cultured vegetable juice, kefir, or other supplements.
Probiotics probably decrease diarrhea because it introduces good bacteria, like lactobacillus plantarum, into a baby’s digestive tract.