 If you're already dehydrated when you begin your workout, it won't really matter how much water you drink while you're exercising. Drink between 17 and 20 ounces (500 and 600 ml) of water two to three hours before your workout starts.You also should follow up with another 7 to 10 ounces (200 to 300 ml) of water within 10 to 20 minutes before you start exercising.
Plain water typically is best for pre-exercise hydration. You may want to use energy drinks if you are about to engage in endurance sports such as marathon running or long-distance biking.
For endurance sports, you want to retain water, which means you need the sodium that sports drinks provide.
 To get an idea of how much fluid your body loses during your workout, weigh yourself before you begin exercising and again when your workout is over. The difference between those two numbers is the amount of fluid you've lost.Losing too much fluid during your workout may be a reason your muscles are cramping. Keep your fluid loss in check by drinking water or sports drinks while you're exercising.
If you drink sports drinks, remember to water them down, as they are often packed with sugar. Experts say 6 parts water to one part sports drink, but even half and half is better than the full concentrate.
Generally, you shouldn't lose more than 2 percent of your body weight in fluid while exercising. If the number is too high, you may need to adjust the duration or intensity of your workout.
Another way to decrease fluid loss is to exercise in a different location. If you're exercising outside, you'll sweat more during the hottest months than you will when it's cooler. If you're sweating too much, shorten your workout during hot conditions or move your workout inside.
 The easiest way to make sure you're drinking enough fluid is to bring water or a sports drink with you when you exercise. When you feel thirsty, go ahead and gulp some water. While you might think gulping water would cause cramps, it may actually be preferable — gulps of fluid may leave the stomach more rapidly than water that is sipped.Water bottles for exercise usually hold between 16 to 34 oz (500 ml to 1 liter).
Ideally, you should drink enough to quench your thirst and then stop. Give your body time to absorb the water before you drink again.
Serious athletes may need to drink around 50 oz (1.5 liters) of water for every hour of exercise.
 If you're engaging in strenuous activity or endurance sports, water alone may not provide everything you need to rehydrate your body completely.While most of sweat is water, you do lose some electrolytes through sweat. Sports drinks are a good way to replenish these lost electrolytes as well as those that you burn through exercise.
When purchasing sports drinks, avoid those that contain significant amounts of added sugar. Plain water infused with electrolytes can be a better choice if you're trying to stay away from sugar completely.
The key electrolyte in sports drinks is sodium, which encourages your body to retain fluid. This helps ensure your muscles are well-hydrated and can prevent cramps during exercise.

