 Signs of lymphedema include swelling in the arms, legs, hands, fingers, neck or breast. If you notice swelling or other signs (see below) make an appointment with your doctor immediately.Getting to know the early signs of lymphedema is one of the best ways of preventing the condition from worsening.
There isn't a cure for lymphedema, but early treatment can minimize its symptoms and prevent others from occurring.
Lymphedema can occur within days, weeks, months, or even years following treatment for cancer.;
, Lymphedema commonly develops in the same quarter of the body in which surgery was done. Avoid receiving any injections, or IV injections, in the arm at risk for developing lymphedema.When taking your blood pressure, put cuff on the arm less likely to be affected by lymphedema.
You might want to purchase a medical alert bracelet to alert others not to take blood, insert IVs, or receive injections in the affected arm.
 Don't immerse the limbs likely to be affected by lymphedema into hot water, steam baths or other high heat areas. If you decide to take a hot bath, avoid putting your arms into the water.Don't use heating pads or other heat treatments.
Avoid getting deep body massage on the affected area.
Heat and massage draw increased body fluid into the area, which can trigger lymphedema.
Keep your arm out of the sunshine when possible.
 For the recovery following a surgery or cancer treatment, avoid using the affected side of the body to carry heavy things. Be careful to avoid heavy weight-bearing exertion with the arm at risk of developing lymphedema.When you're carrying heavy objects, keep the arm raised above the waist.
As you strengthen over time, you can gradually return to carrying heavier objects.
 If your watch, rings, bracelets or other jewelry feel tight, either loosen them or stop wearing them. Make sure your clothing is loose-fitting and doesn't constrain movement.Avoid wearing tops with tight necklines if you're at risk for developing head or neck lymphedema.
Constriction around the neck, arm, leg, wrist or other body part can contribute to fluid buildup in that area.
 If you are at risk for getting lymphedema, one way to prevent it is to keep the at-risk limb elevated when possible. This will prevent body fluid from settling into the limb and causing swelling.This preventative measure is most effective in keeping lymphedema from developing in the arms, hands or fingers.
You can choose to sleep with your leg elevated above your heart, if you sleep on your back. Place a pillow beneath your knees or feet.
 Try not to sit or stand for long periods of time. Instead, remind yourself to change your position regularly. Don't cross your legs when you're seated, and prop yourself into a more upright position in bed.Being upright in bed improves the drainage of lymph fluids in the body.
You might need to set regular alerts on your phone or timer to remind you to move regularly. Take advantage of naturally occurring reminders as well. If you watching television, make sure to change positions during every commercial break, for instance.
 Cuts, sunburn or other burns, insect bites, and cat scratches can all bring fluid to the affected area, thus raising the likeliness of lymphedema. Wearing loose long sleeves and pants may help guard against skin injury.Make sure your clothing is loose, not tight.
Never wear athletic arm sleeves, as they constrain the arm.
 Any cuts, open wounds, scrapes, or burns to the affected arm or limb can cause infection. Presence of infection prevents the lymphatic fluid from filtering out bacteria and viruses. Signs of infection include: swelling, pain, redness, warmth, and fever. If these symptoms are present, go to the nearest hospital for treatment and management.Don’t allow sharp objects to puncture your skin.
You should always use a thimble when sewing, wear thick gloves when gardening, and apply insect repellents when outside.
Keep skin moist by applying mild moisturizers to prevent it from drying and cracking.
Take extra precaution during shaving if you are using a regular razor.
If you get manicures, don't cut or pull your cuticles. Try to find a manicurist who's familiar with your health history and can work with your special needs.If you're going to a new manicurist, check their health history online. Never go to a place with reports of unsanitary practices, or if clients have experienced bacterial, fungal, or viral infections.
Wear gloves while doing housework or garden work to avoid injury to the hands, fingers or nails.
Wearing comfortable, closed-toe shoes reduces risk to injury of the foot and toes.
 Include two to three servings of fruit, three to five servings of vegetables daily. Eat foods that are high in fiber, including whole-grain breads, cereals, pasta, rice, fresh fruits and vegetables. For best results, avoid alcoholic beverages or limit your intake to one per day.Avoid high-calorie, nutritionally inadequate fast foods or junk foods. In addition to being high-calorie and low-nutrition, these foods are often very high in sodium.
Cut back on red meat and processed meat products like hot dogs, sausage or bacon.
 Being overweight or obese contributes to the risk of developing lymphedema. This is because it puts additional pressure on areas that are already swollen and causes further interruption of lymphatic fluid drainage.Proper diet, exercise, and discipline are key to maintaining the ideal body weight.
If you need help with this, ask your medical health care provider. She can offer suggestions and local resources based on her understanding of your condition.
 Getting to a healthy weight and staying there can help prevent lymphedema from developing. Following healthy eating habits and including regular exercise are part of overall healthy living.Getting enough sleep will help maintain a strong immune system, and reduce your risk of developing lymphedema.
Work with your medical health care provider to establish healthy exercise routines. Strenuous exercise may not be recommended, but try to include exercise as part of your daily routine.
 Smoking narrows the capillaries and small blood vessels, which makes it harder for fluids to flow freely around the body. It depletes the skin of oxygen and other needed nutrients found in healthy blood flow. Smoking also damages the elasticity of the skin.If you need help quitting smoking, ask your doctor or healthcare provider. There are many supports to help people quit smoking.
Quitting smoking also helps minimize risk for developing other cancers and health problems.

