 A dose of as little as 0.3 mg of caffeine per kilogram (2.2 lbs) of body weight will have an affect on your fitness abilities. While this is the minimal amount that will be effective, it’s best to start small and slowly increase the amount of coffee you’re drinking, especially before a workout. More specifically, the smallest effective dose for a 200 lb (91 kg) person would be about three ounces of brewed, black coffee (assuming one ounce of coffee has 10 mg of caffeine, which is on the low side).Drink your coffee about an hour before beginning your workout. Wait a bit longer if you're hoping to promote endurance, as opposed to burning fat more quickly.;
, Drinking 200 mg (3 mg/kg of bodyweight) is the maximum amount of caffeine at which you will receive some benefit. Anything greater than that will have no additional benefit and may even become detrimental to your health. Again, if you don't normally drink coffee, you'll want to start with a low amount, about 0.3 mg/kg. If a 200 lb (91 kg) person wanted to use the maximum amount (3 mg/kg), then they would take about 273 mg (91 x 3) of caffeine.237 mg is about 3.5 cups of coffee if the coffee is brewed at a strength of 10 mg/ounce.
 If you’re hoping to benefit from caffeine use in a particular event, there are a few specific guidelines to follow. Consider abstaining from caffeine use for a few days preceding your competition, as this will increase the drug’s effectiveness.Caffeine reaches your blood much quicker, but the fitness-enhancing effects on fat stores are maximized a few hours after blood levels peak.
Don’t suddenly use caffeine on the day of a competition. Only use caffeine if you have trained with it multiple times and can predict its effects.
 Too much caffeine can not only make you feel anxious, nervous, and shaky, it can also decrease your physical performance. To prevent this from occurring, monitor the amount of caffeine you’re consuming throughout the day. Do not exceed 600 mg in a single day.Often, people consume more caffeine than they realize. For instance, if you’re drinking a cup or two of coffee in the morning and drinking more before your workout, you’re likely drinking too much coffee per day.

