 Meanwhile, prepare a 15-inch by 10-inch (38-cm by 25-cm) jelly roll pan by heavily coating it with vegetable oil.Pour 1/3 cup (80 ml) of vegetable oil into the bottom of the pan. Gently sift the pan from side to side, or use a spatula to spread the oil all the way to the edges.
 Place the cornmeal, baking powder, salt, and sugar in a medium mixing bowl. Stir gently until evenly combined.
 Pour the half-and-half and remaining 1 Tbsp (15 ml) of vegetable oil into the cornmeal mixture, stirring until just combined.
 Slowly pour the boiling water into the cornmeal mixture. Stir the batter together until it reaches the consistency of thick grits or oatmeal.


Stir with one hand while pouring with the other. If you aren't able to do so, simply add the water in small amounts, stirring in between each addition.
You may need anywhere from 3/4 to 1-1/4 cups (180 to 310 ml) of boiling water depending on the coarseness of the cornmeal used. Stop adding water once the batter reaches the correct consistency.
 Drop dollops of batter into the prepared jelly roll pan and directly into the oil. Each portion of batter should measure approximately 1/4 cup (60 ml) in volume.


This recipe should produce eight cornbread patties, so keep that in mind as you space the dollops of dough. Try to keep at least 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of space in between the patties.
 Place the pan in your oven and bake the cornbread patties for 17 to 20 minutes, or until golden brown on both sides.


To ensure even browning, cooking the patties on one side for 12 to 15 minutes, then flip them over to the other side and finish cooking an additional 5 minutes.
 Remove the pan from the oven and lift the cornbread patties out of the oil. Transfer them to a plate lined with clean paper towels.


This method doesn't use quite as much oil as stovetop frying requires, so there won't be as much oil to drain. Quickly dab both sides of each patty on the paper towels to remove most of the excess oil sitting on the surface.
 Enjoy the cornbread patties immediately. You can eat them plain, but you may also wish to serve them with salt, butter, honey, or preserves.

