 Before you go to sleep, spray your hair with a light mist of vitamin E oil. Use a wide-tooth comb to comb it through your hair. Restore your hair’s moisture while you sleep., In addition to the conditioner that you use in the shower, give your hair a deep treatment once a week. Use a product with plenty of antioxidants. To avoid chemicals and/or save money, use the following homemade recipe:Mix 1 egg yolk with 5 tablespoons of coconut oil, then add one half of an avocado, mash, and stir until the mixture’s even.
Work the mixture into your scalp, let it rest for 20 minutes, and rinse with cold water.
 Avoid over-brushing or brushing too hard, since your hair is drier, brittle, and more easily pulled out or otherwise damaged. Use a wide-tooth brush or comb. Run it through your hair gently. Do so twice a day to get rid of any tangles, but otherwise refrain from brushing too frequently.Use a brush that has natural bristles, like boar-bristles, instead of plastic or metals, which will cause more trauma to your cuticles and increase the chance of static electricity.Lubricate your comb or brush with a little olive oil for smoother combing., Prevent dry ends from traveling upward by removing them on a timely basis. To maintain your current hair-length, remove half an inch each month during the winter to get rid of dead ends. If you’re trying to grow your hair out, do so every two months., Keep your hair hydrated by drinking 8 glasses of fluids on a daily basis. Include healthy fats in your diet to help thicken your hair. Balance your diet between lean proteins, fruits, and vegetables that are rich in zinc and vitamin A. Great sources include:Fats: olive oil; nuts; seeds; avocados.

Zinc: pork; fish; turkey; soybeans.

Vitamin A: apples; mangoes; bananas.
 Since your hair already has trouble holding onto its moisture, refrain from using blow-dryers, curling irons, and the like. Allow your hair to air-dry, or gently massage it with a towel to quicken the process. If you must use a hair-dryer, hold it at least a foot away from your hair to decrease the chance of it drying out the base of your cuticles., Whether you have short hair or long hair, style it in an up-do. Minimize its exposure to the dry winter air.Keep it close to the source of your own natural oils while trapping the moisture in.Or just go for a tomboy-look this winter and cut it really short.



Long hair: twisted chignon; ballerina bun; French-braided chignon; French-twist chignon.

Medium-length hair: sleek low bun; low-braided knot; low, textured bun; simple chignon.

Curly and/or coarse hair: weaves; box braids; faux locs; crochet braids.