 Pugs need bathed approximately every three weeks. To start, fill your bathtub, laundry tub, or another basin with about three inches (7.6 cm) of warm water. Use the inside of your wrist to check the water temperature before you begin, as water that is too hot can irritate your dog’s skin.


Running water can make Pugs somewhat skittish, so fill the tub or basin before putting your dog in it.
If the tub or basin you’re using is slippery, place a non-slip mat on the bottom of it to keep your Pug from sliding around., After placing your Pug in the bath tub, use a hose attachment or bucket to saturate its coat with water. This will help the shampoo lather more easily.
 Once the fur is saturated, apply dog shampoo to your Pug’s coat and lather well. Use your hands and fingers to gently scrub your dog’s skin, making sure to get its belly, legs, genitals, and tail.


Use your fingers to work shampoo into the fur on your dog’s head and face, making sure to clean inside the folds around its mouth and nose. Be careful not to get shampoo into its eyes, nose, or ears.
Use only dog shampoo, as human shampoo can be too harsh for a Pug., Take a soft wash cloth and gently wipe the folds around your dog’s nose and mouth. You may need to lift the top of the fold with your hand in order to access the skin underneath the fold., When you are done lathering the shampoo and scrubbing your dog’s skin, rinse the shampoo out of it well. Shampoo that is left on the skin can be drying, so make sure you get it all out. Use your hands and fingers to work the shampoo down your dog’s body and out of its coat., After rinsing, apply a dog conditioner to your pet’s coat. Using shampoo alone can be too drying, so applying conditioner will help keep your dog’s skin moisturized and prevent hair breakage. Work the conditioner into your dog’s coat, making sure you get it down to the skin., Once the conditioner is worked in, rinse your dog’s coat well, using your hands and fingers to massage the skin to help get all of the conditioner out., Once all of the shampoo and conditioner is rinsed out of your dog’s coat, use an absorbent towel to pat your Pug dry. Try to avoid rubbing with the towel, as this can irritate your dog’s skin. A Pug’s coat can hold quite a bit of water, so you may need to go over the coat several times with the towel before all the excess water is removed.Keep a couple towels handy in case you need to switch to a dry towel to get the rest of the water from your Pug’s coat.

