 Determine whether the problem is with the belt itself or a mechanical issue with the belt drivers.









Making this determination will help you make your next step. If the problem is with the belt itself, you may be able to make repairs relatively easily yourself. Motor or mechanical issues may be more difficult to fix at home.
 When making repairs on your treadmill it is very important to make sure it is unplugged so that it does not accidentally get turned on and injure you.
 Spray a towel with cleaning solution and wipe down the belt. Dirt and debris can collect on the belt, which can slow it down. Debris can also drop from the belt into the interior of the treadmill, causing operating problems.


Begin cleaning at the top of the belt and tug the belt firmly to move it downward until you have cleaned the entire surface.
Be sure to let the surface get really dry before you use the machine. A wet belt could cause you to slip and injure yourself.
 Adjust the belt so that it is centered in the machine. Belts can stretch and begin to lean to one side after frequent use. You can try repositioning the belt from the outside of the treadmill by pulling gently away from the slanted side.









If the problem is severe, a technician should look at the issue.
 If the belt on your treadmill hesitates when you step on it, you may need to lubricate it. This reduces belt friction and can lengthen the life of the belt.









Buy treadmill belt lubricant or any silicone lubricant. Spray lubricant in a thin layer between the belt and the treadmill deck. For more information on how to lubricate your treadmill's belt see: How to Lubricate the Deck of a Treadmill.
 The speed sensor helps to move the belt. If the belt is jerking or not increasing in speed, the sensor might be dirty or have become detached.


The sensor is usually in the interior of the treadmill's bulk, near the belt. Consult your owner's manual for the exact location on your machine.
 If previous steps do not eliminate the problems you are having with your treadmill belt, you may want to replace it. Order a replacement from the manufacturer if you want to do the repair yourself. Make sure it is the correct model for your treadmill.









You may want to take your treadmill to a professional repair person to replace your treadmill belt.

