 Next, slowly carry the tank back to to its display area, being sure to have someone help you. Then replace all objects in the tank, being careful to reinstall the electric devices securely. Try to redo the tank arrangement as closely as possible to the way it was before the cleaning. This will prevent disorienting and causing stress for your turtle when it is returned to the tank.


Make sure to dry the tank with a clean towel before carrying it. This will prevent it from slipping out of your hands when trying to grip it.
 Your tap water may contain a level of chlorine that could be harmful to your turtle. But this can be controlled by adding an animal-safe water dechlorinator, available at the pet store.This is especially important if you have used bleach to clean the tank, as this will neutralize any remaining chlorine residue that could harm your pet.


Refill the tank using a clean bucket that you fill from the bathtub faucet.
 The temperature of the tank water should be about 70 to 75 degrees Fahrenheit (21-26.6 degrees Celsius). This is about average room temperature, so if the water is too warm or too cold, wait a half an hour and check the temperature again.If the water is too cold, use a water heater to raise the temperature.
 It is important to make sure that pH, ammonia, nitrite, and nitrate levels are in a safe range for your turtle. You can get a testing kit for each of these components at the pet store.Testing typically involves combining a small amount of tank water with a solution in a test tube, which produces a water color that indicates the chemical level.


The pH level should generally be between 7 and 8 for most turtles.But certain turtles have specific pH requirements. Be sure to ask an expert at the pet store about the precise pH level your turtle requires.If any chemical level is not in the acceptable range, you can buy additives that will raise or lower the levels of each component., Mix in one teaspoon of non-iodized salt per gallon of tank water. This can help to cut down the amount of harmful bacteria in the tank. It can also aid in protecting your turtle from skin and shell diseases., Gently put your patient turtle back on its favorite resting spot. Reward it with a treat like a nice worm, some lettuce, or another favorite food.


After everything is returned to the tank, clean your hands well with a strong antibacterial soap.