 Before you start making your Jolly Rancher lollipops, turn on your oven and set the temperature to 275°F (135°C)., You will need to protect your baking sheet by covering it with some aluminum foil. Once you have covered your baking sheet, place a sheet of parchment paper on top of it. Lightly grease the parchment paper with shortening or cooking spray., Take some unwrapped Jolly Ranchers and place them in a plastic, resealable bag. You can protect the bag from breaking by placing a towel over it.

Consider separating your candy by color, and put the individual colors into separate bags.
 Take a hammer, mallet, or rolling pin, and start crushing the candy. You want the break the candy up into chunks, and not a powder., Take a few candy pieces and place them on the baking sheet. You want to make little patches of color. Make sure to leave enough room to insert some lollipop sticks later., Let the candy bake until it is melted. This can take anywhere between 3 to 5 minutes, depending on the sizes of your candy bits.Watch your candy carefully, so that you don't over bake it. The different pieces will melt and fuse together, reacting a tie-dye or kaleidoscopic effect., Once the candy has melted into thin circles or patches, take the baking sheet out of the oven and set it down onto a stable, heat-resistant surface., Start laying the lollipop sticks down onto the candy. You want just the first inch or two of the lollipop stick to be inserted. When laying down the lollipop sticks, give them a slight twist. This helps create a better, more secure bond. Work quickly, before the candy hardens.

Before the candy hardens, but after you have already inserted the lollipop sticks, consider decorating the lollipop further with some sugar sprinkles.
 Leave your baking sheet some place where it won't be disturbed, and let the candy harden. This will take about 5 minutes., Once the candy hardens, you can take the lollipop off the baking sheet. If there is grease residue on the candy, you can wipe it off with a cloth., Once you have finished making your candy, you will need to store it some place cool and dry. You can either wrap the lollipops in cellophane, or store them in an air-tight container.