 If you want to truly create your liquid foundation from scratch, you’ll need about five ingredients to create your base and four to create your custom color. For your base lotion, you’ll need shea butter, emulsifying wax, argan oil, aloe, and witch hazel. For coverage and color, you'll need zinc oxide, cosmetic clay, mica powder, and cocoa powder.


You can find shea butter, argan oil, aloe, and witch hazel – an astringent – at your local pharmacy or beauty supply store. You may need to search a bit harder for the emulsifying wax, but can certainly order it from Amazon if you can’t find it locally.
You can find zinc oxide at your local pharmacy. You'll find cosmetic clays at natural beauty supply stores – a quick Google search will bring up several options. The easiest place to find mica powder is online. Cocoa powder can be found in any grocery store.;
, If you have one, a double boiler also works great for this step. Add one teaspoon (4.93 mL) of shea butter into the pan, and set your stovetop to low heat. This shouldn't take long at all, so don't step away.Continue stirring the shea butter as it begins to melt.
 Once the shea butter has melted, you'll need to throw in two teaspoons (9.86 mL) of argan oil and half a teaspoon (2.46 mL) of wax. Continuously stir your mixture as it warms and melts together. Once those have melted, add one tablespoon (14.79 mL) of the aloe and one teaspoon (4.93 mL) of the witch hazel.


Mix until everything is thoroughly blended, and remove from heat.
 You'll be adding the color ingredients next, so make sure there is plenty of room for mixing in this container. You may want to create your foundation in whatever container you’ll use for storage, like a small makeup container or cup. Just make sure that whatever container you use has a lid.
 Zinc oxide will add sun protection to your liquid foundation, which will help keep your skin healthy and wrinkle-free.Because the zinc is a pretty thick substance, it will ensure your liquid foundation provides the coverage you desire, concealing any blemishes. It will make your skin appear smooth and soft.


You may need to experiment a bit to find out how much zinc oxide you like in your recipe. Typically, it requires anywhere from one teaspoon (4.93 mL) to four teaspoons (19.72 mL)., While the word "clay" probably brings to mind images of modeling clay you used back in art class, there is actually powder cosmetic clay to use for recipes like these. However, this is an optional ingredient, and you don’t need much – about half a teaspoon (2.46 mL) will do the trick.These clays contain minerals that are healthy for your skin and absorb excess oil so they’re a great addition to your liquid foundation.Bentonite clay is the most popular clay to use, so as a beginner, you can start with that!

, These powders will provide the color and bronzing to your liquid foundation. This is where you can really customize your foundation to match your skin tone, so do this step slowly and carefully. Sprinkle in a bit of mica powder, then a bit of cocoa powder, stir, and test the color. Tweak as needed, and continue mixing until you’ve created a shade that matches your skin tone.Choose mica powder in gold and bronze to match your skin tone and create a beautiful glow.

