 Locate the Facebook app on your home screen or app drawer, and tap on it.
 Enter your registered email address and password, and tap “Log in” to continue.


If you don’t have an account yet, sign up by tapping the “Sign Up” button at the bottom side of the screen. A page will pop up containing fields for your “First name,” “Surname,” “Email address,” and “Password.” Enter the needed information, tap the “Sign up” button to instantly get an account.
 Tap the three horizontal line icon at the top rightmost of the header. This will open up several options for the app.
 Scroll down the menu to the Page sections. Here you will see a red circle with a plus in the middle; click this to access the Create Your Page screen.


You will then be asked to name your organization. Enter this in the first field on the screen.
Select a category afterwards. This means the type of your Facebook page. Since you want to make a Facebook page for your organization, tap the drop-down arrow of the “Select a category” option, and select “Companies & Organizations.”
What is your organization about—cause, community organization, education, school? This should be added in the subcategory field by tapping the drop-down arrow and selecting from the options.
When you’re done, tap “Get Started” to create the page. By tapping “Get started” you agree to the Facebook Pages Terms. If you want to see the full agreement, tap the link for the Facebook Pages Terms above the “Get started” button.
 Now that you’ve created the Facebook page for your organization, it’s time to add details about it into the page.


In the first field, describe the organization in 155 characters or less so that people will know what it’s about.
If the organization has its own website, you can enter it in the “Enter website” field.
At the bottom are two options for “About .” The first is “is a real organization, school, or government” and the second is “is not a real organization, school, or government.” Select which is true, and then tap “Save info” to proceed to the next step.
 Just tap the web address you want for your organization’s Facebook page into the field provided, and when you’re done, tap “Set Address.” Note that once the address has been set, it can only be changed once later on.


If you don’t want to set an address yet, tap “Skip” instead. You will be taken to your organization’s new Facebook page.
 Now that you’ve created a Facebook page for your organization, you can add more details to the page, like Contact Info, Profile Picture, and Cover Photo. These options can be found below the header bar under the cover photo.


Tapping the Contact Info will allow you to edit the organization name, website, description, contact numbers, and address.
Selecting “Add a profile picture” will open the Camera Roll of your device. Tap the image you want to use as a profile picture and press “Done” at the top.
To add a cover photo, select the “Add a cover photo” option. Like the profile picture, your Camera Roll will open. Tap the image to use, and tap “Done.”
You can now go ahead and post status updates on your organization’s new Facebook page.

