 You might want to paint the walls pink, but what nine-year-old boy wants that? He wants to plaster the walls in "Star Wars" wallpaper, but you're a thirteen-year-old girl, so that's not going to happen. This is where compromise comes in. It may be best to not paint at all. You can still decorate your half of the room with posters, curtains, pictures, and your bedsheets.;
, Either leave the room and change elsewhere, or wait for him to leave. Close the door and use the lock if you have one.
 If that doesn't work, try to get him interested in something outside the room. This may not always work, but it does most of the time. Otherwise, leave the room yourself and leave him by himself.
 Example: Say he can have the room while you're doing homework, but you want it after that. You'll have it right after dinner, but he can be alone in there right before bedtime. This can work with brothers six and up for sure. Keep in mind that you can be in the room together, it's just that, if you'd both like some "alone" time in there, you have to make a schedule so you don't get in each other's way.
 If he does get something, don't freak out. Either tell your parents if it's serious, or just tell him not to do it again. Do not take some of his things to "show him how it feels", as you may get in trouble for this.
 Don't claim most of the room and leave him with very little, or vice versa. Don't be on each others backs about stuff laying around. If you say it once, they will most likely do it. Split the room in half for the most part, but don't have exact boundaries.
 If he asks you something, don't pretend he doesn't exist. This normally leads to a tantrum or him telling your parents. You may not love sharing a room with him, but you are siblings.
 If he comes into the room and won't leave, don't get upset. Just ask him to leave. If he doesn't leave after five minutes give a count down, or do what's mentioned in Step 2.
 Don't act like his maid and pick up all his stuff. Put it in a pile and ask him to put it away. If that doesn't work, tell your parents or put it away temporarily. Leave his side of the room to himself and take care of yours.

