 If your car has been towed and you are being required to pay what you believe is an unfair or excessive towing bill, you should begin by contacting the towing company. The owner of the lot or space where your car was parked should be able to provide you with the contact information, or you should be able to find a sign with the company’s name and telephone number.;
, Notify the person at the towing company that you question the towing bill. When you call, you should have in mind some reason for challenging the bill. Some reasons that you might use, which have been codified into local predatory towing laws in some U.S. states, include:the car was only parked in the spot for less than an hour
there was no “No Parking” or other warning sign
the towing or storage fee on the bill is unreasonable

, If your challenges over the telephone do not result in satisfactory action on the towing bill, you should tell the representative that you intend to take legal action. In many cases, the mere threat of taking the company to court may result in some concessions on their part.In your conversation, if it is clear that the company is not going to cancel the ticket, you should say, “I am very dissatisfied with this treatment, and I intend to file a complaint against your company in court.”
If you threaten legal action, you should have a strong idea that the company acted improperly. For example, if you have evidence of a lack of signage or a witness who can testify that you were parked for a brief time, you should mention this.
 Many businesses rely on maintaining a positive reputation. If you tell the representative on the telephone that you intend to report them to either the Better Business Bureau, the local Chamber of Commerce, or your state’s consumer affairs office, you may get a positive response. Even if your evidence may not be strong enough to take the matter to court, this may prove successful. Companies do not want to build a record of negative reports.You can also threaten to post negative reviews online at the company’s website or other social media outlets where customers look for services.

