 You should cover the table in a towel in case there is any spillage. Let the puppy lie down on all fours, so that she is lying on her belly with her front legs outstretched and her back legs tucked up under her. Put a drop of the formula on the inside of your wrist to make sure that it is lukewarm and not too hot.
 Hold the puppy’s head firmly in between your index finger and thumb so that your fingers are located at the corners of the puppy's mouth. Tip the head slightly upward so that you can see what you are doing. Hold the end of the tube on the puppy’s tongue and let her taste a drop of the milk. Doing this will help coat the esophagus and get her ready to eat., You will not want to go too slowly or else the pup may gag. Guide the tube over the tongue and down into the back of the throat. You will know you are on the right track when the puppy starts swallowing the tube. If she coughs or gags, remove the tube and try again., Stop feeding the tube downward once the marked part of the tube reaches the pup’s mouth. Check to make sure that the pup is not coughing, crying or gagging. If she is not, secure the tube by placing it between your index and middle fingers., After securing the feeding tube, depress the plunger of the syringe and feed the puppy one cc or ml at a time. To know when to let the puppy rest between cc’s, count to three seconds in your head while slowly depressing the plunger. After the three seconds, check to see if there is any milk coming out of the puppy’s nose. If there is, withdraw the tube as this means that the puppy is choking. After you have checked, depress the syringe for three more seconds.


Hold the syringe perpendicular to the puppy for the most efficient feeding method.
 Once all of the milk has been fed to the puppy, slowly remove the tube. To do this, gently pull it out while still holding the puppy’s head. Once the tube has been removed, place your pinky in the puppy’s mouth and let it suck on your finger for 5 to 10 seconds. Doing this ensures that the puppy will not throw up.
 If possible, bring the puppy to her mother. Her mother will lick the puppy’s anus, which will help the puppy to defecate. If the puppy is an orphan newborn, use a wet washcloth or cotton ball to simulate the mother’s licking. Doing this is very important, as defecating will help the puppy remove any waste dammed up in her intestines.
 Do to this, lift the puppy and stroke her belly. If it is very firm, she has gas or bloating. If this is the case, you will need to burp the puppy. To do this, lift the puppy by placing your palm under her belly and lifting up. Stroke her back and rump to help her to burp.
 After the five days are up, feed the puppy every three hours.

