 This is the active ingredient in most acne creams or scrubs. Head to your local grocery store or pharmacy and check the labels of a few different products. You want to find a cream that has at least 10% benzoyl peroxide. If you use acne spot treatments at home, you may already have an effective stain treatment in your bathroom., You can use a cotton swap or a toothpick to do this, or simply use your finger if the stain is a bit larger. Cover the entire stain thoroughly with the acne cream., If you leave the medication unexposed, it will quickly dry out. To get the best effect, you want to let the treatment really soak into the stain without drying. Use Saran wrap to cover the stained area, making sure that the cream stays put directly on top of the stain., Cover the doll’s hair with a towel or piece of clothing to protect it from the sun’s UV rays. This can cause unnecessary drying and damage to the doll’s delicate hair. Also cover her body and any areas that aren’t being cleaned for the same reason. Take special care to protect the doll’s eyes, nose, and mouth, if possible., You can also leave your doll under a UV lamp, if you have one. The benzoyl peroxide has a bleaching effect when exposed to direct sunlight. While that would be unpleasant for human skin, this is exactly what you want for your dolls. This will not stain the “skin” of the doll, but will bleach the stain out. It doesn’t matter if your American Girl is fair or African American– it has no adverse effect on their skin.Don’t leave your dolls in the sun when it’s extremely hot. Their vinyl skin can soften, and actually become deformed.
Remove your dolls from the sun every two hours or so to prevent damage and apply more cream, if necessary. Let their skin cool before putting them back out into the sunlight.
 After your doll has been in the sunlight for a while, take a damp cotton swab or tissue and clean the stained area. The stain should be gone, or lightened. If necessary, repeat all of these steps again to continue lightening the stain until it is completely gone. The darker and larger the stain, the longer this process may take.Some stains may take a couple of weeks to fully work out. Be patient, and keep repeating the process until you are satisfied with your result.

