 If your fear of doctors is severe and preventing you from going to see your doctor, it may be time to reach out to a trained therapist. Look for a therapist who specializes in phobias and who has experience working with patients who have phobias. The therapist can help you talk about your phobia in a safe space and address it.The therapist may suggest talking through the phobia to help you find the root cause. Then, they may suggest different tactics you can try to address the phobia.
 Exposure therapy involves confronting your fears in a safe, supportive environment. You may first be shown images of stethoscopes or syringes to expose you to your fear. Then, the therapy will move on to showing you videos of medical procedures. From there, you may stand outside the hospital or your doctor’s office with your therapist. Through this exposure, you will gradually become less fearful of doctors.Exposure therapy has been shown to be effective for people with a phobia. You will need to find a trained therapist who is skilled in exposure therapy to try this treatment.
 Positive affirmations are another way for you to work on overcoming your fear of doctors. You can say positive affirmations before you go to the doctor’s office or before you enter a hospital. You can also try repeating positive affirmations in your head during your doctor’s appointment, so you feel less afraid.For example, you can repeat positive affirmations like “I am relaxed around doctors,” “I am comfortable talking to doctors,” “My health is important to me,” and “I like doctors.”

, Fear often breeds anxiety. To help reduce your anxiety, you can teach yourself relaxation techniques to use when you feel yourself becoming nervous, anxious, tense, or afraid.

Slow and deep breathing can help calm your nerves. Practice by sitting straight with a hand on your stomach and a hand on your chest. Breathe deeply into your lungs. The hand on your stomach should rise while the hand on your chest should not. Try counting ten breaths.
Once you've learned deep breathing, you might want to try mindfulness meditation. Sit straight with your eyes closed. Focus on your breath as you inhale and exhale. Then start noticing other sounds and sensations. If you feel yourself becoming anxious, think about your breathing again.
Try progressive muscle relaxation. Start by tensing every muscle in your right foot. Hold it for a few seconds before relaxing. Repeat with your left foot before moving on to all of the other muscles in your body. This can train you to relax your muscles when they are tensed and tight., Grounding techniques are useful for when you are experiencing extreme anxiety. They can help you calm down by using activities and sensory details to reduce your anxiety.

Try touching and looking around at the objects around you. Describe them as you go through them. For example, in the doctor's office, you might feel the paper lining the chair. Describe its texture. Look up at the artwork, and describe their colors in your head. Name objects in the room, such as the receptionist's desk, the magazines, or the sink.
You can also give yourself a topic, such as zoo animals or state capitals. Try to name as many as you can. This activity can help you refocus your thoughts.