 Have all of the equipment within reach for when the dye is ready. This is the most important thing you need to do before you begin.
If you are going to be using your kitchen as a work space, it may be worth while placing an old towel over the portion of bench you will be using to stop any dye from staining the bench top.
In addition, ensure that you have a bucket or container at least half filled with cold water, along with the harakeke you wish to dye, and a pair of steel tongs to hold the harakeke, close at hand.;
, Fill the pot you will be using to dye the harakeke with cold water to at least halfway. Once filled halfway, put it on the stove element. Turn on the element and wait for the water to begin boiling.
Aim for a medium to high heat; avoid using extreme heat because the water will boil too quickly.

While you are waiting for the water to boil, remove the crepe paper from its packaging and cut it into strips 3 centimeter (1.2 in) wide.






Once the water is boiling, add the crepe paper to the pot and leave boiling for a further 10 minutes.
 Remove the excess crepe paper from the boiling water with the tongs after the 10 minutes are up. Depending on what you want do, you can either put the boiled crepe paper to the side on a tinfoil plate for later use, or discard it. You will be able to tell when it is ready by looking at the tongs; when they come out of the dye, the colour will stick to them.
 Pick up the harakeke you want to dye, by using the tongs, and slowly submerge it into the pot of boiling dye. You can either dye something you have already made (as the example shows), or you can use fresh harakeke that can be woven later. Either way, do not submerge it too quickly, as it may cause the dye to splatter. To ensure an even coat, leave the harakeke submerged for five or six seconds, then remove so that it is still over the pot, but not in the dye. Try not to leave the harakeke in for any longer than the five or six seconds as leaving it in for too long will cook it and affect the final product.
 If you want a light colouring, then two to three dips may be enough. However, if it is a darker, richer colouring you are after, then it may be necessary to repeat six or seven times.
 Transfer the harakeke using the tongs; place into the bucket of cold water you prepared earlier as soon as you are satisfied with its level of colouring. Taking the harakeke out of the boiling dye and immersing it into cold water stops it from cooking and helps to seal in the colour. Once you have done that, lay the harakeke on the towel and allow it to dry for up to three hours.
