 Figure out what it is about their behavior that bothers you. Pay attention to your teacher’s behavior and your reactions to it the next time you are in class to see if there is a pattern.


Does the teacher invade your personal space? Does the teacher make comments about your appearance? Does the teacher seem to favor you or another student in a class in a way that makes you feel uncomfortable?
Find out if anyone else in your class is made uncomfortable by your teacher, and see if you can figure out the reason behind your discomfort. Make sure you do this away from your classroom.;
, It is hard sometimes to find the words for what is making you uncomfortable, but you may know on some level that the behavior isn’t right. Sometimes you can feel a tension or discomfort somewhere in your body when someone does or says something “off.” Pay attention to that feeling and do not dismiss it, even if the teacher’s behavior appears friendly.Attention from a teacher can be flattering. But trust your instincts. If it seems too good to be true, it probably is. And if it feels off or uncomfortable in any way, it probably is.
 While some students like it when their teacher takes on more of a “friend” role than that of a mentor or educator, understand that this is not always appropriate. While a student may push those boundaries by trying to get closer to a teacher, it is the teacher’s responsibility to enforce those boundaries.


The teacher should not be alone with a student in a hidden area. The teacher can have a private conversation with a student with the classroom door open or while visible to other teachers and students.
The teacher should not be friends with a student on social media, unless the account the teacher is using is a separate account for school or students.The teacher’s relationship to the student should be confined to school activities., Grooming refers to taking interest in an individual in order to manipulate them for sexual abuse purposes. The abuser makes their target feel special, and often manipulates them with gifts or favors to maintain a level of secrecy about their relationship. This manipulates the person to stay quiet about potential abuse.If your teacher has taken a personal interest in you, be very wary. Do not accept gifts or favors from the teacher. Refuse to keep any secrets about your relationship. You could say to your teacher, “I’m sorry, but I don’t feel comfortable accepting this gift.”Talk to another adult right away if you are afraid you, or another classmate, are being manipulated by your teacher. Do not be afraid to speak up. You are not doing anything wrong by voicing your concern.
You could say to your guidance counselor or dean, “I’m concerned about how Mrs. Jones is treating a student in class. The student seems to be getting special treatment and it’s making me feel uncomfortable.”

, Teachers are in a position of power over their students, which can be intimidating and make students reluctant to speak up. Certain inappropriate behaviors need to be reported to your parent, dean, or principal immediately. These include:


Harassment of or discrimination against a student because of their race, religion, sexuality, gender, or disability.
Unwanted physical contact (either sexual or aggressive in nature).
Grading students on something other than their academic performance.
Acting out in the classroom by throwing things or losing their temper.