


Have you written your objective statement? If not, consider writing one.
Check if your objective statement is relevant to the industry and job you are applying to. Sometimes, your objective statement could be superficial, which means which you could have used words that doesn’t make it look ‘original’. We suggest you read couple of general objective statements, think on your own what your objective is and come up with your own original objective statement.;
, If you have more than 10 years of work experience, you could have an additional page which makes it three pages in total. #*Accommodate all your information in two pages and remove irrelevant information (eg: Father’s name, native town etc)
If a resume is too short then the recruiter is not able to find required amount of details. Include all required information and make a two page CV.
 If you do not meet their minimum and required qualifications, it’s fair not to expect an answer from them.

Send your CV to someone who could review your CV, give you suggestions and correct grammatical errors if any.
 Have you arranged your resume neatly?
Make sure your resume is pleasing enough in appearance and your details are arranged in order.

Do not use much of italics.
Maintain black as the font color throughout the resume.
Do not use multiple colors.
 So they would very easily be able to find out if your resume contains superficial information related to your education, experience or personal information.
Make all the contents in your resume as original as possible.

Edit your resume to make your resume look appealing.

Avoid using e-mail id like: gulfjobseeker@gmail.com, lookingforajob@yahoo.com, gulfcandidate @hotmail.com etc.
 Cover letter describes why you are qualified for that particular job. Cover letter could be general or specific to a particular job.
Your cover letter is your first interview with a prospective employer. So take your time in preparing a great cover letter. Need help with preparing a cover letter?

, If you applied after the application deadline, do not expect a reply back from the recruiter.
 Some jobs are solely accepted through employers’ recruitment system or job portals. If the prescribed medium is ‘apply through job portal’ and you have emailed your resume to the recruiter, you stand little chance of being called for.
Always follow the prescribed application acceptance medium.

