 There are many different ways of assembling a diaper stroller, some more complicated than others, so the list of materials varies depending on the desired finished product. However, since most newborn babies wear size 1, that is the best diaper size to use.


If multiple babies are expected, the person can make a different looking diaper stroller for each one.;
, To form the wheels, six to eight diapers can be curled around each other and held in place with a rubber band or tape. They do not have to make a perfectly round wheel, but should be firm enough to support the weight of the rest of the diaper stroller without looking flat.


Remember that a stroller has four wheels, so you will need approximately 24 to 32 diapers to form the wheels.
To make the diaper stroller as festive as possible, you could also think of using ribbons to hold the wheels together, or even just some colorful tape.
 You can use paper towel tubes to form axles for the wheels. Once you have formed the wheels, bend the center diaper slightly so that a small hole is formed. Insert the paper towel roll into the hole so that it is in the center of the wheel. You should only need two rolls, as you will be putting one roll through two of the wheels, so as to hold the wheels together.


Consider placing a small gift inside the center of the roll.
 Once you have put a paper towel roll through the center of one of the wheels, put the same roll through the center of another one of the wheels. Connect two different wheels with the same roll, and then connect the other two wheels with a different roll. This should form two sets of connected wheels.


While you do not have to do this, connecting the wheels can help to make your stroller sturdy.
 The main part of the stroller is usually made with roughly 30 to 40 diapers, though the number you use is up to you. Stack the diapers in rows of five or so and connect them with tape or rubber bands to form the flat carriage, or main part, of the stroller.


Consider putting a receiving blanket over the diapers that make up the body of the stroller. This is not necessary, but may be a nice extra gift.

