 If there is a problem that you are trying to solve, use CBT techniques to help you focus your thoughts in a clear way. When you have a lot of different emotions and thoughts in your head at once, you may need to focus on only one problem at a time.Avoid attempting to solve multiple problems at once. Start small and focus on the one problem that is your primary concern.
Focus on taking an active rather than a passive role when solving problems. , Brainstorm all the possible options, whether they are bad, good, or neutral. Write down these various options. Even ideas that seem impossible at first may help to jumpstart you in the right direction. Think about solutions or advice you might give to someone else who is facing this same problem.
Consider talking with a close friend or someone you trust for additional options.
 Think about each option available to you, Stick with the most logical options first, then create pros and cons for each. Consider the pros and cons of the options that may seem very challenging last. This list will help you to see other options in a more balanced way. Make sure to look at both the positives and negatives, and not just one or the other.
Consider whether you need advice from an expert or a professional for certain pros and cons, such as a financial advisor, lawyer, or healthcare professional.
 Examine how the pros and cons stack up relative to one another. Consider creating a rank order for your options.


Talk with someone you trust about whether these rankings seem realistic. Ask them if they have any concerns about the plan you think is best.
 Find out the steps you need to take to enact the plan you have chosen. Your pros and cons list for the option you have chosen may help you to understand the steps you need to take and the ones to avoid.Create a timeline of small steps that you need to do. With organization and planning you are more likely to carry out and achieve your goals.
 Avoid being easily deterred if your plan does not go the way you wanted. Go back to the planning phases of problem solving and figure out what missteps may have been made or not addressed.If the plan led to a positive outcome, enjoy that moment. Even if the problem is not fully "solved," be thankful that you are headed in the right direction.
If the plan still needs some tweaking and negative thoughts still arise, keep going and stay motivated. Most negative thoughts, feelings, and situations don't go away overnight, but that doesn't mean they are impossible to work on.

