 For your homemade tutu, you’ll need approximately 2 meters (6.6 ft) of tulle, elastic for a waistband, a needle and thread, scissors, a measuring tape. You can also buy ribbon for a bow or gems to attach to your ballet tutu. If you want a tutu with extra body, you can create it with extra tulle strips.Rather than buying a large rectangle of tulle, consider buying a roll of tulle. Although they don’t come in precise length, it may save you money and will give you plenty of fabric—you’ll just have to measure and cut it.;
, Cut four pieces of tulle. They should be approximately 55 inches (140 cm) across and length of you final tutu doubled. Lay your pieces of tulle on top of one another.


If you have the measurements for you ballet dancer, use them and double the length. If not, there are some standard guideline sizes for a ballet tutu.Baby tutu: 12-14 inch strips
Toddler tutu: 24-26 inch strips
Adult tutu: 28-32 inch strips



, Take your long strip of tulle and roll it lengthwise so that it looks like a large hot dog. Use a large flat surface to roll your tulle. It will be much easier than trying to roll it while it’s hanging off of the side of a table. If necessary, use the floor as a space to lay it out and roll it., Take the roll of tulle and cut the end so that it is even. Next, cut your roll into three inch sections. You’ll end up with strips that are 3 inches (7.6 cm) wide. They should be the double the length of your desired tutu., Stretch your elastic waistband around something to hold it in place. You can use a large book, the back of a chair, or anything else that will keep it tight without overstretching it.
 Take two pieces of tulle and fold them at their center point over your hand to make a loop. Put this loop under the top of the elastic. Pull the ends of the tulle over the elastic and through the loop. This will knot the tulle onto your elastic.Pull this knot firmly but not too tight. If you pull it too tight, it will stretch the elastic band and your finished tutu will be bigger than you want.
 Keep using these knots all the way around your elastic. Adjust your elastic as you go so that you’re always tying a knot from a comfortable position. If you go all the way around your elastic and have extra tulle, push the knots closer together and fit all the tulle on your tutu for a full, fluffy look.
 If you wish, now is the time for finishing touches on your ballet tutu. You can hot glue gems throughout your tulle, or add a bow to the front of it. As soon as these are attached, your tutu will be ready to wear. Simply slip it on over a leotard and it’s ballet ready.

