 Many children find physical activities fun to begin with. Let your child enjoy physical activities or games without pressuring them. For example, if your child loves to run, avoid organizing the activity or making them run for a certain amount of time each day.


If your child enjoys physical activity, they'll become more confident about their own physical abilities.;
, Your child may become physically frustrated if they think that they're not good enough. It's important to let your child see that no one is perfect at everything and that they should try and practice. A good way to do this is to let your child see you try something new. Let your child know if you're struggling and let them see you stick with it.For example, you might make a habit of putting on a yoga program and letting your child watch you learn the poses. Your child will see that you have to learn and practice physical skills.
 Kids are exposed to a lot of physical expectations, whether from watching professional athletes or from making the team at school. Show your child that everyone is unique and that people have different physical capabilities. Avoid talking badly about yourself in front of your kids which could signal a negative physical attitude. Instead, talk to your child about any body image concerns they have.For example, instead of saying, "I'm too old to run that fast," you could say, "I need to take it a little slower."
If you notice the child struggling with their body image, talk with them about why they're not confident. Explain that everybody has physical differences and abilities.
 Show your child that you're pleased and proud when they try a new physical challenge or keep trying to learn a new skill. If you only show praise when they compete and win, they will only feel physical pressure. Instead, accept that your child might not be the best at their sport or activity, but let them know that you want them to enjoy it.


For example, you might say, "I know you've really been sticking with soccer practice. I'm proud of how much effort you've been putting into it."
It's important for your child to try new physical challenges. If you expect perfection, they may be less likely to try new things because they fear failure. If you just encourage them to do new activities for the sake of it, they may find something they love doing.
 Your child should know without a doubt that you care more for their personality and passions than their physical abilities. Avoid focusing on their physical strengths or challenges and instead talk with them about their interests.For example, instead of saying, "I can't believe you don't even want to try playing basketball," say, "I know we talked about you doing an organized sport. What would you really like to play?"

, If you know your child has a negative opinion about their physical appearance or abilities, ask them why they have these negative thoughts. Remind your child that their thoughts affect how they feel about themselves. Instead of focusing on a fear or criticism, have your child look focus on a helpful thought.For example, you might say, "I heard you say you'll never have friends because of how you look. Remember that your true friends shouldn't care how you look and you shouldn't have to change yourself for a

