 If you have the song's melody in mind, try to recall if you remember anything else alongside it. Was there a catchy lyric or rhythm that caught your ear as well? Although melody is the easiest part of music to remember, you'll have your best chance identifying the song the more details you recollect.


Remembering a lyric is the most helpful when it comes to song identification, as three or four words from a lyric in sequence can yield a successful Google search.
Sadly, success with remembering isn't the sort of thing that can be forced, and success cannot be promised, only made more likely.
 On top of its other mental health benefits, meditating can be a great idea to recall memories. Find somewhere quiet and tranquil to unwind, and let your thoughts go blank. Focus on your breathing, and keep your respiration slow and controlled. Let yourself meditate for 10-15 minutes. Allow yourself to drift away from trying to remember the song; if the song ends up popping into your head, it will do so on its own accord and cannot be forced.Meditating with the pure intent of memory recall may defeat the purpose, as your brain will still be under the strain of trying to remember.
 Quite often, going to the last place you heard the song in question will help bring other details to light. Return to the place, preferably at the same time of day you heard the song, and picture yourself listening to the melody.


This step need not apply solely to physical spaces. If you heard the song on a particular radio station for example, you might find it helpful to return to that station and listen to the broadcast. Popular music stations are prone to repeating songs frequently anyway. You might end up hearing the song you were looking for if you tune in for long enough.
 If you have a clear grasp of the song's melody, humming it out loud will allow you to focus on it. By making it tangible to your ears, your brain may fill in the gaps of what it remembers being there, and you'll have an easier time bringing the memories you're looking for to the forefront of your consciousness.Better still, you might consider recording yourself humming the melody. That way, you can listen to it purely as an active listener., Forcing yourself to remember something can be very frustrating. If you're wanting to remember a song on your own, sometimes the best way to go about it is letting your brain go elsewhere. Occupy yourself with something different and go about your regular daily routine. It's obviously not something you can depend on for results, but it's not unheard of that the song (as well as its title) will rush into your head once you're invested in something else.

