 Before you buy a lawnmower, you need to know the size of the yard you’ll be mowing. The size of the yard makes a difference in the type of lawnmower you’ll need to easily get the job done.Calculate the acreage of your yard by measuring the length and width of your yard. 1 acre is equal to 43560 square feet. Multiply the length times the width in feet and divide by 43560 to determine how many acres you have.Small to medium lawns are lawns under ½ an acre.
Large lawns are lawns larger than ½ an acre.;
, If you have a yard on a hill, a self propelled mower would be a good idea to help you get up the hill. Ride on mowers can sometimes be dangerous on hills, so plan a way to navigate the hill without putting your safety at risk. Flat yards are ideal for walk-behind, push mowers.
 If you have a well maintained lawn with few weeds it is easier for a mower to cut. An overgrown lawn with many weeds and brush may require a larger size mower to get under control.
 There are many different types of lawn mowers available, and the type you need depends on several different variables. Consider the size and landscape of the yard, the amount of maintenance you want to do, and how much muscle power you want to put into mowing when you decide the type of mower to get., Most brands offer many different types of lawnmowers, and there isn’t much difference between the brands, but you want to consider where you’ll be servicing your mower. Some lawnmower service places only work with certain brands, so check out the local service stations in your area to make sure you’ll have a place to go when you need to have your mower worked on.


If you buy the lawnmower from a local retailer, they will sometimes have their own service stations for mowers.
 These mowers are completely manually powered and leave clippings unevenly distributed around the lawn. They also are the most environmentally friendly choice.
 They run off electricity or a battery, and they come in a cord and cordless options. They are easily maintained, however they weigh and cost considerably more than gas powered mowers.Make sure you have extension cords that can reach across your entire yard if purchasing an electric mower with a cord.
 You can select push or self propelled options. Self propelled gas powered mowers are good for lawns that have hills because they push themselves forward letting you use less muscle power. These mowers have to be regularly maintained with tune-ups and oil changes, and they are a bit more noisy than electric mowers., These mowers move themselves around the yard within a perimeter wire around your yard. Robotic mowers are quite costly and sometimes give a less quality cut than conventional mowers.
 There are different types of ride on mowers including lawn tractors and zero turn radius riders. Ride on mowers are much pricier than walk behind mowers, and require regular maintenance.


Check the size of the mower deck to see how wide of a cutting path your mower has. A larger cutting deck will mean fewer passes to finish the job and cut your mowing time down.
 Buying a lawnmower is a big purchase and can be very costly, so you need to have a budget in mind when you’re shopping. When you give yourself a budget for an item, you’re more likely to be conscious of the prices when you shop.


A weekly lawn service can cost from $20-$100. When considering your budget you will want to save money over hiring a service. Depending on the size of your yard a monthly payment under $100 on a lawn mower can provide significant savings when compared to hiring a lawn service company.
Push mowers are typically $200-$600 new. A ride on or lawn tractor can easily cost several thousand dollars.
 There are many different avenues to buy a lawn mower from. You can buy a new lawn mower from a dealer, department store, garden store, or home store. You can also buy a used lawn mower from a garage sale, an auction sale, or from an online garage sale.You will save a lot of money by buying a used lawn mower, but you might not get any warranties with it.
If you want to buy a used mower, consider buying one from a reputable dealer where they sometimes have used or refurbished mowers. These usually have been tested and sometimes come with limited warranties.
 Before you purchase your new mower, make sure to inquire what accessories such as bagging and mulching attachments are included.
 Many new lawn mowers and some used ones come with a warranty to cover things that may break or go wrong within a certain time period. Make sure you read the warranty completely before buying so you understand what is covered and how long your mower is covered for. 