 Filling up your diet with foods that haven't been processed and don't have a lot of artificial ingredients will give you the best chances for success when it comes to losing weight around your middle. The easiest way to do this is to cook from scratch instead of going out to eat or buying prepared foods. While these options are very convenient, it's difficult to know exactly what you're eating. Instead, buy whole, fresh ingredients and cook as many meals yourself as you possibly can.


Eat plenty of vegetables - the wider the variety, the better. Try to make most of your meals vegetable-based.
Look for meat with minimal processing, preferably labeled "hormone-free." The hormones given to animals to bulk them up faster can cause health problems in humans.
Choose whole grains like brown rice, quinoa and oatmeal over white flour-based items.
Try making a big pot of soup or a healthy, vegetable-based casserole at the beginning of the week; that way you won't have to cook every day.
Don't forget the importance of healthy fats when it comes to weight loss - olive oil, avocados, nuts, and fish are all excellent sources.
Eat regularly, and do not skip meals. Skipping meals will only slow down your metabolism and your body will not burn excess fat. You will need to burn excess body fat so that your abs will be visible.;
, Eating refined sugars and starches can lead to weight gain and fat retention. Processing sugar, flour, potatoes, rice, and other starches removes the nutrients and fiber from the product. Cookies, cakes, potato chips, white bread, pasta, and other processed carbohydrates cause the blood sugar to spike and lead to fat retention.For many people, the belly area is the first place where the fat collects. The good news is, that's also the area where people tend to see results first when they begin a weight loss regimen - so switching out refined carbohydrates for whole-grain alternatives will probably help you see results very quickly.Avoid sugary beverages like soft drinks. Even diet soft drinks have been shown to cause weight gain, not help with weight loss.
Instead of drinking fruit juice, eat whole fruits; that way you'll get the healthy fiber instead of just the sugar.
Take a break from packaged snack foods, even protein bars and granola bars, when you're trying to lose weight. Even items labeled as "healthy" could contain a lot of refined sugars and flours that'll make it hard to take that weight off.
 It might not seem like that big a deal, but being stressed out can have a huge effect on the shape of your body. Do you take time to destress every day? If not, it's likely that your body is overproducing cortisol, the hormone that is secreted in response to extreme stress.Too much cortisol secretion leads to the accumulation of fat around the torso - the spare tire effect. Taking measures to calm down can go a long way toward losing the pounds that are obscuring your abdominal muscles.


Figure out which stressors you can eliminate from your life. Are you completely over scheduled? Cross a few activities off your list so you have more time to relax. Opt out of events you don't really need to attend in favor of staying in and resting sometimes. You probably didn't realize that resting could help you lose weight around your middle, right?
Have rituals that help you relax. Whether it's daily meditation, quiet time outside breathing fresh air, a walk with your dog that you never skip, or a hot bath in the evenings, have a ritual that helps you calm down when you're feeling stressed.
Learn how to breathe correctly. Taking shallow breaths tells your brain that your body is under stress, and the adrenal glands go into overdrive to produce cortisol. It's really important to breathe correctly - that is, from your diaphragm. When you breathe in, your belly should move outward, and when you exhale, it should pull back in., A lack of sleep can cause people to gain and retain belly weight in two ways. First, it stresses the body out, causing the overproduction of cortisol. Second, it lowers inhibition, making people more likely to overindulge in foods they'd normally refrain from eating.If you get enough sleep, you might wake up early, eat a healthy breakfast and make solid choices for lunch and dinner. If you don't get enough sleep, your sleep-deprived self will be much more likely to try to wake your body up by eating too much salt or refined sugar or flour. The solution is to get a good 7 to 9 hours as often as possible.Having a sleep schedule can really help. Try to go to bed at the same time each night and rise at the same time each morning.
Oversleeping can also have a negative effect on your health, so try to get up after 9 hours rather than letting yourself sleep for 10 or more. If you find yourself consistently sleeping over ten hours a night, you may want to consult a doctor to make sure that you do not have an underlying health issue.
 Starting your day with a healthy breakfast is an important way to slim down. That's because eating nutrient-rich calories first thing will keep you feeling full and energized for hours. Skipping this meal will make you more likely to eat a big lunch and dinner, with snacks in between. Start your day off right with the following foods:



Oatmeal. It has a low glycemic index, so it won't raise your blood sugar and lead to hunger pangs. Oatmeal will keep you feeling full for a long time. Top it with almonds and cut up fresh fruit for a delicious, healthy breakfast option.

Scrambled eggs. Having protein in the morning is another great way to keep yourself nourished and full. Studies show that people who eat protein first thing stay full for a long time. Waiting until later in the day to get your protein fix doesn't have quite the same effect.Grapefruit and apples. These two amazing fruits both have components that help suppress the appetite and keep your body nourished.
 Drinking plenty of water has been shown to increase people's metabolic rates by up to 30%.Results are best when you drink 8 glasses or more per day, spacing them out over the course of the day to stay well-hydrated. The practice of drinking plenty of water will help you burn calories faster and keep your body in good condition for the next important step in getting abs at home - building up those muscles!


On the other hand, avoid drinking any beverages that will add calories to your diet. Do not drink sodas, alcohol, soft drinks or other highly caloric beverages.

