 These instructions were written for firmware version 5.5.1 and earlier. 5.5.1 was the latest firmware version at the time of this writing (August 2016). If you are running a later version of the Wii U firmware, check to make sure that the homebrew channel exploit still works.Turn on your Wii U and select the "System Settings" option in the main menu.Find the version number in the upper-right corner. If it is 5.5.1 or below, the method outlined below should work fine. Newer versions of the firmware may have fixed the exploit that allows the homebrew channel.;
, You'll need to load a few files on an SD card from your computer in order to load the homebrew channel on your Wii U. Insert an SD card that's blank or that you don't need for anything else into your computer's card reader.

If you don't have a card reader, you can get a USB reader for a few dollars online.
 Most SD cards will already be in this format, but it doesn't hurt to check before you get started. Formatting the card will delete all of its contents.

Windows - Press ⊞ Win+E and right-click your inserted SD card. Select "Format" and then choose "FAT32" as the "File system."
Mac - Open the Disk Utility from the Utilities folder in your Applications folder. Select your SD card from the left frame. Click the "Erase" button at the top of the window, then select "FAT32" from the "Format" menu.
Linux - Open GParted. If you don't have it, you can install it from your package manager (or if you have Ubuntu, you can use the live CD), open it, and click the drive that closely matches the size of the card (16 GB may show up as 14.5 for example), and if the file system does not show up as "fat32", go to the "Partition" tab, click "Format to", and select "fat32". Then click the check mark.
 As it is open-source software, the you can visit github.com/dimok789/homebrew_launcher/releases to download the ZIP file for the latest release., Double-click the downloaded ZIP file to open it. Click the "Extract" button, and then browse to your SD card. This will extract the files to your SD card in the proper folder structure., Open your SD card in your file explorer. The files should be in the following folder structure:

/wiiu/apps/homebrew_launcher/
There should be three files in the homebrew_launcher folder: homebrew_launcher.elf, icon.png, and meta.xml.
 The homebrew channel doesn't come with any software, it simply allows you to use homebrew software. You'll need to download this software yourself and add it to the SD card. Homebrew apps are added to the "apps" folder on your SD card. There are a variety of homebrew apps that you can find online designed for the Wii U. Below are a few examples you can look for to get started:

loadiine_gx2 - This lets you load out-of-region games and modded games.
HID to VPAD - This allows you to use other USB gamepads such as the Wii Pro Controller, PS3 controllers, and more.
ddd - This is the Wii U title dumper, allowing you to create local copies of your Wii U games.
 Once the SD card is ready, you can eject it from your computer and then insert it in your Wii U.Open the front panel on your Wii U.
Insert the SD card into the SD card slot with the label facing up.
 You'll want to prevent your Wii U from connecting to the automatic update servers, as updates from Nintendo may break your ability to use the homebrew channel. Entering the following DNS information will route you through a custom community DNS that blocks the Nintendo update servers:Open the System Settings menu from the main Wii U screen.
Select "Internet" and then "Connect to the Internet."
Select your wireless network and then select "Change Settings."
Tap the DNS option, turn "Auto-Obtain DNS" OFF, and change the first and second address to 104.236.072.203


, You'll be performing the exploit using your Wii U's web browser. You can find the button for this at the very bottom-center of the Wii U main menu., This will open the browser settings., This will clear your browser data, which will increase the likelihood of your homebrew channel launching correctly., This website contains the payload that will exploit the web browser and load the homebrew channel.

Bookmark this site so that you can quickly run the exploit again next time.
 This will run the exploit on your Wii U's internet browser, and the homebrew channel menu will appear after a few moments.

If the system freezes on a white screen, you'll need to press and hold the Wii U's Power button until the system shuts down. Turn the system back on and try again. It will usually work the second time, though it may take a few tries.
 The homebrew software that you added to your SD card will be displayed in the menu that appears. Select one to start using it., The homebrew channel exploit is not permanent, and you'll need to run it each time you turn your Wii U on again. Bookmarking the site will make the process much quicker, as you can just select the bookmark from the browser's start screen., All Wii U consoles contain a virtual Wii mode that allows them to play Wii games. You can install a homebrew channel in Wii mode, which will give you access to Wii homebrew like game backups, Gamecube support, emulators, and more., The virtual Wii homebrew channel is installed by exploiting vulnerabilities in certain Wii games. You will need one of the following games in order to install the homebrew channel:

LEGO Batman
LEGO Indiana Jones
LEGO Star Wars
Super Smash Bros. Brawl
Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of a New World
Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's Wheelie Breakers

, You'll have more success with an SD card that is 2 GB or smaller than you will with a larger card. The card 'cannot be SDHC or SDXC.

If you followed the steps in the previous section to create an SD card for the Wii U homebrew channel, you can use the same card.
 This is required in order for the virtual Wii to read your card. Formatting the card will erase everything on it. If you are using the same card from the previous section, it doesn't need to be formatted.

Windows - Press ⊞ Win+E, right-click your SD card, and select "Format." Choose "FAT32" from the "File system" menu and then click "Start."
Mac - Open the Disk Utility from the Utilities folder in your Applications directory. Select the SD card in the left frame, then click the "Erase" button. Select "FAT32" from the "Format" menu and then click "Erase."

, Find and download the Hackmii Installer v1.2. This ZIP file contains the software necessary to install the homebrew channel. You can download it from bootmii.org/download/., Each of the games listed above requires a different hack file. You can find these files in various locations online. Look for the following hack files depending on the game you are planning on using to exploit:

LEGO Batman - bathaxx

LEGO Indiana Jones - Indiana Pwns

LEGO Star Wars - Return of the Jodi

Super Smash Bros. Brawl - Smash Stack

Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of a New World - Eri HaKawai

Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's Wheelie Breakers - Yu-Gi-Vah!


, If you're using Smash Bros. Brawl to install the homebrew channel, you'll need to move your stages to the SD card before you start the exploit. if you're using any other game to install the homebrew channel, you can skip this step.

Insert your SD card into the Wii U and launch Smash Bros. Brawl from the virtual Wii.
Open the "Vault" on the SSB main menu and then select "Stage Builder."
Select each stage and move it to the SD card. You need to do this for every stage, including those that came installed with the game.
Close the game and move the SD card to your computer. Open the SD card in your file explorer and name the "private" folder to "private.old"

, Double-click the Hackmii ZIP file that you downloaded and then click the "Extract" button. Point the extractor to the root folder of your SD card. When extracted, you'll see a folder called "private" appear in the root of the SD card., Double-click the ZIP file that contains your game-specific hack files and click "Extract." Extract the files to the SD card, just like you did the Hackmii installer. If you get a warning that the "private" directory already exists, just confirm that you want to continue.

Your SD card should now have a "private" folder when you first open it on your computer. This folder contains the Hackmii files as well as the game-specific hack files.
 The following instructions are for users with LEGO Batman. If you're using a different game, you can find it in the steps below this one:

Open the Wii section of the Wii U menu and then insert your SD card.
Select "Wii Options" → "Data Management" → "Save Data" → "Wii"
Select "Bathaxx" from the SD card and copy it to your virtual Wii.
Start LEGO Batman and load the save file you just copied.
Take the elevator on the right in the Batcave, then enter Wayne Manor from the Trophy Room. Select the last character in the lowest row to launch the exploit. Skip down to Step 16.
 The following instructions are for users with LEGO Indiana Jones:

Open the Wii section of the Wii U menu and then insert your SD card.
Select "Wii Options" → "Data Management" → "Save Data" → "Wii"
Select "Indiana Pwns" from the SD card and copy it to your virtual Wii.
Start LEGO Indiana Jones and load the save file you just copied over.
Walk to the Art Room and look at the left character on the podium. Select "Switch" when you approach. Skip down to Step 16.
 The following instructions are for users with LEGO Star Wars:

Open the Wii section of the Wii U menu and then insert your SD card.
Select "Wii Options" → "Data Management" → "Save Data" → "Wii"
Select "Return of the Jodi" from the SD card and copy it to your virtual Wii.
Start LEGO Star Wars and load the save file you just copied.
Approach the bar on the right and choose the "Return of Jodi" character. Skip down to Step 16.
 The following instructions are for users with Super Smash Bros. Brawl:

Make sure you moved all of the custom stages to your SD card (Step 7).
Open the SSB main menu, then insert your SD card.
Open "Vault" and then "Stage Builder." The hack files will load automatically. Skip down to Step 16.
 The following instructions are for users with Tales of Symphonia: Dawn of a New World:

Open the Wii section of the Wii U menu and then insert your SD card.
Select "Wii Options" → "Data Management" → "Save Data" → "Wii"
Select "Tales of Symphonia" from the SD card and copy it to your virtual Wii.
Start Tales of Symphonia and select your new save file.
Press the Plus button on the controller to open the game menu.
Select "STATUS" and then select the "Eri HaKawai" monster. Skip down to Step 16.
 5D's Wheelie Breakers exploit. The following instructions are for users with Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's Wheelie Breakers:

Open the Wii section of the Wii U menu and then insert your SD card.
Select "Wii Options" → "Data Management" → "Save Data" → "Wii"
Select "Yu-Gi-Oh 5D's Wheelie Breakers" from the SD card and copy it to your virtual Wii.
Start Yu-Gi-Oh! 5D's Wheelie Breakers and press A to load the menu. Press A again and wait for the Hackmii installer to load.
 Once you've run one of the exploits outlined above, the Hackmii installer will begin. You may have to wait a little while before you can move past the initial loading screen.

Once the installer opens, install the "Homebrew Channel" option. You cannot install "BootMii" on the virtual Wii.
 At this point, you have successfully installed the Homebrew Channel in your virtual Wii console, and should be able to select it from the Wii menu. There won't be anything in it at this point, as you'll have to install different homebrew applications separately. This will involve extracting the installation files to your SD card and then running the installer in the Homebrew Channel. Here are a few to look for to get started:cIOS - This is required for certain other homebrew applications to run. You'll need "d2x cIOS Installer Mod v2.2" installed and able to run from your Homebrew Channel. You'll also need "IOS236 Installer MOD v8 Special vWii Edition" installed for the virtual Wii.
USB Loader GX - This is a backup launcher that will allow you to create and load game backups so that you can play without the disc. You'll need a USB external drive in order to dump and store game files.
Nintendon't - This homebrew program allows you to play Gamecube discs and files, and can be installed directly from USB Loader GX.

