 Motorcycle helmets will protect your head and neck region in the event of an accident while on the open road and will substantially lower your chances of sustaining permanent or long-term damage.


While you are shopping for a motorcycle helmet, choose a model that meets minimum safety requirements. As an example, within the United States, the Department of Transportation (D.O.T.) maintains safety requirement levels and standards for motorcycle helmets. Models that meet D.O.T. standards have been tested for compliance and will provide you with a higher level of protection.
Look for a sticker attached to the motorcycle helmet that you are considering purchasing for notification of meeting recognized safety standards. Additional examples of recognized private, non-profit organizations that maintain safety standards for motorcycle helmets are Snell and the American National Standards Institute (ANSI).;
, As an example, a good helmet will weigh several pounds according to D.O.T. standards and have a thick, protective inner, impact-absorbing liner.


Look at the chin strap, also referred to as the retention system. A quality motorcycle helmet that is designed properly will stay on your head in the event of an accident to protect you from injuries. A good fit is important as you should not be able to pull the helmet off when it is securely strapped.
 Wrap a tape measure around the largest circumference of your head, the location of which is generally in the region above your eyebrows. Depending on the manufacturer and what country you reside in, available size choices may range in the area of small, medium, large or extra large.
 Consider standards for protection against impact, penetration, retention and peripheral vision when you shop for a motorcycle helmet.


Try on several helmets so that you find one that provides a good, secure fit and provides ample viewing through the face shield. When wearing a motorcycle helmet, you should have a minimum visibility of 105 degrees to each side so that you have clear vision on your right side as well as your left side in addition to the center front area while riding.
Look for safety standard stickers on the motorcycle helmets that tell you that they have met safety requirements set forth by a recognized organization or agency. Choose quality safety features even if it entails paying a little more for your purchase. Your safety and life do not have a price tag.

