 Someone can use their eyes to communicate a lot of things. If someone's making eyes at you, it means he's interested in you in some way. If you see a longer pattern of eye contact, there's a chance he fancies you.


You might try catching him looking at you.It's natural for someone to look in the direction of his crush, especially when he thinks no one is watching. In you're in the same room and you're not talking yet, look over occasionally to see if he's making eyes at you. If he's shy, he'll probably avert his gaze. If he's confident, he'll usually try to hold eye contact with you.;
, Like eye contact, smiling can say a ton without someone needing to speak a word. Where eye contact usually just means interest, a smile is usually given to show warmth and affection. Keep an eye out if he smiles at you when the two of you are around each other.


If you want to test it, try making eye contact with him. If he smiles back at you, it's a good sign he's interested.
Some people are very shy and will feel too embarrassed to smile at someone, especially if it's someone they're attracted to.
 Light touching is often a clear form of flirting. This includes a light touch of the arm or waist, or even an extended hug. While friends may already touch often, there's an added coyness when the touching is meant as flirting.


Better still, you can try to touch your crush lightly and see how he reacts. If he seems to like it or feel embarrassed, it's a potential sign he's into you.
 Whether they mean to or not, people will shift their body language to show how they feel. If you run into your crush suddenly, try to see if he changes anything quickly about his body language. This might show that he's specifically interested in you.


Men and women use different types of body language to show attraction. In the case of men, they often try to make themselves look as big and confident as possible. This includes pumping out the chest and putting one's hands on his waist.Women show attraction in more sensual ways. Smiling, hair twirling and coyness might suddenly start up if you end up running into your crush.
 Whether you go to work or school together, or have met in a more casual setting, someone who is attracted to you will often make very obvious attempts to be around you, even if he thinks he's being sneaky about it.

