 If home remedies and lifestyle changes don’t relieve your itching, see your doctor or dermatologist. Medical professionals can diagnose why your itching won’t go away. They can then formulate the best treatment for your psoriasis itching.Let your doctor know what measures you’ve taken to soothe your itching as well as what helps and what exacerbates it. Make sure your doctor or dermatologist knows about any medications you’re taking as they may make itching worse.
 Doctors often prescribe corticosteroids for psoriasis to slow cell growth. But they can also relieve any itching you may have. You can get an itch relieving corticosteroid either as a pill or ointment. Ask your doctor which is a better option for you.Follow dosing and application instructions exactly. Long-term use or overuse of corticosteroids can cause thinning of the skin and make treatments less effective.
 In conjunction with other psoriasis itching treatments, you can also apply vitamin D analogues. These are synthetic forms of vitamin D that slow down skin cell growth. As a result, vitamin D analogues can also help minimize discomfort from itching.Apply vitamin D analogues as directed by your doctor because they can cause skin irritation.
 Your doctor may prescribe phototherapy (light therapy) to ease your psoriasis. Phototherapy may soothe itching, but can also cause itching and irritation. Speak with your doctor about the benefits and drawbacks of phototherapy to treat your psoriasis related itching.Your doctor may suggest any of the following light therapies to relieve your itching:Sunlight.
UVB phototherapy.
Narrow band UVB therapy.
Excimer laser.
 Your doctor may also prescribe a topical anesthetic such as Pramoxine for your psoriasis. These medications temporarily relieve any itching and pain you have by blocking nerves from sending pain signals to the skin. Topical anesthetics come as a gel or spray you apply to your skin.Apply topical anesthetics with clean hands. Make sure the affected area is also clean before patting it on your skin. Wash your hands following application.
Avoid getting any topical anesthetics in your eyes or nose. If you do, flush either with water and contact your doctor.
Stop using topical anesthetics if your itching gets worse or your symptoms last longer than seven days. In either of these cases, call your doctor.

