 Whatever your age, knowing why you want something, like a boyfriend, is a good place to start. You don’t want to jump into a relationship or say yes to dating a guy without thinking or just because you think it might be fun. Relationships take maturity and work so it’s best to first think about what you’re getting into.


There are good reasons and bad reasons for wanting a boyfriend.Companionship and a partner to share life with are good reasons for wanting to seriously date one specific person.
If you feel unhappy or incomplete, keep in mind that a person can’t fulfill that for you.
Boyfriends can be a temporary cure for boredom or loneliness, but expecting them to be perfect and always there for you is not realistic since they are imperfect, just like you.;
, If you want to one day settle down and marry someone special, then having a boyfriend is a good way to learn about being in a serious, committed relationship. But if you just want to have fun getting to know a bunch of guys, then being exclusive with a boy may not be the best idea.


Your ideas about dating will affect how you treat a boyfriend.
If you want to get married, you will expect more loyalty and long term plans out of a boyfriend than if you just wanted to date a lot of guys and weren’t worried about being too serious., Having a boyfriend is going to take up a lot of your time. In all honesty, you might be too busy with school, friends, sports, clubs and hobbies, or even trying to get a good night’s sleep to add another thing into your life.


Committing a few hours or days a week to spending time with a boyfriend is about the average time you'll need to set aside.Don’t neglect your friendships or family. Dating can take up a lot of your time and you don’t want to be the person who disappears while they’re in a relationship and then resurfaces only when a break-up happens.However, technology makes it easy to have a boyfriend and still have a life outside of the relationship. You can text, call, or video call if you don’t have time to spend together face to face.
 As an individual, you likely have plans for your life. For example, you may want a career, or you might want to be married and have kids. A boyfriend can either help you reach these goals or hinder you, you just need to decide how dating will affect your plans.Remember that you have time to figure things out. You’re never too old to start dating and you’re never too old to figure out what you want to do with your life.Don’t worry about not having enough time. There will be plenty of boys to date so you don’t need to feel desperate about being alone or the only one in your friend group without a boyfriend.
 Being pressured to date by a guy or even by your friends is not a good reason to have a boyfriend. You don’t want to compromise your own boundaries and comfort just because everyone else has a boyfriend. Your safety and emotional health is more important that having an unhealthy relationship.


Don’t let anyone guilt you into thinking you have to have a boyfriend.
A simple "No, thank you" or "I'm not interested in dating right now" can help deter anyone who wants to ask you out if you don't feel ready.
If you’re ever feeling pressured by a guy friend or a boyfriend, especially about sex, you have the right to step away from that relationship and say no.
 If there’s a boy who wants to date you, truthfully consider if you like him back or if you’re just flattered that he’s showing you attention. However, warm, fuzzy feelings can be the start to a relationship if you feel a connection. If that's the case, dating is an opportunity to learn more about another person one on one.You always have the option to group date to help take the pressure off the both of you. One on one time can be daunting and can also invite physical temptations, so you may want to start going on dates with a boy in a group with friends.
Be careful not to accept dates out of pity or start a relationship that way. It will end up hurting both you and the boy in the end.

