 In this method, you will be melting some old crayons into fun new shapes.
 Most crayons have wrappers that are easy to peel off. Some might even slide off on their own. If you are having troubles removing the wrappers, here are a few tips:









Run a craft knife down the length of a crayon, gently slicing the paper wrapper open. Be careful not to cut the actual crayon. You should be able to pull the wrapper off easily.
If the wrappers are difficult to remove, soak the entire crayon in a bowl of hot water for a few minutes. The water will help soften the paper, making it easier to remove.
 If you are using a lot of crayons, you can save time later by sorting them into similar colors. This means that you put the yellows with the yellows and the blues with the blues. You do not have to group specific colors together, such as putting all of the "cornflower" blues together and the "goldenrod" yellows together.
 You want the pieces to be about ½ inches (1.27 centimeters) long. This will help them melt quicker and reduce the number of lumps that might form.
 You can use an old cupcake or muffin tin, or you can use a silicone baking or ice cube mold. Silicone has a very high melting point, so it is safe to use in the oven.









If you are using a cupcake or muffin tin, consider lightly greasing the wells with cooking spray or shortening. This will prevent any sticking. You can also line the wells with cupcake liners instead.
If you are using a silicone mold, you do not need to line it or grease it. The mold is stick-resistant and flexible, so the melted crayons (once hardened) will easily "pop" out.
 If you plan on making fun-shaped crayons, then you will want to over-fill each well a little bit. This is because the crayons will spread out and fill in the gaps when they melt.









Consider matching colors to the shape. For example, if your mold has different shapes, such as stars and hearts, put the reds and pinks in the heart-shaped well, and the yellows and blues in the star-shaped well.
Consider mixing and matching some colors. Try putting reds, oranges, and yellows into one shape, blues and greens into another, and pinks and purples into a third.
 If you are using silicone mold, place it onto a baking sheet first.
 Once the crayons have completely melted, pull the tin out of the oven. You can now use the melted wax for your project, or you can let the wax cool and harden in the mold to make fun-shaped crayons.









If you are making fun-shaped crayons, you can speed up the cooling process by waiting until the wax hardens a bit, then sticking the molds into the freezer for 30 minutes., If you are making fun-shaped crayons, wait for the wax to harden completely. You can tell if the wax has set if the bottom of the mold or tin is cool to the touch. Once the wax has set, turn the mold upside down. If you are using cupcake or muffin tins, the crayons should pop right out. If they don't, you can lightly tap the tray against the counter. If you are using a silicone mold, gently grip the edges of the mold, and press down on the bulging shape, pushing the crayon out.








