 After your dog’s surgery, they will have to wear a protective cone or collar. In order to make your dog’s postoperative life easier, get them adjusted to wearing a cone by having them wear the cone a bit before surgery.


Ask your vet for a protective cone that you can put on your dog for a portion of time each day (you can decide the amount of time). That way, your dog won’t be frightened by the cone when it is placed on them after surgery.
 Like wearing the cone, confining your dog to a small space where they can heal is a necessary part of the post-op process. After the surgery, they will have to rest so that they do not injure themselves further. Introduce your dog to their crate before the surgery so that they are not confused or scared by it after the surgery has occurred.


To get your dog used to the crate, try placing their food bowl in the crate. You can also put a treat in there to increase their desire to go in. When your dog is used to going into the crate for food, try closing the door for a short period of time.
 Because the surgery will require your dog to be put under anesthesia, you should set up an appointment to have your dog physically checked out. Doing this will help to make sure that your dog is physically fit for the surgery. The check-up should include a blood examination, blood pressure monitoring, and an evaluation of your dog’s clinical history.If your dog is diabetic, it is especially important to have blood work done before the operation. You should also consider having a urinalysis done.
 Some veterinarians recommend a preoperative treatment that involves anti-inflammatory eye drops. These drops may be given to your dog two weeks before the surgery, and may increase in frequency in the days before your dog’s operation. Your dog will also need to fast for at least 12 hours prior to surgery.


If your dog is diabetic, you should feed your dog their normal amount of food and insulin doses on the morning of the surgery. Talk to your vet about the steps you should take for your specific dog.

