 Especially on the harder difficulties, melee weapons will only get you killed. Instead, stay back and pick off enemies from afar. Use your shoves to keep some distance, and, whenever you're in the open, use a pistol or rifle to thin the herd before they get too close.
 Left 4 Dead is a constantly shifting game, and Infected will appear in unexpected places. Zombies spawn at various points, and they are on a timer. Special Infected like Hunters and Smokers can appear anywhere but usually, come with a horde of Infected to cause maximum damage. There are, however, ways to predict when enemies are coming:


Pay attention to the music -- it will start to swell and get tense as enemies build up out of sight.
Turn on subtitles. You can often read things like, "coughing sounds" or "noises of the horde" in advance, making it easier to predict incoming groups or specials.
Know the three stages of an attack. Build-up, as the music swells. Peak, when the big group descends on you, and Rest, after you've defeated them and have 1-2 minutes to relax., When in crescendo events, or if you just need to catch your breath, choose spots with limited entryways (like rooms with only 1-2 doors or windows) or high areas where you force the enemy to bottleneck. Bullets pierce enemies and hit the Infected behind them, meaning you can mow down large groups quickly and conserve ammunition. Shooting down stairs, ladders, and in doorways can make big crowds much, much easier to handle.


Still, keep moving when possible. Holing up for too long drains supplies and can leave you open to attacks by Boomers and Spitters.
 Ammo is your lifeblood, so don't go draining it. When enemies are at a distance or are easy to deal with, switch to a pistol or melee weapon. Running out of shotgun shells during an intense moment can cost you your life.
 Medkits are valuable and should be used as such. After your first knockdown, your vision becomes monochromatic (loses color), and you move slower. This is the time to use a Medkit. Otherwise, stick to pain pills and adrenaline whenever possible.


If you're approaching a crescendo event and have less than 40 health, now is the time to use your Medkit., Crouching increases aim and is essential if firing at incoming enemies. Whenever you can, crouch and fire, then get up and move as you go. In muddy areas, like "The Parish," you actually move just as fast crouching as standing, so the benefit in accuracy has no trade-off. In the mud and swamps, crouch the entire time., In Versus mode, four players get the chance to play as Smokers, Boomers, Hunters, and more while fighting against four other human players. Playing as Infected is practically its own game, but the best advice is to think about all the ways you've died as a human. What sorts of attacks stranded you from teammates, caught you off-guard, or otherwise dealt more damage than you could handle?


For the best results, use your teammates to coordinate attacks together. A Boomer can vomit, bringing in zombies that allow a good Spitter to trap pressured players in a corner, for example.
Use surprise to your advantage. Let them run to you and hit them when they're distracted.

