 You should know which account is tied to your debit card. In most cases, it will be a designated checking account, although you might have it connected to a savings account. If you do not know, you should call your bank’s customer service number and find out. You should review the monthly statements that you receive for that account and make sure that you can validate all the charges on it.Your bank’s customer service telephone number is probably printed directly on your debit card.
Check your statement not only for fraudulent activity but also simple errors. It is possible for a restaurant bill to be misread, perhaps, or for a utility company to enter a payment twice by mistake.
When you review your monthly statement, be aware that some items charged to your debit account may not be double charges but just temporary holds. Your bank may temporarily hold funds from your account to be sure that money is available to pay certain purchases that remain pending. If you have questions about any of these items, you should contact your bank for an explanation.
 You are more likely to get help from your bank if you notify them in a timely manner of any problems. You should make a practice of reviewing your monthly statement as soon as you receive it. Highlight any incorrect entries and contact your bank directly. Your first contact should generally be to the customer service number printed on your card or on your monthly statement.You must report any irregularities to the bank within 60 days after the date on the monthly statement. If you fail to meet this deadline, you lose the right to challenge any of the charges.
If you lose your debit card, you must report the loss within two days. If you fail to report the loss that quickly, you may not be protected against up to $500 of fraudulent activity on your card., When speaking with a bank representative about double charges on your debit card, be prepared to answer several questions. You will likely be asked for the date of the transaction that you are challenging, and the reason. Explain your reason for disputing the charge(s) and provide any possible explanation that you might know of to explain how the error might have occurred.


When you call the bank, you should have your debit card and your monthly statement available at hand.
Take notes of your conversation with the bank representative. Get the person’s full name, a call-back telephone number, and a confirmation number or some other record to identify your phone call.
 Find out what the bank intends to do to investigate your problem. Ask how long it will take for the bank to decide whether to honor your account by returning the overcharged amount. Find out specifically if someone will contact you--and when--to notify you of the outcome of the investigation.
 After contacting the bank about your problem, you should follow up with a written letter. In the letter, provide the details of your concern, along with information about your telephone conversation with the bank representative. The letter will serve as a record that you notified the bank of the problem.Your letter might say something like, “Dear Sir or Madam, This letter follows my telephone call today to Mr. John Smith, one of your customer service agents. I called to report that my debit card, account #123456, was overcharged on January 10, 2017, in the amount of $225. I believe that an entry at a retail store I visited was posted twice. Mr. Smith said someone would investigate and contact me within ten days. I look forward to hearing the results of your investigation. Thank you.”

, The Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) is an independent bureau of the U.S. Department of the Treasury. The OCC oversees and supervises all banking operations in the U.S.When you send your letter to your bank, disputing a charge on your debit card, you should send a copy of that letter to the OCC at Customer Assistance Group, 1301 McKinney Street, Suite 3710, Houston, TX 77010.You can also reach a representative at the OCC by telephone at (800) 613-6743 during regular business hours.
 After the bank investigates agrees with your concern, they should be able to deposit the wrongly-charged amount into your account very soon. Ask the representative how quickly you can expect this correction. Then watch your next monthly statement and see that it appears.


If you do not see the correction on your next monthly statement, you should call the bank back again and start the process over, until you get the correction you expect.

