 As you age it is important to keep up with good dental hygiene. The core part of good dental hygiene is brushing your teeth twice a day. This removes food particles and bacteria that causes tooth decay.Your tooth sensitivity may increase as you age. This can be minimized by using a soft toothbrush and desensitizing toothpaste., In addition to brushing your teeth, you need to clean between them. This can't be done effectively with a toothbrush. Instead, it is done with floss or a flossing device.If you don't floss, plaque, food, and bacteria can build up between your teeth.
Be careful when you are flossing below the gum line that you don't damage your gums, especially if you take medication that causes you to bleed more easily.
 It is important that you get enough fluoride as you age, as it can help protect your teeth from the wear and tear that comes with use. For older people, it is especially important in protecting the delicate teeth surface below the gum line, as the gums usually recede as one ages.You can get fluoride from fluoride toothpaste, a fluoride rinse, or from fluoridated water, which is common in many cities.
 If you have full or partial dentures it is important for you to clean them as well. Take them out every night, be sure to clean them thoroughly, soak them, and rinse them before putting them back in your mouth.When you get your dentures you should be instructed on how to clean them properly. This usually includes soaking them over night and brushing them with denture cleaner.
You should also clean the inside of your mouth after you take your dentures out. Be sure to brush your gums, tongue, and the roof of your mouth.
 Smoking can cause severe damage to your teeth over time. If you are a smoker you have a higher chance of getting gum disease, tooth decay, and tooth loss, in addition to other health problems.Talk to your doctor about smoking cessation programs that might be available to you. It is never too late to stop smoking.
 In order to keep your teeth healthy for a long time, it is important to treat them well. In addition to good dental hygiene, you should avoid biting or chewing hard food, such as ice. Chewing on hard foods can chip or break your teeth, creating damage that needs to be fixed by a dentist.


If you have chipped your teeth, go to the dentist right away. If you chip the enamel off of the teeth, they become more susceptible to cavities. Your dentist can help protect any areas that are chipped and repair them.
 Fizzy or acidic drinks, such as soda pop or juice, can erode the enamel off of your teeth.Also, drinking alcohol can damage your teeth as well. If you are concerned about the health of your teeth, you should avoid these items whenever possible.


If you really want to drink things that will damage your teeth, drink them through a straw. This will keep the beverage off of your front teeth, minimizing the damage.

