 Before you buy a computer for your parents, you should carefully consider their computing needs. Ask your parents what their specific needs are prior to shopping for a computer. Some users may run specialized software that can require additional memory and processing power. Most users need a computer for more general operations that include email, browsing the Internet, editing and storing photographs, listening to music, watching DVDs or streaming video, and playing games online.Try saying, “Dad, what will you want to use the computer for? Will you want it for typing, or do you need it to search for things online?”;
, Talk to your parents about how comfortable they are using a computer. Different adults have different comfort levels and experience with computers. This should be considered when choosing a computer. For example, parents who are new to computers might do better with a touchscreen model or a system that has intuitive navigation and applications. Experienced users, on the other hand, can handle more complicated setups and operating systems.Try asking, “Mom, what do you usually use the computer for?”
If asking doesn’t work, you can try observing them using a computer, either at home or in a store, to gauge their comfort level.
 If your parents have physical needs, such as needing to be in a comfortable chair while computing, then a standard desktop could be a good choice for them. Buying a desktop for your parents means you can help them set up a comfortable space that can be modified to meet any physical needs they might have. Comfort-related benefits of a desktop to consider include:Larger screen size
Easy use of ergonomic mouse and keyboard
Comfortable setup in a designated space

, Where your parents plan on accessing their computer is an important factor to consider when purchasing a computer. For example, if your mother wants to be able to take her computer to a local coffee shop several days a week, then a desktop wouldn’t be a good choice. If your father plans on accessing the Internet in multiple rooms around the house, then a laptop with wireless capabilities would be a good fit for him.