 Throughout the day your mind might go on autopilot as you mindlessly rush around without much conscious thought about what you are doing. Our brains are constantly flooded with both visual and mental clutter as we endure the frenzied and chaotic world around us. Mindfulness exercises enable us to become more fully immersed in the present moment, and break the chain of stress and worry. As with many other meditation techniques, breathing exercises that concentrate on inhaling, exhaling, and the air moving throughout your body is important for bringing awareness to your center and ultimately back to your surroundings. This exercise brings mindfulness to the moment-by-moment awareness of thoughts, sensations, feelings, and a sense of the environment around you.
Eating is another way to achieve mindfulness. An example would be eating a raisin or other dried fruit that you can hold, feel its texture, see its color, smell, and taste it. As you eat the raisin, follow the same procedure as you swallow it. By eating the raisin, you have experienced the wide-range of senses in a mindful manner, taking note of how meaningful the exercise is.
Mindfulness can be achieved by carrying out everyday chores and activities. Similar to the raisin exercise, engage with every process of the exercise instead of mindlessly completing it like you usually do.
Try to only complete one mindful activity per day for about ten minutes. At the end of the week, write down your reactions to each experience and explain what it was like to engage in these activities in a more mindful manner. Most important, try to evaluate the difference between performing the activity mindlessly and mindfully.
Remember that mindfulness is about acceptance and non-judgment – the way they are – rather than trying to change or control the activity. Mindfulness is an exercise that requires practice and participation to fully benefit from it.
 Stillness is a high state of energy that provides undivided attention to experiencing the truth about yourself. Stillness is an absence of negative energy that is unopposed, dynamic, harmonious, and provides a new sense of aliveness. Achieving the highest levels of stillness will bring peace and spontaneously transform the way you think about yourself and how you view the world. Understanding yourself by being with yourself is the lowest level of stillness. First, pay attention to your body’s sensations as you practice being quiet both physically and mentally. This is accomplished by being wide awake and consciously relaxing your body in your current environment.
Let go of all your contradictory self-evaluations by reaching deep inside yourself to experience yourself and find your true identity. After you resolve your internal conflict and turmoil, you will experience peace.
Once you achieve this stage, you can move onto living your daily life with confidence of your new found certainty. This means staying in touch with the truth about yourself at all times throughout the day and letting go of judgments, evaluations, and false opinions about yourself.
Stay centered on your inner peace to keep your perspective grounded. This will help validate your new identity to yourself and to others.
 Yoga helps you uncover and discover your true nature so that you can live with your new awareness. Experiencing your true nature – thoughts, feelings, and emotions – through yoga will enable you to move into stillness. These behaviors, in turn, determine how you think, what you do, and how you interact with the environment. In short, it could factor in your quality of life. Although many yoga poses will help you achieve both peace and stillness, the corpse pose, or Savasana, is an easy pose to begin with. This pose is lying on your back, arms and legs spread at 45 degrees, with deep breathes. This position is meant for total relaxation and releasing tension.
Stay in the present, keep your eyes shut, and be aware of your surroundings.
Relax your facial muscles and breathe deeply and slowly through your nose.
Starting at the top of the head and working your way down to the feet, bring your attention to each part of your body, consciously relaxing it before proceeding on to the next.
Perform this for three to five minutes and avoid falling asleep.
 Counting backwards is a breathing exercise meant to calm your body, bring stillness, and achieve peace during a busy day. Simply find a quiet space and count backwards from fifty to zero while synchronizing the numbers with your breathing. Even numbers are for exhaling and odd numbers are for inhaling. This also helps with counting in case you lose track. Try counting only on exhales.
Make sure your back is straight and your eyes are closed. You can sit on a chair or on the floor, whichever is more comfortable.
When you reach zero, stop counting but be aware of the natural state of your breathing.
Breathe normally as the goal is to stay in control by breathing freely without deep breathes.
By counting backwards, you remain centered and develop concentration, but you also become aware of your thoughts and surroundings as your mind becomes active during the process.
 Typically, motionless sitting is the easiest way to achieve stillness, but this does not necessarily mean you have to be physically motionless. Instead, you should become more familiar with the energy of stillness through the practice of motionless sitting. Spend only a few seconds doing this exercise, but try to do it often throughout the day.
Motionless sitting can be performed at your desk at work, driving in the car, in the midst of conversation, or even during a meal. The goal is to feel peace and happiness, therefore, try coming back to center many times throughout the day.

