 They are bluish-green, 1/5" to 4/5" long, with short leaf stalks. They are ovate in shape.
 Stems are numerous, wiry, slender, and highly branched. They form mats of biomass up to 8" high. They have swollen nodes and membranous sheaths.
 Taproot system that can penetrate more than 18".
 The flowers are small and inconspicuous, ranging from white to green with the occasional pink tint. It has fruit that is three-sided, 1/8" long, dark brown, and matte (not shiny).
 Common knotweed ranges from 4" to 8" in height.
 These should be spade-like, up to 4" long and 2/3 as wide, and thick with a pointed tip. They are hairless on the underside but do have bumps on their veins; these are visible with a hand lens.
 These should be cane-like, hollow between each node, green to reddish-brown once matured and die after the growing season.
 They should have a rhizome structure, up to 65' long laterally, and are similar throughout the knotweed species.
 These should be from creamy to greenish white, small clusters of iridescent flowers that grow longer than the leaf. They branch from the leaf axil near base of the stem.
 These can grow anywhere from 4' 10" to 8' 2".
 Of the knotweed species, the leaves of the giant are the largest, growing up to 16" long and 2/3 as wide. They are deep and heart shaped with an abrupt point. On the underside of the leaf are diagnostic, multicellular hairs that are long, thin, wavy, and sparse. These fall off towards the end of September, and you might need a hand lens to see them.
 They will be smooth, hollow, light green, and sparingly branched.
 These will have a rhizome structure, up to 65' long laterally, and are similar throughout the knotweed species.
 These will be small, creamy-white to greenish-white, and shorter than the leaf. Three-sided shiny black fruit can also be found.
 Giant knotweed can grow anywhere from 9' 9" to 19' 8".
 These can be any mixture of those of the Japanese (spade-like) and those of the giant (heart-like). Look for heart-shaped leaves towards the base of the stem and spade-shaped towards the end of the branch. These leaves have triangle shaped hairs found on the underside of the leaf, mid-vein. They have thicker bases and can be seen best with a hand lens.


If you find both heart and spade shaped leaves the plant is probably Fallopia x bohemica. All other species will have one or the other, but not both.
 These will be hollow between nodes, reddish-brown, cane-like, and branched.
 These have a rhizome structure, up to 65' long laterally, and are similar throughout the knotweed species.
 These are creamy to greenish white and grow in small clusters the same length as the leaf.
 Bohemian knotweed can grow from 6' 6" to 16' 5".
 These leaves are the most unique of all the knotweed leaves. They are lance shaped, slender, long, leathery, and pointed with heart shaped bases. They grow to 8" long and less than 1/2" wide in an alternate arrangement. At each node are brown sheaths, also exclusive to the Himalayan knotweed.
 These are red at the base of each leaf, and green throughout. They zigzag upward and are solid (not hollow).
 These have a rhizome structure, grow up to 65' long laterally, and are similar throughout the knotweed species.
 These are different than the other species' flowers and are white to pink in color. They have loose, branched clusters that are fragrant. These flowers are found at the tips of branches. They also have a fruit which is smooth, three-sided, and typically has the old sepal still attached.
 Himalayan knotweed can be from 6' 6" to 9' 10".

