 Spend money on good locks. No lock is totally thief proof - but the more you spend, the better the lock will be. As a rough-guideline, look to spend 20% of the value of your bike on locks. There are many different types. The more kinds you use, the harder the bike will be to steal. These are the most popular.


D or U locks are rigid steel locks that separate into two pieces. Get a lock that physically lock both ends of the U to the cross-bar. If you are going to get a cable lock for the front wheel, get the smallest lock possible, and lock it through the rim of the rear wheel.
Cable locks can been be looped around the bike and around larger objects like trees. Go for a thick one with interwoven threads - which will take a thief longer to cut through. However, any cable lock can be cut through in seconds with a good set of bolt cutters. In high-theft areas, they are only good for securing the front wheel to the frame.
There are also specially hardened bike chains which are the best option if you have to use non-standard things like lampposts to lock your bike to. If you have quick release mechanisms on your seat or wheels, you can also buy locking nuts and bolts. These can be undone with a uniquely shaped key - so passing thieves can't steal them.;
, Always lock your bike - even if you are only leaving it for a minute. Leave it in as public a place as possible. Ideally lock it where you can see it - or where lots of other people can. Never leave it in an isolated place. If you're going shopping, leave it locked up outside the shop. If you're just having a break, lock it up nearby to where you're sitting down.
 Make sure it is secured to an immovable object like a cycle anchor or railings. Some things that look solid are not, so check. If you're locking it to a post, make sure the post is at least 4m high, so thieves can't lift it off the top.
 Whatever lock you use, make sure you lock the frame and the wheels to something immovable. Make sure your d-lock is tight, so the lock is not hanging loose and there's no space between the bike and the object it's locked to. This makes it difficult to lever the lock open. Make sure the key-hole is pointing down - so thieves can't fill it with a corrosive fluid, or with glue, which means you can't move it, but they can come back and steal it later and when you leave it, remember to remove accessories like the lights - or the seat if you haven't fitted locking nuts.
 If you are unlucky enough to have your bike stolen, this will help you get it back. In most countries, there are schemes run by the police or online with whom you can register the unique frame number of your bike. The police also recommend that you take a photo of your bike and record its details, like the model and colour, as well as the frame number. Most importantly, make sure to TAG your bike in multiple places indicating where the bike is registered. If stolen, the thief will likely strip off what tags he easily sees, the one TAG he misses will be his undoing.
, Even if they paint over your name, it will be rough, and your name will be visible.

