 Before you can get start getting organized, you need to know what you have. Go through all of it and check the lengths. Only save yarn longer than one yard long. , Although it can be difficult, throw away any yarn you won’t be using for an upcoming project. If you don’t love it or think you will use it in the future, get rid of it. Having less yarn makes it easier to organize and keep it neat.


Make a list of upcoming projects. This can help you have a better idea of how your yarn will be used. It also may help you avoid buying new yarn since you will know what you’ll be working on next.
 There are a number of websites for knitters and crocheters. Some, like Ravelry, have a feature that allows you to photograph your yarn stash and keep a record online. This may be helpful if you’re at the craft store and considering buying new yarn. , Make a separate space to keep any projects you have in progress. A tote bag works great for this purpose and makes your projects more mobile. This also prevents yarn you’re currently using from getting mixed in with your other supplies.


Limit the number of projects you’re working on. Try to keep your current projects to a reasonable number, such as four or five at one time. Spreading yourself too thin with knitting or crochet projects makes it easy for your yarn to end up in disarray.
 To get started organizing, take all your yarn out and separate each skein or ball. Untangle any messy bunches of yarn and roll any loose strands.
 If you have multiple balls or skeins from the same dye lot, store them together to make it easier to put them to use in a project. This is also a good organizational method if you don’t have a lot of yarns of different weights. Combine color coordination with other organizational methods.
 Organizing yarn by different weights can be effective. For example, you can divide your yarn by worsted, chunky, or sport yarn. It makes it easier to start new projects when you know exactly what weights of yarn you already have.
 Sort by different materials, such as wool, acrylic, or cotton. That way, when you start a new project you'll know exactly where to find the fabric you need.
 If you have projects you plan to work on soon, make sure the yarn for them is easily accessible.


Combine color coordination with other organizational methods. There's no need to stick to one method. You can organize similar weights by color as well.
 After deciding how you will sort the yarn, it’s time to select a storage space. If you have skeins of yarn in many different colors, you may want to use these as decoration and display the yarn somewhere it can be seen.
 You may also choose to keep your yarn stored away until you’re ready to use it. Some of the storage containers can either be used in the open or stashed away in a closet or craft room.
 There are a number of different storage containers to keep your yarn organized, depending on whether you want your yarn in the open or out of sight. Storage drawers or bins are some of the most popular choices because storage drawers and bins are cost-effective. They can be purchased at nearly any big box or home store. Buying clear storage containers allows you to display the yarn.


Buy drawer dividers. To keep yarn from getting jumbled up, purchase drawer dividers to further split your skeins and balls up.
 If you have a great deal of yarn and want to put it on display, a bookshelf is a great choice. The yarn is easily accessible. This may be a good solution if you have a dedicated craft room.
 For smaller amounts of yarn that you want to keep out of sight, a hanging shoe organizer is a perfect way to keep your skeins neat. Hang it on the back of a door. This method takes up very little space and prevents you from having to put yarn in plastic bags.
 This method helps you keep yarn out of the way as well as allowing it to be decorative. A peg board and hooks can be purchased at nearly any hardware store. You can hang it behind a door to keep it out of the way. You can arrange yarn balls by color to make the space decorative as well as functional. , After the organizational process, you’ll want to be sure your yarn stays neat in the future. Plastic bags ensure different yarn won't get jumbled up. Label your storage containers with the yarn type.
 Winding yarn transforms messy or loose skeins into tighter, easy-to-store balls. Yarn winders are available at craft stores or online and winding yarn takes relatively little time.
 Unless you have new projects in mind or a specific use for new yarn, don’t buy it. Yarn stashes can quickly grow out of control, and you may end up with more yarn than will be useful to you.

