 Some nail polish is advertised as already being capable of glowing in the dark. You can buy the nail polish in many drug, accessory, and department stores and online.


Apply a base coat of regular nail polish. You should choose a white or neutral base color. Shake and hold the glow-in-the-dark nail polish bottle to a light for 30 seconds. Then paint on the glowing nail polish.Apply the glow-in-the-dark nail polish like you would do any nail polish. Glow-in-the-dark nail polish often comes in multiple color sets, such as different neon colors.
Put a second and third polish coat on your nails. The color will look nice during the day, but your nails will glow brightly during the night or in the dark. You could also paint your toenails with the same polish.
You can apply different colors to the same nail to be even more creative. Glow-in-the-dark nail polish is not very expensive. You can get it for the same price as most regular nail polishes.;
, To activate the polish and make it glow more, expose your fingers (or toes) to the light.


Next, hold your fingers to the light to activate the polish. Any light should work, even with a regular light bulb.
The glow will last about 30 to 45 minutes in many nail polishes, but you can activate it over again by holding it up to a light again for just a few seconds.
Even a dim light, like a nightlight, should work, and it should only take a couple of seconds to activate the nail polish. You don’t need a special light. You can also use a flashlight app on your smart phone to quickly charge your nails up on-the-go!, You could also use an ultraviolet light if you had access to one. You can buy black lights or ultraviolet lights at some hardware stores, and they work even better, but they are not necessary to make it work.
Check the label on your polish to be sure. You can also buy black light bulbs at some hardware stores.
The process works the same way. Shake and hold the nail polish under the light, apply it, and then hold your polished fingers under the same light for a few seconds.

