 Pressure washers can be rented at a daily rate from most equipment rental stores and some hardware stores. They are available in a range of pressure capabilities, from about 1200 - 3000 psi, or pounds per square inch (8300 - 20,700 kPa). A low-pressure model is better suited to more delicate surfaces like aluminum siding, while high-pressure models are great for concrete and brick. Make sure to rent a model that has a detergent reservoir if you want to use detergent.;
, Pressure washers can cause damage to your home, as well as present a danger to yourself if used improperly. The owner's manual will contain important safety and operating information.
 When pressure washing a deck, for example, make sure to remove any plants or light fixtures that could be damaged by the heavy spray of water.
 Set the machine up according to the manual's instructions; this will usually involve running a garden hose from your spigot into the pressure washer. Fill the detergent reservoir with detergent if desired.
 Before using the pressure washer, make sure to wear safety glasses, ear plugs, and heavy work gloves.
 Pressure washers generally come with an assortment of spray tips that can be affixed onto the end of the spray wand; these spray tips adjust the angle (and thus the concentration) of the spray. For most jobs, it's best to begin by attaching the widest-angle spray tip (about 65 degrees), and using it to apply the detergent.
 With both hands on the spray wand, hold the wand at about a 45 degree angle to the surface you are cleaning. Keep the spray wand in motion at all times, working primarily with a gentle back-and-forth motion. For the best results, apply detergent with a wide-angle spray tip before proceeding to a higher pressure setting.
 Detach or close the detergent reservoir, and fit the spray wand with a stronger spray tip. For heavy-duty cleaning, a 15 degree tip works well, while a 30 or 45 degree tip works best for light-duty cleaning. Use the pressure washer to clean the surface as before, keeping the spray wand in constant motion.
 After washing the area to your satisfaction, turn the pressure washer off and disconnect it from your spigot. Allow the work area to dry in the air.
