 The biggest threats to spending your time wisely are consistent distractions. You will want to figure out what types activities or which individuals tend to end up wasting your time. Whether it is a friend who just doesn’t stop talking or a guilty pleasure that draws you away from work, you can find ways to avoid these time wasters.If you spend a large chunk of your time on something that produces no desirable outcomes for you, it is likely just a distraction in your life that should be avoided.
Working in an office setting, you are likely to see many of your co-workers as distractions. Be sure to avoid small talk or worthless chit chat when you are on the clock. However, keep in mind that your attitude in the office is as important to your career advancement as time management skills, so don't be rude.
 If you find you are spending a good amount of your time locked into long phone conversations, then you need to adjust your phone habits. Often times, you can achieve more in face to face meetings than you can on the phone- so cut out the long phone conversations.Many phone discussions, especially at the beginning or the end of the conversation, include superfluous and unnecessary conversations. People tend to lose focus and wander while on the phone, so be cognizant of that. Holding meetings in person provides more of an imperative to deal exclusively with work-related issues. This is because neither party is surrounded by distractions when a face-to-face meeting takes place.
 Many people use the internet as critical tool to accomplish the tasks they need to get done. However, just as many people are guilty of drifting over to useless news articles, sports highlights, and pictures of celebrities, kittens or puppies. Stay focused when you are on the internet. There are programs available that will block certain applications, websites and domains that can help reduce internet-related distractions.Avoid Facebook, Twitter, and other social networking sites when you are supposed to be focused on something else.
Googling various topics is also a dangerous time-waster. You may think you are just going to look up one quick thing and before you know it, you have been searching the vast depths of the internet for over 3 hours.
 You are probably familiar with the sign you hang on your hotel room door. This sign can be equally effective in an office or workplace as well. You can get a sign like this by taking it from the next hotel you stay at, or you can print your own and attach it to the door of your work space when needed. This will eliminate the small talk that distracts you from your work.If you work from home, it is critical to have a dedicated work space of your own. Don't work in the common areas of your house, as the T.V., phone, or video game machine can easily distract you away from your work., There are some distractions some people just can’t avoid. Sometimes it is your boss who wants to take time out of your day for a social chat or maybe an elderly family member that consistently needs help with simple tasks. Whatever these unavoidable distractions may be, if you plan for them in advance, they will not take critical time away from other projects and activities that need to get done.