 Locate the app on your iOS device. The app icon has an orange background carrying the SlideShark logo. Tap on it.


When doing a broadcast, it’s best that you hold your iOS device horizontally so that the presentation will properly appear in landscape.;
, All the presentation files you have on SlideShark will be displayed. You can see them with their thumbnail previews for easier identification. The title, upload date, and number of slides for each of the files are also indicated.
 Tap the satellite icon on the left panel toolbar. SlideShark will check your broadcast status, and a small window will appear beside it. Tap the “Broadcast” button from here. On the same window, you need to enter the details of your broadcast that will be included with your invite.


Type in the title of your broadcast in the Subject field.
Add a Security Code next. The security code can be composed of numbers and letters that your participants need to enter to join your broadcast. This will ensure only the authorized audience can join.
Enter the Meeting Info last. Include all other pertinent details about your broadcast, such as audio or dial-in information.
 When you’re done, tap the “Invite” button at the top right corner of the window. The details of your broadcast will be put in an email and your default email client in your device will be brought up. Enter the email addresses of all your invitees, then tap the “Send” button to send out your invitation. The email will contain the meeting or broadcast link and the security code needed to join., Tap the satellite icon on the left panel toolbar, and SlideShark will check your broadcast status. A small window will appear beside it. Tap the “Broadcast” button from here, then tap the “Start Broadcasting” button. You are now broadcasting live.
 Exit the window by tapping anywhere in the background. You will be brought back to your main directory. Tap the file you want to present. It will be loaded in full screen. All attendees will be able to see the slide contents as you bring them up on SlideShark.
 When you’re done, tap the satellite icon on the left panel toolbar. Your broadcast status will be displayed in a small window. You can see the attendees who joined your broadcast. Tap the “Stop Broadcasting” button on the middle of the window to end your broadcast. All your attendees will cease to see your slides.
 SlideShark will send you a Broadcast Meeting Report through email. You will be able to read the summary of your broadcast from here. Data such as duration, number of slides shared, and total number of attendees are included.