 Brightening up a photo with colors can help it pop. A bright blanket or pillow is perfect for adding more color to a shot. Let the cat lounge on the blanket, for instance, and then take a photo.Adding color is especially important if you're shooting in a shelter, as they can be pretty drab.;
, A colorful background is appealing, and a simple background makes the cat stand out. However, it shouldn't have too many details or designs. Keep the cat the focus of the picture.Use a bright wall or even a couch in someone's home.
Create a background on something like a piece of foam board. Draw the cat over with a treat or a toy.
 Having the cats on their own furniture can encourage playfulness and fun. If you have cat furniture available, encourage them to get on it so you can capture a good shot of the cat. Attractive human furniture could also be

, If you don't have a good place to take a photo, you can shoot the cat in the kennel. The key is to focus in on the cat's face, blurring out the rest of the background.Open the kennel with a partner, and shoot from the front of the kennel. Always get down on the cat's level.
It's best to get the cat to the front part of the kennel where the lighting is better. Plus, it's easier to hide the background through blurring if the cat is near the front., Few cats can resist a lure toy like a feather on a stick or string. Use one to capture the cat's attention, and then get it to play. A shot of the cat chasing the toy will help show a prospective owner the cat's personality., If you want the cat to look at the camera, a cat toy is a great way to get that done. Shake it behind your head, so that cat looks up at you and the camera. Just be prepared for the cat to make it's move; it will want that toy!Another way to get a cat's attention is to shake a set of keys because it is surprising to most cats. Most cats won't be able to resist the sound and the visual curiosity of the keys, so you'll get a few seconds to take a quick shot.A strange sound like a whistle or a tongue click may also do the trick., A treat is also a good way to get the cat to focus on you. Hold the treat out so the cat can smell it, then lift it up so the cat looks up. Give the cat the treat at the end., Certain apps are designed to draw the attention of a cat. For instance, some "translate" human speech to cat, and the meows attract the cat's attention. You could also try a video or app designed to capture a cat's attention by using movement on the screen., Most of the time, you'll only have a second or two to get the shot. You have to take your shots quickly, or the cat will have moved on. It can help to set your camera to take multiple shots in rapid succession (burst mode), so you're more likely to get the best shot. Also, have the shot set up before you try to get the cat's attention., It may take a little while to draw the cat out, and that's okay. Try a few different tactics, and if they don't work, it may be be best to try again later. The cat may just not be ready to engage with you yet., When you're taking photos of animals, an assistant is important. Your assistant can help engage the cat, as well as keep the cat contained so it doesn't get loose. It can be difficult to corral a cat. Having an assistant leaves you free to take the photo.Just offering the cat attention can help keep it in the cage as you take a picture.
 Dark cats are harder to photograph because their beautiful details don't come through in the photo. To help the situation, adjust the exposure on your camera to allow more light in.In addition, don't put them against a dark background, as these cats will tend to blend in.Increase the shutter speed for dark cats so they will be in focus. In a point-and-shoot, try putting it in sports mode.A fast shutter speed also works well for action shots., If possible, encourage the cat to come over to a window. You don't want direct sunlight, but some ambient light can help bring out the details in the cat. The light will highlight the cat's face and eyes., A flash without a diffuser will wash out the cat, leading to poor photos. In addition, it can distract the cat, making it skittish. Natural light is usually better for a softer, more personable photo.If you do need to use a flash, try a diffuser. You can also point a speedlight (unattached flash) up towards the ceiling, which will reflect back on the cat. The bonus of using a flash is it helps "set" the details, meaning it's less likely to blur., For this kind of photo, getting a direct shot of the cat's face is usually best.Try focusing just on the cat's eyes. You may need to turn off autofocusing to properly focus on the cat's eyes.Try to capture a unique expression or aspect of the cat's personality with the shot.If you are able to photograph the cat out of the kennel, you can try to capture more of the cat. However, get at least one good shot of the cat's face.
 If the cat has something unique about it, it's important to capture that aspect. For instance, if the cat is especially fluffy, capture that in the picture by making sure you get a shot that includes all that fluffy fur. Size can also be something you should try to capture, especially if the cat is particularly large or small. You can try adding a standard-sized item to the picture to help the viewer gauge the size of the cat, such as getting the cat to play with a tennis ball.


Get the cat's personality, too, if it is particularly playful or cuddly. An action shot will work well for a playful cat (get it pouncing on that toy!) and if it's particularly cuddly, you could try a shot of it curled up in someone's lap.
 Taking a picture on the macro setting or with a macro lens helps bring out the details in the cat's face. In addition, it blurs the background, so the focus really is on the cat and nothing else.A 50 millimeter lens works well for this purpose.Set your lens to the widest aperture to help blur the background., When editing, you can correct exposure problems (to a degree) by lightening or darkening the photos. Use a photo editing app to crop photos and adjust the brightness. Try to crop the photo so the cat is the main focus of the picture.