 Parents know their children best. Parents observations of their children are key to helping the specialists that come along later.


Begin your observation as early as you deem fit.

It is suggested that the observation begin in the single digit years, and continue through until the student has graduated out of the school system.


Keep a large notebook that is not fragile to record information.
Do not evaluate the information, but rather, try to be objective and just write down what you observe.
Include things such as tolerance to _______ (fill in blank) as well as intolerance to other things.
Record fine motor skills.

These include the use of the hands and fingers and the relative dexterity and endurance of using them.
Observe activities such as putting together a puzzle, playing with objects of different sizes, gripping tools such as pencils, forks and fine items such as a kite string.


Observe gross motor skills such as walking, using the full arm to accomplish tasks, using muscle groups together in a coordinated fashion and others.
;
,


Many complaints are actually "splinter skills" that may not seem like skills as they are not being applied in a helpful way.

Taking apart a computer may seem like an annoyance, but if it was done with tools or widgets the child adapted to be tools, this may be a splinter skill (part of a whole skill that may lead to a vocation) that could be quite useful if used in a different manner.



While in a grocery store, speak of the person doing the dairy isle. The person must lift up to one gallon of milk over and over, the person's hands will be cold, the person needs to identify dates and all the things that go into that persons job.
 When school based vocational transition begins, seek out the Vocational Expert on the Transition Team as soon as formal transition begins.


Share a synopsis of your observations with him or her.
Ensure that the Vocational Rehab person understands the importance of ongoing assessment, which is what you have been doing all along.

Begin with job seeking and job keeping skills education.
Continue with job expectations such as wearing a uniform, that there are exceptions to routines, that breaks are time restricted, and that there are certain interpersonal requirements that involve other employees, the supervisor and potentially customers.

Much of the language is routine and can be learned specifically for a certain job such as "the bread is in isle four" or repeating back to the supervisor the directions to ensure clarity and understanding.


Continue on to job exposure by physically being in the environment of potential jobs and seeing what the social and physical environments are like.



Job shadowing is often done with in multiple settings over the course of time.
,,


These may be time limited, for example, like a summer job or an afternoon job for one semester.
