 You know how all those famous people are famous because they have famous dads or famous brothers or they rubbed noses with someone once and made an unfortunate tape? Well, to break into the bounty hunting industry, you gotta have an "in" too. Find someone in the business that will take you on as their protégé. You gotta learn the ropes somehow!


This is especially true if your state doesn't require certification or licensure. You have to prove that you know what you're doing and you're capable of doing the job required of you. Finding a mentor and building your name is the best way to do that.
 No, it's not required to have a college degree to be a bounty hunter, but it's a good idea. You'll also have more respect from your bounty hunting peers if you do. Not to mention the back up plan when the cases are few and far between.


It's a good idea to major in psychology, sociology, or criminology if you're serious about this field.Putting yourself in the mind of your "skip" is imperative to finding them -- and you'll be more likely to get assigned skips in the first place! Between you and the guy with the GED, who are they going to send on the hunt?

, By gear, we mean...well, weapons and the like. You'll probably tote a gun (if you can be trusted), handcuffs, possibly pepper spray, and whatever else you'd like to have in your utility belt. Like a boy scout, it's best to be prepared.


You may have to wear clothing identifying you as a bounty hunter, depending on the state you're in. While some let you off with looking like Joe Schmo, others require you to be a little less inconspicuous.
 If you just got word of a skip that has fled to Seattle while you're on the East Coast, how are you going to get there? Your best bet is hopping on a flight and renting a car. Because of that, you'll need a small stash of money to get started.


For local cases, you'll just need a reliable car. For local cases and everything else, you'll need a bit of money to get started. You won't get paid until you successfully apprehend your criminal, so your initial expenses are out of your own pocket.
 These guys are your bread and butter. The more in with them you get, the better off you'll be. Get them on a friendly basis (Wednesday night poker tournament, perhaps?) and they'll keep your name in mind for the next "skip" that skips town.


Everyone's new to the bounty hunting game at one point or another. If you have to do a few gigs for free, so be it. Not only will you gain experience, but you'll show that you're capable, true to your word, and made of the right stuff.
 This is a profession that heavily relies on word of mouth. You won't exactly be handing out business cards at the local Chipotle that say, "John Smith -- Bounty Hunter Extraordinaire." Cool though as that may be. So get to know your bondsman's network. Name drop yourself. Ask and prove.


It's all about the networking. Who you know, not what you know, right? While you should be honing your skills at this time too, communication should be one of them!

, Contact a bail bond agency (bondsman) and offer your services. As a bounty hunter, you are self-employed and like any self-employed professional, you must advertise and market your services. You'll likely get a phone call at any time of day, asking you to leave at a moment's notice. Be ready!


If you get an assignment, get a copy of the "bail piece" (which indicates that the person is a fugitive) and, if it's required in your state, a certified copy of the bond so that if you find the fugitive, you can arrest him or her. You will also need a power of attorney, which gives you the authority to arrest the fugitive on behalf of the bail bondsman., Military, law enforcement, and/or self defense training will be critical in your ability to do your job as safely as possible. You'll be more confident in your skills and you can tell anyone who asks just what you're capable of.


Being as well-rounded as possible is in your best interest. If you're a Jedi mind-reader who excels in karate, great! But if you're a Jedi mind-reader who excels in karate, jiujitsu, parkour, and can pick locks, fantastic.
Because of the nature of your job, having law enforcement training is a very, very good. If you can find a class, you'd be best to take it! Your local college probably offers something, but your police department can easily point you in the right direction.
 Every fugitive is considered armed and dangerous, and in some states, you might not be able to carry firearms. There's also the chance that the fugitive may seek revenge after you turn them in, whether they are convicted or not. At the same time, consider that most violent criminals don't get out on bail, and most fugitives who are caught by bounty hunters don't put up much of a fight.