 Don't use Weebly, Webs, or any of those web-making sites. You need a blog! Wordpress is a great website to use.;
, Pick a cute background and a header. Add widgets, too! Be creative with your blog and don't be an Apple C-er!

, The essentials are an About Me/Massie, where you tell all about Massie, a Current State of The Union page, a Massie-quin page, to post all of Massie's adorable outfits, a Pretty Committee page, to post everyone in your PC. Be original and creative and add your own pages too, like a House page where you post pictures of your house, a Beauty/Fashion advice page, or a Profile page where you list TPC's profiles.
 Some bloggers like their Massie to be in London, like when she moved there in the last Clique book. Some bloggers moved their Massies back to Westchester. Others like their Massie's still 12-13, while many like theirs in high school. Be creative with it! Creativity is key.
 It can be an introduction post or a real post.
 This is very important because it will get you known. You can't have 1,000 views in a snap of your fingers, girls! Always comment NICE things on other's blogs, never gossip on a public blog, that's what AIM is for. Commenting also helps you make friends with other bloggers, and maybe they can give you shout-outs.
 (Claire is optional, since she arrived in TPC in the 3rd book, but she's recommended.) You can't just be a Massie with no PC, right? Hold auditions/applications for the other characters and just wait until someone applies. You can also apply on other character's blogs. Never, ever, apply to a blog that already has a Massie unless they say they're okay with having 2 or more PCs. That's just rude and will seem that you're trying to steal their PC away, also it'll make you seem like a desperate EW.
 Talk to them, e-mail them, AIM chat with them. They will become friends with you and can help you on suggestions for your blog or any problems with it. Never tell anyone huge secrets, if they get mad at you they WILL tell other people!

, Never copy though without permission and giving credit!

, A face-claim is when you use a person's pictures to describe what your character looks like. Elizabeth McLaughlin and Sarah Hyland are 2 good examples for face-claims for Massie.
 Don't just have your Pretty Committee and the guys in your posts! Add background characters like Layne and Nina Callas, and make your own characters up, you can even add a new girl to your Pretty Committee.
