 Both free and commercial video editing software exist. Professionals generally choose commercial software. Home video can be done with free software.;
,, AviDemux, Kino, "Open Movie Editor" and KDEnlive are fairly simple.
, This is however a rare issue.
, Consider fully-fledged distros such as Ubuntu Studio.



AviDemuxis a free video editor designed for simple cutting, filtering and encoding tasks. It is the only cross platform editor and available for Linux, BSD, Mac OS X and Microsoft Windows.

AviSynthis perhaps the most advanced choice for post-production. It is a frameserver and non-linear editor without a GUI that is controlled by a simple scripting language. Its communityhas developed a large number of high quality plugins and scripts for many different tasks. It is recommended to use FFMpegSource2as import filter for most formats and avs2yuvwith x264for encoding. You can use VirtualDubto preview your scripts. You'll need a recent WINE build (at least 1.2-ish) to run it properly.

Blenderfeatures a non-linear editor and powerful compositing system. Its user interface is somewhat difficult to learn but highly efficient and customizable. Supports a wide range of formats if compiled with ffmpeg support.

KDEnlivecaters for beginners and advanced users and needs KDE libraries, does not need to be run in a KDE session.

Kinouses many keyboard commands for fast navigating and editing inside the movie is the main KDE video editor.

LiVESis designed to be simple to use, yet powerful. It is small in size, yet it has many advanced features. It runs on *nix systems (Linux, BSD and OS X).

Open Movie Editoris designed to be a simple tool, that provides basic movie making capabilities. It aims to be powerful enough for the amateur movie artist, yet easy to use. Its currently only available for Linux and BSD.

Cinelerrais a fairly professional and strong-featured video editor, but its interface is somewhat difficult to learn.

Adobe Premiere- Solid software. There are many different versions, some run under WINEIt has a lot of good video transitions and many audio overlaying options. The only downside is there are limits to text animations. Rough Price- $799

