 InstaPic is an app available on the Windows App Store, which is run only by Windows 8 computers or higher. It is not compatible with any other operating systems- strictly Windows. If you have an older version of Windows or another operating system such as Mac or Linux, refer to the other methods below.
 The download is completely free and is compatible with Windows 8 and up. Click the Windows store icon (displayed to the right)





and in the search bar, type in "InstaPic". Click the InstaPic icon, which is a blue rectangle with three overlapping squares in the middle. Select the "Install" button, and wait until it has been successfully installed., Open the app using either the Start menu, search bar, or list of all apps. Select the blue button in the bottom right corner reading "Register for an account". You may then register using Facebook or email. Once that is done, open your account.

If you already have an Instagram account, select the white print directly below the registration one. Type in your login credentials and wait until your account opens. It should successfully display your feed, notifications, DMs, and profile.
 In the black bar at the top of the screen, there should be a white shutter button. If your computer has a webcam, it should turn on. You can either take a photo or select one from your library.

To select a photo from your library, click the small white landscape icon which should be located right next to the blue shutter button at the bottom of the screen. Browse through your photos and choose one to post.
 Once you have selected your picture, the photo will be overlapped by a grid. This grid is the maximum size your photo can be when posted. This grid can be stretched slightly if you'd like, but this will compress your photo, giving it a squeezed appearance. Once you have chosen what to crop out, click the white arrow on the upper right-hand corner of the screen to move on to the next page.

You may apply filters to give your photo a little flair. At the bottom of the screen will be multiple filters to choose from, each with a little preview of your photo. You can click one to try it out, but if you decide you don't think filters suits that photo, select the first box reading "Normal". This will return the photo to its original state.
You can edit your photo as well. There is an array of white icons above the filters for editing. The first one rotates your photo in any direction. The second one adjusts brightness, the third contrast, fourth temperature, and fifth saturation.
 Once you have finished editing, click the white arrow in the upper right-hand corner. A sidebar will pop up, titled "Share To". From here you can choose two options- to post the photo or send as a direct message. Simply select the tab of choice. You can caption the photo by typing in your caption in the box next to a small preview of your photo. Beneath the captions box, you have two options- Tag People and Add to Photo Map. You can tag people by searching their username and choosing where to tag them in the photo, and can add your location by searching for it and clicking on the desired place. Once you have done this, click the large blue "Share" button at the very bottom of the screen to post your photo.

When sending a direct message, you can send the photo to up to ten users. Use the search bar to find usernames or select users from your list of followers, directly below the search bar.

