 Calming your mind by engaging in relaxing activities can foster greater emotional well-being, and, in turn, positively impact your health. Develop an emotional coping toolbox of activities that you can turn to in times of emotional distress.


A quick and easy way to ease stress in the moment is through deep breathing. This exercise requires breathing in through your nose, before slowly exhaling the breath from your mouth.
Additional relaxation techniques may involve adopting a yoga practice, learning Tai Chi, engaging in aerobic or strength-training exercises, mindfulness meditation, or listening to guided imagery videos on YouTube.Coloring in a coloring book or on an app is a popular method to calm and recenter yourself.
 Take strides daily to support your physical health and counteract any potential consequences of your emotional state. A healthy body is more resilient to stress. What’s more, when you get into the habit of making healthy decisions, you are less likely to turn to unhealthy coping when you’re stressed.


Eat three to five balanced meals each day consisting of fruits, vegetables, lean protein, and whole grains. Drink plenty of water.
Get regular physical activity. Aim for at least 30 minutes of exercise on most days of the week. Try cycling, walking, swimming, or dancing in your living room.
Go to sleep at a consistent time. Wake and rise at the same times each day to put your body on a healthy sleep schedule. Strive for 7 to 9 hours of shut-eye each night., Journaling can be a wonderful way to release painful emotions. In addition to providing an outlet, you can also use your journal to build emotional awareness skills and problem-solve.Your journal gives you the freedom to say whatever you want no matter how outrageous. You can ask yourself questions and try to work out the answer. You can record your frustrations. You can even use it to try out new attitudes and behaviors.
For instance, you might journal about your day each day for a week. You notice that you mentioned having a headache for the last three days. You review your entries and recognize expressions of anger and frustration about work. This prompts you to ask for a position change or request a vacation to rest and relax.
 The people you surround yourself with can influence your health and well-being in good or bad ways. Choosing to be around people who lead relatively healthy lifestyles can be contagious. Plus, when you spend time with people who value and support you, you will feel more capable of managing life’s hardships.Take note of the people in your life who make you feel positive about yourself. Make an effort to spend more time with them. Reduce the time you spend with people who bring you down, or are negative influences (e.g. use drugs, lie, steal, or cheat, etc.).
 Developing emotional awareness and effective coping skills can be challenging to do on your own. If chronic emotional distress has been negatively affecting your life, seeing a professional may help.


Ask your family doctor for a referral to a local therapist. In therapy, you can learn emotional regulation skills to become more effective at identifying your emotions and devising adaptive ways to manage them.Chronic emotional distress can also signal a mental illness or an embedded learned pattern that can be hard to change.

