 Most of us enjoyed reading a specific book or series of books as children. Re-read your favorite to feel like a kid again.For a more authentic and affordable experience, check out a book from the public library instead of ordering it online or shopping in a store.
Re-create the times you stayed up late reading under the covers with a flashlight.
 While automobiles present a convenient way to get from point A to point B, they tend to make you feel more like a grown up. Instead, try riding a bike so you can remember how it felt to coast down a hill with the wind in your face.Don’t worry about heading to a specific destination. Most kids just enjoy riding for the fun of it.
 Research and rock out to a top 40 playlist from your youth.Dig out your old CDs, cassettes, 8-tracks, or vinyl to relive pleasure of music before the Internet. If you discarded all your old media, many Internet radio services already have playlists built around certain decades or years, so it shouldn’t be difficult to re-create the soundtrack of your childhood.
Most children don’t have the inhibitions that adults do, so sing and dance the way you used to.
 As an adult, you probably agonize over what you eat, but as a kid, you likely had a favorite treat or food that was less than healthy. You don’t have to make a regular habit out of this, but enjoying some of these treats might help you feel like a kid again:Popsicles or ice cream.
Pizza.
Candy.
A specific type of soda or fruit punch.
Cotton candy.
 Recapture that youthful feeling and relive your glory days by visiting some of your childhood haunts. Here are a few locations to help get you started:Fairs, the circus, or amusement parks.
Mini-golf courses.
Arcades.
Go-kart tracks.
Water parks.
Zoos.
Toy stores.
Skating rinks.
Playgrounds.
 Kids play with a sense of abandon and don’t worry about making a mess. Put on clothes you don’t mind getting dirty, and splash around in puddles or make some mud pies., The pride of accomplishment that comes from climbing a tree and the sense of exhilaration that you feel when sitting up high will take you back to a simpler time.Remember, you’re probably bigger now than you were the last time you attempted this, and make sure you reach for sturdy branches.
If you don’t care for heights, don’t despair. Try playing, reading, or enjoying a picnic below the tree.
 Choose what you want to wear without worrying about whether it matches perfectly or conveys the right message to your peers or colleagues.If you work in an environment with a strict dress code, it might be best to save this activity for your day off.
 If you are fortunate enough to live in an area with an ice-cream truck, take advantage of this opportunity usually reserved for kids. Ice-cream from the truck often tastes better than the kind you get at the store, and it can be hard to find some of these childhood treats anywhere else., Many people spend their childhoods swinging, sliding, and climbing a jungle gym at the playground. Visiting these places will remind you how it feels to play like a kid.If you’re feeling adventurous, try tackling the monkey bars.
Much of this equipment is designed to hold the weight of children. Test it out carefully before using, because nothing makes you feel more like an adult than filling out emergency-room paperwork.
 Although you might not consider yourself an artistic person, spending a little time engaged in creative activities will help you relax.


You don’t have to pick an elaborate craft or activity. Use modeling clay, a coloring book, or even paint by numbers for a simple but fun experience.
Art projects make great rainy day activity.
 Think about some of the games you enjoyed as a child, and recruit some friends or family members to join you. Here are a few ideas to get you started:Hopscotch.
Four square.
Tag or capture the flag.
Dodgeball.
Hide-and-seek.
Jumping rope.
Board games.
Team sports.
 When was the last time you just enjoyed being around your friends? Get your group together without a specific agenda, or enjoy some of the activities you used to love as kids.


Organize a slumber party.
Play video games.
Watch scary movies.
Play truth-or-dare.
Make a pact that you won't talk about work or adult responsibilities.

