 Plan on arriving at least 30 minutes before (plan in some extra travel time to get to the destination). If you don't already have your blanket sleeper on when you arrive at the doorstop, plan on arriving for an additional fifteen minutes before instead.;
, You shouldn't need much slumber-party materials when you arrive except for your blanket sleeper. However, you should have your blanket sleeper nearby, so you can change into it the moment you arrive, as long as a private bathroom is available to be used.


You shouldn't even need to pack anything but your blanket sleeper. Since sleepers are comfortable enough for both winter-wear and summer-wear, you'll just need the blanket sleeper and a change of clothes for the next morning.
 Don't feel embarrassed by wearing one; Be courageous when wearing your blanket sleeper around other people in public again.
 Hearing the voices and seeing your friends can help you become less frightened and boost your morale when you become upset or feel "awkward".
 Change into your adult disposable diaper before you ever leave home.
 If you have more than enough people that have to fit into a small area, you may need to form two circles. Sleep in a pattern that is most similar to that of people around an external campfire at night.


Make sure there is plenty of space between each person and their adjacent "friend", and that there is little chance of rolling into any other furniture that may be positioned nearby.
 What worse way a party can start off, than with someone who forgot to bring something that's almost always a requirement!

, You might find out that they acted just like you. You might very well be surprised at their reactions! Ask them to elaborate and tell you how they got started, and follow up and tell them how you got started wearing them too.
 Although some people can get overly excited and not loose much concentration, it's entirely plausible to do.
 As long as the parental figures are allowed to travel along and have an area where other planned activities will be taking place, the folks may be able to create their own sleepover/slumber party themselves, and be ready for your exit at the party that next morning.
, Get to sleep around the same time the party has been requested to be "over" and is officially "sleep time", and try to re-awaken without much arousing from other sources of sounds as possible. It's highly likely that someone will call out to awaken everyone else when the proper time to leave is burst upon you, but there may be sometimes when others can and will not decide to arouse you!

