 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (176 C). Spread a light layer of shortening or cooking spray onto a few baking sheets. Set them aside while you make the biscotti.You could also line the sheets with a silicone mat or parchment paper. These would make it easier to lift the logs to a cutting board later on.;
, Place 1/2 cup (115 g) of softened butter, 1/2 cup (100 g) of sugar, 1/2 cup (100 g) of firmly packed brown sugar and the gingerbread spices into a large mixing bowl. Beat the mixture on medium speed until it's light and fluffy. This should take a few minutes. For the gingerbread spices, you'll need to add:1 tablespoon of ground ginger
3/4 teaspoon of ground cinnamon
1/2 teaspoon of ground nutmeg
1/4 teaspoon of ground cloves

, Add 2 large eggs and beat the mixture until they're combined. Stir in 3 tablespoons of molasses until it's incorporated. Turn the mixer to low and stir in 2 1/2 cups (312 g) of of all-purpose flour and 2 teaspoons of baking powder. The biscotti dough should be well combined.For a sweeter biscotti, you can also stir in 1/2 cup (90 g) of mini semi-sweet chocolate or cinnamon chips.
 Divide the biscotti dough into two halves. Sprinkle a little flour onto your work surface and set one half on the surface. Dip your hands in warm water and use your hands to shape the dough into a 12-inch (30.5 cm) log. Set the log on the baking sheet and flatten the top of the log a little.Repeat this with the other half of the biscotti dough and set it at least 3 inches (7.5 cm) apart from the other log.
 Place the baking sheets into the preheated oven and bake the biscotti logs for 22 to 25 minutes. The logs should puff up, become golden brown, and may look slightly cracked. Avoid cooking them too long or they'll crumble as you slice the biscotti.Ensure that the logs aren't too close to each other on the baking sheet since they will expand as they bake.
 Wear oven mitts to take the baked logs of biscotti out of the oven. Set the baking sheets on a wire rack. Turn down the oven temperature to 325 degrees F (162 C) and transfer the logs to a cutting board.Don't forget to reduce the oven temperature or your biscotti may overcook during the second bake.
 Once they're cool enough to handle, carefully use a sharp serrated knife to cut the logs into 1/2-inch (1.3 cm) slices. If you'd like smaller, round slices, make the cuts evenly across the logs. If you'd like longer slices, cut the slices diagonally. Set the individual slices onto ungreased baking sheets.Consider filling a small clean spray bottle with water. Spritz the biscotti logs to make them easier to slice.
 Place the baking sheets back into the oven and cook the sliced biscotti for 9 minutes. Wear oven mitts and remove the baking sheets so you can turn the biscotti slices over. Return the sheets to the oven and finish baking the biscotti for another 5 to 7 minutes.The biscotti should be completely dry and crisp once they've finished cooking. Let them cool while you make the optional white chocolate drizzle.
 Chop 5 ounces (140 g) of white chocolate into rough chunks. Place the chunks in a microwave-safe bowl and microwave the chocolate at medium power for one minute. Carefully remove the hot bowl and stir the chocolate until it's smooth. You may need to microwave it in 10 second intervals until the chocolate melts.While you can use candy almond or white chocolate bark, these often contain additives that will make the white chocolate icing taste waxy. Choose a high-quality white chocolate that lists cocoa butter as one of its ingredients.
 Lay the biscotti on their sides and place them next to each other. Arrange them on a wire rack and set a baking sheet underneath so excess chocolate will drip down under the rack. Drizzle the melted white chocolate over the cooled biscotti and let the chocolate harden before you serve them. This should take about 15 minutes.You could also dip one side or end of the biscotti, if you'd like more white chocolate on the biscotti.
 Let the white chocolate set up before you serve the biscotti. They should sit for about 15 minutes before serving. Biscotti is traditionally served with espresso or a hot cup of coffee. You can dip the biscotti into the coffee so that it slightly softens the biscotti before you bite into it.Store the biscotti in an airtight container for up to one week. You don't need to refrigerate them.

