 A bouquet of fresh cut flowers brightens up a room while emitting a lovely fragrance. Purchase a small bouquet of flowers or cut some stems from your own garden. After arranging your flowers in a vase with some fresh water, place the stems in any room of your house or apartment. The fresh cut blooms and greens will overwhelm the space with a lovely scent.


Instead of throwing out the flowers, allow them to dry and use the petals to make potpourri., Homemade gel air fresheners are non-toxic and easy to create. Unlike candles, gel air fresheners don’t require heat. Until they dry out, these air fresheners will keep your room smelling fresh during the day and throughout the night.


Pour ¾ cup water or liquid potpourri and 1 tbsp salt into a sauce pan.
Heat the mixture over medium-high heat until the salt is dissolved.
Gradually add 2 packets of unflavored gelatin. Stir until the gelatin is completely dissolved.
Remove the pan from the burner. Stir in ¼ cup water or liquid potpourri.
Pour the mixture into heat proof containers, like a glass mason jar.
If you used water, add 20 drops of essential oils to each container.
Once cool, add a slotted lid to each container, Reed diffusers keep your room smelling fresh for months on end. The reeds are placed in a mixture of essential oils and carrier oil. The reeds absorb the essential oils and release the scent into the air. Since these inexpensive and natural air fresheners do not require heat or electricity, they will actively disperse scent whether you are home or away. Instead of purchasing a costly reed diffuser, you can easily and cheaply make your own.


Pour ¼ cup carrier oil into your glass container.
Add 20 to 25 drops of essential oils.
Place the diffuser sticks into the glass container.
After a few hours, remove the sticks, flip them upside down, and reinsert them into the container. Repeat several times. This will help the reeds absorb the essential oils faster.
Flip the sticks every 2 to 4 days.
Popular combinations of essential oils include: peppermint and wild orange; lavender, lemon, and rosemary; cinnamon and wild orange; lavender and eucalyptus; white fir and cypress; grapefruit, lemon, and lime; and bergamot and patchouli., Simmer pot air fresheners are an excellent way to infuse a delightful scent into every room of your home. The fragrance is produced by heating a mixture of herbs, spices, fruit, and water on a stovetop or in a crockpot. The scent lingers in your home for days. While you may mix together any combination of ingredients, here is a basic simmer pot recipe:


Slice the orange and lemon.
Combine all of your ingredients into a medium sauce pan or a small crock pot.
Fill the pan or crock pot halfway with water.
Turn the burner or crock pot on low. Let the mixture simmer all day.
Periodically check the water level and add more as needed.
During the holidays, add pine needles and cranberries to the simmer pot. During the spring and summer, use lemon, lavender, and fresh mint.