 The first step is simply to decide what Pokémon you wish to breed. This is simply up to you and what you want. It may be very beneficial for you to look up your Pokémon on a site like Bulbapedia or Serebii.net and keep the page open for reference as these will give you valuable information on the Pokémon for anything from the Pokémon's stats, to its abilities, to its movepool (including egg moves).;
, It is important to know about egg groups before you begin breeding, as these are what allow Pokémon to be breed. Pokémon will have one to two egg groups and can only breed with another Pokémon that shares their egg group.

It is important to note that one group of Pokémon – the Undiscovered egg group – cannot breed. This includes most legendary Pokémon and “Baby” Pokémon. In the case that a Pokémon is in this egg group, there is a chance that one of its evolutions will not be in this egg group and can breed with other Pokémon, as is the case with most baby Pokémon. However, if all of the Pokémon in the evolutionary family are in the Undiscovered egg group, or if the Pokémon has no evolutions, then the Pokémon is not possible to breed in any way. Pick a different Pokémon to breed if you find this happening to you.
To check the egg group of your Pokémon, you can use this List of Pokémon by Egg Group on Bulbapedia.
 Natures affect the stats of Pokémon, most natures will increase one stat while decreasing another, while some will not change any stats for the Pokémon. This is important to remember when considering how to specialize the Pokémon. Will it be an attacker? A defender? Natures are a big factor in determining how well the Pokémon can play that role. The above image shows how each nature affects stats. The boxes in yellow are the natures which have no affect on stats.

If you ever wish to check the nature of a Pokémon, open up the pause menu, go into the Pokémon tab, select the Pokémon you wish to look at and then hit Summary.






Here you can view the moves of your Pokémon, its stats, ability, type, name, level, and so on. If you press right twice from this screen, it will take you to another screen that will list the nature of the Pokémon at the top of the top screen.
 Most Pokémon have more than one ability that they can have. These are very important in battling, as they can seriously affect how the Pokémon is best trained. This is also very important for obtaining the Pokémon desired, as – if the Pokémon has two abilities and a hidden ability), how the bred Pokémon inherit abilities will become extremely important. The following is a basic summary:

Male with plain ability bred with Ditto / Male bred with Female with plain ability:

80% Chance of father’s ability (male with a ditto) or mother’s ability (male with female)
20% Chance of other plain ability
0% Chance of hidden ability


Male with hidden ability with Ditto / Male bred with Female with hidden ability:

20% Chance of plain ability 1
20% Chance of plain ability 2
60% Chance of hidden ability


Notice that when the male Pokémon is coupled with a female of the same species, the ability it has does not matter at all. This is important to note because if a male of the species has the desired ability to be bred, then it should be paired with a ditto or female with the same ability for the bred Pokémon to be more likely to inherit the desired ability. Also note that not all Pokémon have two plain abilities, and some don’t have hidden abilities.
If the Pokémon does not have a hidden ability, but has two plain abilities, refer to the first list, as this still holds true.
If the Pokémon has one hidden ability and one plain ability and possesses the plain ability it will pass down the plain ability 100% of the time. If it has the hidden ability, it will pass down the hidden ability 60% of the time and the plain ability 40% of the time.
If the Pokémon has just one ability, then that is simply what it will have.
If you want more information on the abilities your Pokémon can have, look on the webpage of the Pokémon (the one from Step 1). It should list the abilities of the Pokémon relatively close to the top of the page with a clickable link to a page that describes the ability.
 Some moves can only be learned by Pokémon through breeding, rather than by leveling up. In these cases, they must get the move(s) from their father, which must be a different Pokémon in the same egg group who currently knows the egg move(s) desired.,







To Get the Destiny Knot

Travel to the Sea Mauville (You will need the move Surf)
Enter the ship through the entrance
Look for the couple in the first door on the right of the left-hand hallway of the ship.
Battle with the couple.
Leave and wait for them to become battle ready again. You can check if they are ready using the Area Navigation feature on the bottom screen.
Head back to them and battle them again.
Repeat the previous two steps until they give you the Destiny Knot. (Note that this is entirely random and could take as little as 2 battles or more than 15 battles before they give the Destiny Knot)
Alternately, this item can be received as a random award for winning Master Rank Pokémon contests, or as a 1% chance from a Pokémon between level 51 and 100 with the ability Pickup after any battle.



To get the Everstone

(Important Note: Mach Bike is necessary for this)
Fly (or Travel) to the Granite Cave (bottom-left corner of the map)
Follow the path inside until you see a divide with a staircase leading down one way and a dirt slope going up the other.
Use the mach bike to travel up this slope and follow the path until you reach a ladder going down. Climb down.
Follow the path on this floor until you see the first dirt path heading up.
Use the mach bike to go up this path.
Head right, up another slope and follow that path until you reach a ladder heading down and take it.
Make your way to the left-hand side of this floor and walk up the stairs on this side.
Head up and to the right to reach the top of the center of the room, where there is a slightly raised platform with a rock in the center of it.
The Everstone is hidden inside. Simply walk up the stairs and press A on the rock.
Alternately, these can be obtained quite commonly from wild Roggenrola.
 It is strongly recommended as Flame Body and Magma armor are both wonderful abilities in the realm of breeding as they cut the time it takes to hatch an egg in half if you keep them in your party! Because breeding tends to be a very long process anyway, this is very helpful. The Bulbapedia page links below both give a description of the abilities and a list of the Pokémon who can have them.

Flame Body
Magma Armor

,





In order to get on the (relatively) fast track to obtaining a perfect Pokémon, one of the best things to do is hunt for the Pokémon using the DexNav, as this can lead to finding Pokémon with 3 perfect stats, the ability desired (including hidden abilities), specific gender, and even some egg moves more reliably than any other method of capture (some of these being impossible without chaining).

Note: A strong physical attacker Pokémon with False Swipe is highly recommended and another Pokémon with a move such as Hypnosis, Spore, or Sleep Powder may also be used to make catching when the time comes easier.
If you need a guide on this process, go to .
If you do not know where to find on the Pokémon, look on the webpage for the Pokémon (the one from Step 1), there will be a section called "Locations" or "Game Locations" depending on which website you went to. Under this, it will list where/how to obtain the Pokémon in each game. Look for Omega Ruby and/or Alpha Sapphire. It will list either a route number (or some other location), or some specific action such as "Evolve (Pre-evolution)" or "Trade."
In the case your Pokémon does not have an in-game location, do not lose hope. If you either already have one, can transfer it from another game, or are just willing to try trading, then you can use this and simply get several compatible partners that cover all IVs necessary.
 Keep finding and knocking out the Pokémon until one shows up with 3 IVs (and, if desired, keep going until it has the correct ability, gender etc.). Keep in mind that if egg moves are desired, then this Pokémon should be the female so that the bred Pokémon will inherit moves from the father otherwise unobtainable by the Pokémon. Also, if a hidden ability is desired, finding one with the correct ability is a must, as there is no other way of breeding this without a parent with the ability. Once one like this shows up, be sure to catch it. Maximize the chance of success by using False Swipe until it only has a sliver of health and then using move to put the Pokémon to sleep (if applicable and desired).

Note: Most of the time, a Pokémon will only use Physical Attack or Special Attack exclusively and not the other, making 5 perfect IVs suitable for most Pokémon. As such, generally a Pokémon with perfect IVs in Attack and Special Attack is much less desirable than having perfect IV’s in the stat it will be using for offense, and any other stat. (For instance, a physical attacker would want Attack and Defense over Attack and Special Attack).
 The next step is getting a compatible Pokémon or a Ditto to breed with. If egg moves are desired, find a male Pokémon which can pass a move it learns as an egg move to the Pokémon. If not, it is generally fastest to catch the opposite gender in the same species. If a male Pokémon was caught, then a female with the desired ability is recommended (if not, then a Ditto should be used). The second Pokémon should also have 3 IVs, preferably with 2 being in stats not matching the first (and also usually not in the opposite offensive stat).
 Now it’s time to begin the breeding process. In order to breed, access to a Pokémon Daycare is required. There are two in Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, however, the more ideal of them is located at the Battle Resort. This is because the Battle Resort is an island that can be looped around regularly, and the Stats Judge is located in the Pokémon Center on this island.
 If one of the parents has the desired nature for the bred Pokémon, give that parent the Everstone. This will ensure that that parent’s nature is passed down. Give the other the Destiny knot, which will cause the bred Pokémon to inherit 5 IVs from their parents instead of the usual 3. This gives the best chance of obtaining a Pokémon with 4 or more perfect IVs (Assuming the two parents each have 3 perfect IVs each with at least 4 stats covered between them). If neither parent has the nature desired, either search for a Pokémon with the correct nature that can be bred into the desired Pokémon, or give neither parent the Everstone and simply breed until the correct nature shows up. The Destiny Knot can be given to either parent in this situation.

To put the Pokémon in the DayCare, talk to the girl inside and tell her you want to leave your Pokémon there and then select the ones you want to put in the Day Care from the menu that pops up (this will happen one at a time).
As a tip, be sure to talk to the boy outside of the DayCare, he will say one of a few things:

"They really seem to like hanging out!" - This means that the Pokémon will have a 70% chance of having an egg every 256 steps you take.
"The two seem to get along all right." - This means that the Pokémon will have a 50% chance of having an egg fro every 256 steps you take.
"But they don’t seem to like each other very much..." - This means the Pokémon will have a 20% chance of having an egg every 256 steps you take.
"Seems they’d rather play with other Pokémon—not so much with each other." - This is the one you want to look out for, as it means the Pokémon you have put in the Day Care together are either not compatible or at least one cannot breed. To solve this, check that neither Pokémon is in the Undiscovered egg group, that not both are male, and that both Pokémon share an egg group.
 The longest part of breeding for perfect Pokémon is obtaining and hatching eggs. All of this is determined by number of steps taken. As stated in the previous step, there is a chance of obtaining an egg every 256 steps. A step in the game is really just a unit of distance traveled (barring flying), so the fastest way to cover this is to simply use the mach bike and ride in circles around the island.

To make the breeding process as fast as possible, when you place the Pokémon to breed in the DayCare, put all of your Pokémon into the PC other than your Pokémon with Flame Body/Magma Armor (if applicable). This will allow you to hold onto and make progress on hatching 5 eggs at the same time. You can also use the Hatching O-Power if you would like to speed things up further.
If you would like to know more about O-Powers, you can refer to O-Powers on Serebii.net.
 When you are passing the boy outside the DayCare, look to see if he is facing toward or away from the fence. Normally, he will face toward the fence, but when he faces away, it means that an egg has been found for you. Talk to him whenever you see this.

You can usually get five eggs in with you (the max you can hold) before the first one hatches.
 This will just take time. Keep making laps around the Battle Resort and this will eventually happen.
 The Stats Judge in the Pokémon Center at the Battle Resort is your way of telling what the IVs of your Pokémon are like. Here is how you determine the stats based on what the Stats Judge says:

"This Pokémon's potential is (see list below) overall."

"Decent" - Total IVs are between 0 and 90
"Above Average" - Total IVs are between 91 and 120
"Relatively Superior" - Total IVs are between 121 and 150
"Outstanding" - Total IVs are between 151 and 186


Next, he will continue to list the Pokémon's best stat
"Incidentally, I would say its greatest potential lies in its (best stat)"
He will continue on to list other stats equal to it if such a case exists, saying the following for each.

"But its Attack stat is good, too."
"Hmm. And its Defense stat is good, too."
"Although its Sp. Atk. is equally good."
"Its Sp. Def stat seems just as good, though."
"And well, its Speed stat is good, too."


(There is no added text for the HP stat because he goes through the stats sequentially HP, Atk, Def, Sp. Atk, Sp. Def, Spe).
Based on the Pokémon's individual highest IV, he will make one of the following statements:

IV between 0 and 15 - "It has rather decent stats, I'd say. That's how I judge it."
IV between 16 and 25 - "It's definitely got some good stats. That's how I judge it."
IV between 26 and 30 - "This Pokémon has some fantastic stats. That's how I judge it."
IV of 31 - "Stats like those... They simply can't be beat! That's how I judge it."


So, combining this with the last set of statements, if a Pokémon has perfect IVs in HP, Attack, Defense, and Speed, he would say this.

"Incidentally, I would say its greatest potential lies in its HP. But its Attack stat is good, too. Hmm. And its Defense stat is good, too. And well, its Speed stat is good, too. Stats like those... They simply can't be beat! That's how I judge it."


This is how you will tell which stats have perfect IVs for your newly hatched Pokémon.
Also be sure to check the Pokémon summaries yourself, so you can check for nature (if needed) and to make sure the Pokémon has the correct ability.
 Whenever a Pokémon is hatched with more IVs than its parent, it is likely that you will want to switch this Pokémon in for the old one. However, this is not always the case. Here are some examples to give you an idea of what to look for.

If neither parent had the desired nature, and the bred Pokémon has the nature and ability desired, as well as at least 3 IVs matching with one of the parents, then it would be best to replace that parent with the one bred from it. Be sure to give this Pokémon the Everstone before you take out the parent and put it in the DayCare.
If the Pokémon has more IVs than one of its parents, while sharing the three the parent has (as well as ability and desired nature), then it would be best to switch out these Pokémon. However, if they do not share three stats, then one stat would not be covered and thus it would not be better to switch them out. There is one exception to this and that is if the other parent covers the stat that child does not have as well.

ie. Father with Attack, Defense, Sp. Defense, mother with HP, Defense, Speed. If the Child were to have HP, Attack, Sp. Defense, Speed, it would be OK to switch then too because Defense is still covered by the opposite parent.


If the child does not have the ability desired, it is not usually recommended to switch out a parent for it, unless the parent it could switch out with is the father in a father/mother breeding scenario
Note: Keep in mind the genders of the parents and the gender of the child when swapping out. In the case Ditto is one of the parents, it doesn't matter at all, but in the case of having two parents, males can only replace the father and females can only replace the mother. Also, these few examples should give an approximate idea of when is good and when is bad to switch out breeding Pokémon, but they do not cover all intricacies. Just be careful when switching Pokémon out and think through everything logically.
If you do not switch out the Pokémon in the DayCare, then either place the newly hatched Pokémon in your PC, or release them through your PC so that your party is clear of all Pokémon other than your Flame Body/Magma Armor user. If you do plan to switch out Pokémon, it is still easiest to release or place in the PC the ones that will not be used prior to switching out the Pokémon (as you will need at least one free space in your party to withdraw the one you are replacing).
 This is where the long and tedious part of this process comes in. Because everything is determined by basic random chance, you could receive the Pokémon of your dreams within one egg (which is almost negligible chance) to hundreds of eggs. Ultimately this guide can only seek to maximize your chances and minimize the time it takes to get your Pokémon., Congratulations Trainer! Your hard work has paid off. Now you just have to EV train the Pokémon to have it realize its true potential (a whole other process that you can learn about though .