 Touching the ink before it’s dried might smudge or smear the signature. If you’re wearing the signed piece of clothing, it may be best to carefully remove it to allow the ink to dry. Set the clothing down where it won’t be disturbed until it’s dried. You can usually tell that it’s dried by looking at it in the light; if it doesn’t shine, it’s probably dry., Make sure the signature is pointing upwards, towards you. You don’t have to worry about all of the clothing fitting on the ironing board, you just need to have the signature on the ironing board.


Note that you won’t be able to do this with all fabrics. Leather, for instance, can’t be ironed. You should strongly consider storing such clothing to preserve signatures rather than wearing it., After letting the iron warm up, press it onto the signature. Don’t slide the iron as you usually would; this might smudge or smear the ink. Press the iron just for a few seconds, otherwise you might burn the garment.


Make sure there’s no steam coming from the iron. Water will prevent the ink from setting, and will actually help remove the signature., Don’t put your signed garment in with any other clothing. Use the hottest setting and leave the clothing in the dryer for about 30 minutes. After removing it, the ink should have completely set, make it more resistant if you choose to wash the clothing.Be aware that not all types of clothing can be put in the dryer. For these, you should strongly consider storing them rather than wearing them if you want to preserve the signatures.
 If you’re set on wearing autographed clothing that can’t be ironed, you should only wash it in cold water; hot water can cause the ink to fade if you haven’t helped it set., Since you can’t iron leather or put it in the dryer, you need to take this extra step to protect the ink. All you need is to add a bit of the product to a soft sponge, then swipe the sponge along the autograph. The clear coating will help to preserve the ink., If you’re dealing with, say, leather, suede or chiffon, you won’t be able to use the dryer after washing or to set the ink. Hang up any clothing made of these to dry after washing, making sure to keep them out of the sun. , If your signed clothing is exposed to direct sunlight, the ink and fabric are likely to fade with time. Keep it displayed away from windows, and turn off the lights when you leave the room.


You can buy display cases specifically for holding autographed clothing or jerseys. These typically control the amount of light that enters the case, protecting the clothing within., If your clothing doesn’t have a chance to breathe, the fabric isn’t likely to last very long. If you put up the clothing in a display case, make sure it’s not right up against the glass. If it’s up on a wall without a case, create proper airflow by opening doors and windows from time to time; don’t let the same musty air sit in the room.


If storing your signed clothes in a drawer, note that they won’t last as long without proper airflow. The signature might also rub off on other clothes stored in the same drawer., Too much moisture will cause the signature to shrink and smear. Choose where you display your autographed clothing carefully; avoid basements and garages as these tend to be more humid. An air-conditioned or otherwise temperature controlled room is best for keeping signatures vivid and viewable longer.