 Determine your desired outcomes from your triggers and what you'll need to do to accomplish them. If you can't pay a certain bill, call the creditor and work out a payment plan. If your trigger comes from being overwhelmed because you don't have time to cook dinner before attending the PTA meeting, then order take-out food., When we experience negative emotions, we can have the tendency to enforce it with negative responses. If you isolate yourself when you feel sad and lonely, you'll create more sadness and loneliness. To change the sad and lonely feelings, approach friends and safe social situations. Try to engage in activities that invoke opposite feelings., Not all triggers are negative. Pleasant experiences can trigger some happy memories. The smell of cookies baking can remind us of holidays at grandmas. Listening to an oldie-but-goodie love song can bring back memories of our first date.
 You can then act out those unpleasant feelings in a way that doesn't make things worse. In fact, they can be healthy for you. Some ways you can do this include:


Distracting yourself to help tolerate difficult feelings.
Engaging in activities/hobbies, like knitting, drawing, or going to the movies.
Contributing your time. Volunteer, help someone, or do something nice.
Creating opposite emotions. Do something that creates emotions other than the one you’re experiencing, like watching a funny movie or reading a funny book.
Pushing away and leaving the situation or blocking it in your mind.
Using thoughts to distract, such as reading, planning something nice, or counting to ten.
Using sensations, such as holding ice, getting a massage, or taking a hot shower.
Practicing self-soothing. Soothe each of the five senses with pleasant and comforting sensations., Find other ways to make your present distress tolerable. Practice with imagery, finding meaning, prayer, relaxation, and focusing entirely on one thing in the moment, or taking a brief vacation. Give yourself encouragement. You're stronger than you realize. After all, you're taking steps to change.

