 If you want to really seriously prank someone: wait until the owner of the doorbell closes the door to go back inside. Then, sneak back up to the door and ring the bell again – even more obnoxiously this time! Remember: each time you re-ring a doorbell, you run a greater risk of getting caught.


Don't take it too far. If you ding dong ditch one house more than two or three times, then the owners will begin to get frustrated. They might wait by the door to catch you – and they might even call the police!
Do not be malicious. At some point, you are just being cruel by endlessly tormenting the same person or family. Remember that you're disturbing everyone in the house, not just your friend.
 Once you're satisfied with your ding dong ditch on the first house, move to a different street and locate your next target. Pick another friend or another person you know. Bike, walk, or drive to the next location and repeat your procedure. Have fun, but don't be careless! If you let your guard down, then you might get caught.


Play until you've had your fun. Remember: the longer you stay out playing ding dong ditch, the more likely you are to get caught – especially if you are repeatedly hitting houses in the same neighborhood.
On one hand, it's easier to get from house to house if you stay within a single neighborhood or a few blocks. However, if you hop around and hit several different neighborhoods, you and your friends will be harder to track down.
 Remember that this game is all in good fun. Ding dong ditch can bring you and your friends together, but it also impacts the lives of the people whose doorbells you ring. Do not use this game to harass or target anyone. Have a good time, but don't get too carried away. If you take it too far, then you might damage friendships, get in trouble, get the police called on you, or worse., Depending on who catches you, you might choose to play it cool or to own up and apologize. Read the situation and know when to give yourself up.


If you're standing on someone's porch and they open the door before you can get away: just pretend that you are visiting them, or that you are coming to ask about something. Pretend that you are distributing fliers, or delivering a gift, or coming to borrow some sugar.
If you get caught in the act by your friend, your friend's parents, or a neighbor: play it cool if you can get away with it, but know when to own up to the prank. This is when you should apologize and say, "We were just trying to play a dumb prank. I'm sorry. It won't happen again."
If you get caught by the police, it's usually best to just be honest. You might be able to get away with a cover-up lie – but the officers have probably seen this before, and there's a chance that they'll see through your story. If you are sincere and show that you've learned something from the experience, then they'll usually let you go with just a warning.

