 Stalks should be straight and firm to the touch.


Asparagus should be a vivid green free from brown mottling. The tips should be tightly closed.






Choose stalks of uniform thickness for more control and consistency in the cooking process.





;
, Add a tablespoon of salt and return the pot to a boil.


Adding salt to boiling water not only adds some seasoning to the water, but it also increases the boiling point of the water. This in turn assists in cooking your food more efficiently.
 Fill 2/3 of a large bowl with cold water. Add in 6-10 ice cubes and allow the bath to sit.


Sometimes called "shocking the asparagus," this ice bath stops the asparagus from cooking and should take as long as the cooking process.
 Carefully drop the asparagus into the boiling water and cook it until the spears turn bright green. This usually takes between 2-4 minutes, depending on the size (or diameter) of the stalks.


Start counting the blanching time as soon as the water returns to a boil after adding in the asparagus.






For small stalks, cook for 2 minutes; medium stalks should cook for 3 minutes. Most large stalks will be done cooking at 4 minutes. All times are approximate., When your asparagus is bright green and crisp-tender, remove it from the boiling water using a slotted spoon or small mesh sieve. Place immediately into the ice water bath.
 Place your vegetables on a paper towel-lined baking sheet to remove all excess water.


If you are cooking these vegetables in advance, or plan on transporting them (picnic, potluck), refrigerate them in a paper towel-lined plastic bag.
 Blanching can be the primary cooking method or, alternatively, it can be used as the first step before adding the vegetables to a flavor-packed stir-fry or sauté.


Blanching is an important step in preparing vegetables for freezing. Scalding the vegetables stops enzymes actions that break the vegetable down contributing to a loss of flavor, crispness, and color.
Blanching before freezing also cleanses the surface of the vegetable from dirt and other foreign particles, slows the loss of vitamins, and makes the veggies softer and easier to pack.

