 Breathing in aromatic steam can help relieve nasal congestion by thinning mucus and it can also relieve sinus pressure and headache symptoms.You can do this at at home or in your workplace’s restroom if time permits.


Add a couple of teaspoons of ginger, one teaspoon of menthol ointment (over-the-counter), or several drops of eucalyptus oil.
Go to a sink with water warm enough to form steam and fill the sink with hot water. You’ll also need a towel, so have one handy.
Drape the towel over the back of your head so the ends drop around either side of your head.
Breathe in the steam for a few minutes.;
, Taking a warm shower before work can also help to relieve some of your congestion. This is another form of steam remedy. Make sure the bathroom door is closed so the steam from the shower builds.Shower as normal with very warm water.


This is only going to be practical at home.
 If you have a throbbing and congested head compounded by difficulty breathing through the nose then a compress is one way to go. Take a thick set of paper towels or clean linen cloth and soak it in warm water. Wrench or squeeze it out so it doesn’t drip everywhere. Allow it to rest on your forehead. Don’t let the water get so hot it burns you.This can be done at home and work.
 You can try this for a throat remedy. Honey is a good soothing substance for a sore throat and cough. Mix in a teaspoon with some hot tea for a beverage.This can be done at home or work. You may want to prepare the mix at home and put the drink in an insulated thermos to take to work.
 This is one environmental solution. If you want to use this at work you will need to be in a relatively small area or it won’t be too effective. And you will need permission most likely. Clean the machine with a solution of bleach every few days to stop the growth of mold or bacteria.The humidifier moistens the air, which can ease congestion in the head and chest.
 This is one oral method you can try. Mixing in a teaspoon of salt with warm water to gargle with can be a quick way to relieve a sore throat at work.You want to do this in the bathroom of your work place.
 Remove the cap. Insert the nozzle into one of your clogged nasal passages. Squeeze in one or two drops while simultaneously clamping shut the other nostril. Inhale deeply. Release the clamped nostril. Follow the instructions on the label to be more precise.Saline or salt water sprays are simple over-the-counter nasal rinses that can thin mucus, relieve postnasal drip, and moisten dry nasal passages. These sprays also have some benefits for removing viruses and bacteria from the nose. They are not medicated so are usually very safe for adults and even kids.
 Open the cap. Insert the tip into one nostril and squirt in one or two pumps. Do the same for the other nostril. You may need to follow other instructions according to your doctor, pharmacist, and/or the label.These are medicated and relieve swollen or stuffy noses. Generally these are safe for most conditions including the flu, but if you’re using this for more than three days you need to stop and see a doctor. Using for more than three days can result in medication induced rebound congestion.
These come in pill form too. However, either the pill or spray decongestants can increase blood pressure and heart rate. Two common forms of the oral variety are pseudoephedrine and phenylephrine—both over-the-counter. If you are going to be working then your blood pressure and heart rate may fluctuate more from the daily stress. Ask your doctor or pharmacist if you are unsure about safety issues.
 There are several types of over-the-counter cough syrups that fight the cough by different means in the case of the flu. You’ll want to have one of these with you while at work if you have a coughing fit. You can try a suppressant or an expectorant (such as guaifenesin) to force up mucus.Cough drops and throat lozenges are a great way to treat a cough and/or sore throat at home and at work. Keep some sugar-free cough drops or throat lozenges on hand all day. Less practical for work and more for home treatment of coughs would be topical treatments like menthol rubs for your chest.
 Nasal strips can help to open your nasal passages and make breathing easier. One of these can fit on the lower third of your nose. A plastic strip under a bandage like strip springs out to gently pull open your nose and this eases your breathing. You can easily wear this at work all day., Colds and flus can be painful, so taking an over-the-counter pain reliever may help. Make sure that you follow the dosage instructions on the package. Ingest the pills with plenty of water. Place extra pills in a pill box or keep the bottle in a handy place such as a purse, bag, or desk drawer.Acetaminophen (Tylenol) or other analgesics like ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin), and naproxen (Aleve) are available over-the-counter for pain relief. These medicines also reduce fever.
Make sure that you check the ingredients on any cold or flu medicine you are taking. Many of these medicines already contain a pain reliever and it is important to avoid doubling up on these. This can cause severe problems, such as kidney damage.
 If your illness is viral, then taking an antiviral medication may help. Talk to your doctor about getting these medicines prescribed. Have the medicine administered within 48 hours of the onset of your illness.Usually these medicines such as oseltamivir (Tamiflu), peramivir (Rapivab), or zanamivir (Relenza) are best if taken within 48 hours of onset of the flu, but can still work if taken later. However, these drugs can have more pronounced side effects. Consult with your doctor about these drugs or if you need medicine for another illness.

