 There are many rock climbing gyms in your area and around the world.Look for a gym with top roping, which is when the rope is already set for you. If there are many gyms, look at reviews. Consider the facilities as a whole, what materials they offer, their general location, their operating hours, and their size. Also, make sure there are a staff members available to belay you. Otherwise, you might be bouldering or on auto-belays all day.;
, You won't know what you like or if a rock climbing gym is a good fit, unless you visit several facilities. A different gym could be better, more beginner-friendly, or a nicer place to spend your time.
 If you like the gym, consider getting a membership. If you get a membership and go frequently, you’ll save money in the long run. Sometimes, memberships have other rewards too. They might offer exclusive climbing opportunities, access to additional gear, or the use of private facilities.
 Although at the start, you can climb alone on auto-belays or with a staff member, a partner will soon become important.


Make sure your partner knows what they are doing.Whether it is simply supporting you or belaying you down the side of the rock face, you want someone you can trust. If you don’t trust them, you will be more likely to panic if you get stuck at a difficult spot or angle.
 Most indoor rock climbing gyms offer basic and advanced lessons for climbers. Not only will they teach you how to use the equipment properly, to climb safely, and to develop efficient techniques for scaling certain obstacles, but lessons can be great places to make contacts, find partners, and learn from each other.


Technique is more important in the long run than building strength. Think about each move, how your hands should grip around rocks, and what your feet can do for you as you propel up the side of a rock face. Get to know what works for you and what is comfortable. Not everyone climbs the exact same way, but lessons will get you started.
 Make sure your gym offers harness and rock shoe rentals. If it doesn't, you might want to choose another gym if you aren't ready to purchase your own gear.


Depending on your level of commitment and available money, you should consider getting your own gear. Purchasing a harness, rock shoes, and belay device might seem expensive right now.However, in the long run, you'll have better gear to work with than what is normally offered by a gym. Make sure to get the belay device you learned with, along with a carabiner. A harness should be safe, comfortable, and fit you securely. The rock shoes should probably fit you fairly comfortably, lace-up, and have a flat, not down-turned, sole.
 There are normally clubs for novices and experts. Some clubs mix the two groups, which gives the beginners a great opportunity to learn from more experienced climbers. Joining a group is a great way to motivate yourself and to learn. Join online groups as well. Learn about new techniques, equipment, rock climbing locations, and rock climbing events.