 Fungi that cause rashes are commonly known as Dermatophytes. They can infect the skin, mouth, hairs, and nails of the human body. There are several types of Dermatophytes, which appear in different areas of the body and cause different types of skin infections.Look for itchy, red, ring-shaped rashes. These are from ringworms, and can be found on exposed areas, such as the arms, legs and face. Ringworm is highly contagious.
Check for blisters, and peeling or cracking skin. If this is on your feet, it is Athlete's foot, and will probably be accompanied by a burning sensation. Blistering and rashes on your groin or inner thigh are Jock itch, which is similar to ringworm, but exists in a different part of your body.
Check your nails. Nail fungus will make your nails yellow and brittle. They can also thicken, and become painful when wearing shoes.
Look for patches of skin discoloration. If these patches are can be brown, pink, or white in color, and on your back, neck, and upper arms, then you have Pityriasis versicolor. If they are small white patches appearing on areas like your mouth or vagina, it is Thrush. Thrush is usually only harmful if you have a weakened immune system.;
, Use antiseptic soap, which will clean the area and eliminate nearby dirt and germs. Dry with a dry cloth or a hair dryer. This is a good habit for avoiding fungus as well, but you should clean the area before applying any kind of treatment., Tea tree oil has antifungal properties, and is effective in treating fungal infection. You can buy it in any local pharmacy. Apply the oil to affected areas 2 to 3 times a day.


Tea tree oil can be used at full strength or diluted. If you want to dilute it, try a mixing a ratio of 1 and a half tablespoons of tea tree oil to 1 cup of warm water.
Be very cautious when using tea tree oil when pregnant, breastfeeding, or undergoing childbirth. Some reports suggest the oil decreases contraction strength, though this is unclear due to a lack of significant scientific information.Avoid using tea tree oil on the skin of adolescent males, as it has been known to cause the growth of breasts (gynecomastia)., Vinegar is known to have antifungal, antibacterial, and antiseptic properties. It can help treat fungal rash because it contains acid and enzymes that create a fungus-killing chemical reaction in the skin. There are several ways you can use vinegar to treat fungal rashes.


Dilute apple cider vinegar in a 50:50 ratio (1 cup of apple cider vinegar and 1 cup of water). You can pour a small amount of the vinegar onto a cotton ball and rub it on the affected areas 2 to 3 times per day. You can also soak the affected areas in 50:50 mix of apple cider vinegar to water for 10 to 15 minutes. Be sure to dry the area completely after soaking.
You can soak your entire body. Fill a tub with lukewarm water, then add 5 cups of vinegar. You can add little more you want your vinegar bath to be a bit more concentrated. Soak your body for about 10 to 20 minutes.
 Garlic extract inhibits the growth of microorganisms due to allicin, an active ingredient of garlic produced only when it is crushed. Additionally, ajoene is another compound found in raw garlic that is very effective in treating fungal rashes. It kills fungus in the skin and promotes faster healing.


You can apply crushed garlic to affected areas 2 times a day. Cover these areas with gauze for better absorption.
You can try a garlic paste, made by crushing 1 clove of garlic into small pieces and mixing it with 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of olive oil. You can apply this to fungal rashes several times a day to promote healing.
You can also eat 1 clove of raw garlic every day to detox your body, including any fungus living inside.

