 The dresser should be roughly the size that you want your faux fireplace to be. Be sure to look curbside – and don’t worry about the color.;
, This includes the screws and runners for the drawers. Your dresser should now be an open shell.
 Be sure to save the three nicest drawer faces and remove their handles; if necessary, fill any screw holes with wood putty, plaster, glue, etc. and let dry.
 In other words, the face of the drawer should be in the same position that the top drawer once was. Attach it by nailing it on with small, inconspicuous finishing nails or, preferably, by screwing it on starting from the inside of the dresser and screwing outwards through the back of the drawer face.
 Be sure to measure from the bottom of the newly-applied drawer face down to the bottom of the opening (but not to the floor).
 Since you will continue to “board up” the wide opening of the dresser by attaching a drawer face (oriented vertically) on either side of the opening, you will most likely need to adjust the size of either the drawer faces or of the dresser itself.


If the opening you measured in Step 5 is taller than the drawer faces are long, you will need to cut the bottom of the dresser off.
If the opening you measured in Step 5 is shorter than the drawer faces are long, you will need to cut one end of each drawer face off.
 One drawer face should slightly overlap the right-hand side of the opening, one drawer face should slightly overlap the left-hand side of the opening, and the tops of both drawer faces should be against the bottom of the already-attached drawer face. If you cut the ends off your drawer faces, be sure to orient the cut ends downwards for a clean look.


Attach them to the left and right sides of the dresser by nailing them on with small, inconspicuous finishing nails or, preferably, by screwing them on starting from the inside of the dresser and screwing outwards through the back of the drawer face.
To attach the side drawers to the top drawer, you will need small pieces of scrap wood. Align each piece across the gap between the drawers (inside the dresser) and screw it to both drawer faces.
 Paint the exterior with a glossy, off-white paint for a modern look. Be sure to paint the interior black to disguise the wood.
 If you cut the bottom of your dresser off to accommodate the drawer faces, your dresser will look unfinished when placed on the floor. To create a base, simply find an appropriately-sized coffee table, cut off the legs, paint it to match, and place it beneath the fireplace.

