 If you’re afraid your mind is going to go blank in the middle of your date, you may want to come up some things you can talk about. What do you both have in common? What are you excited about or interested in? Having a few ideas in mind can help calm you down.For example, if you know that you both like cooking, travelling, or being outside, think of a few questions or stories you can tell dealing with those topics.
 Though you may want to do something fun on your date, you shouldn’t do something new that will make you even more uncomfortable. You want to go to a place you're somewhat familiar and comfortable with. Even if it's not some place you've gone often, if it's in an area you know, that's enough to help calm you down.


For example, if you never go to fancy restaurants or the ballet, don't choose it as a first date location.
 Dates should be fun. Sure, everyone goes to dinner and a movie, and that may be enjoyable for you. However, you can help calm your first date jitters by doing something you know will be fun. Try something you'd never think of as a first date. It may help both of you break the ice. For example, you can go window or regular shopping, work out together, go to a bookstore or music stores and look around, go hiking, or go to a museum.
Choose an activity both of you can enjoy and are interested in, if you know what the other person likes. If you don't know what the other person likes, try to ask them. Often, doing these things help you show off your personality the most.
 Though you want to look nice and dress to impress, don’t wear clothes you feel uncomfortable in. You won't feel like yourself. You'll be uneasy, and your date will be able to tell. Choosing a casual or nice outfit is best. Think about where you are going on your date and dress accordingly.For example, if you never wear dresses and heels or a suit and tie, don't do it on a first date. If you wear clothes you can’t breathe in or shoes you can’t walk in, you may start tripping or have trouble breathing.

