 Place your back against the backrest without reclining. Evaluate your recliner’s pitch for optimum comfort. "Recliner pitch" refers to the height of the chair front when the recliner is in its closed, upward position. You can usually adjust the pitch by altering the appropriate bolts at the bottom of the chair.


If the recliner pitch is too high, your feet won't be able to touch the floor when you sit down. Adjust the pitch downward.
If the recliner pitch is too low, your knees will bend upward and above the seat when you're sitting down, which may lead to discomfort and an unhealthy posture. Consider adjusting the pitch upward.
 With the back in an upright position and the leg rest closed, lean the entire recliner forward to expose the underside of the chair.


Allow the recliner to rest on the top of its back and the tips of its armrests when you lean it forward. Doing so frees up both hands, making it easier to make the necessary adjustments to your chair.
 You'll need to adjust the bolts holding the cam, or full base mechanism, securely in place. These bolts are typically located toward the center bottom of the chair.Note that these bolts are not the same as your recliner tension bolts. Your recliner tension bolts feed into the recliner spring, but the cam bolts are located in the metal frame of your base mechanism.
Typically, there should be a total of four bolts holding the frame in place. Look for two bolts at the back of the frame (one on either side of the chair) and two bolts at the front of the frame (one on either side of the chair).
 Use an appropriately sized wrench to loosen the cam bolts on either side of the bottom mechanism.


Make the bolts loose enough for you to wiggle the chair around, but do not loosen them completely. Do not remove the bolts or allow them to drop out of the frame.
Note that cordless power ratchets might be easier to use than mechanical wrenches for this task. Either option should be acceptable, though.
 Using a wrench or cordless power ratchet, loosen and completely remove the two cam bolts at the front of the bottom mechanism.


Unlike the back bolts, the front bolts must be completely removed. Keep them nearby and in a safe place, however, since you'll be needing them again soon.
 Move the front of the frame up or down to adjust its position. Doing so will also adjust the recliner pitch.


Slide the frame up and back to bring the front of the chair closer to the ground, to increase its front pitch. Push the frame down and forward to draw the front of the chair further away from the ground, thereby increasing its rear pitch.
Look at the slot at the front of the cam. This area is where the front cam bolts fit. For most recliners, the slot has grooves that allow for five different settings, and two sets of holes for the bolts to fit through. In total, you can usually alter the pitch to as many as nine different settings.
Even small adjustments can make a big difference in the pitch of the recliner once you test it out, so it's best to work in small increments.
 Once you've positioned the cam as desired, insert the front bolts back into the bottom frame.


Loosely twist the bolts into the correct holes using your fingers. Check the positioning before you continue. Both bolts should be fitted into the same position on either side of the chair.
Once the bolts are properly positioned, use a wrench or power ratchet to tighten them securely in place.
 Using a wrench or cordless power ratchet, completely tighten the back bolts of the recliner.


Try to wiggle the bottom mechanism or frame after tightening all four bolts. It should remain firm and stationary. If not, check and re-tighten the bolts as needed.
 Return the chair to its upright position and sit down. Your feet should be able to touch the floor and your knees should be bent at an approximate right angle.


To maintain proper posture, your body should be positioned in right angles at the knees, hips, and elbows. You should also have approximately 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.6 cm) of space in between the edge of the chair and the back of your calf.If the pitch is correct, no further adjustments are needed. You can stop here and relax in your newly adjusted chair.
If the pitch is still incorrect, continue adjusting it as needed to fix the problem. Repeat the same sequence of steps to make these additional adjustments.

