 A good way to make friends is via mutual interests, so make use of your existing interests and passions. If you have a shared interest with a popular student, this can help you lay down the foundations of a friendship. Pay attention to the clubs and teams popular students are a part of. Is there a group that strikes your interest? Maybe you could get involved.Think about your own interests and passions. Maybe you've always loved playing softball with your younger brother. A number of popular girls at your school are on the softball team. Consider joining to bolster your popularity.
You can also look into clubs outside of school. Maybe the most popular girl in your class takes dance lessons. You're interested in dancing yourself, so think about getting involved in the local dance scene. This can help you make friends with people that may have an in with this popular girl.;
, It’s easy in life to get by doing the bare minimum, but if you want to fit in with the popular crowd, that won’t be enough. If you're shy by nature, it can be tough to put yourself out there and reach out to popular students. If you push yourself out of your comfort zone, you're more likely to end up in situations where you'll meet new people.This can be particularly helpful if you're shy by nature. You may be a fascinating person who has a lot in common with the popular crowd, but if you tend to be socially reserved, that won't matter. You need to reach out to others in order to make friends.
Push yourself to become more social. Set goals for yourself. For example, promise yourself you will make conversation with the person whose locker is next to yours on Monday. Agree to sit with a bigger group than usual at lunch.
 Small, one-on-one interactions are key to eventually becoming part of the group. Instead of attempting to impress all the popular students at once, look into fostering relationships with a few key members via small interactions over time.Think about who it would be easiest for you to befriend. Maybe you and Jacob don't have a lot in common, but you have a lot in common with Jacob's friend Trevor. You could try to foster a relationship with Trevor, and he can serve as your gateway to the popular group.
Start slow, as you don't want to overwhelm a potential new friend. Stick to small interactions. Maybe you and Trevor are both on the swim team. You could make a point of making small talk in the locker room, or during down time at practice.
Be patient. It can take awhile for friendship to grow, but consistent interactions over time can help build a relationship.
 Social media is a huge part of how our culture communicates. Having an active social media presence allows you to continue to develop friendships and relationships with the popular kids, even when you’re not hanging around them. Add the popular kids on various social media platforms and continue to build your friendships online.Engage with popular kids on social media. Comment on someone's Facebook status or like their Tweets. Focus on people you're beginning to form friendships with. For example, if you and Trevor are pretty friendly at swim practice, try talking to him online after school.
As you begin to hang out with the popular kids, take and post lots of pictures of you hanging out with the popular kids. Soon, they’ll forget that you were not initially part of their group.
 If you have a talent or a skill, share it. People look up to and are inspired by talented people, so if you have a talent, show it off. You can use your talents to find a role in the school. If you're known as, say, the class clown, the popular kids may feel like you would be a good addition to their group.If you’re a good singer or dancer, try out for the school musical. If you’re a strong leader, go out for student council.
Focus on how your talents can help you solidify your identity. If you've always had a knack for making others laugh, do stand up at talent shows. You can become the class clown, which may make you greatly appealing to the popular group.
 You do not want the popular kids to feel like you're forcing your way into the group. If you act overeager, this can be off-putting. Instead, accept a somewhat small role as you begin to hang out with the popular kids. Let your transition into the group happen naturally.At first, lay low a bit. Participate in conversation, but do not try to be the center of attention. Attend group get-togethers, but allow yourself to socialize with a few key people in the background. Do not try to engage in things like inside jokes until you've been in the group awhile.
Eventually, you'll become an established member of the group. At this point, you can begin to be more bold and interact more freely. However, such comfort and intimacy with others must build over time. Do not try to force it when you first join the group.

