 To use Marsbot, you must meet the following criteria:Be in San Francisco or New York City
Have a United States phone number
Have a GPS-enabled Android or iOS device;
,,, The developer is listed as Foursquare., The app will download and install on your device., This will launch Marsbot for the first time.,,
You’ll also be asked to give permission for Marsbot to use your GPS location to make accurate recommendations.
 Marsbot makes recommendations by learning your preferences over time. However, you can get a head start by specifying things you like., It’s at the top of the screen to the left of the Settings gear., If you’re a vegetarian, you can tap this switch so that Marsbot won’t wrongly direct you to a steakhouse., Your SMS app will appear, open to a text conversation with Marsbot. You’ll see “Add tastes:” in the text box. Leave that text there., Type it after “Add tastes:”

Cuisine ideas: Thai, Japanese, Burmese, Vegan, Paleo
Specific dish or drink: Pizza, Hot Toddies, Pho, Coffee
Environments: Dive Bars, Family-friendly, Patio

, This button looks different depending on your device, but it’s the button you use to send a text.

Repeat this process to add more preferences.
 In a few moments, you’ll see your new preference under “Things You Like.”

To remove a preference, tap its corresponding x., Next time you’re hungry in San Francisco or New York City, send Marsbot a text to receive a recommendation in response.

If you deleted the text, create a new text to 76917.
 Marsbot will respond with a nearby restaurant recommendation based on your GPS location.For example, if you want to find a restaurant that sells Peruvian chicken, send find Peruvian chicken.
 This prompts Marsbot to send a recommendation for another local spot you may enjoy., The longer you use Marsbot, the better it gets at making recommendations. As you dine or drink in the city, you’ll receive texts with ideas for what to do next.

For example, while you’re at a sushi restaurant, you may receive a text from Marsbot recommending a dessert shop that serves mochi.
Marsbot may send also send bar recommendations, like “After dining at El Farolito, I like to get drinks at The Phonebooth.”

