 Clean the kitten straightaway if it is soiled. Leaving a kitten in a soiled condition for too long will be uncomfortable for her and can lead to a rash in much the same way as a baby left in a dirty or wet nappy for too long will end up developing nappy rash. Cleaning a heavily soiled kitten will mean giving her a bath rather than just a simple wipe down with a flannel. Prepare the supplies before you begin bathing the kitten so that the kitten is not alone at any time. Here's what you'll need:


A clean flannel and towel(s)
Mild hand soap (no harsh chemicals or cleaners)
A basin or sink;
, The water temperature should not too hot or too cold. It should be comfortable on the skin of your wrist. The best method is to touch the water with your hand, place it on your wrist, and feel the degree of temperature on your own.


It is very important to maintain a reasonable temperature of the water as the kitten’s skin is sensitive much like a human baby. Water that is too hot can burn the skin easily while cold water can reduce the body temperature at a threatening level.
 Cats aren't really afraid of the water, but the noise running water makes! Once startled, they learn to fear it. To avoid this, fill the basin before your kitten gets introduced to the water.


Do this for another day or two and then set her down in the water and let her stand in it for a few seconds. Then pull her out and dry her feet always followed by the treat. Towards the end of the second week, you should be able to completely wash her, even under running tap water.
When kittens are startled, they will fear whatever startled them for a long time. For example, a kitten may not be afraid of the water, but if the sound of running water startled the kitten, it will associate being scared with water. Talk to your kitten constantly throughout the cleaning process to help her stay calm and feel safe.
 Using the cloth, gently rub it over the kitten's whole body, not forgetting to clean her face, abdomen, legs, and back. Start shampooing her head and move on down to her tail. Try to remove the feces or urine excreta from the fur by using your finger.


Soap or shampoo is not necessary at this age unless you are treating for fleas. If this is the case, consult with your veterinarian to find a soap that is safe for your kitten.
Keep everything – water, soap, etc. – out of her eyes and off her face. This will cause panic and could irritate her eyes and, most importantly, will scare her for good.
 After properly spreading the shampoo on your kitten’s body, rinse her thoroughly by using a cup of water and pouring it slowly over her. As you're doing this, speak to her in a calming voice if she's resisting or seems afraid during bath time.


It is not recommended to pour direct tap water on a young kitten's head to avoid the risk of water getting into her eyes and startling her. When it comes to her face, use a flannel wet with clean water to get rid of soap.
 You should not submerge your orphaned kitten in too much water because it may be too weak and young to withstand it should anything go wrong. It is better to use your hand to wet the kitten's hind quarters and lower belly first.


Too much water may also frighten the kitten. When you're washing or rinsing her, always try to use as little water as possible.
 Be sure to complete the above procedure as quickly as possible and dry the body of your kitten with a dry towel. Then wrap (like a human baby) the kitten with another soft and dry towel and put her in a warm place until dry.


You can rub the soft towel on the direction of kitten’s hair to hasten the drying process. This will get her warmer faster if she seems cold.

