 Moving your hands and making facial expressions while you speak can make you seem confident and convincing. For instance, when you say something positive, smile a bit and open your eyes a little wider. If you don’t move at all while you are speaking, people might become suspicious. On the other hand, it is important to not to overdo it. For instance:You can laugh a little if you say something funny, but don’t slap the table and act like its the most hilarious thing you’ve ever heard.
Likewise, if you are trying to convince your parents to increase your allowance, don’t start breaking down and crying. Instead, calmly present them with real reasons that you think you need more money.;
, Certain gesture and actions can signal that you are nervous. While you are talking to someone, you will have to be conscious of your actions and make sure that you are not doing things like:Twitching
Swaying
Pacing
Tapping
Licking your lips
Playing with your hair.
 Standing up straight while you speak radiates confidence and makes you seem more convincing. However, don’t stiffen up. Just keep your head up, your back straight, and your feet slightly apart., Propping yourself against a table or something else while you speak can suggest nervousness. On the other hand, standing firmly signals believability. If you are speaking to someone and don’t know what to do with your hands, try propping them slightly on your hips. This posture can seem confident, and will keep you from leaning on something else., Looking someone in the eye while you speak is one of the easiest ways to seem convincing. However, don’t open your eyes too wide. You should also break the eye contact every now and then. Remember that you are trying to bond with someone, not win a staring contest.Even when you are speaking to large audiences, it is important to make eye contact. Find a few audience members that you can see clearly, and take turns looking them in the eye. Periodically look up to scan the rest of the audience.Remember that in certain cultures, it is considered rude or inappropriate to look someone in the eye while talking.

