 Before you enter chair pose, you'll need to get into mountain pose. This is considered the starting point for chair pose and many other yoga positions.Stand with your heels slightly separated. Keep your feet aligned with one another and your big toes touching.
Lift and spread your toes, then lift the balls of your feet. Balance your weight across both feet.
Tighten your thigh muscles and lift your inner ankles slightly. Pull your shoulder blades slightly back, then stretch your upper sternum straight up towards the sky while opening up your collarbone area.
Let your arms hang near your torso and try to balance your head's crown directly in line with the center of your pelvis.;
, From mountain pose, you can begin to initiate chair pose. Focus on your breath as you transition out of mountain pose and begin squatting into chair pose.








Inhale slowly while bringing the arms forward. They should be parallel to the floor with your palms facing downward.
As you slowly exhale, begin bending the knees and starting to squat down. Keep your knees pointed forward as you bend.
Your back and hips should be poised as though you were about to sit on a chair or bench.
Relax your shoulders and reach out through the tips of your fingers.
If you're having trouble keeping your balance, try staring at a spot on the wall or on the floor straight ahead of you.
 Do not hold chair pose for prolonged periods until you know your posture is correct. Holding the pose with poor posture could cause discomfort or a loss of balance.Avoid arching your back at all, as this could cause an injury. Elongate your spine and try to keep your tailbone just slightly tucked.
Keep your feet together, or at least even (especially if you need to widen your stance).
Make sure your knees are aligned. When you look down, you should be able to see your toes peeking out past your knees and in line with one another.
 Once you're certain that your posture is correct, you can proceed with holding chair pose for as long as you're comfortable doing so. Some experts recommend holding the pose for six or fewer breaths, though your personal comfort level may be different.








Continue breathing while you hold chair pose.
Try to maintain your position for three to six breaths.
When you're ready to release the pose, inhale and begin straightening your legs while lifting your arms up to the ceiling. Then exhale and lower your arms down.

