 Whether it’s you or your crush planning the first date – or perhaps, it’s a mutual effort – figure out what the date will entail before you plan your wardrobe. Dressing for your date will be easier once you know what’s in store for the actual date.For a classic dinner and a movie date, you’ll know to dress in nicer, fancier clothes. Don’t forget to discuss exactly where dinner will be, so that you can gauge how dressy you need to be.
For a hiking date, casual jeans and a t-shirt or gym clothes are perfectly acceptable first date wear!;
, There’s nothing wrong with doing a little shopping for a first date, especially if you have a fun activity planned and need a few new items to prepare.


Although it’s not necessary to go shopping, wearing something new will show your date that you’ve made extra effort.
 Before deciding on exactly what to wear, try on a few different options. What you’ve envisioned as the perfect clothing combination in your head might look different once you’ve got it on.If your first date involves lots of movement – perhaps you are taking a ballroom dancing class together or going horseback riding – make sure you can move freely and comfortably in each outfit you try.
 First dates can be nerve-wracking enough as it is – you don’t want to add extra worry by wearing uncomfortable, tight, see-through, or low-cut clothing if that’s not a look you were intending.


You will be happiest and most at ease if you wear clothes you like and feel confident and comfortable in., Everyone wants to look their best for the first date, but unless you’re planning to attend a Halloween party together, don’t dress up as someone else. Wear an outfit that reflects your own personal style and flare.


Not only will you feel more relaxed, but it will be easier for your date to get to know and adore you!

, You don’t need a brand new outfit or expensive clothes to impress your date, but it is important that your clothes are clean, neat, and wrinkle-free. Be sure to make any necessary laundry or repair preparations ahead of time.


If you did buy new clothes, be sure to remove tags and stickers. Sometimes, they like to hide and you don’t want your date to be the one to find them while you’re out!
To ensure that your date outfit stays neat and clean, consider keeping it and any extra accessories stored inside a closed garment bag in your closet until you are ready to wear it.
 Depending on the type of date you have planned, you’ll want to plan for your hair accordingly. Practice styling it a few days ahead of your date to make sure your vision goes with your outfit. You don’t want to be scrambling with your hair leading up to your date.


If you plan to wear makeup, you may also want to try out your intended look a few days before your date, just to make sure application goes smoothly and that you achieve your vision.
 If you’re a guy that breaks out after a fresh shave or you’re a girl who gets a little red after a fresh eyebrow wax, plan on some pre-date grooming a day or two in advance so that you have time to recover and look your best!


Although grooming is important, don’t undergo any procedures just for the sake of the date. If you feel like you have to dress or appear a certain way to impress your date, the person probably isn’t right for you. You deserve to be seen and adored for who you are!

, Before you start getting dressed, double check the weather for the timeframe of your date. Even if you plan to spend most of the time inside, you still have to get there and you’ll want to keep your clothes neat and dry.


Grab a raincoat if it’s raining or re-think your long-sleeved shirt and pants if it’s unseasonably warm.
If the weather is particularly wet or snowy, consider wearing a pair of boots during travel and taking your nice pair of shoes to change into once you arrive at your destination.
If you know your date’s size, grab an extra sweater, umbrella, or raincoat if the weather is bad, in case he or she doesn't think to bring one. Your date will be impressed by the sweet gesture and that you thought to plan ahead.
 Even if you’re headed for a 5k marathon on your first date, you’re going to want to smell nice and clean when you first meet up.


If you need extra time to blow-dry your hair before you style it, make sure you budget enough time.
 When you’re anxious or stressed, that tends to be the time a button falls off or a zipper gets stuck or your nylons get a run. It’s better to be ready too early than scramble around because you’re late. Take your time getting dressed so you can handle any last minute mishaps with your garments!, Even if you’re planning on a fancy dinner at a swanky hotel or you’re attending a prestigious ballet performance, plans can change. For example, you and your date might have so much fun that you’ll decide to take a walk for ice cream or stay up all night watching old movies together!


Pack something comfortable, so you’re prepared to go with the flow!

, If you’re taking a purse or you need a water bottle and a hiking pass for the state park, make sure you’ve got all the accessories you’ll need for a successful date.


Make sure your cell phone is charged in case of an emergency.
It’s always a good idea to bring a little extra cash with you, in case the date doesn’t go well and you need to get a ride home or the date goes so well, you splurge for extra dessert.
 It’s normal to be nervous and anxious before a first date, but don’t let your clothes be a factor. Be confident in what you’ve chosen, enjoy yourself, and concentrate on getting to know this new wonderful person you’re with., Some people are especially sensitive to scents and sprays, and too much scent can be overwhelming. Apply just a single spray or a few dabs.


Deodorant is always a good idea, but be careful not to over-apply that either.
 Even if you have extremely dry skin, consider skipping an application right before your big date. First dates are always a bit nerve-wracking, and you’ll likely be sweaty (or greasy) until you settle in. By avoiding moisturizer for the date, you can try to avoid unwanted shine.
 Choosing a few simple pieces to accentuate your outfit (if you’re going somewhere fancy) is appropriate, but if you’re drowning in jewelry, your date might feel distracted by it.
 A bright red burn or a bad haircut could ruin your whole look, so skip any drastic changes right before your date.

