 Bruce Lee knew that total fitness excellence must also include eating right. He had a list of banned foods that he never touched, and he enjoyed protein-rich drinks. He didn’t put anything in his body that he considered empty calories.


Lee was trying to gain weight in muscle, and he went from 100 to 130 pounds. He made weight-gain shakes that mixed powdered milk with things like royal jelly, vitamins, and ginseng. Lee wouldn’t eat baked goods or things made with refined flour because he didn’t think they added anything important to the body.
Lee did not eat food he thought could harm his body. He didn’t drink coffee, choosing tea instead. He enjoyed Chinese food, though. He was not a vegetarian or vegan and enjoyed eating meat, but the Chinese dishes he ate most were vegetable heavy.In contrast to some modern diets which have turned carbohydrates into the enemy, Lee tried to eat carbs because he thought they were needed to maintain such a high level pf physical activity. Thus, he would eat them in 4-5 small meals a day. He liked Chinese food because of its emphasis on vegetables and rice versus proteins and fats.
 To really be like Bruce Lee, you have to turn fitness into a livelihood. It wasn’t something that he just did once and a while. It was a lifestyle to him. It was something he did every second of every day.


It would be difficult to be completely like Bruce Lee, in part because his level of devotion to fitness was almost unparalleled and because it takes so much time. Many people are too busy to basically make fitness their careers.
However, you could still engage in training that is inspired by his general philosophies. The key is to go for a full body workout by mixing up your routines, and to do it consistently, even if, for you, that means several days a week.
To really be like Bruce Lee though, fitness needs to permeate almost everything that you do in your life, and mental fitness should be part of it. Bruce Lee was a deep thinker. Sadly, though, all of this devotion did not provide Lee with the gift of years. He died young of a cerebral edema at age 33.
 Bruce Lee was of Chinese descent (he was born Lee Jun-fan), and Asian culture remained important to him during his entire life.


He was the son of a Cantonese opera star. Lee himself was also an actor, known for revolutionizing how Asian actors were seen on screen. He was born in Chinatown in San Francisco, in the year of the dragon.
His mother was half Chinese and half Caucasian in descent and his father was Chinese. His father introduced him to martial arts after he was involved in street fights with gang members.
Lee trained in martial arts in Hong Kong. He began teaching martial artists in the United States in 1959. Lee’s movies focused on amazing fight sequences. For some movies, he merely choreographed the fight sequences. His films turned him into a martial arts legend and helped interest young people into martial arts.

