 To get the oven hot enough to bake the bars, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (175 degrees Fahrenheit) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line a 8-inch (20-cm) baking dish with foil and set it aside.When you line the baking dish, make sure that some of the foil overhangs the sides so you can easily lift the bars out when they’re ready.
 Add ¾ cup (65 g) of crushed graham crackers and 3 tablespoons (42 g) of melted, unsalted butter in a small bowl. Blend the two together until they’re fully combined., After you’ve mixed the graham crackers and butter together, use clean fingers to press it into the bottom of the lined baking dish. Next, place the crust in the oven and allow it to bake for 8 to 9 minutes, or until it is set.Leave the oven on when you take the crust out so it will still be preheated when it’s time to bake the filling.
 Add 8 ounces (226 g) of reduced fat cream cheese that’s been softened to a large bowl. Use a handheld electric mixer to beat the cream cheese on medium for 1 minute, or until it’s light and fluffy.You can also use a stand mixer to beat the cream cheese.
You can beat the cream cheese by hand with a whisk, but it may take a little longer.
 After you’ve beaten the cream cheese, add ¾ cup (190 g) of 0% plain Greek yogurt, 2 large egg whites, ⅓ cup (67 g) of sugar, and 2 tablespoons (16 g) of all-purpose flour to the bowl. Beat the mixture on medium until it is fully incorporated.To separate the egg whites from the yolks, break the eggs against a flat surface and separate them into two halves over a bowl. Allow the yolks to fall into the lower half, and move them back and forth between the two halves so the whites drip into the ball below. Continue moving the yolks back and forth until all of the whites are removed.
 When the cheesecake filling base is fully mixed, add ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract and 1 to 2 teaspoons (5 to 10 ml) of coconut extract to the bowl. Mix the batter on low until the extracts are fully incorporated.You can adjust the amount of coconut extract that you add based on how strong you want the coconut flavor to be in the cheesecake.
 Once the cheesecake filling is mixed, spread it over the prepared crust in the baking dish. Place the dish in the preheated oven, and let the bars bake for 20 minutes., When the bars have baked for 20 minutes, remove the baking dish from the oven and cover it with foil. Place it back in the oven, and let it bake for 5 more minutes.The center should no longer be jiggly when you remove it from the oven.
 While the bars are baking, add ⅓ cup (35 g) of sliced almonds and ⅓ cup (20 g) of shredded or flaked unsweetened coconut to a small skillet. Allow the mixture to toast on medium-low heat for 3 to 4 minutes, or until it is lightly golden.Make sure to stir the almonds and coconut regularly as you’re toasting them.
 When the bars are finished baking, take them out of the oven. Set the baking dish aside to cool for 5 minutes., When the bars have cooled slightly, sprinkled the toasted almond and coconut mixture over the top. Place them in the refrigerator for at least 4 hours. After they’ve chilled for several hours, cut the bars into slices and serve.Make sure that the bars have cooled completely before placing them in the refrigerator to chill.
Keep any leftover bars in an airtight container in the refrigerator. They should stay fresh for up to a week.

