 You can use any kind of yogurt you like to make yogurt pops, including Greek, plain, flavored, coconut, soy, whipped, or non-fat yogurt. You can even try making the pops with yogurt drinks like kefir and lassi. Transfer the yogurt to a medium mixing bowl.

Greek yogurt is quite thick, so if you do use this to make your pops, you'll have to thin it out with the ½ cup (118 ml) of milk. Add the milk to the bowl with the yogurt and whisk to combine.;
, Add the sweetener to the bowl with the yogurt. Whisk the mixture until the sweetener is completely incorporated into the yogurt.You can use any type of sweetener you like for this recipe, but liquid ones will incorporate better into the yogurt. Sweeteners you can use include:

White sugar
Brown sugar
Honey
Maple syrup
Corn syrup
Agave syrup

, To give your yogurt pops more flavor, color, and nutritional benefits, add fruit or berries to the yogurt. Transfer the berries to a blender or food processor and blend until the berries reduce to a syrup or paste. Pour the berry paste into the yogurt and stir to combine. Fruit you can add to your pops include:Strawberries
Raspberries
Blueberries
Blackberries
Banana
Pineapple
Kiwi
Peaches

, Jam is a great fruit alternative if you're making yogurt pops in winter when there are no berries in season. You can also substitute frozen berries for fresh ones if those are all that’s available.

Use the same quantity of frozen berries in place of fresh ones.
Use 1 cup (325 g) of jam or preserves in place of fresh or frozen berries., Granola and yogurt parfaits are classic healthy breakfast fare, and you can turn your yogurt pops into frozen parfaits by adding some granola. Add the granola to the bowl and fold it into the yogurt with the rubber spatula.You can use any type of granola you like in your pops, including cereal, trail mix, nut mix, granola clusters, or any other similar mix.
 When you use plain, vanilla, or pineapple yogurt combined with chunks of fresh pineapple, you can easily turn your basic fruit and yogurt pops into pina colada pops simply by adding ½ cup (47 g) of shredded coconut. Fold the coconut in with the yogurt and pineapple until it’s evenly distributed throughout the yogurt.If you use sweetened coconut to make these pops, add less sugar to avoid making them overly sweet.
 Similarly, you can also make chunky monkey yogurt pops by combining plain, chocolate, or vanilla yogurt, chunks of banana, and the ½ cup (88 g) of chocolate chips. Leave out the granola and the coconut shreds, and use unsweetened chocolate to avoid pops that are overly sugary.If you use plain or vanilla yogurt and want chocolate-colored pops, whisk 1 tablespoon (7 g) of cocoa powder into the yogurt before adding the banana and coconut.
 Once your yogurt has been customized with sweetener, fruit, and other additions, distribute the yogurt evenly among the popsicle molds. Pour enough yogurt into each popsicle mold to fill it to the rim.

Don’t add so much yogurt that it’s overflowing from the mold, or it will be difficult to remove the pops once they're frozen.
If you don’t have popsicle molds, you can use small paper cups to make your pops instead., Some popsicle molds come with their own reusable sticks, but if yours doesn’t have those, then use regular wooden popsicle sticks. Insert the stick into the slot in the center of the mold, making sure the stick is upright and straight.

Paper cups don’t have special slots for holding the sticks, so if you're using paper cups to make your pops, freeze the pops for two hours and then insert the sticks into the center of the yogurt., Transfer the filled popsicle molds to the freezer. Shut the door and let the pops freeze for eight hours, or overnight. For paper-cup yogurt pops, remove the pops after two hours and insert the sticks. Then, return the pops to the freezer for an additional six hours.

You don’t have to eat the yogurt pops right away, and they will last in the freezer for about four weeks., When the pops are frozen and you're ready to enjoy them, remove them from the freezer. Pull on a stick to remove a pop from the mold. If the pop won’t come out of the mold easily, run the outside of the mold under hot water for a few seconds to loosen the yogurt.

For paper-cup pops, simply tear or peel away the paper cup before enjoying the pop., Instead of blending your fruit and berries before adding them to the yogurt, you can leave the berries in small chunks. This will leave tasty bites of fruit or berries inside the yogurt pop, and will give the pops a bit more substance. You can also do a combination of blended berries and chunks.For an even more special look, line the sides of the molds with thin slices of berries or fruit and then fill the molds with yogurt.
 You can also create a swirled or marbled effect with your yogurt pops by mixing the berry paste into the yogurt in a particular way. Add all the additional ingredients to the yogurt first, and then add the berry paste to the center of the yogurt. Stir the paste a few times in a circular motion, but stop before the yogurt and berries are fully combined.Spoon the yogurt into the molds carefully to preserve the swirled effect.
 You can also create a number of neat effects by combining different colored yogurts into one pop. This will require different flavors of yogurt and different berries. To make tie-dyed pops:

Pick at least two different flavors of yogurt
Select berries or fruit to match each yogurt (such as banana with vanilla yogurt and raspberries with strawberry yogurt)
In separate bowls, combine each yogurt flavor with its matching berry
Fill each yogurt mold by adding yogurt by the spoonful, alternating the yogurt type with each spoonful
To make the tie-dye, use a different quantity of yogurt with each spoonful

, You can make a rainbow effect using the same method as the tie-dyed effect. Mix similar colored berries with similar colored yogurts in separate bowls. When you fill the molds:Add a thin layer of one color to the bottom of the mold
Add an equal sized layer of a different yogurt color on top
Continue alternating colors until the mold is full

