 Attach the yarn you want to use for your embroidery to a crochet hook using a standard slipknot.


The crochet hook should be approximately the same size hook used to make the crochet work you are embroidering into.
To make a slipknot:

Form a loop by crossing the loose end of the yarn under the attached end.
Grab the attached side and pull it up through the loop, creating a second loop in the process.
Tighten the first loop around the second.
Insert the hook into the second loop and tighten the second loop onto the hook.

;
, Carefully remove the slipknot from the hook. Place the loop behind the crochet piece, then insert the hook into the nearest gap and grab onto the loop. Pull the loop of the slipknot through the front of the work.


The knot itself must stay at the back of the project.
The point at which you work here should be the same point at which you want the embroidery to start.
 With the slipknot loop still on your hook, insert the hook through the gap lying after the adjacent stitch.


This can be the next stitch to the right, left, top, or bottom. It could even be a stitch situated diagonally from your current space. The "next" stitch is simply the nearest stitch you need to complete your embroidery design.
This step starts one surface slip stitch.
 At the back of the work, wrap the yarn around the hook in a counterclockwise motion. Pull this loop of yarn back through to the front of the project.


This step continues the slip stitch process but does not end it.
 Pull the new loop you just created through the original slipknot loop, letting the slipknot loop drop off the hook in the process.


The new loop should now be the only loop on your hook.
This step completes one surface slip stitch.
Consider holding the knot or base of the slipknot in place at the back of the piece as you create this first slip stitch. Doing so can help keep the stitch straight, neat, and tight.
 Create a second slip stitch using the same technique used to work the first.


Insert the hook into the gap after the next stitch in the pattern, keeping the loop on the hook as you work.
Yarn over the hook from the back of the work, wrapping counterclockwise.
Pull this yarn-over back through the to the front of the work and through the loop on your hook. The previous loop should drop off and a new loop should be left on your hook.
 Continue making slip stitches in the same manner until you complete your desired embroidery pattern.
 After making the last stitch of your design, carefully remove the hook from the working loop. Re-insert the hook from the back of the work, picking up the working loop in the process and drawing it to the back.


Make sure that the working loop stays open when you remove the hook.
 Cut the yarn, leaving a tail roughly 3 inches (7.6 cm) long. Pull this tail through the working loop on your hook, dropping the loop in the process and securing the yarn.


Weave the excess tail into the back of the work, hiding it behind the surface slip stitch embroidery at the front. Doing so makes the embroidery more secure and hides the excess yarn.

