 While it might be nice meeting new people and discovering their interests, there are better times for doing this than during teaching sessions when you need to be concentrating.;
, They're your friends and they'll still be there after the lecture/class/tutorial. In fact, they might start getting on your nerves if they're around too much over-analyzing all the work in front of all of you. So chill the chat during class and concentrate on what is in front of you. You can debrief with the friends later.
 Classical music is thought to enhance the ability to concentrate while studying. Try Mozart and see if it works for you. If you don't like classical music, you can try listening to trance music, which has many classical elements that are good for the mind and is for spiritual development and relaxation. Studies shown that classical music made during the Baroque period that are played around 70-80 beats per minutes are good for concentration. Think about composers such as Pachelbel or Purcell. See Appreciate Classical Music.
 This means dropping the urge to play Risk with your friends, update your Facebook profile or add your wisdom and "knowledge" to a wiki. Again, all of this has a time and a place and can wait until later. It is much easier to listen to what is being said in class now than to rehash it by having to read it all later. This is something you should watch out for when you are on a computer orientated class, such as a computer science, information technology, business, or music production. Try not to mess around with the games and other applications as well.
 Try avoiding over-indulgence in alcohol or smoking a lot. Both impact your health, energy levels and ability to get up bright and early with enthusiasm.
 If you do not get enough sleep your mind is more likely to wander in lectures. Students do not often have great sleeping patterns. If you do not feel refreshed the first time you have a full night's sleep, this may be because your body is not used to this new sleep pattern. You may have to go to bed early for several consecutive nights before it has an effect. The important thing is having regular sleep.
 Play comes after the studies are done. They'll get used to it. If not, find someone who understands or is going through the same issues as you.

