 This is the governmental agency which includes the Department of Homeland Security. You must use this service, as an employer, to verify that your employees are eligible to work in the U.S.Access the home site at USCIS.gov.
Move your cursor to the "Tools" option at the top of the screen. Do not click on Tools but hover over it, and then click on "E-Verify" under the heading of "Other Tools." From there you will find all the materials and information to enroll in the E-Verify system.
 The MOU is essentially the contract between you and the Department of Homeland Security. You are required to read it and sign it, showing that you consent and will abide by the terms. The MOU is available for review online, but you will be provided with one when you begin to use E-Verify., Before enrolling in E-Verify, you should review an instructional video, found at https://www.uscis.gov/E-Verify/video-how-enroll-E-Verify-1, and read the E-Verify Quick Reference Guide, found at https://www.uscis.gov/sites/default/files/USCIS/Verification/E-Verify/Publications/Guides/guide-enrollment.pdf. These instructional materials will tell you:


how to enroll in E-Verify
how to set up your office or business to use E-Verify
how to select authorized personnel within your company to use E-Verify
how E-Verify will work for checking prospective employees.
 To enroll with the E-Verify system, you will need to have certain information with you to complete the application. The application form must be fully completed, and it is easier if you gather the information before you begin. You will need:contact information (name, phone, fax, email) for the company official who signed the MOU
company name, address and employer identification number (EIN)
estimated number of employees you will need to verify
the first three digits of your company’s North American Industry Classification System (NAICS). If you don’t have this, you will get it when you enroll
the number of business locations for your company that will be using E-Verify
contact information (name, phone, fax, email) for all authorized users within your company who will be using E-Verify

, To access the enrollment site, you can use the link at https://E-Verify.uscis.gov/enroll/StartPage.aspx?JS=YES. The enrollment process begins with four brief questions tailored to determine your company's needs and set up your E-Verify account. The questions you will need to answer are:


Does your company need to verify its employees?
Does your company have clients and need to verify their employees?
Does your company have a central office that needs to manage E-Verify use for multiple locations that access E-Verify?
Does your company plan to develop its own software to use E-Verify?

, You will be prompted over a series of screens for information about your company and the officers who will be authorized to use E-Verify. You will be prompted to read and approve the MOU., After you are enrolled in the E-Verify system, you will get a secure login ID and password. Each time you need to check the SSN for an employee or a prospective employee, you will log in with that ID and password. Then E-Verify will prompt you to "open a case" for the employee(s) you want to check. You will enter data from the employee's I-9 form, and then E-Verify will produce a case result. This will be the report that lets you know if the employee is eligible for employment, is ineligible for employment, or needs to take some further action to become eligible., As an employer who checks SSNs, you have many obligations. The DHS offers several free informational webinars to help you keep informed., At any time during the enrollment process or while using E-Verify, you can reach someone for support at 888-464-4218. Alternatively, you may email someone with a question sent to E-Verify@dhs.gov.