 Don't try to be someone you aren't just to get a boyfriend. It's not worth it cause then you are pretending and its not real. And if a guy likes you than he won't care if you are a nerd or not the hottest girl.;
, This means that you shouldn't think you are ugly or obese. Every girl is beautiful in her own way. Some suggestions are that if you don't like your hair then change it or get clothes that improve your self esteem. You may also want to wear make up if this makes you feel more beautiful.
 How are you going to date a guy that you have nothing in common with? Just because a guy is hot doesn't mean he is going to be fun to be with or talk to. In other words, find a guy that is like you in a way.
 If you really want a boyfriend then you need to do this. Think about it, are you really going to have time to hang out with him after school with all that homework? Maybe only weekends in that case. But if you want someone you can see everyday then you should see who is in your classes.
 If you don't date him then how are you going to know if he is someone you want to be with? Plus, when dating, you shouldn't just date one guy. You need to meet a lot of people before going steady with someone. So find a lot of potential boyfriends.
 You do not want to fall behind in school for a guy. You went in IB for a specific reason or dream you have, so keep that in mind. That is why in step #4 i said that you should find a guy that is in your classes. And do not spend too much time talking to your boyfriend while you have 4 hours of homework a night. Make a schedule on when you can hang out with him or talk to him. School should always come first in your plans because you really do not want to fall behind in your classes.
 You should consider asking yourself this question and determine whether or not you should have one. There are many effects from having a boyfriend and not all of the are positive. It is also important to know that it is not worth having a boyfriend in ib if you might fall behind or may become distracted.
 If you think you are in love, well love blinds. Your friends may be able to see things you don't know. Usually your friends want what is best for you so remember and keep that in mind that you shouldn't give up your friends for a boyfriend either.
 This means they won't go out with you unless you receive all sevens on your IB tests. Full diploma students only!

