 Don’t wear a wool coat in Michigan when it is 50°F and everyone else is in short-sleeves. If you are from Florida and used to warmer weather, pack layers instead of heavy clothes. Also pack neutral colors and common items, like jeans and t-shirts until you observe local styles.


Look up normal temperatures during the month of your visit and the rest of the year. Compare these to those where you live to get an idea of how local people might dress for the weather. Wear a neutral or modest outfit the first day or two until you have observed what most people in the area are wearing.Wearing graphic leggings and trendy shapes might make you stick out in a rural setting, for example.
 A Gucci bag or Rolex will make you stand out in most places, and will also make you a target for thieves.


Keep accessories simple. Unless you are attending a special event, leave most of your jewelry at home.
Use good judgment. Louis Vuitton luggage might look perfectly natural in L.A., but will be a flashing sign of wealth in a small town.
 Nothing says ‘tourist’ like a camera bag, tennis shoes, and a handful of maps.Use your smartphone’s map application instead of a physical map. They usually have GPS features too, so are easy to follow.
Carry a nice camera if you have one, but your phone probably has a good camera on it already, and is sufficient for most outings.
 Especially when traveling abroad, adhering to local customs will help you fit in better even if you look “foreign.” People always appreciate it when you take their culture into consideration by following basic social rules. In Muslim countries, wear pants instead of shorts. Avoid sleeveless shirts and low collars.
Look in travel guides and on travel sites online to see what is commonly acceptable for men, women and teens to do. You don’t have to act like a native by missing out on fun experiences, but do them with the humbleness of a guest.
Ask friends or family who have visited the same place for advice on cultural differences.
 “Hello,” “please,” and “thank you” are necessary words to know. Also know how to ask someone if they speak English, and how to tell them you don’t speak the native language fluently.


Speak clearly and at a normal pace. Take time to pronounce words correctly.
If someone doesn’t understand you, try different words or thank them and find someone who speaks your language.
If traveling within your own country, people may know you are from out of town by your accent. If you cannot avoid being noticed for speaking differently, you can shift their attention to detail by being polite and respectful.
 Americans speak much more loudly than most other cultures. Use a softer voice than you do at home to ensure you are not yelling at native speakers.
 Looking nervous or uncomfortable will attract attention and may cause people to avoid you. Walk with good posture, make eye contact when speaking to people, and smile. , If you don’t know where you are going, walk confidently to a café or shop to ask for directions or look at a map.Keep your gaze straight ahead instead of looking quickly and repeatedly in all directions, especially while walking. Avoid stopping in the middle of a street or public area.


Never pull out a map on the street or in a busy public space.
If you don’t see an official you can ask for help, like a policeman or guard, go inside a business or tourist site nearby and ask for directions. Asking multiple passers-by on the street will bring all eyes to you.
If you are confused about where you are, try to keep your gaze ahead of you. Looking forward makes you appear to know where you are going. Try not to look all around you as you walk.

