 From Michael Jordan to Mia Hamm, athletes and athletic-types are cool. We regular types are in awe of the athlete's natural ability and cut-throat drive to win at all costs, making them super-cool in the eyes of many. If you want to be athletic-cool, the first step is to get in shape and start putting your body to good use in sports, exercise, and other physical activities. You don't have to be a pro athlete to be athletic-cool, but you do have to be in shape.


If you like sports, pick one and commit to a team or building a particular skill. Play soccer, football, basketball, golf, tennis, or whatever sport drives you wild with competitive energy. Get as good as you possibly can and get into shape by playing often and working out.
If you don't like traditional ball-and-net sports, many people still cultivate an athletic-coolness by getting into yoga, long-distance running, weightlifting, cycling, or hiking. These are excellent ways to get fit without having to join a team.
 Cool athletes are often driven by a desire to win, so it's a good idea to get on the field and see what you're made of when you're going for the gold. Whether you're on a team or by yourself, do everything you can to win, whether you're playing a board game or starting in the Super Bowl, win at all costs.


Take every opportunity for competition seriously. When Rafael Nadal was injured and recuperating, the loss of tennis competition drove him nuts, so he threw himself completely into competitive high-stakes poker to keep his competitive edge razor-sharp. That's cool.
try to be a good winner and a good loser. Cool means you drive others and yourself to succeed at the highest level, but also realize that you're ultimately playing a game. If you lose, congratulate your opponent and have the dignity to appreciate their achievement. There's nothing cool about whining like a sore loser.
 A cool athlete is always down to get physical, get competitive, and get moving. A quiet day indoors spend crafting and catching up on Battlestar Galactica? Forget about it. The cool athlete wants to start the day with a 5-mile bike ride, fuel up with fruit and oatmeal, then shoot hoops until the last possible minute before leaving for work or school. Cool athletes take every opportunity to push their body to the limit.


Go to public parks and gyms to meet other like-minded cool athletes. Play pick-up games in your area to make sporting friends and feed your competition monster. Be a beast on the field.
 Athletic gear and apparel is big business. Within any hobby, from b-ball to biking, there's a huge range of expensive gear and "stuff" that you can get to keep up your cool image. Outlets like Dick's, Cabela's, Outdoor World, and REI all specialize in gear for the cool athlete. It can be easy to spend a lot of sports gear, but try to spend appropriately in your price range.


Some hot brands for the cool athlete include North Face, Patagonia, Under Armour, Nike, and Adidas. These companies make regular clothes as well as extreme-use gear for a variety of purposes. Pick gear appropriate for your interests. Every sport likewise has a specific range of task-specific stuff you can check out when you learn more about your sport.
Team memorabilia and jerseys are also super-common among cool athletes. If you love basketball, get an old Sixers throwback jersey and a ball-cap. Rep your favorite teams.
 Cool athletes usually look to other cool athletes for inspiration and guidance. If you fancy yourself an athlete, it's important to follow your sport of choice. Keep up with the team, even in the off-season. The cool athlete is always checking into the Bleacher Report to see if Kobe's really going to retire, if Cristiano Ronaldo's knee has healed up properly, if RGIII can live up to the hype.


Pick your favorite teams and rivalries, with extra bonus points for local and regional teams. It doesn't make any sense to rep the Yankees if you live in Atlanta, unless you can claim some connection to the source. Be authentic to be cool.

