 You should find out if you're living in an evacuation area. Usually areas close to water will be evacuated during severe storms, so you should find out if you area is one of these. That way, when severe storm warnings come in, you can be prepared to evacuate if necessary.Find out if there are any evacuation shelters near your home. Mark them on a map so you know where to go if you're forced to leave your home.
Also pay attention to the topography around your home. If you live at the bottom of a hill, water will flow down towards your house. This means that your property is flood-prone, and you should take extra precautions if a storm is approaching. Sand bags around your home, for instance, could help reduce the chances of flooding.
Locate high-ground in your neighborhood so you have a place to flee in case your home floods.;
, In the event of a severe storm, you could be cut off from food for a few days. If the area loses power, local supermarkets won't be able to open. To prepare, the CDC recommends that you stock your home with at least 3 to 5 days' worth of food and water per person.Get food that doesn't go bad, like canned items. This way if you lose power your food won't spoil. It is also helpful because you can buy non-perishable items at the beginning of the hurricane season and not worry about having to replace them until at least the next year.
Five gallons of water per person should be enough to last 3 to 5 days.
 In addition to food and water, the CDC checklist recommends several other items you should have in your home. They include, but are not limited to:Medical supplies like a first aid kit and any prescription medicines you are taking.
A battery-operated radio in case you lose power.
A flashlight.
Extra batteries for all your devices.
Extra blankets.
Personal care items like soap, toothpaste, and cleaning wipes in case you don't have access to water.
A fire extinguisher.
 It possible that you'll be ordered to evacuate your home, or be forced to leave in the event of sudden flooding. To prepare for this, you should also have supplies stocked for your car. The CDC recommends the following items to ensure your health and safety if you're forced to drive in the storm.Non-perishable food and water.
Emergency flares.
Jumper cables.
First-aid kit.
Blankets.
Flashlights and extra batteries.
A map. You could also mark evacuation shelters or other safe places you could go if forced to leave your home on this map.
A GPS navigator.
 In the event of a hurricane, it is very important for you and everyone in your house to have a plan of action. Review this plan periodically so everyone in your house if familiar with it. If you have children, it might be helpful to hold drills a few times a year so they can practice things like packing and getting into the car quickly. Some things you should include in your plan are:Decide at what point you will leave your home. Just because an area wasn't ordered to evacuate doesn't mean that you won't still have to leave your home. A serious storm can send surges of water that will flood homes far from the coast.
A list of locations you can stay if you're forced to leave your home.
How you'll communicate with other members of your family if you leave your home.
If you have pets, you need to plan what you will do with them if you're forced to leave your home.
 High winds from hurricanes can easily knock out power. If possible, you should install a generator in the event of a power loss. This will keep your food fresh, your home lit, and your telephones working.If your generator is gasoline-operated, be sure to keep an extra supply on hand.
If your generator isn't programmed to turn on automatically when the power goes out, make sure you put it in a location you can easily reach during the storm.
Never locate a generator indoors. Most run on gasoline, which produces carbon monoxide. If you run a generator indoors, you will poison yourself.
 If your home is damaged during the hurricane, you'll have to put in an insurance claim to recover your losses. Things will be much easier on you if you have a complete record of what your house looked like before the storm.
 Overgrown trees and shrubs have a large surface area that will catch a lot of wind when the storm starts. They could be uprooted or knocked over, which could cause damage to your home. Trimming them will make them more wind-resistant and reduce the chances that they will be uprooted., Standard homeowners insurance usually doesn't cover hurricane damage. Check your insurance plan and see if you're covered. If not, ask your insurance provider about getting a hurricane plan. Hurricanes are capable of severe damage, and without proper coverage you could end up with a significant financial loss., You might be ordered to evacuate suddenly if the storm is worse than expected. Watch TV, listen to the radio, or visit the National Weather Service site for up to date information on the storm., Even Category 1 hurricanes can bring winds of nearly 100mph, which can easily blow around anything you have outside that isn't securely tied down.Remove all hanging plants, furniture, barbeques, and anything else that could blow away. These items can smash into your property and cause damage, or strike cars and pedestrians and cause injury. Avoid this by moving them inside before the storm.
 If the area loses power, ATM's won't work and banks will be closed. Prepare for this by having cash on hand when the storm hits. Withdraw enough cash to get you through at least a few days, in case you don't have access to your bank.
 Even relatively mild hurricanes have powerful winds that can send items flying through your windows. In addition to the obvious property damage here, the flying glass could cause injury to you or your family. If a storm is expected to be severe enough, the National Weather Service will probably recommend you board up your windows. Listen to the most recent reports to find this out. To do so, use plywood boards and nail them over your windows.If you live in a hurricane-prone area, it would be better to install permanent storm shutters on your windows. This way when a storm is approaching you can simply flip them closed to protect your windows.
 It's possible that you'll have to leave your house at some point during or after the storm. In the event of a sudden evacuation, make sure your gas tank is full.It would also be a good idea to have a few emergency containers full of gas in addition to your car's tank. If the area loses power or stations sustain damage, gas may be unavailable for a few days after the storm. Make sure you have an extra supply of gas to get through this situation.
If you live in a hurricane-prone area, it is recommended that you always have your gas tank at or above 1/2 tank throughout the season to prepare for unexpected storms.
 In the event of flooding, you need to make sure your important documents like birth certificates, insurance papers, social security cards, etc. are protected. Store them in a waterproof box so they won't be damaged if your home floods.
 As the storm approaches, double check your emergency supply kit. Make sure you have everything on the CDC checklist and that none of your food has expired. If you need anything, go to the store as soon as possible- when the storm hits these locations might be closed., If authorities order an evacuation for your area, comply. These orders are issued based on expectations of the storm's severity. If you choose to remain behind, you put yourself and your family at risk. You also endanger any first responders who have to come rescue you if the situation gets dangerous. Review FEMA evacuation guidelines to prepare for this possibility.
 Keep the TV or radio on to get the most recent information. Local authorities may issue new orders as the storm progresses. If your power goes out, flip on your battery-operated radio., It is possible for water service to be interrupted during a hurricane. To avoid problems, fill the bathtub and several large buckets with water. That way, you'll be able to pour water down the toilet in the absence of flushing, and you'll be able to wash yourself., In the event of a power loss, all of the food in your refrigerator and freezer could go bad. Keeping these on the coldest setting will help keep your food cold for as long as possible if you do lose power. Open the doors as little as possible to trap the cold air inside.
 If you have a propane tank attached to your house, turn it off during the storm. Storm damage could sever a gas line, which causes an explosion or fire risk., Strong winds can send projectiles through windows and cause injury. If your windows aren't boarded up, stay away from them. It might be difficult to get medical attention during the storm, so avoiding injury is a top priority., The safest thing to do during a hurricane is stay indoors and wait the storm out. Whether you're at home or in an evacuation shelter, you should stay inside for the duration of the storm unless there is a serious emergency. Stay tuned in to news stations and wait until they have confirmed that the storm has passed before going outside.Beware of lulls. This could mean that the eye of the storm is passing. Winds will calm and the rain will probably stop if the eye is over your area. Don't be fooled. The storm will restart again without warning and you could be caught outside if you leave your home. Wait until local authorities have confirmed that the storm is over before leaving shelter.
 If your home has suffered damage, document it right away for insurance purposes. Take photos of anything that's been damaged in preparation for filing the insurance claim., Storm surges can flood water supplies with bacteria and garbage. Authorities have to investigate the water supply to ensure it's safe. Until that is confirmed, continue drinking the water you've stored in your home., Downed power lines and gas leaks are common after hurricanes. If you witness any damage or smell gas, call authorities right away so they can begin repairs.If you smell gas in your own home, call 911 and get out right away.
 Just because the storm is over doesn't mean it is safe to travel. There may be flooding, damaged trees, and electrical wires to worry about. It is best to stay indoors until the cleanup is complete. Only go out if you need supplies., If you've been evacuated, wait before returning to your home. Your area may have suffered extensive damage. Officials need to investigate for gas leaks, exposed electrical wires, and flooding. When they've investigated the area, they will give you the green light to go back home.