 Spray the slow cooker with cooking spray or coat it with butter so the cobbler doesn't stick. Wash and slice 2 1/2 to 2 3/4 pounds (565 to 620 g) of peaches or nectarines into 1/2-inch slices. Place the slices in the bowl along with 1 1/4 cups (6 ounces or 125 g) of blueberries.You could swap out the peaches and blueberries for an equal amount of other fruit. Consider using apples, pears, raspberries, or cherries.
To make this fruit cobbler, you'll want to use a slow cooker with a 6-quart capacity.
 Place the fruit in a large mixing bowl and stir in the remaining filling ingredients. Use a large rubber spatula to incorporate the filling ingredients and pour the filling into the prepared slow cooker. You'll need to add:1/2 teaspoon of vanilla
3/4 cup (150 g) of granulated sugar
1 tablespoon of cornstarch
1 tablespoon of lemon juice
1/4 teaspoon of fine salt

, Put 1 cup (120 g) of all-purpose flour, 1/3 cup (66 g) of granulated sugar, 1 1/4 teaspoons of baking powder, and 1/4 teaspoon of fine salt into a medium sized mixing bowl. Use a whisk or a fork to combine the dry ingredients.If your flour seems lumpy, you could sift the dry ingredients. This will help them absorb the liquid ingredients evenly.
 Pour 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla, 1/3 cup (75 ml) of whole milk, and 5 tablespoons (70 g) of melted unsalted butter into the dry mix. Stir the topping mixture with a rubber spatula until the dry ingredients are moist.Avoid stirring the cobbler topping too much or the cobbler will be dense and tough.
 Use a large spoon to scoop the cobbler dough onto the fruit in the slow cooker. Try to dollop heaping tablespoons of cobbler dough. Keep in mind that the fruit won't be completely covered by the dough. Place the lid on the slow cooker.To help the cobbler crisp as it cooks, you can roll out enough paper towels to drape over the slow cooker before you set the lid on it. The paper towels will absorb the moisture from the steam.
 Turn the slow cooker on to HIGH and bake the cobbler for 2 1/2 hours or cook it for 4 hours on LOW. The fruit should be soft and the filling will be bubbly once the cobbler is done. The cobbler dough should be completely cooked and puffy.Let the fruit cobbler cool for 15 minutes with the lid off of the slow cooker before you serve it.

