 Applying ice to your tailbone may help to relieve pain and reduce inflammation.For the first 48 hours after an injury to your tailbone, you can apply ice once per hour that you are awake. Apply a towel wrapped ice pack to your tailbone for 20 minutes at a time. After 48 hours you may apply ice for comfort, three times daily in the same manner.
 Take non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS) to reduce pain and swelling. These over-the-counter (OTC) products, such as ibuprofen or acetaminophen, can be purchased at any pharmacy or drugstore.Take 600 mg of ibuprofen every eight hours, or take 500 mg of acetaminophen every 4 hours. Do not exceed 3500 mg of acetaminophen in a 24 hour period.
 Poor posture may be contributing to your tailbone pain. Try to sit upright, with your core engaged, your neck straight, and your back slightly arched. If you get a sharp pain when getting up from a sitting position, lean forward and arch your back before rising., Special cushions, with a section cut out underneath the tailbone, are designed especially for patients with tailbone pain. This may help relieve some of the pain associated with sitting down. It is possible to make your own cushion from a piece of foam rubber. Just cut out a hole in the center so it is shaped like a toilet seat.


Cushions shaped like a doughnut are not found helpful by most patients, as they are designed to relieve pressure on the genitals rather than the tailbone. Talk to your doctor about use of a wedge-shaped pillow.
 Studies show that applying heat to the tailbone area may decrease pain.Use a heating pad up to 4 times per day for 20 minutes each time.


Try a warm compress or hot bath if you do not have a heating pad.
 If it turns out that you have a tailbone fracture, there is no cast that can be placed on the tailbone. You will just have to rest and avoid any strenuous activities for about eight to 12 weeks.If you have a physical job, you may need to arrange to take some time off from work while your body heals.
 Some people experience pain while defecating as a result of tailbone pain. Do your best to avoid constipation by getting plenty of fiber and fluids in your diet. If necessary, take a mild stool softeners while your tailbone is healing.