 Your face will be the first thing people see and it can go a long way in showing people just how cute you really are. If you want to be cute, you should make sure to wash your face and hair as often as you need to, and to always look clean and have a healthy glow. Here are some other things you can do:


Wear minimal makeup. While a little bit of eyeshadow or pink lipstick can help you look cute, you should focus on having a natural appearance. Decide carefully how much or how little makeup you think is appropriate.

Have soft, natural-looking hair. Your hair will look cute if you don't straighten it too much or douse it in oily products. Let your hair dry naturally and fall at your shoulders, or wear it in two loose ponytails.
Wear just a tiny bit of blush. This will make you look even cuter when you blush for real.
 You don't need an entire wardrobe makeover to look cute. Having just a few key cute items and wearing them the right way can help you put together your cute appearance. Here are some tips for wearing cute clothes:


Wear a lot of pastel colors. A light purple, pink, or shade of blue can give you a softer and cuter look.
Wear cute skirts instead of pants - you'll look and feel much nicer and more feminine.
Don't wear high heels. Instead, wear cute clogs or sandals. Paint your toes a cute color.
Have a cute cardigan to wear over a white tank top.

Dress comfortably. Cute people should never look uncomfortable in their clothes. Wear comfortable clothes that fit your style.
Don't dress provocatively. Showing your shoulders or calves off is one thing, but wearing clothes that are too tight and showcase too much of your body will give people the wrong impression. Exposing your bra straps, showing too much cleavage, or wearing skirts that are too short or tight is not cute.
 Cute body language can help you project your cute look. The trick is to not be too forward, but to move in ways that are just plain adorable. Here's how you can have cute body language:


If you're standing, shift your weight from one foot to the other.
If you're sitting, keep your feet together and keep your hands in your lap.
Play with your hair.

Use eye contact. Eye contact is a way of engaging others directly. It shows interest, it shows that you are attempting to bring this person into your sphere and keep him there. But don't forget to look down at the floor or at your feet once in a while to show that you're a little bit shy.
Don't touch the person you're talking to too aggressively, but remember that giving the occasional light touch on the shoulder or knee will be just plain cute.
Cover your mouth when you laugh. When you cover your mouth with your hand as you laugh, it shows a sweet, cute, and slightly timid side of you.

