 Gas prices vary from state to state and also according to the time of year you'll take your road trip. Check gas prices using online fuel calculators and gas station price comparison charts to determine what major regions have the cheapest gas on your way to Miami.;
, This will determine how many miles you need to drive each day to reach Miami within your desired time frame. The total distance between Bangor and Miami is 1,731 miles (2785.774 km) and would take nearly 28 hours if you drove continuously without stopping.


Taking the scenic route and driving just 250 miles (402.336 km) each day will put you in Miami in 1 week.
Drive 346 miles per day (556.833 km) and your trip will require about 5 days to arrive in Miami.



Leisurely drivers who take 7 days to get to Miami may want to explore the sights in Boston, Massachusetts; New York, New York; Fredericksburg, Virginia; Raleigh, North Carolina; Charleston, South Carolina and finally, Saint Augustine Florida.
Faster-paced road trippers who want to arrive in roughly 5 days may find it practical to stop in Hartford, Connecticut; Alexandria, Virginia; Florence, South Carolina and Jacksonville, Florida.
 Campers who pitch a tent or park their RV along the way to Miami will find more accommodations options during the summer season when everything is open. Many East Coast campgrounds close after Labor Day and those that are open may not have full utilities such as sewer dumps and piped water.


Travelers who prefer hotel stays have year-round choices but making advance reservations will often result in lower rates.



Put your newspaper and mail on hold and ask a friend to check on your home. If you have small pets that can be left alone for long periods of time, such as fish, hire a pet sitter who will do everything from feeding your pets to making sure that nighttime security lights are functioning.
 Some of the best road trip stories occur when you don't plan too far ahead. But if you're traveling during the summer season, reservations are mandatory near major East Coast attractions. In Florida, winter visitors can make finding vacancies a challenge if you don't have a reservation during snowbird season.

