 The string should be twice as long as the distance between your shoulders. Another way to measure is by wrapping the string around your elbow and hand about two times.






;
, Secure the string in a square knot so it won't pull loose. Use a square knot and cut off the excess when the string is tight.
 Start with the string across your palm in an open position. Your thumb and pinky should be looped by the string. Your three middle fingers should stay out.
 Guide your finger through the string in front of your three left fingers. Return your right hand to its original position.
 Guide your finger through the string directly under your right index finger. Return your left hand to its original position. Hold the string taut between your two hands.
 There should now be four strings running between your hands. There will only be one “X” between your hands.
 You’ll need to be careful only to hook the last string away from you under the rest of the strings. Bring your hands back to the original position.
 Move your thumbs over the first string on your index finger, and hook them beneath the second string on your index fingers. Return to the original position.
 Make sure only to drop the strings wrapped around your pinkies.
 Move your pinkies over the last string and under the adjacent string. Return your hands to the original position.
 This creates the Cat's Whiskers position. You should only have the string looped around your pinky and index fingers.
 Put your thumbs over the two strings on your index fingers. Then carefully position them under the first string on your pinky fingers. You should now have loops around your pinkies, index fingers and thumbs.








Try not to pull too tight. You want a little tension but not too much.
 Take the loop on your right index finger and place it over your thumb. The top loop should be on both your right thumb and right index finger.
 On your right thumb, use your same hand to position the bottom string on your thumb over your thumb. You should see a small triangle form between your right index finger and thumb.
 Now use your left hand to pull your index loop over your thumb. Then take the bottom string on your thumb over your thumb.









You should now have one string over each thumb., You’ll need to do a complex move to finish the ladder. This part trips people up, so take it slowly. You’re going turn your hands so they face away from you while doing two things. Put your index fingers through the two small triangles next to your index and thumb.









As you flip your hands 180 degrees around, take your pinkies out of their loops.The second loop around your index fingers should go away, as well. You now have Jacob's Ladder!

