 Clutter can cause a small kitchen to appear even smaller than it is. If you are struggling to find storage space, make sure that the things in your kitchen are necessary. Clear off flat surfaces to give yourself more space to work and move non-kitchen items out of the room.Some things that may be cluttering your kitchen include a plastic wrap or tin foil containers, magazines, books, Tupperware, trash bags, and pot lids.;
, Look for spaces between appliances and cabinets, like the space between your refrigerator and cabinets or the space under the island. Locate places in your kitchen where you can add additional storage.Another unused space may be the place above your refrigerator.
 Instead of storing your pots and pans inside of a cabinet or pantry, you can store them on the wall if you install hooks.You can also hang hooks on the inside of your pantry doors to hang more items., If you have no storage space for things like cooking trays, pots, or pans, you can use your oven to store the items while you don't use them. Just make sure that you take everything out of the oven when you decide to use it., A rolling cart will give you additional storage space for kitchenware. Typically these carts will come with shelves and can act like a mobile storage space. You can purchase a rolling cart at furniture and department stores., Rather than taking up space in your limited drawer or shelf space, larger utensils like wooden spoons, ladles, and spatulas can be kept in mason jars. Use this cheap and easy solution to reduce the clutter in your kitchen., A magnetic knife holder can be mounted on the wall and will free up space in your drawers because you won't have to store knives in them anymore. You can purchase magnetic knife holders online or at kitchen stores., An island in your kitchen will allow you to use extra unused floor space for storage. Also, you can use the surface as an eating space, saving space needed for a table. When choosing an island, consider the storage possibilities through drawers, shelves or hooks that can be incorporated into the design.When installing a new island, make sure to leave at least 36” (91.44 cm) of space in between the island and appliances.
 Smaller appliances like a smaller range, oven, refrigerator or dishwasher will help you save space in your small kitchen. When shopping for new appliances, look at the smaller models and consider getting them instead of the full sized models.