 It is one of the most important elements. The aim of a team is the character of that team. Any character or characters' issue-dependent opinion may differ with that of the decision-making authority or government, but the motto stands universal, to give justice or to kill crime or to save the globe or something similar.;
, The name must fit with the motto of the alliance. You may give it a big name and use it's abbreviation, as this will add more attraction. The abbreviation should sound crunchy.
 Decide which characters will be the founders of the alliance. Choose a leader as well; he or she should show leader-like activities.


If you have not designed your superhero characters, then design them first, as they should be compatible to uphold the motto of the alliance.
If you have already designed some characters, then at first make an incident where they'd meet and think of forming an alliance. Then, you may add suitable characters as you create.
If you have such characters that are to work individually, you may reveal those characters occasionally in your team, as they are co-operating just for a mission.
 You may have one of the bases at space, one underground, etc. You have to keep in mind that the safehouse should have facilities, but not as refined as the base.
 Try to relate them with your real life. You don't have to tell all the histories at your publication. Instead, you may describe them as the story progresses. You have to figure out which of the members are full-timers and which ones act when a threat comes.
 The relationships between all the members are one of the determining points of your story. Individual opinions of characters may make mental distances and crack the unity of alliance. You should figure out who loves whom, who is competing with that person, who has an ego clash with whom, which characters are friends, and so on.
 It may be a real country, real city, or fictional country or city. You may also make them based in a high facility space station, or at any other real or fictional planet.
 Maybe the government is friendly with them, maybe the navy head has an ego problem with them, etc. The team may be under cover or they may work secretly. If the allegiance are threats to the law, you may make police looking for them.
 This is one of the most important parts. You may make a villain's alliance if you wish. However, you have to figure out the type of the threat the villains pose and why they're doing it. Make their weak points. Think about how your story will end, for instance, how the superheroes will fix the threat.
 Bring something special. It may be a weapon of mass destruction or a special gem, a brand new facility headquarters or a new alien. It will complete your story.

