 You will want to talk to your cousin about the problems you two have. This is healthy and will also help keep you on good terms. Make sure they have time, and you can talk somewhere where there are no distractions..


If your cousin is busy, ask them when they would be free to talk.
 Get away from any of your siblings, relatives or friends. This also includes television or computers. Make sure your devices are away, and you can focus on talking.
 Tell your cousin much you both love them and like them. Give real examples of your history together or the things they have done or said that make you love them. People need to feel loved and liked before they can receive criticism.


The best performing teams give each other five pieces of praise for every criticism they give. Your cousin may not feel like you like them very much, and hearing this might open them up to listening to you.
If you do not usually talk in this way, you can go through this step in a way that seems more true to your personality. But you need to make sure that your cousin does believe that you do care about them.
 Avoid talking about all of the problems you have with your cousin at once. This will end up feeling like an attack, and your conversation probably won't have as much of a positive result. Instead focus on one problem that you can work on in your relationship. , When you talk to your cousin, talk about the things that you do that also create the situation. Tell your cousin that you are not blaming them for the whole problem. But tell that you do want their help to fix the problem. Accepting your part in the situation will make you seem reasonable and may motivate them to try to make the situation better. Give real examples of how you cause the problem too. For example, you can say "I know that I hurt you when I told you that you were not good enough for the basketball team."
Apologize and own what you did. For example, tell your cousin "I am sorry. I was angry, and I shouldn't have said that."
Tell them the things you will do differently in the future. You can say, "I am going to think about what I have to say before I blurt out when I am angry."
If you have lots of examples of how your cousin is the problem but have no similar examples of how you also have done things to hurt the situation, it will make your cousin less likely to believe that you are being sincere.
 Explain your feelings and reasons, and do not speak from a place of anger. Explain that you may not understand everything that is going on, but explain the thing you see your cousin do or say and what that makes you feel or what happens to you as a result of the thing your cousin does. For example, you can say "when you don't tell me the truth it makes me feel like I can't trust you."
Avoid sounding judgemental. You can be clear, but you do not have to sound judgemental. Don't say things like "when you always lie", instead, say "when you do not tell me the truth".

