 Some preliminary research can help you determine whether your situation was an isolated incident or there are others who had similar problems taking the drug.Begin your research by conducting an online search for the drug and the side effect that caused your injuries.
Pay attention to social media or blog accounts, and check out reviews. This will give you a good idea of whether other people experienced issues similar to yours.
Keep in mind that both the cause and the effect must be the same for everyone in the class. In other words, you all must have suffered similar injuries as a result of taking the same drug and experiencing the same side effect.
 Class action attorneys typically offer a free consultation to evaluate your case and determine whether a class action is feasible.Class action attorneys take cases on contingency, meaning they don't expect any payment up front. Instead, they receive a portion of your settlement, or of the award if your case goes to trial and you win.
Look for an attorney who has specific experience litigating class actions, not just individual personal injury or product liability lawsuits. Class actions come with a lot of technical requirements, and the attorney must have significant resources since cases typically don't result in a quick recovery.
 Once you've found an attorney, you must find enough other people who were similarly harmed by the drug so a judge will certify the class.To get your class certified, you and your attorney must be able to prove that your injuries are representative of similar injuries suffered by a large number of people.
The law requires you to make reasonable efforts to contact all potential members of the class. Typically this involves advertisements on television, in print media, and on the internet.
 While you may get more money than other members of the class, the case will consume a lot of your time and effort.You will have decision-making authority regarding litigation strategy and whether to accept any settlement offered, which means you can expect to hear from your attorney frequently.
In return for your time and effort, you typically will receive more money than you would if you were just another member of the class.
As lead plaintiff, however, you should be focused on having the larger wrong remedied, not just your own recovery. In other words, you should have the welfare of the entire class at heart as you make any decisions regarding the class.
 Throughout litigation, as lead plaintiff you must continue to provide information, coordinate communication with class members, and help with settlement negotiations.Class action lawsuits mean people can pool their resources, but it also means there is a lot more information to go through than there would be if there was only one plaintiff.
Other plaintiffs in the class also may have their own attorneys, so you may have to work with them as well.
Expect your attorney to consult you frequently to decide what to do next in the case and how to react to any settlement offers. You also may be called on for interviews or depositions.

