 You can charge crystals by placing them in a spot where they will receive direct sunlight or moonlight. The light will penetrate your crystal and fill it with positive energy.To use light to purify a crystal, place the crystal in a spot where it will be directly exposed to the light. For example, you may want to set your crystal on a table or banister outside, or on an open windowsill facing the moon or sun.
Allow your crystal to be exposed to light for about 24 hours. You may need to leave your crystal in place for a couple of days or nights to make sure that it receives adequate light.;
, You can also charge a crystal using other crystals. To do this, you will need to create a circle using several crystals and place the crystal that you want to be charged in the center of the circle. Leave the crystal in the center of the circle for about 24 hours., If you want your crystal to be charged with the energy of the earth, then you may want to place your crystal in your garden or even bury it in the soil. Surrounding your crystal with plants and dirt can help to charge your crystal with earth energy.If you decide to bury your crystal, place a marker so that you will remember where you buried it.
 This can be called lots of things. When people use “energy” to charge a crystal, what they mean might not always be exactly the same. Directing one's own energy into the object can refer to the act of imagining your aura/prana/chi/qi/spirit entering the crystal. Many people claim to be able to feel this occur. As it is an intuitive process, you may wish to rely on your own instincts or those of a mentor in order to determine if you are doing this properly., Prayers, visualizing your intentions, chanting and focused meditation on an idea all are ways in which to direct thoughts and intentions onto a crystal. Make sure that you take your time when directing your thoughts into your crystals. Often, the more time or work you put into directing these thoughts, the more powerful the charge is perceived to be.Try closing your eyes and imagining that the crystal is filling with light. Imagine the crystal becoming so bright and full of light that you cannot look at it.
Pray for the crystal to become charged with the power to heal. You can pray to God, the earth, or whatever you believe is the guiding force in your life.
 Magical spells can be a good way to charge a crystal with energy for healing. There are a great many different kinds of magical practices, and many may be able to offer spells and rituals suited towards these purposes.Check out the occult section at your local library or bookseller to find specific spells.


You can also create own spell. To create your own spell, think about what you want the crystal to be able to do. For example, if you want the crystal to have the power to heal, then write that down.Then, think about what you might say to represent your goal for the crystal. Many people like to put spells into the form of a rhyming poem, but you can do what feels natural for you.For example, if you wanted the crystal to have the power to heal, then you might write something like, “Clear and strong, full of light, may this crystal increase my might.”
Perform your spell. You can simply speak your spell out loud while holding the crystal, or perform your spell with a little more ceremony, such as by lighting a few candles and placing the crystal on a special surface, like an altar., Purifying crystals helps to remove any negative energy that might have attached itself to your crystals. Some people consider salt to be a metaphysical purification tool. To use salt to purify your crystals, you can wash your crystals with salty water, place crystals within a circle of salt, or bury crystals in salt. All of these techniques can help to purify the energy of your crystals.To use saltwater, dissolve about a teaspoon of salt in lukewarm water and place your crystal in the water. Allow the crystal to sit in the water for a few minutes and then remove it from the water, rinse it with non-salty water, and then dry it off with a towel.
To use a salt circle, lay your crystal on a cloth, plate, or other non-permeable surface. Then take a canister of salt and pour enough out around your crystal to create a circle. Allow your crystal to sit within the circle for an hour or more.
To bury your crystal in salt, place your crystal into a bowl and then pour enough salt over the crystal to cover the crystal completely. Allow the crystal to remain buried in the salt for an hour or more.
 Sounds, such as chanting, humming, singing bowls and bells have been thought to purify objects, people and places.By doing one of these things, such as placing a crystal inside a singing bowl when it is rung, it is thought you can clean the crystal.


If you do not have a singing bowl, then you can hold your crystal in front of your mouth and hum or sing loudly. The sound of your voice should penetrate the crystal and help to purify it.
 In many disciplines, the smoke that comes from certain plants when they are burned is thought to have purifying powers.Sage, Santo Palo and Cedar are all considered to have these properties. By bathing the crystal with smoke from the burning of these plants, it is thought that bad energy will be removed.


Try burning some incense or a sage stick and holding your crystal above the smoke. Allow the smoke to surround your crystal for a few minutes to help purify it.
Sometimes bird feathers are used to fan the smoke. Beware that it may be illegal to own parts of certain birds.
Be careful when burning plant materials inside. You don't want fire, just smoke. Let it smolder, not burn.
 Many Catholic churches have holy water available to people who visit the church. Especially in churches that are tourist attractions, it is often possible to bring a modestly sized container to fill with water. You can then use it to purify your crystal of bad energy.Some tourist-frequented churches even have small gift shops that sell containers for you to use.


To use holy water to purify a crystal, place your crystal into a small bowl and pour a small amount of holy water onto the crystal. You do not need to immerse the crystal in holy water, just pour enough on it to get it wet. Then, remove your crystal from the bowl and dry it off.
 There are many crystal sellers. People often sell crystals in hippie stores, new age stores, alternative medicine stores, science/educational curiosity stores, at fairs and farmers’ markets, as well as at concerts and online. There are even fairs dedicated entirely to crystals.Make sure you find a reputable seller. You will want to make sure the details regarding your crystals are accurate.
 Look up different kinds of crystals. Visual properties as well as any symbolism associated with different kinds of crystal will impact what they do to you. By spending some time looking at different kinds of crystals, you can find your favorite. You can also take time to learn about crystals for different uses.


Quartz stones are the most common healing crystal. They come in many varieties (amethyst, citrine, rose quartz, etc.) and hues. People like quartz because it has interesting properties, it is visually stunning, coming in many colors, shapes and levels of clarity. Other common gems used include:

Lapis might help bring calm.Jasper might help balance your aura and promote a sense of peace.Turquoise may help to clear your mind.
Malachite might help protect against electromagnetic pollution.Gemstones used for healing can be cubic, trigonal, monoclinic, etc. referring to the shape of its crystal system. There are seven types of these.Gemstones are also valued for their “water” or level of refractive clarity.
 A great way to find a crystal is to “feel it out.” This means choosing a crystal based on how you feel about it. You cannot choose a crystal this way if you plan to purchase online. You will have to go to a store to be near or ever touch the stones.


Keep in mind that some crystal sellers may not let you touch the merchandise because crystals, especially large ones, can be fragile and very expensive. Make sure that you ask before you touch.

