 Talk to your doctor or midwife about how to prevent pregnancy after you deliver your baby. Ideally, develop a plan before you leave the hospital post-delivery. Whether or not you decide to breastfeed will affect your options, and you’ll have to consider the changes your body just went through.Your doctor can help you with these questions.
 Whether or not you want your family to grow larger, and when you might want to have another child, will influence your choice of birth control. If you feel like you want to get pregnant again soon, then barrier methods or some hormonal methods will be good options, whereas you’ll want to avoid methods that affect your fertility for longer such as Depo-Provera. If your family has finished growing, you may opt for surgical sterilization.

Nothing has to be set in stone, but having an idea about your future family plans can help you choose the best birth control method now.
 The birth control method you used before giving birth may or may not be the best method for you now. With the changes your body and hormones are going through, you may opt for using a different method. Sticking with your previous method is perfectly fine if your doctor says it’s safe for you and your baby, but be open to trying a new method that may suit your new needs.Condoms may feel less comfortable now
It may be harder to remember to take a pill every day now that you have a new baby
You shouldn’t use an estrogen-based method if you’re breastfeeding.
 Ovulation happens two weeks before you menstruate, which means you can get pregnant two weeks before you get your first postpartum period. Don’t wait to start using birth control – use some method of protection as soon as you start being sexually active again.How long it takes to get your period again varies a lot between women, so predicting it can be hard. It’s better to protect yourself.
If you feel comfortable having sex before you get your period, use a barrier method. Some methods take time to work, or shouldn’t be used until your first postpartum checkup.

