 You'll only get confused if you try to compare the two.;
, There are treble recorders for any budget, both plastic and wooden. A wooden one will have much nicer tone, but it will cost a lot more money. If you're starting out, it's probably best to buy a plastic one, in case you decide at a later date that you don't like it. An additional concern when buying is that a plastic one will remain to be useful when you upgrade (it's very good for practicing on), whereas a cheaper wooden one will not. It's always best to buy the best you can afford, but a good plastic will be a better option than a cheap wooden one.
 Unlike the descant (soprano) recorder, the treble will invariably come disassembled in a case. It comes in three parts: the the head joint (into which you blow), the body (which contains most of the fingering holes), and the foot joint. Ensure that the foot joint is skewed slightly to the right, so that when your fingers cover all of the holes, your little finger rests easily over the final hole.
 Your left thumb should cover the hole on the underside of the body and your middle three fingers should cover the holes on top. Your little finger should be free. The thumb of your right hand should balance the recorder and the remaining fingers should cover the remaining holes.
 This is the note E. Try getting someone to play that note on the piano. If you're higher than the piano, you're blowing too hard and if you're lower then you're blowing too softly. Experiment until you find the right amount to blow.
 Before playing any note, pronounce a "doo" sound, so that your tongue touches the roof of your mouth. This produces a much clearer note.
 Once again, check if you're blowing the right amount by testing the note on a piano.
 Check if you're blowing the right amount by testing the note on a piano again, but you should be starting to get a feel for the amount you need to blow to play a note in tune.
 Play a C, then put the forefinger and middle finger of your right hand on their holes. You should have 5 holes (and the underneath hole) covered.
 This note requires less air pressure than previous notes, so make sure that you don't blow too hard.
 This note requires still less air pressure than G, so make sure that you don't blow too hard. This is the lowest note on the treble recorder.
 Moving from E to F (as is common) takes some getting used to, and is quite difficult to get smooth. Practice it. You will learn an alternative fingering for E later to accommodate this, but if possible, always try to use the E fingering above. High F is also known as F' .
 You may have wondered why B was missed out earlier. This is because Bb makes up the F major scale, and is therefore taught before B (since the treble recorder is an "F" recorder). Further, it is more difficult because it is a "forked note", meaning the middle finger is off the hole, but the forefinger and ring finger are on the holes. So, play a low F and remove the middle finger of your right hand.
 Simply play F, G, A, Bb, C, D, E, F' and then back down.
 This will take some practice to make sure that the recorder is properly balanced and that you get a nice even tone. Try playing it against the piano, to check tuning. High G is also known as G' .
 Play a High G and then add your forefinger, remembering to keep your thumb off its hole. A very common trill is F# to G, and on recorder, this is exceptionally easy. Just quickly take your forefinger off the hole and put it back, without tonguing each time. High F# is also known as F#' .
 Play a note G and remove the forefinger of your right hand. You can trill between C and B really easily by just pulling your middle and ring fingers up and down quickly without tonguing.
 Simply play G, A, B, C, D, E, F#', G' and then back down.
 Play a note E and add the middle finger of your left hand and the forefinger of your right hand.
 Play G, A, Bb, C, D, E, F#', G' going up and G', F', Eb, D, C, Bb, A, G going down.
 To get high notes, one must employ a technique called "pinching", which involves your thumb. Simply slip the tip of your thumb inside the thumb hole. Practice moving your thumb in this way, between pinched and non-pinched, because you will have to do this a lot.
 Play an A, but instead of covering the hole with your thumb, pinch it, as explained above. It should sound an octave higher than the lower A. Practice moving between A and High A (A'), remembering to tongue every time. Check your tuning on the piano.
 Play a G but remove your thumb and the forefinger of your left hand. This note is quite difficult, but necessary for the next two scales.
 Play A, B, C, D, E, F#', G#', A' going up, then A', G', F', E, D, C, B, A going down.
 Play an A and remove the ring finger of your left hand. Then, notice that there are two holes under the ring finger of your right hand. Cover the rightmost one of these. This will take some practice. Try moving from C# to D. Check your tuning on a piano.
 Play A, B, C#, D, E, F#', G#', A' and then back down again.
 Play a High A, remove the middle finger of your right hand and add your right hand's ring finger. Remember not to add your right hand's little finger as you did with regular Bb.
 Play Bb, C, D, Eb, F', G', A', Bb' and then back down again.

