 You can buy a calendar to hang on your wall, or you can use an online calendar. Whichever form of calendar you choose, you should be able to write on the calendar so that you can keep track of things like:


When your menstrual cycle begins.
When ovulation occurs.
Your most fertile days.;
, In order to accurately create a fertility calendar, you will have to keep track of your own menstrual cycle. The standard menstrual cycle is 28 days, but this can be different for each individual woman.


Keep in mind that your menstrual cycle may be affected by things like genetics, illnesses, or stress.
 Try to keep track of your menstrual cycle’s start date for three months in a row. By adding up the number of days between the start dates, you will be able to calculate the length of your normal cycle.


Take an average of the recorded cycle lengths to accommodate for minor errors.
 Since most fertility calendars are based on the standard 28-day menstrual cycle, women with cycles that are more than seven days or shorter than seven days longer might have difficulty using a fertility calendar. This is also true for women whose cycles are very irregular.


However, if you have irregular, long, or short cycles, you can talk to your doctor about taking supplements in order to help regulate your menstrual cycle.
 Determining the length of your cycle is only part of setting up your fertility calendar. It is also important to know when you ovulate. Ovulation occurs about two weeks before the next cycle begins, which is usually around the middle of the current menstrual cycle, depending on the length of your cycle. Since ovulation takes place inside the body it can be difficult for some women to know when it occurs. There are various physical signs the body exhibits, such as a change in vaginal secretions, but they are often difficult to interpret.


A common and easy way to determine when ovulation occurs is to track your basal body temperature. This is simply done by taking and recording your temperature first thing every morning. Right before ovulation, you will see a slight decrease in your basal body temperature. This decrease is followed by your basal body temperature slightly increasing above your normal temperature.

