 Talk about weddings in casual conversation, bring up cute proposal videos, and comment on friends getting married. See how he reacts, from "I could never do that," to something more interested, like "That's really cute."


Don't expect this to get the idea across by itself. This is just a comfortable, low-pressure way to begin the discussion early on.
Many men do not think much about marriage and will not bring it up unless the women does. Women must bring up the subject and make their wishes known, unless they want to stay in an unsatisfying "status quo" forever.
 You do not even need to bring up marriage at this point. Discuss career goals, places you might want to live together, and future plans. Make sure to emphasize the "we" aspect when talking. You want to see how your partner reacts to a life together.


If they are excited or involved in future plans, then they may very well be thinking of wedding bells as well.
If they don't like talking about the future or making plans then they are likely not interested or ready for a marriage proposal.
 Some people are oblivious when it comes to hints and may need a little extra help in discerning your intentions. Remember: though you may want to be proposed to, your significant other may not be willing to make that big of a commitment yet. Don't pressure them too much because it could end up pushing them away. You don't want to force it, just help the situation along.
 Being honest about what you need in the relationship is a critical part of knowing how to get a proposal. If you want to get married, you cannot sit around and hope your partner is a mind-reader. Sit down and talk about marriage in an open, honest fashion.


Let him know that getting married is important to you.
If he does not want marriage at all, then you need to think about moving on. Having this conversation now, however, can save you months in a relationship that cannot give you what you want.
Some men must realize what they will be losing if they are unwilling to make a commitment to a woman who wants to get married. A woman who is willing to leave a man and move on to another relationship to get what she needs is someone who knows how to get a proposal that will result in a happy marriage.

