 Your doctor may recommend medications to help you deal with your anxiety. Tell your doctor about any foods, supplements, herbs, and other medications you are currently taking. They can cause side effects when taken with medication for anxiety. If you think your symptoms are getting worse or you are experiencing symptoms that you believe may be related to use of anxiety medications, let your doctor know immediately. Medications for anxiety include:


Antidepressants such as fluoxetine, imipramine, paroxetine, sertraline, and venlafaxine. These influence the activity of brain chemicals, called neurotransmitters to help control anxiety and depression. Some antidepressants, such as citalopram or escitalopram, should not be taken in doses of more than 20 mg a day.
Buspirone, which is an anti-anxiety medication that works similarly to antidepressants but can take up to several weeks to become fully effective.
In rare circumstances, you doctor may prescribe benzodiazepines, which are sedatives to help relieve anxiety on a short-term basis. People with a history of substance abuse should avoid benzodiazepines, as they can be addictive., Your doctor may refer you to a licensed psychological therapist for psychotherapy, also known as talk therapy or psychological counseling. It can be an effective treatment for anxiety. Cognitive behavioral therapy is one of the most effective forms of psychotherapy for anxiety disorders. Psychologist and psychiatrists often use cognitive behavioral therapy, which focuses on teaching you specific skills to gradually return to the activities you've avoided because of anxiety. Through this process, your symptoms improve as you build upon your initial success.


If you can't find a psychologist or psychiatrist, also look for psychiatric nurses, licensed clinical social workers, marriage and family therapists, and licensed professional counselors in your area., Your healthcare provider or fitness instructor can help you come up with a personalized fitness plan to help you manage your anxiety. According to research, regular exercise helps reduce symptoms of anxiety and depression over time, and people who exercise regularly are less likely to experience anxiety or depression. One vigorous exercise session can help alleviate symptoms for hours, and a regular schedule may significantly reduce them in your everyday life. Try to get at least two-and-a-half hours of moderate-intensity exercise a week, such as brisk walking or jogging, or 75 minutes of high-intensity workout, such as strength training or sports.


Get at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise at least five times a week. This can be brisk walking, jogging, swimming, or any other activity you like that gets your heart rate up. Split your exercises smaller workouts over the course of the day if its hard for you to do all at once.
Set daily goals and aim for daily consistency. Walking for a short time every day is better than trying to get your exercise in all in one or two days over the weekend, not matter how long you exercise.
Find a workout buddy. It is much easier to stick to a schedule if you have someone else to help motivate you. Plus it makes it more fun.
Listen to music, an audiobook, or podcast while you work out. It will help motivate you and distract you from how hard you are working., There is increasing evidence that closeness to the natural environment is healthy. One study found that living in a green environment helps you stay fit, reduce stress, and manage symptoms of anxiety. Pollution exposure in homes and offices has also been found to be greater than outdoors. Activities such as gardening, hiking, and playing tennis outdoors can help reduce stress and promote overall well being.


Try to make time for outdoor recreational activities at least one to two hours per week.
 Biofeedback is a method of bodily control in which you teach yourself to regulate your normal body processes. This includes the rate of your heart, any muscle stiffness, body temperature, and sometimes blood pressure. You keep track of it through the use of electrodes, which are attached to your body in order to monitor how well you are regulating your own body processes. If you want to learn this, you will likely be assigned a biofeedback therapist, who will help you learn how to regulate each of these areas of your body processes. This has been shown to help with anxiety and depression as well as headaches and chronic pain.


Psychiatrists, psychologists, and physicians can be qualified practitioners for biofeedback therapy., Acupuncture helps stimulate specific points on the body by inserting thin needles through the skin. Studies show that acupuncture may help reduce anxiety, relieve headaches, and alleviate stress. Acupuncture generally has no side effects when performed by an experienced practitioner; however, improper use of needles may result in potentially dangerous side effects.


Make sure that your practitioner is licensed to perform acupuncture therapy.
It is best to avoid strenuous physical activity, heavy meals, alcohol intake, or sexual activity for up to eight hours after a treatment.