 It is important to use a gentle touch when you caress a girl.Try to just let your fingertips graze her skin as you caress her skin.


Avoid sharp and quick movements. Softer and smoother touches are relaxing and a little sexy. Caress a girl gently and softly, like she is made of the softest silk.;
, Hugging can be an effective way to start caressing a girl and hugging is a common practice in new relationships. You can give the girl a hug and begin caressing her as you do so to prolong the hug and make her feel good.


Try hugging her as you say goodbye for the night and then gently stroke her back with one hand as you hug her. If she seems to like this, then you might reach up to her face with your other hand and gently stroke the side of her cheek.
If she keeps the hug quick and friendly, then perhaps she isn't interested. If she tries to make the hug last longer, then perhaps she's interested in having more physical connection with you.
 You can also place your arm around a girl’s shoulders or waist to start caressing her. You may only want to try this if you're pretty sure she will like it and have already done things like hold hands.


For example, you might gently place your arm around her shoulders or waist while standing next to her in line for a movie or while chatting with her between classes.
After you place your arm around her shoulder or waist, you can gently caress her shoulder or hip with that hand.
 Your girl might enjoy your caresses even more if you give her some compliments while you are touching her.This can make the caressing seem even more intimate and special.


Try telling her she has the most beautiful eyes or softest hair you have ever seen. Find something you genuinely like about her, and the compliments will flow.
You can also just try telling her that she is beautiful, that her skin feels nice, that she smells great, or simply that you like her.
 It's always best to start by touching her in places that are not too sensitive and then move on to more sensitive areas if she is okay with it.For example, you can caress a girl on her arm, face, calf, or upper back to start.


If you have never caressed her before, try holding her hand to start. If she lets you hold her hand, and holds onto it for a while, then she might be interested in more touching and you can try touching her back or arm next.
If she likes what you are doing, you can start trying different places on her body. For example, you might move from her upper back to her lower back, or from her calf to her thigh. Watch for cues that she is open to this, such as smiling or moving towards your touch.
Avoid touching areas of her body that she might be sensitive about, such as her stomach.
 Girls love it when guys play with their hair and caress it. It's a romantic gesture that seems to have emotion behind it.


Tuck her hair behind her ear. If you notice her hair has come undone, or is in her way, brush it off her face. It probably won't stay there, but she'll definitely notice the gesture.
Girls enjoy having their long hair played with, stroked, and brushed. Run your fingers through her mane, eventually working your way up her neck to rub behind her ears.
 A girl's face and neck are intimate places to caress, but touching a girl in these places is a good place to start caressing. Try stroking her cheek and neck with one hand as talk to her and gaze into her eyes.


Gently brushing your fingers across her cheek is a really good way to let her know you want to kiss her, and give her time to react.
 You can also try caressing a girl's hands as a good starting place. This is a form of caressing that you can do in public as well.


Try rubbing your thumb across the back of her hand while you hold hands.
If you notice her hand sitting on a table next to you, try holding hands across the table, and then giving her palm a little massage.
 If you think that your relationship has progressed enough to try caressing her in more intimate areas, then you can try caressing those areas. Just watch her cues and listen to her. If she says she does not want to be caressed in a certain place, then back off and go back to something less intimate like holding hands.

Touching the outer thighs is a flirtatious move that you might try if you are in an intimate relationship. Try running your hands down the sides of her waist and down towards her thighs, and then bring them back up to rest near her hips.
Other areas of the body that are sensitive but often overlooked include the small of her back and her feet.However, be careful when caressing these areas because she might be ticklish.
If she's open to you caressing private areas, like her breasts, remember that these areas on a girl can be very sensitive. Start with the outside of her breasts and move inwards. Don't start at her nipples. As you caress more sensitive areas, make sure that you do not touch them too hard or too much., Only 10 to 15 percent of communication is verbal, so that means the rest is done through micro-expressions, such as body language and eye movements. Pay attention to her body language to determine if she might like you to caress her.

Does she make eye contact with you? Does she keep looking at you when she catches you looking? Is her body language open (facing toward you) or is it closed (arms crossed in front of her, for example).
Don't take it personally if she is just not in the mood for touching. Maybe she's tired or in a bad mood. Learn how to assess her moods through body language cues.If she plays with her hair, touches you first in anyway, moves closer to you, or looks at you and then looks away shyly, she is more likely to be open to your caress. These are all ways that girls flirt. If she likes it, she will let you know by snuggling up closer to you and maybe returning some physical affection. If she tenses up or becomes rigid, you should stop.
 There are some types of caressing that are appropriate for a public setting, while others are not. Your girl might feel uncomfortable if you try to touch her in certain ways around other people or in public. If you're in public, then you will want to vary your approach.


If you take a girl to the movies, hold her hand and rub circles on her palm. It's a small thing that will probably feel good to her.
What is appropriate is contextual. If you are walking down the street together, gently touching her elbow or the small of her back as you usher her across a street or through a doorway is great first contact. The next time, simply slide your hand gently up her back or along her arm before releasing your touch.
She will probably be more open to a caress in a private setting, such as your home or hers.
 Whether or not you should caress a girl depends on the type of relationship you have with the girl. Think about your relationship with her before you start caressing her.


Consider the duration of the relationship. If she tries to spend time with you, if you're exclusive or have been dating for some time, and if you have intimate conversations, it will be easier to caress her. The level of acceptable caressing is related to how intimate you are. As intimacy increases, so do opportunities for caressing.
If you are in the early stages of getting to know a girl, but have established some level of trust, a first gesture could be reaching out to touch her hand or her arm. Every girl is different in the physical category of relationships. You want to study her personality before you decide where or whether to touch her.
 There's no downside to being a gentleman. Girls like it, and then you won't risk picking up on the wrong cues. To caress a girl, you first need to be trusted and liked by this girl and receiving cues (verbal or via body language) that she wants to be caressed. If the girl does not know you, she probably doesn't want to be caressed by you. If she asks you to stop, then stop.


You can ask the girl if she likes what you are doing, ask her what she'd like you to do, or ask her to coach you and put your hands where she wants them.This can make her feel more comfortable by showing that you are open to her requests and boundaries.
 Some girls might automatically assume that caressing them means that you want to have sex. This can be an instant turn off to a woman who may not be in the mood or who may be wary that you only like her that way.


It helps to caress her a few times a day when you know that you do not want to have sex so that she doesn't feel as if you are only expecting to have your needs met. You want her to know that you are doing it for her, not for you.
Stroke her in the arm or run your fingers through her hair, and don't automatically head towards private areas! Maybe don't head toward them at all. For example, you could just gently stroke her wrist or arm while you are watching television together.

