 Find a place to be alone. Sing through the song and don’t bottle up your feelings. Suppressing the urge to cry will just prolong your pain. Take the time to sing to yourself, being fully present in how you feel. Let the tears flow freely, and spend as much time doing this as you need. You may need a whole day, or even several days to get it all out. Treat the process with the same sincerity as you would a true grieving process. You deserve it! If you don’t invest time in releasing your intense feelings, they will continue bothering you when you perform.;
, Take a break from singing and just listen to the song. If you can access other recordings, listen to as many versions of the song as possible. If no recordings are available, record yourself singing it once and just listen to that recording. Embrace the emotions that come over you as you listen. As intense or time-consuming as this process may be, your reward will be a deep insight into your emotional self. This will not just help the tears subside; you will likely start to heal from serious pain you still carry from past experiences. This will aid you on your quest to greater resilience.
 Make sure you write about this valuable experience. Verbalize what you are feeling. Write down your thoughts and read them aloud to yourself. Feel free to share these thoughts with a trusted friend. Articulate what you’re feeling in the mirror. There is no such thing as coming to understand your feelings "too much", especially as a performer. Even if you think you are "over it" at this point, writing about your experience will help you preserve valuable insight for the future.
 Sing the song and allow your emotions to manifest themselves as they will. If you are still crying at this point, don't fret. The sting will lessen with time. In the meantime, you will learn how to sing through your crying. This skill will rescue you in emergencies when you get emotional during performance.
 If after cycling through these steps you still don’t feel better, do something else. Take out the trash. Go for a walk. Work out at the gym. Talk to a good friend. Volunteer at a soup kitchen. Take a bubble bath. Do anything to get your mind off the song. A lively activity followed by relaxation could do wonders for you.
 When you're ready to sing the song again, take some time to imagine yourself doing so successfully. Close your eyes and imagine yourself performing the song. Visualize yourself doing so successfully. What do you sound like? What do you look like? What do you see around you? Take note of as many other details as you can. Act like a little kid and draw what you see. Let your right brain indulge in this sensory experience.
 By now you have let yourself cry it out, think deeply, take a break, and reflect about your experience. At this point, you have hopefully taken the edge off the pain you used to feel when singing this sad song. Go ahead. Sing it again and see what happens.
 If your attempt to sing still makes you bawl, don’t give up. Repeat these steps in whatever order helps you the most. If your efforts seem futile, don’t be shy about seeking professional help. There may be unresolved issues that need addressing—not just so you can get through the song, but so you can live a happier life.

