 There are many advantages to publishing your book as an e-book, but there are some disadvantages as well. Before you choose this method of self-publication, be aware of the advantages and disadvantages. They include:Advantages:

Expenses. Publishing an e-book won't cost much more than it will to write it.
Potential for serious revenue. If your book becomes an e-book bestseller, you have the potential to make a lot of money. Some direct publishing vendors allow authors to keep up to 60 or even 70 percent of the revenue, so that could add up to a lot of money. However, this rarely happens, in spite of what you may have read about e-book incomes.



Disadvantages:

No advertising. You'll have to do all the marketing yourself. If you have a good Twitter, Google+ and Facebook following though, this can be something you can get started fairly easily.
Competitive pricing. Some e-books are sold for less than a dollar, so you will have to sell a lot of copies to make revenue.
No physical copy. You won't have the satisfaction of holding your published book in your hands, or of having a few copies around to show to people. That said, there is nothing stopping you from getting a few copies printed for posterity.
 Before you reach out to a vendor, work out a few of the details of the book. Here are a few things you'll want to have figured out before you moved to the next stage of the publication process: Create a cover. You can create the cover of your book of poetry yourself, or you can hire someone to do it for you or ask for the help of a design-savvy friend.
Set a price. A good price range for one copy for your book is $2.99-$9.99. If your book is cheaper, more people will be encouraged to buy it, but if it's more expensive, you may have less buyers but will make more revenue.
Decide whether or not to enable Digital Rights Management (DRM). When you upload your book to different online retailers, you'll have to decide whether or not to enable DRM. Enabling DRM makes piracy less likely, but it also makes it harder for people to read the e-book on various reading devices.
Write a description of your book. Write a few sentences describing your book, and choose the search keywords and categories that will help people find your book. If you're having trouble doing it yourself, contact a professional formatter.
 Format your book to make sure that it will fit the requirements of a Kindle, iPad, Nook, and other reading devices. You can either work this out yourself, or have it formatted by a professional e-book formatter.


Choose whether your book will be available as a PDF, which is the most common method, or if you prefer an HTML format or a Windows executable file (EXE).
Once you've chosen the format, convert your Word document to the appropriate type of e-book. Adobe is used for creating a PDF, programs like Dreamweaver can help you create the HTML format code yourself, and an e-book compiler will covert your EXE files.
 Do some research to decide which distributor suits your needs. Consider how each vendor formats its books, and what revenue rates each vendor gives its authors.Check out some e-books from a few different vendors to get a better sense of which vendors are right for you.
 Create an account with the online retailer, and upload all of the information you've worked out, including the book itself, the cover, description, and any other relevant information you need to finish the process.


Each retailer may ask for slightly different information though the basic process is the same.
 Once you've uploaded your book and all the necessary information, publish your book. You will have control of your online account and will be able to publish the book, and manage the distribution.


Don't forget to advertise. The online retailer won't advertise for you, so you should make sure to advertise for your book if you want to have a wide readership. You can do this by creating a website, blog, or a Facebook fan page.

