 Buying travelers insurance when you're traveling to a hurricane-prone area usually cover fees associated with trip cancellation, medical fees, or the cost of emergency evacuation. For example, if the weather cancels your flight or causes your hotel to shut down, that you'll be reimbursed for the cost.Search online for good travel insurance companies before you book your flight.


Most insurance companies require you to get travelers insurance before a hurricane is named.
Travel insurance will typically cost 4-8% of the total cost of your trip., STEP is a system run by the US government that allows you to get updated by an embassy with directions during a natural disaster. This is a great tool to have if you're traveling abroad to a hurricane prone area.Visit the U.S. Department of State's website and register for the STEP program.
 Some apps can help people during bad weather conditions by giving up to date notifications and directions in case of an emergency.Download a health and safety app onto your cell phone, so you can stay notified of important changes while you travel.


Examples of weather apps include Red Cross Hurricane App and Hurricane Hound., If you can't avoid the hurricane and are caught in it, it's important that you are prepared and have clean water, food, and first aid supplies ready. If you get stuck in the middle of a hurricane, you may not be able to leave your lodging until it passes. Pack essential things like prescription medicine and clothing as well.Other things that can go in your hurricane preparedness kit include wireless cell-phone chargers, a battery-powered radio, flashlight, and can opener.
You should also bring things like filtration bottles, energy bars, and batteries., Keep an eye out for potential storms or weather disasters that threaten to hit the location you're staying at. Be prepared to switch to an earlier flight to avoid the hazards of being in the middle of a hurricane. Watch local news stations and listen to the local radio to hear updates about any oncoming storms.


Call the customer service department at your airline and see if your flight can be moved for an earlier time., Communicate with the airport or monitor the status of your flight on their official website. Some airlines will even allow you to set up specialized notifications that can alert you if your flight's been canceled.If it's too dangerous to fly because of the weather, there's a likelihood that your flight could be canceled.

