 Since know-it-alls are essentially correcting all misinformation by providing the “right” answer, they are, by implication, putting you in your place. This is a serious challenge to your authority and self-esteem. Know-it-alls, however, cannot help themselves because they think they are doing you a favor by informing or correcting you. In these circumstances, try not taking it personally by taking a few deep breaths or taking time to think about your response before blurting out some offensive statement that will only embarrass yourself.
Remember, know-it-alls do not perceive most people as stupid or uneducated; rather, they have just not learned the difference between presenting a fact compared to an opinion. So, keep calm and collected and just let their replies roll of your back.
 Not every response by a know-it-all needs to be addressed. Doing so will only exhaust and stress you out. Try to keep moving forward by either ignoring them or simply say, “thanks for the suggestion,” instead of getting involved in a fruitless conversation that you did not care about to begin with.
Ask yourself, “is the situation so distressing that it needs to be addressed?" This is an important question if you become emotional. By asking this question, you can bring yourself back to reality and decide whether a response is healthy or harmful.
 To avoid a confrontational encounter with a know-it-all, keep your conversations non-aggressive. Smile, take a deep breath, and avoid using sarcasm no matter how tempting. Keeping the conversation light and humorous allows you to shake it off without further worry. If you feel yourself unable to smile or laugh it off, take a step back. By taking a moment to disengage, it will be easier to recognize how silly it was to get mad in the first place. Try to reframe the situation in a way that you are viewing your response as a spectator.
In a frustrating situation, try to recognize the potential humor in just how ridiculously annoying it is. In this case, take the situation to an extreme that is impossibly ridiculous to the point that it makes you laugh.
Even a fake smile helps release endorphins, making you feel better and happier. By placing yourself in a happier place makes it easier to keep your sense of humor in trying times.
 If all else fails, do not invite them out, do not frequent their favorite places, and do not return their phone calls or emails. Although this is cruel on many levels, maintaining your sanity and health is more important.

If you work with a know-it-all it might be hard to avoid them. You might have to pretend not to hear them, smile politely and not respond to them, or leave the area when you know they are approaching.
Change the topic of conversation to something they are not interested in or cut them short when they try to reply. This lets them know that you are not interested.

