 No matter where you are, a taxi will take you there upon showing the card.;
, If you are a backpacker who only wants somewhere to drop your pack and sleep the night you will find that most accommodation nearby bus and railway stations will be quite adequate.
 Most places, depending on size can have at least two or more bus stations. Travel guide books to China are too heavy to carry––yet, the most useful information they contain is where bus stations are located, so at hostels, you can look out for someone who has a travel book and copy down what you need to know for your next location. Get someone to write it in Chinese so you can show a taxi driver if necessary.


You could also make digital copies/scans of the bus information and carry it on your smartphone or other digital device.
 They will not understand you, but they will take you to an English speaker.
 Taxi drivers and locals will recognize it.
 Zhongshan is the family name of Sun-Yat-sen the founding father of modern China.
 When you want to return home from the town, you may be able to use the bus instead of paying for a taxi.
 A cheaper easy way to have a look at any city is hop on a local bus. When it gets to its depot, get off and either get another if there are others or get back on your bus to return to where you got on. If you spot anything interesting along the way you can get off on the return trip. The cost of the bus ride is often written on the outside of the bus near the door or on the machine you put money into. If you get a conductor, guess. It’s usually no more than 3y.
 Even if they have no English on them, they can be useful. Discard as you leave each town. Keeping a few of these can soon add weight to your backpack.
 When traveling by train, take a mug with coffee/teabags, etc. They supply hot water on each carriage. Tubs of instant noodles are a popular snack food. Hot water is also available at bus and railway stations.
 However, if you must, make it in the middle of the holiday time. It’s always a more expensive time for both transport and accommodation.
 Need to make a phone call, but you have no cell phone? Find the nearest small convenience store. They often have phones on their counters for public use. Make your call, then the owner will tell you how much.
 When buying anything that needs to be weighed be aware that the price given is for 500gms not a kilo.
 In cities, many large department stores will have a food court on the top floor. Most of them are point and buy type places, so they are easy to order from and you know what you are getting. Some sell tickets at the door. You hand over tickets to the seller and what you don’t use, gets refunded as you leave.


Some restaurants will seat you and give you a table number card. This you show to the seller, they write down the price and your food choice is delivered to your table. You pay when you leave.
 Traveling in China is very safe, but be very careful of pickpockets and thieves. On the whole, you will find the people are very friendly and helpful.