 Prices vary a great deal between outlets. Find a retailer that has a good return policy, as computer components have a chance of being DOA (dead on arrival). You’ll want to buy from a company that makes exchanging parts as hassle-free as possible.;
, For a media PC, you won’t need the latest and most expensive processor that you might need in a gaming PC. You will need one that can handle HD playback of movies. Look for a mid-range quad-core processor.


Try to use a low-energy processor, as this will lower your heating requirements, which will in turn reduce the overall noise of your machine.
 Your motherboard choices will largely be dictated by your processor choice. USB 3.0, Ethernet, and Wi-Fi are all essential components of a good motherboard. You’ll want a motherboard that has HDMI and DVI connectors, depending on the TV that you are connecting it to. HDMI transmits both audio and visual signals, so if you aren’t connecting via HDMI you’ll need audio connectors such as SPDIF.


If you are planning on getting a solid state drive (more on that below), make sure that the motherboard has SATA III support.
Motherboard size is determined by the case that you choose, and vice versa.
 RAM is one of the simpler purchases when building an HTPC. Compare reviews to make sure you are buying from a trusted company, as RAM has a fairly high fail rate. The pin numbers for the sticks of RAM must match the pin number for the motherboard. Make sure that the DDR Type and Frequency are supported by your motherboard.


Since RAM is inexpensive, get the highest frequency RAM that your motherboard can support. You will want 4GB, either as 4 sticks of 1GB or 2 sticks of 2GB.
 You will only need a video card if you are planning on playing games on your HTPC as well. Most motherboards will be able to handle video playback and streaming just fine. If you are adding a video card, you will also need to make sure that your power supply and case (below) will support it.
 Your storage needs will vary depending on the way you intend to use your HTPC. If you are streaming video from the internet and watching movies on DVD and Blu-ray, you will not need much in the way of storage. If you are archiving video and music files, you could potentially need several terabytes of storage. Either way, you will need at least a 60GB hard drive to install your operating system (OS) and media programs on.


Consider a solid state drive for your OS. They are quiet and low power, and quite a bit faster than a traditional hard drive. This will lead to quicker startup times. They are significantly more expensive, however, and may not be suitable for large amounts of storage.
 Any modern HTPC should have a Blu-ray drive installed. This will get you the best picture quality when watching HD movies. Most Blu-ray drives have a 12x read speed. Make sure to purchase from a trusted manufacturer, as optical drives have a high fail rate. Blu-ray drives also read DVDs and CDs.
 Look for HTPC cases. These are computer cases that lay flat, and are around the same size as a stereo receiver. You want to strike a balance between good cooling and quiet fans. You also need to make sure the case is big enough to house your components, but not so big that it has lots of unused space.


When buying a motherboard and case, make sure that they are compatible sizes. Make sure that the case had adequate fans; if it doesn’t add one or two 120mm fans, which are usually the quietest.
 Your wattage needs will vary depending on your components, but if you don’t have a video card, and you’re running a solid state hard drive, you will likely not need more than 300 watts. Look for a PSU that is modular, meaning that you can attach cables for just the parts you need. This will cut down on the space requirements, and the low wattage will mean less noise.
 Having a wireless mouse and keyboard will be very helpful for navigating your computer. There are also several remote options available with either Bluetooth or IR connectivity. You will need video and audio cables to connect your HTPC to your TV and sound system.

