 To serve their purpose, documents must reflect a complete, accurate account of what individuals discussed and what events transpired on a specific date.;
, The benefits of documentation far outweigh the time and effort required to performance-related conversations with your workers. Write down what topics were discussed, who was present, what issues or concerns arose and what promises or agreements were made, you build a paper trail for future reference. Amassing a well-documented employee file prevents misunderstanding among all parties and affords legal protection to you and your employer in the event of litigation.
 Summarize negotiated terms (i.e., who will do what, by what deadline), warnings issued to an employee, specific performance measures that you reviewed together, and itemized commitments by all sides.
 Don’t treat your notes of conversations with employees as a personal journal, where you express opinions and share emotions. Documents can become public record in a court of law, so keep clear, professional notes. Write in a detached tone, as if you’re an outsider detailing what happened from a safe distance. Focus on quality of work, behavior and conduct, attendance and availability. Do not attack an employee’s character.
 This will be different depending on the situation you are coaching. Examples include the following: complaint letters from customers as evidence of an employee’s poor service delivery; copies of time cards as proof of an employee’s chronic tardiness; copy of a consultant’s analysis of an employee’s poor productivity.



The acceptable standard of performance—or minimal expectation—as it applies to the matter under discussion.
The extent to which the employee did or did not meet the objective specified above. Specify any violations and/or resulting disciplinary actions.
The employee’s perspective, response or position in addressing the issue. Give a detailed account of his or her points, even if you disagree or doubt their validity.
 While some workers may refuse to comply, your offer shows good faith. If your employee refuses to sign the paperwork, explain to them that their signature notes that you talked to them about it, not that they agree with what is said. If they disagree, encourage them to file an amendment.

