 Give the soon-to-be mother a gift. Sometimes they pick out things and put it in a registry, so ask the person if she has one. If she doesn't, then ask for an idea of what she wants. If she is being a little insecure, then try to think of something she might need. Here are some ideas of what to get for her:


Stroller
Baby Books
Toys or anything to make the baby happy;
, Do a spa makeover for yourself. If you wear a weave, consider getting a different style just to surprise her!! If you have a kid/kids, make sure they look 10 times better than you, even if she's a little older. If your kid/kids will be running around, consider not getting heels or a really long dress, as that will easily get messy.
 Get someone else to help you, so it comes out neater. Buy some accessories or nail stickers to put on there nail that it looks really cool, everything counts!

, If you have curly hair, straighten it. If you have straight hair, curl it!

, You can look up some sayings, but don't copy them. Some people know the difference between you and the Internet. For example, if there is a quote saying, "A child is the most beautiful thing in the world, it's a true inspiration to your childhood and, be sure to secure her with protection" You write that down exactly, and if she can tell that you copied, you will not hold the baby!!

, It's rude and disrespectful to be late. Some people will get really mad; others won't even care, but try to be on time.
 Anyone that's attending with you has to know how to have manners. If your kid is stuffing his face like it's the Super Bowl, everyone will stare at you with wired looks.
 "If you don't have anything nice to say, don't say it at all," is part of the Golden Rule. Even if your family members are acting up tell them that if you look at them, that means they're in trouble when they get home. It's a great way to communicate without making a scene.
 If you're moved to a group for some reason and want to be in another group, go to the group you're supposed to be in because it can lop-side groups and be confusing, making you in trouble if you get caught.

