 The shortness of breath is caused by decreased effectiveness of blood flow with each heartbeat, due to partial blockage of the mitral valve (called "stenosis").


Your shortness of breath may progressively get worse with time.
Your exercise tolerance may also decrease with time, as your condition worsens.;
, Again, this is due to less effective blood circulation, and thus reduced oxygen delivery to your tissues. Over time, the increased work that your heart must do to pump blood throughout your body can lead to progressively worsening fatigue.
 Therefore, the pressure in your left atrium builds up, and can cause a backup of blood in the lungs (because blood flows directly from the lungs into the left atrium).


As a result, mitral stenosis may cause fluid build-up in your lungs.
It can also cause a cough that may or may not be accompanied by coughing up small amounts of blood.
 If you feel this way, it is important to sit or lie down until you feel better, to avoid passing out while standing and injuring yourself. It is also important to tell your doctor as it may be a sign of mitral stenosis or another medical condition, and it merits proper medical investigation.
 This is a symptom of right heart failure, which may occur as a result of mitral stenosis. It occurs due to the backup of blood that cannot be effectively pumped through the heart.
 Either way, it feels like your heart is behaving abnormally. It is important to tell your doctor about this as it may be a sign of mitral stenosis, or of another heart condition that warrants medical attention and investigation.
 One of the major risk factors for mitral stenosis in developing countries is a history of rheumatic fever (which can damage and scar the mitral valve). This is less common in developed countries due to more effective modes of treatment that can prevent the development of rheumatic fever.


Other risk factors include calcium deposits around your mitral valve, chest radiation, certain medications, a family history of mitral stenosis, or having congenital birth defects involving the heart.
 Although this is not enough to diagnose mitral stenosis, it is suspicious of a heart problem and would be an indication for your doctor to order further investigative tests.
 A chest x-ray allows your doctor to examine your lungs for fluid build-up (called "pulmonary edema") which may go hand-in-hand with mitral stenosis. Your doctor can also evaluate for enlargement of any of the chambers of your heart, such as the right atrium, which may also be a sign of mitral stenosis.


A chest x-ray is also useful in ruling in or ruling out other heart or lung conditions that may present similarly to mitral stenosis.
It is for this reason that it is normally one of the first investigative tests that is ordered.
 An ECG is able to detect the amount of "stress" on the heart in various situations.
 The first type performed will normally be a TTE (transthoracic echocardiogram). In a TTE, the ultrasound probe is placed on the outside of your chest. It then projects a real-time, colored, moving image of the heart on a screen, where the doctor can look at the structure of your heart as well as the flow of blood with each heartbeat.


The color in the TTE can help indicate the flow of blood.
A TTE may be sufficient to observe and confirm the diagnosis of mitral stenosis.
If it is not, a TEE (transesophageal echocardiogram) may be ordered.
In a TEE, rather than the ultrasound probe being placed on the outside of your chest, it is inserted into your esophagus.
Your esophagus is much closer to your heart anatomically, so a TEE can provide a much more detailed view than a TTE, which can aid in the diagnosis of mitral stenosis.
 Most cases can be controlled in the interim with medications; however, most cases will eventually require surgery once the condition gets to be severe enough. Doctors call this approach "watchful waiting."


You are advised to receive regular echocardiograms to monitor your mitral stenosis, and to see if and when your condition progresses to the point of potentially needing surgery.
The frequency of your echocardiogram examinations will depend upon the severity of your mitral stenosis.
 Some medications that you and your doctor may wish to discuss include:


Blood thinning medications such as Warfarin (coumadin), plus or minus aspirin, to prevent blood clot formation and thus reduce your risk of a stroke.
Medications such as Beta-blockers (e.g. Metoprolol) to decrease your heart rate and thus allow the chambers of your heart to fill with blood more effectively.
A water pill (called a "diuretic"), such as hydrochlorothiazide or furosemide, to decrease the swelling in your lower extremities.
 Your doctor can go over the pros and cons of each surgical option with you if and when it comes time for you to receive surgery — there are minimally invasive surgical options to consider for some patients.