 If you have access to a washing machine, you can use it to easily shrink a cap made from polyester or another synthetic. Load the cap into the washer by itself or with other clothes. Use a small amount of laundry detergent to clean the cap as you shrink it.If you’re washing the cap by itself, make sure to set the washer to the smallest load setting so that the wash and rinse cycles don’t use too much water.
Putting the cap in the washer with other clothes will cause pressure and friction to work on the cap, breaking it in better.
 Set the washer to a normal wash cycle using regular water heat. Synthetic materials like polyester shrink easily when exposed to heat, meaning a standard washing is often all that it takes to bring a garment down a half-size or so. Allow the hat to go through the complete wash cycle.If you only need to shrink a polyester cap a little bit, you can remove the cap from the washing machine after the initial wash cycle.
 For caps needing only minor sizing adjustments, a standard wash should do the trick. Put on the cap and let it air dry on your own crown for a customized fit.


If the polyester shrunk a little too much due to the heat from the wash, wearing it as it dries can stretch it out to an optimal fit.
 Assuming the cap is considerably looser than you’d like it, you might follow up the wash with a run through a machine dryer. This will expose the cap to more intense heat to ensure shrinkage while also drying it much faster and more thoroughly. Put the cap through a timed drying cycle on medium heat. The constant heat of machine dryers is notoriously harsh on synthetic fabrics, so if you need to shrink a cap quite a bit, this may be the best way to go.Washing and drying a synthetic cap regularly will most likely cause it to shrink quite a bit more than a gentle soak or hand wash. If the hat shrinks too much, try putting it on while it’s still somewhat damp. The fibers should stretch out as the cap becomes worn in.
Keep an eye on the hat as it dries. Synthetic materials have been known to scorch if exposed to heat for too long.