 The symptoms of a stroke are varied, from sudden loss of balance to altered consciousness. Review the signs of a stroke and keep an eye on a dog you suspect is having a stroke. You want to be able to identity any of the key symptoms.


Extreme weakness: There may be a neurological weakness of the limbs. This means that the nerves are not working and therefore do not give the legs the right information about how to stand up and support the dog. Although the muscles are strong enough to support the body, they do not receive the right nerve messages and so the animal is extremely weak and unable to stand.
Nystagmus: Nystagmus is the technical term for when the eyes flick rapidly from side to side, as if watching a tennis match on fast forward. This is a common indicator of stroke, although it can also happen for other reasons, such as meningitis. Again, once nystagmus starts it can last for days. It also makes the pet feel nauseous, because it invokes a form of motion sickness. Because of this, the dog may vomit and lose interest in food.
Sudden loss of balance. Be on the look out for a dog that cannot coordinate its limbs.
Altered consciousness: In severe strokes some dogs may seizure or fit, whilst others may lose consciousness. This means they are unaware of what is going on around them and do not respond to their name or other stimuli.;
, A stroke is a sudden event. You should suspect a stroke if a pet that was fine and normal 5 minutes ago, is now struggling to get up. If the dog is struggling because its dizzy, such as if they have heart disease, this episode may pass within a few minutes, once the dog has caught its breath be able to rise and walk around. A dog that has had a stroke, however, will remain disorientated for hours or even days.


Please note, this symptom also overlaps with inflammation in the balance mechanism in the inner ear.
In addition, there is a sliding scale of weakness, depending on the severity of the stroke. Sometimes if it is only mild the dog can stand and walk around slowly as if drunk, other times the dog is incapacitated, lies on their side and is barely conscious.
 To be classified as a stroke, technically the symptoms must persist for longer than 24 hours. If the symptoms resolve before this, and yet there is a strong suspicions of a blockage in the brain, it is instead known as a transient ischaemic attack (TIA) . TIAs are a strong warning sign that a full blown stroke is on the way, and so always seek veterinary attention so any underlying causes can be corrected to reduce this risk.
 Because these conditions are vastly different, the treatment will differ. However, do not worry too much about labelling your dog's condition but instead seek urgent help.
 There are several symptoms that can point towards your pet having had a stroke. However, do not be too concerned about reaching a specific diagnosis at home, because calling the symptoms a stroke is just a label. What is important is that if you see one or some of these signs you should get urgent veterinary attention for your pet.