 After several years of marriage, maybe you find yourself saying "I'm not in the mood" more often than not. Next time, stop yourself before you say that, and think about why you aren't. Is it because you're tired? Then get more rest so you'll be in the mood! Are you kids asleep in the next room? You're going to have to get over it for the sake of your marriage. Find ways to get in the mood, because having regular sex is important in a marriage, and it certainly spices things up.


Think of sex as a form of stress relief. A lot of people don't feel like having sex because they have too many things to worry about. Having sex with your partner is one of the best ways to free your mind of worries for a little while. You'll feel closer and happier afterward, and you'll start turning to your partner for relief more often!
Fatigue is another big reason why people aren't in the mood to have sex on any given night. Have sex anyway. It can be calm, slow, sleepy sex, but you should still do it.
 You've probably heard this one before, but that's because it works for so many people. Spicing up your sex life can be as easy as trying a different sexual position, wearing sexy lingerie when you normally don't, having sex in a different place (not always in your bed), or changing things in your bedroom to make it feel more sexy.


Try tantric sex, a sensual, slow form of sex that encourages deep intimacy.

Role-playing in the bedroom can be an exciting way to change things up.

Talking dirty is an easy way to inject lots of spice into your sex life.
 It's great when sex can be spontaneous, but sometimes life gets in the way. If you have an extremely busy schedule and spend a lot of time meeting your kids' needs, you might let sex fall by the wayside. The solution is to set at least one night a week aside for a date night that involves sex. Spend time alone together doing something you enjoy and do your very best to be in the mood that night. Having regular sex will definitely make you feel closer to your partner and put the spark back in your marriage.
 Sometimes married couples have less sex because they lose confidence in their bodies over the years. Having kids and dealing with stress can take a toll. It's important to keep exercising, eating healthy, and dressing well so that you enjoy your own body and want to share it with your partner.


Eat lots of fruits and vegetables, and avoid takeout and fast food.
Go easy on the alcohol and choose water instead.
Have a workout routine that involves both cardio and weightlifting.
Have good hygiene habits and adjust to your changing body.

