 Apply the gel to the work surface, using it to create the form of a circle with rough edges.


Blending gel is not strictly necessary, but applying it as an undercoat will keep the paint wet for a longer period of time, which will make it easier for the colors to blend together.
Dip the paintbrush in water, then blot away the excess on paper towel. To load the brush, stroke it into the blending gel instead of dipping it in.
Gently touch the flat edge of the brush to the surface when applying it. You only need a light layer of gel.
Clean the excess blending gel off the brush before continuing.;
, Load the brush with your main color and paint a rough circle. If you spread a layer of blending gel, paint directly over the gel.


The color you use in this step will be the color of the rose. In other words, paint a red circle to create a red rose, a pink circle to create a pink rose, a yellow circle to create a yellow rose, etc.
Clean the excess paint off the brush before continuing.
 Dip one corner of the brush into your main color, then carefully dip the clean corner of the brush into white paint. Blend the colors together until the brush is well-coated.


After loading both colors onto the brush, stroke the pools together on a palette or piece of scrap paper. Add more paint to each corner and stroke again over the same spot.
Repeat as needed to coat the brush, but make sure that two distinct colors remain when finished.
 Paint an upside-down "U" shape over a small part of the outer edge.


Press firmly as you paint so that both colors go down evenly.
The length of the stroke will vary the overall appearance of the rose. Try to keep the length no larger than one-eighth to one-twelfth of the overall perimeter.
For this first stroke, you do not need to add any tails to the finishing edge of the curve. Keep the brush as flat as possible throughout the duration of the stroke.
 Paint additional curved strokes in the same manner, continuing until you cover roughly one-third of the outer perimeter. Create tails on the last stroke of either side.


You'll need four or five strokes total. Each of these strokes should be the same upside-down "U" shape, and each should be approximately the same size. Use the same technique to create all of them.
Make distinct, separate strokes, but overlap the edges slightly. Do not leave blank space between them.
For the end strokes, start the stroke in the same way as the others, then gradually shift the brush to its chiseled edge as you curve it. The stroke should thin out into a comma-like tail pointing toward the center of the rose.
 Paint a second layer of curved strokes inside the first, positioning it roughly halfway down the first layer.


You should be able to see the main color of the previous layer, but it should only be partially visible above the white edge of this layer.
The curves do not need to be evenly sized or placed, but you'll need to follow the same basic procedure and technique for this layer. Finish to last stroke on either end with comma tails, too.
 Paint one comma stroke on either side of the current form, finishing each stroke with its own comma tail.


These strokes should surround the current two layers like armrests, and the curves might be slightly larger than the largest of the previous curves. Note that they will also curve inward and upward, looking more like tilted parentheses instead of upside-down "U" shapes.
Keep the main color on the inside and the white on the outside.
 Fill the bottom of the circle with several shell-shaped scallop strokes. These strokes should occupy the remaining space around the perimeter of the circle.


To paint a scallop stroke, press the chisel edge to the surface with the white side out and the main color in. Wiggle the brush to create a shell shape that curves only slightly toward the inside of the rose., Paint another upside-down "U" shape over the second layer along the top edge, then connect the tails of that layer to a large upright "U" stroke around the diagonally opposite bottom side.


The third layer at the top edge may not be necessary, so you'll need to evaluate the way your rose looks and determine whether or not to include it.
When completing the bottom "U" stroke, try to line up the chiseled edge of your brush with either side of the comma tails on your lowest upper layer.
 If you wish to add more depth to the rose, add small upright comma strokes on either side of the lower "U" stroke.


Place these strokes on the bottom of the "U" stroke. They must be very thin and should curve around the shape of this lower "U" stroke, not away from it.
 Take a step back and look at the rose. If you're happy with how it appears, allow the paint to completely dry before handing the surface any further.

