 Go to http://www.airplayit.com and click on the “Windows” button under the “Air Playit Download” section of the web page. You are downloading the Air Playit server setup file. The download will begin and store the file on your computer.;
, Locate the setup file on your computer. The filename is “airplayitserver_setup.exe.” Double-click on this file to run the setup.
 Open the Start menu, and look for the Air Playit folder. Open the program shortcut from there.
 On the application interface, click on the “Change Name” button beside the “Server Name” field. Key in the name of your PC so you can properly identify it from the app on your iPhone or iPad.
 The folders where your video files are located need to be added to the application in order for it to monitor and access them.


Click on the “Shared Folders” tab to see the list of folders visible to Air Playit Server.
Click the “Add Folder” button on the bottom menu.
Navigate through your file directory and select the folder that contains the videos you’d be streaming.
Repeat this step for all folders that contain the video files you’d like to stream.
 After identifying all Shared Folders, set the corresponding availabilities by ticking on the check box under the Availability column.


All ticked Shared Folders will be available for streaming.
 After configuring your Shared Folders, you’re now ready to make your PC a media server. Click on the “Start Server” button beside the “Server Status” field found at the top of the application.


The Server Status will change to “Server Running”. Once this is displayed, your PC is now a media server and accessible to your iPhone or iPad.
 Tap the App Store on your iPad to launch it.
 Type in “Air Playit” on the search field and tap the Search button.
 Locate the correct app and tap it. Download it to your device by tapping the “Install” button beside the app.


The app is free.
 Locate the app on your mobile device. Its app icon has a cloud with a play button inside it. Tap on it to launch it.
 On the main screen, tap the plus icon found on the header toolbar. All the media servers detected by the app will be listed here. Find your PC server using the name you’ve given it from Step 4 of Part 1.
 Tap on your PC media server. It will be added under the Local Server section.


Both your PC and your iPhone or iPad need to be in the same Wi-Fi network under the same SSID or network name. If they’re not, you won’t be able to connect them.
 Tap on your PC media server from the Local Server section. You will be brought to the shared folders from it. These are the folders you’ve set up from Part 1, which contains your video files and which you’ve made accessible.


Tap on the folder that contains the video you’d like to play. All the video files inside the folder will be displayed, with their names, play times, and file sizes.
Tap on the video you’d like to play.
 The selected video will load on your screen. Tap the “Play” button to start playing it. The video will just buffer for a bit and it will start playing soon after. Once it starts playing, you won’t notice any buffering or lags.