 Binge drinking is a major cause of weight gain in college. If you're a freshman, drinking too much can cause you to gain the freshman 15. Also, as you're likely under 21, there are legal repercussions as well. Try to stay away from alcohol altogether until you're old enough to legally drink; however, if you make the choice to drink anyway there are some ways you can curb alcohol's effect on weight gain.


Light beers, wine, and mixed drinks made with diet soda or juice contain fewer calories. If you're drinking, try to stick to these options.Try to avoid binge eating when drinking. Students often think they should eat less throughout the day; however, drinking on an empty stomach will get you intoxicated faster. This can lower your inhibitions, leading to unhealthy late night snacking. If you're going to be drinking later, have a healthy dinner first., Coffee is a major component of many college students' lives. Coffee has no calories on its own, but additives like sugars and creamers can increase the calorie load. If you're used to drinking lattes or coffee diluted with cream and sugar, try to make the effort to switch to black coffee. This can lead to you consuming less liquid calories.


However, do not overdo it on caffeine. You should strive to limit your caffeine consumption to 400 milligrams a day. This is roughly four cups of brewed coffee., Stress can cause overeating and may also affect metabolism. College can be an incredibly stressful time. Managing your stress can help reduce overeating and weight gain.


Look into joining yoga or meditation clubs. These activities help you learn how to live in the moment, which can help curb stress.
Talk to your friends about what's bothering you. A strong social network can help you navigate the stresses of college. If you're worrying about exams or a paper, chances are your friends have similar worries. Venting to one another can greatly reduce stress.
If you're having chronic difficulties managing stress, make an appointment with your college counseling center. Certain mental health conditions, like generalized anxiety disorder, can affect your ability to regulate stress. A qualified therapist can help diagnose and treat such disorders.
 Sleep may affect your eating habits in several ways. You may be prone to late night eating if you're up late working. You may also be more likely to skip breakfast when you're not getting enough sleep as you'll be inclined to sleep in. Being tired may also cause you to make bad choices when it comes to the foods you eat. Practicing good sleep hygiene will help you stay healthy and make good decisions.


Stick to a strict sleep schedule, even on weekends. If you go to bed and get up at roughly the same time every day, your body will adapt to a regular sleep/wake cycle. You'll end up naturally nodding off and waking up at the same times.Engage in a ritual before bed. Reading a book, listening to music, or taking a hot shower can help prep your body for sleep.Avoid going on your laptop or phone before bed. The lights emitted from such screens can stimulate brain activity, keeping you awake.