 If you're really having a hard time learning because of your teacher's teaching style, consider having an open conversation with her about it. Let her know what specifically is bothering you and see if she can make some adjustments to help you learn better.For instance, if you think your teacher is too harsh of a grader, you might want to ask for some tutoring or study tips. If she speaks too quickly, find an appropriate time to talk to the teacher and kindly ask if she could speak slower because you've been having trouble understanding.
If there's something going on in your personal life that is affecting you at school, let your teacher know about it. She may be much more understanding of your behavior if she understands where it's coming from.Only talk to your teacher about things that can be changed. It might help to have a conversation about comments on your homework that you don't understand, but it will not be productive to tell your teacher that you think she's mean and unfair.
Instead of just blaming the teacher for the problem. show that you're willing to work together to fix it.
 If there are other students in the class who seem to be getting along with the teacher and doing well in the class, talk to them about their strategy. Ask them if they have encountered any of the same problems you are dealing with, and if so, what they did about it. They may have some useful tips for how to get better grades or get on this teacher's good side., Your school counselor is there to help you deal with all sorts of problems, both in and out of school. Your counselor can work with you to help you understand why you don't like your teacher and what you might be able to do to improve the situation.In some cases, your counselor might have a talk with you and your teacher or might recommend that you be reassigned to another class, but don't go into the meeting expecting these results.
 Let your parents know how you feel about your teacher, but be sure to explain exactly why you feel that way. They may be able to offer you some good perspective and advice on how to deal with the situation.It may help to have your parents help you write down a list of things you dislike about your teacher. This can help you figure out what you can talk to the teacher about.
If it has gotten to the point that you feel you are unable to manage the situation with your teacher, you can ask your parents to have a meeting with her. If that doesn't go well and your parents believe that your teacher is being unreasonable, they can go to the principal or superintendent.
 If you have exhausted all of your other options and you truly believe that your schoolwork is being affected by your bad relationship with your teacher, ask to be reassigned to another class.Keep in mind that conflict resolution is a very important skill. You will be depriving yourself of learning how to deal with tough situations if you request a reassignment without trying to work things out first

