 For the fudge, you’ll need an 8-inch by 8-inch (20-cm by 20-cm) baking pan. Line the pan with a piece of foil, and lightly spray the foil with nonstick cooking spray to keep the fudge from sticking.If you prefer, you can use softened butter or shortening to grease the foil in the pan.;
, Transfer 1 medium banana that’s been mashed to a measuring cup. Add enough whole milk to the cup to measure ¾ cup (177 ml) of liquid, which should be approximately ½ cup (118 ml) of milk.Using whole milk will create the creamiest fudge, so it’s best not to use a milk with less fat.
 Once the banana and milk are combined, transfer them to medium saucepan. Add 2 ¼ cup (450 g) of granulated sugar and ½ teaspoon (2 g) of salt and stir a bit to mix the ingredients slightly., Place the saucepan with the banana mixture on the stove, and heat on medium-high. Stir the mixture constantly until the sugar dissolves, which should take approximately 5 to 7 minutes.To prevent sugar crystals from forming, wipe down the sides of the pan with a wet pastry brush periodically.
 After the sugar has dissolved, allow the mixture to come to a boil. When it begins to boil, add a candy thermometer to pot and cook the mixture until it reaches 230 degrees Fahrenheit (110 degrees Celsius).If you don’t have a candy thermometer, a deep fry thermometer can also work.
 Once the banana mixture has reached the right temperature, take the saucepan off the heat. Add 1 ½ cups (265 g) of chocolate chips, ½ cup (113 g) of unsalted butter cut into cubes, ¼ teaspoon (1 ml) of banana extract, and 1 cup (50 g) of miniature marshmallows to the pan. Mix the ingredients until the chocolate and marshmallows melt and the mixture is smooth.You can use whatever type of chocolate chips you prefer for the fudge, such as milk, semi-sweet, or bittersweet.
 When the fudge mixture is completely smooth, use a rubber spatula to scrape it into the prepared baking pan and spread it into an even layer. Cover the pan with a piece of plastic wrap, and chill the fudge for at least 3 hours, or until it is set.If you prefer, you can allow the fudge to set at room temperature. Cover it and let it sit overnight until it is set.
 Once the fudge has set, lift it out of the pan using the foil. Peel the foil away from the fudge, and use a knife to cut it into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces to serve.Store any leftover fudge in an airtight container, and keep it in the refrigerator. It should stay fresh for up to a month.
Before you eat any refrigerated fudge, it’s a good idea to let it sit out for 15 to 30 minutes to bring it to room temperature first.

