 Lightly massage the bruise and the area around it and it will get the blood flowing, in return, get the bruise to fade. Healthy blood carries chemicals that will clean up your bruise, so stimulate blood flow to get rid of it quickly. Be gentle -- you do not need to cause pain, just stimulation to encourage blood flow.


Try using a toothbrush or comb to massage the bruise. Take a stiff, unused toothbrush and just gently massage the bruise with a circular motions.
Massage your bruise with a rice-filled sock: Fill a clean sock with 3-4 cups of uncooked rice and microwave for 1-2 minutes or until it is warm to the touch. Now press the sock firmly against the bruise, massaging it with heat and gentle motions to stimulate blood flow.
 These can make your blood "thinner" and increase the tendency to bleed into injured tissues. You should never stop taking a prescription medication without first checking with your physician, however


Take acetaminophen or ibuprofen for pain relief instead of aspirin. Read the label for the recommended dose.
 Using a compress soaked in an infusion (like a tea) of Arnica, Daisy (like the ones you see in your backyard), or Comfrey, and Witch Hazel can help the bruise heal faster.


Pour boiling water over the loose leaves/flowers and let steep for about 5-10 minutes. Dip the compress (small towel, piece of cloth, or cotton) in the infusion and gently wring it out. Add some Witch Hazel. You can even place some of the leaves/flowers between the folds of the compress.
Hold it on the bruise or secure it with a loose bandage, scarf, bandana, etc. Keep it on for as long as you can, resoaking & gently wringing it out as often as necessary.
If you do not have any Arnica, Daisy, or Comfrey available, using plain Witch Hazel also works, just not as fast.
 Vitamin K is known to help reduce bruising when applied topically or taken orally. Vitamin K is a known requirement for proper blood clotting.


Check with your physician before taking any oral medication. Not all people can absorb Vitamin K, and frequent easy bruising should be evaluated by a physician.
 Vinegar kills bacteria and increases blood flow to the skin's surface. Crush several vitamin c pills and add enough white vinegar to make a thin paste. Apply to your bruise like you would apply regular skin lotion.
 This method doesn't get rid of bruises, but it does make for a quick cover up. You will need a yellow concealer (to correct the purple parts of the bruise), a green concealer (to correct the red parts of the bruise), regular concealer (optional), and foundation. First, apply the yellow concealer directly on the bruise and pat it on gently. Now pat on the green concealer around the edges of the bruise to correct the redness. Once that's all done, you can either apply regular concealer and/or foundation to it to give your skin a natural look.
 Any bruise you cannot account for, any bruise that is weeping or seeping fluid, any very large or extensive bruise should be seen by a physician. These can be indicators of a more serious or life-threatening condition.

