 This gland is part of the brain and is located at the bottom aspect of the brain below the hypothalamus. The communication between the master gland and the other endocrine glands that are spread along the body organs is done via special mechanisms that are called feedback mechanisms.;
, The endocrine glands secrete special types of organic molecules that are called hormones. These molecules are the mediators of communication between the pituitary gland and the other endocrine glands. The feedback mechanism depends on the concentration of the individual hormone in the blood.
 The amount of secreted hormone by the pituitary gland will dictate the amount of hormone that is secreted by the target endocrine gland. For example, the hormone thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) is secreted by the pituitary gland and it functions to stimulate the secretion of the thyroid hormone by the thyroid gland.
 After the concentration of the thyroid hormone is high enough the feedback loop starts to work. In this case the excess amount of the TH in the blood exerts a negative feedback signaling the pituitary gland to decrease its secretion of the TSH. This in turn decreases the amount of the TSH that is secreted by the pituitary gland. This mechanism ensures that the body maintains a state of equilibrium and homeostasis.
 The feedback mechanism that applies to all hormones of the glands in the body has two exceptions to this rule. One is the hormone aldosterone and the other is the hormone vasopressin. The secretion of these two hormones to the blood circulation is regulated by different mechanism than the normal feedback mechanism typical of the other endocrine glands in the body.
 This is so due to the unique function of these two hormones in the body. Both of these hormones have an effect on the blood volume and in particular they have direct effect on the amount of water in the body.
 The reverse is observed when there is a state of hypovolemia or low blood volume in the arteries. The hormone aldosterone is usually secreted by the adrenal cortex in response to decreased blood volume or in the case of hyponatremia.
 The same effect is observed with the secretion of the hormone vasopressin. This hormone is usually secreted by the pituitary gland from its posterior part.
 The secretion of hormones by the pituitary gland is its self regulated by the hypothalamus.
