 Plug the memory stick into any USB port on the computer.;
, Once the computer recognizes the device it will appear on the desktop.


If the memory stick does not appear, try unplugging and replugging it in or using a different USB port on the computer. If you have many other USB devices connected, try unplugging ones that are not currently in use.
 Here you can view all of the files stored on the device. You can make a new folder by selecting “File > New Folder” from the menu bar. Click and drag items to move them around within the memory stick.


It is not necessary to open the memory stick in Finder prior to transferring files, but doing so can make organizing the files much easier.
 Click and drag files you want to transfer to the stick. When you release the mouse, the files will be copied to the destination. A progress bar will appear to indicate a time estimate for the transfer.


You can click and drag the cursor to form a box and highlight multiple files, then click and drag any of the selected files to copy them simultaneously. You can also press ⌘ Cmd + click to select multiple files that are not next to each other.
By default, drag and drop will copy files between drives and move files within the same drive. That is, dragging to or from the memory stick will "copy", but dragging between folders on the computer will "move".
 Once the progress bar fills it will disappear, indicating that the transfer is finished.


If there is not enough space on your memory stick, you will receive an error. If this happens, you can delete items on the memory stick to make more space. Click and drag items to the trash, then go to to the “Finder” menu and select “Empty Trash”. The items will not be fully removed from the memory stick until you empty the trash.
 When you are finished transferring files, you must eject the drive before physically removing it to prevent errors. Click and drag the memory stick’s desktop icon to the trash. When the cursor is hovering over the trash icon, it will change to display the eject symbol. Release and after a moment the icon will disappear from the desktop. It is now safe to unplug the drive from the USB port.


Alternatively, you can press Ctrl + click on the drive’s desktop icon and select “Eject” from the menu that appears.
 Plug the memory stick into any USB port on the computer.
 Once the computer recognizes the device it will appear on the desktop.


If the memory stick does not appear, try unplugging and replugging it in or using a different USB port on the computer. If you have many other USB devices connected, try unplugging ones that are not currently in use.
 Double-click the desktop icon to view its files in the Finder. You can also open the Finder first and select the drive from the list of connected devices. Here you can view all of the files that are stored on your memory stick.
 Click and drag the files you want to copy from the memory stick to the desired location on your computer. Any files will be copied upon releasing the mouse button.


Alternately, you can use copy or cut/paste to move files. This can be done by selecting the the files you want to move/copy and pressing ⌘ Cmd + C (copy) (or ⌘ Cmd + X (cut). Next select the folder or area to which you want to paste the files, and press ⌘ Cmd + V.
By default, drag and drop will copy files between drives and move files within the same drive. That is, dragging to or from the memory stick will copy, but dragging between folders on the computer will move.
 When you are finished transferring files, you must eject the drive before physically removing it to prevent errors. Click and drag the memory stick’s desktop icon to the trash. When the cursor is hovering over the trash icon, it will change to display the eject symbol. Release and after a moment the icon will disappear from the desktop. It is now safe to unplug the drive from the USB port.


Alternatively, you can press Ctrl + click on the drive’s desktop icon and select “Eject” from the menu that appears.

