 Being open and honest with your partner about your reasons for emotionally withholding can make them understand what is going on. Doing so will likely strengthen the relationship because they no longer have to wonder what the problem is. Telling your partner the problem can help you find a solution together.


You can start the conversation by saying, “I really care about you and I realize that I may not be showing you the way you need to be shown. I struggle with putting my emotions out there, but I would like to make this work with you.” Tell your partner that you want to try and work on ways you can do it together., One way to overcome emotional withholding is to consider "What's the worst that can happen?". Often, partners withhold because of fear. They fear being judged, ridiculed, misunderstood, or rejected by their partners. As a result, desires, opinions, and emotions are kept inside and locked away with a key. However, all this repression does is create a gaping chasm between you and your partner.


Make a list of some of your biggest worries relating to expressing and sharing your emotions. Then, write out the worst possible outcome if you did express and share. Perhaps realizing that none of these outcomes are life-or-death or all that serious can help you feel more comfortable sharing.
For instance, you might fear that telling your partner how much you really care about them puts you at a disadvantage. They can use your love against you, or worse, leave you in spite of your feelings. However, another possible outcome is that the relationship ends or something tragic happens to your partner and they never really knew your true feelings. Which alternative feels worse to you?

, Many people fear vulnerability. Yet, when you recognize what's on the other side of vulnerability, it becomes more appealing. When you are vulnerable you are truly alive. It's what being human is all about. Take baby steps to prove the truth of this.Leave a little note in your partner's lunch or in a pocket for them to find. You don't have to express your deepest feelings, but share something a bit more revealing than usual. You might simply write, "I can't wait to see you this evening" when you usually don't show much excitement regarding your partner's presence. Wait and see how they react to this. More than likely, they will be pleased. And, so will you. Being vulnerable feels good.
Once you complete a small step like this, move on to taking more and more acts of vulnerability until you slowly feel more comfortable being open and expressive.
 If your partner gives you more love and affection than you are able to return at the moment, ask them to ease up until you are able to return the favor. This doesn't mean telling them to stop loving you, but it may mean requesting that they match your affection for a time until you feel more comfortable. This helps create a balanced give-and-take in the relationship and prevents either partner from becoming resentful.