 In order to assemble this bag, you must determine several things:


The size of inner tube that the tire requires. This is often printed on the side of the inner tube or on the side of the tire itself. If you cannot find the size of the inner tube, consult your owner’s manual or manufacturer’s website.
The type of valve your tube uses. This is either a Schrader valve or a Presta valve. Schrader valves are found on less expensive or older bikes, while Presta valves are often found on high end racing bikes. A Schrader valve is wider, and looks like the valve found on a car tire, while the Presta valve is much skinnier. The easiest way to determine what valve your inner tube uses is to consult your owner’s manual or manufacturer’s website. If you cannot find this information, ask a local bike shop employee.

This information is critical in selecting the bike pump you will bring, because if the valve of the pump does not correspond to the valve of the tire, it will be impossible to inflate the inner tube.


The size of wrench that is used to loosen the 4 nuts that hold your bicycle wheel’s axle in the frame. The measurements of these nuts can be found in the owner’s manual or manufacturer’s website. If you cannot find this information, a simple solution is to test out wrenches on the bolt until you find a wrench that is a snug fit to the nut.

It is recommended that you bring a set of wrenches, ensuring you will have the right tools for the job.
Make sure that if your bike uses metric nuts, you bring a metric set of wrenches and vice versa.
A wrench is not necessary if both wheels are equipped with quick release levers.

;
, This is done easiest with the bike resting upside down, balanced on the seat and the handlebars.
 This is done by pushing the narrow end of the tire lever between the tire and the rim, and then using the lever to lift the edge of the tire over the rim.


Caution: Be sure to remove the dust cover from the valve stem, and use extra care when removing the valve stem from the rim.
, This makes it easier to fit the tube into the tire.
 Without practice, this may be difficult to get the entire tire around the rim. Use the tire lever to assist you.


If you are having a great deal of difficulty, ask a fellow biker, as having an extra set of hands can make this task much easier.
