 A laser level is a device that emits a laser beam from a stable point. Simply align the laser level in such a way that it draws a steady line straight across the wall and along the first line you drew.As you proceed down the wall toward progressively lower lines, you’ll have to adjust the laser level accordingly.
You can get a laser level at your local hardware store. They can be quite affordable, though a range of prices exist. More functional laser levels will be more expensive, and more basic levels will be less expensive.
Tripod-mounted laser levels will rotate from a central axis across a given line that you select. Stationary laser levels must be held or attached to a wall or other surface and manually set at the height you wish to draw straight across.
 Guided by the laser level, apply a long strip of painter’s tape all the way across the room. The bottom edge of the tape should touch the first (highest) line your laser traces across your wall.Once you’re done, adjust your laser level so that it traces a line straight across your wall consistent with the second line in the column of horizontally-oriented lines you made using the cardboard square.
Instead of applying the bottom edge of this piece of tape to the laser line, though, attach the tape along the line so that its top edge touches it. Run the tape all the way across the wall just as you did with the first strip of tape.
Continue down the column in this way, placing your painter’s tape directly above, then directly below the laser lines you trace across the wall.
 When you’re finished applying the tape, you’ll have an alternating sequence of thin and wide strips on your wall. Paint the wider strips using a roller brush in the same way you painted the wall the first time. Be careful not to paint beyond the boundary marked by the painter’s tape.When your paint is still wet, strip off the painter’s tape. This prevents potential cracking or peeling that might occur if you strip the tape off when the paint is dry.

