 The first thing you'll want to do when making a no-sew pet bed is create your covering. To start, you'll need at least two pieces of fleece. You can repurpose an old fleece blanket or purchase fleece at a local craft store.


The amount of fleece depends on the size of the bed you're creating. You want to make sure the fleece is big enough for your dog or cat to sleep on comfortably. You have the option of stuffing your bed with an old pillow or using old clothing or scraps of fabric as stuffing. If you're using a pillow, make sure the fleece is big enough to cover the pillow.
You should also take into the account the size of your pet. A comfortable pet bed should be big enough for your pet to lie down and stretch out in the bed. It may be a good idea to measure your pet when she's stretched out somewhere. Measure the length and height of your pet when she's stretched out, and aim to have your bed a little bigger than that. For example, if your cat is about a foot long and six inches high when stretched out, you could make a bed that's 15 by 10 inches.
You will be slicing the sides of the fleece into strips and tying them together instead of sewing. Therefore, consider the dimensions you want for your finished bed. Get 4 to 6 more inches of fleece than these dimensions. For example, if you want a bed that's 3 feet by 2 feet, get a block of fleece that measures 3'4" by 2'4".;
, Once you've selected your fleece, you can begin to assemble your bed. To start, lay once piece of fleece out on the floor. Cut it into a rectangular shape, 4 to 6 inches bigger than you want the actual bed. Remember, add 4 to 6 inches to both the height and width of the bed. Place this piece of fleece on top of your other fleece. Cut the other piece of fleece into roughly the same size and shape., Once you have your fleece cut into rectangles, you can begin trimming the sides of the fleece into strips. Remember, you'll be tying the strips together instead of sewing in order to assemble the blanket.


Move around the sides of the fleece, cutting out strips of fabric 4 inches long and about 1.5 inches apart from one another.Depending on the thickness of your fabric, you may need sewing scissors. Regular craft scissors may not work to cut through fleece fabric.
 You will need to create four corners for your bed. To do so, cut out 4 by 4 inch squares on each corner of your rectangle.To close the corners, take both the bottom on top fringe on one side of the corner. Then, take the bottom and top fringe on the other side. Tie these four fringes together in a single knot. This will close off the corners, preventing stuffing from leaking out later on., Once you have the strips cut out and the corners assembled, begin tying the strips together. This creates the covering of your bed. Double-knot the bottom and top strips together one-by-one. Leave one side of the bed untied. You'll need to keep this side opened to stuff your bed or slip a pillow inside.