 Find an adult that you trust, such as your mom, aunt or older sister, about your concerns. Your body is probably undergoing other changes, too, that you might want to talk about. It may help to talk with a woman who has experience wearing a bra, rather than talking with your dad. Start off by saying that you want to talk, and be positive with the conversation. Assure them that nothing is wrong, but that you have some questions about your body and about growing up.You can start things off with a question like, “When did you first wear a bra?”

, When talking with this person, ask them to keep the conversation private. Some parents or other adults may be excited for you to start puberty and to develop into a woman. But this can be potentially embarrassing for you. Ask your trusted adult to not make announcements to other people about how you’re growing up.
 If you have a pesky little brother or sister, they might not realize that there should be boundaries. If you feel embarrassed about wearing a bra, ask your trusted adult to make sure your siblings don’t tease you. If you don’t feel comfortable talking to your parents about this, your trusted adult can say something for you.
 Check out a book from the library about puberty for girls and find out more about what’s happening with your body. You’ll find out that it’s very natural to grow breasts, even if it’s happening a little earlier for you than for your friends.


If you don’t want to check out the book from the library, ask your mom if she will buy one for you.
There are also some great websites about puberty for girls, which can answer a lot of questions that you might have about your body. These include KidsHealth.org,BeingGirl.com,and GirlsHealth.gov., Body image is how a person sees herself or himself and the feelings you have about your body and self.Images you see in advertising, movies, magazines, and on TV can be distorted, leading you to think about what’s a normal body. But the truth is that every girl and woman is shaped differently and there is no single perfect body.


There are some good websites that talk about body image and the media, such as MediaSmarts.caand KidsHealth.org., You might find it helpful to talk with your doctor about your body. You can ask questions in private and they will give you honest answers without judging you or making you feel self-conscious.

