 There are plenty of options for where you choose to host your party: at home, at a restaurant, at a ballroom. Keep in mind both the guest count and budget when deciding where to host the event.


House parties are more cozy and intimate, and definitely cost a lot less. You can try hosting a backyard brunch, or a formal dinner with a few of her closest family and friends.
Many restaurants accept reservations for large parties, and some even have "party rooms" available to rent. Determine the headcount for the party and call your mom's favorite restaurant to ask about reservations and space available to accommodate your party.
The price of ballroom rentals varies greatly based on location. For example, your local ballroom may be cheaper than a ballroom at a hotel. Also, some don't allow outside food or drinks so shop around to determine what fits your budget and your needs.
 Consider who your mom would enjoy sharing her special day with, and determine whether the party will be a surprise or not.


You can invite guests in many ways including online (Evite), by printed paper invitations, or just through word of mouth.
Remember to keep the number of guests appropriate to the size of the venue.
 The food menu is not only determined by the time of day, but also by your mom's personal taste. Be sure to serve your mom's favorite dishes to show that you have put thought into the planning process.


If you're unsure what your mom's favorite dishes are, ask others who are close to her or ask her months in advance. Search for recipes online if you're anxious about preparing a dish.
Homemade isn't always better. Don't feel bad about purchasing pre-made food, especially if your mother enjoys it. You can always purchase from a grocery store or order take-out from her favorite restaurant.
Catering is also an option. The cost of catering varies greatly depending on the type of food and the company. Most caterers charge by the person at either a fixed priced per dish, or tiered pricing (where the smaller the party the more the item costs).On top of this, caterers may also charge taxes and travel fees.
 Not only do Mother's Day games help you to entertain guests, but it also helps to build great memories for mom on her special day.


Put on a play or skit for your mom. Have family members reenact memories that are special to your mom, or even tell her life's story. Not only is it fun and entertaining, but she'll be thrilled to have a play hosted in her honor.
Play a version of "The Dating Game" where pairs of mothers and daughters (or sons) have to answer questions about each other, and determine which team can get the most answers correct., Does your mother prefer flowers and butterflies or football and motorcycles? Determine her interests in order to put together a party that reflects who she is, and what she enjoys. The theme will have an impact on everything from the decorations to the activities.


For example, a tea party themed brunch might be appropriate to celebrate your mother. Decorate with centerpieces and flowers, and serve various teas and finger foods to keep mom and guests satisfied.Try a garden inspired luncheon complete with flower centerpieces, fresh fruit, and mimosas., As the party gets underway, toast your mother to show her that this is her special day. Remind her why she deserves to be honored. Don't be cliche in reminding her of all of her wonderful attributes; instead, dig deep and think of all the wonderful things she has done for you.


For example, think of all of the macaroni necklaces she had to wear over the years. Think of how many times she had to drag herself out of bed on a Saturday morning for ballet practice. Remind her that she is deserving of all the praise on this day.
If you have a gift for words or music, sometimes writing a poem or song can help to better get across these sentiments.Say "I love you." Very simple, but very effective.

