 A sleeping bag is one of the best way to ensure you get the rest you need while camping. However there are some things to consider when choosing a sleeping bag, including the climate and forecast of the area where you're camping, whether you're hot- or cold-natured, and the amount of padding or waterproofing it provides. You don't want to be camping in a really cold or wet area without a sufficient sleeping bag.If you're planning a winter camping trip in a cold climate, make sure your sleeping bag is rated for the degree range you're going to be facing (-40 degrees, for instance). Some sleeping bags are rated for a lower temp than they'll actually stand up to, so it's best to choose a sleeping bag with a rating of at least 10 degrees below what you'll be facing.If you're camping in a really wet or rainy place, you'll want to make sure your sleeping bag and tent are waterproof, not just water-resistant. Water-resistant materials only keep out the water to a certain point. Waterproof materials should keep you dry.
A sleeping bag with hydrophobic down is the best at keeping you warm in wet conditions.The "mummy-style" sleeping bag, or a sleeping bag that tapers at the end, is the best choice for staying warm, as it isn't as spacious as a rectangular sleeping bag, and thus is easier to keep warm with body heat.
 Sticks and stones can make for a very unpleasant sleep when camping. You'll want to go over the area carefully, and remove all debris. Even the tiniest twig or pebble can disturb some people's sleep. You may want to choose an area that is layered in pine needles for extra cushion., Cushioning such as sleeping mats or a cot can help you get good rest, as it will keep you from having to lie directly on the cold, hard ground. Sleeping platforms such as inflatable pads or foam pads often provide the support you need., Using a pillow will help to keep your upper body in alignment when you are sleeping, and it may also help to prevent pain in your neck and back from undue pressure.A pillow will also help your sleeping bag feel closer to home and provide cushion and support for your neck and head while you sleep. With all the logistics that sometimes go into camping, it can be easy to forget your pillow, but if you want a good night's rest while camping, you'll have it on hand.If you do forget your pillow, try rolling up some clothing or other soft materials to use as a pillow.