 Obviously, if it's in a house, you can be more elaborate than if it is at the beach.
 If you have a mature 12 year old girl, you probably don't want to have a 'My Little Pony' cake., Do they like My Little Pony or TMNT, or maybe it's their 50th (Black Balloon birthday)., There are many types of health problems that may require you to make a different kind of cake than you'd think - gluten intolerance, food allergies, diabetes, lactose intolerance, and so forth. You'll need to take this into consideration when making and preparing the cake, and make sure that there's never any cross-contamination with allergens and the cake ingredients.

There are also different eating styles that may or may not be due to health problems. Some people are vegetarian or vegan, and these styles will impact how you have to make the cake.
You may feel like you're being impolite by asking about the person's health problems. However, it's not a big deal. A simple, "Do you have any special dietary needs?" is all that it takes.
 If you are not talented at making or decorating cakes, consider asking for help from somebody who knows their way around cake decoration. Additionally, you may have to turn down a job offer. For example, if you don't know how to make gluten-free cakes, you may have to tell the person requesting the cake that you don't know how to bake gluten-free., If the recipient is planning to share it out, it is important to know how many people you are baking for. You should also let the recipient know if the cake will be suitable for guests with certain dietary needs., There are plenty of types of cakes out there. There are layer cakes, ice cream cakes., You don't want to be in the middle of the process and realize you are missing the eggs and the milk.,, There are many, many kinds of decorations a cake can have. Cakes can simply be frosted, or they can use fondants, or they can have details made with piping bags, or just have simple cake toppers. Here are a few types of decorations to consider.

Flowers made from icing
Writing on the cake

,,,, Cakes made with butter will most likely last less than oil-based cakes., It should last for about week., Plastic wrap is not needed to store a frosted cake as the frosting is almost as a shield for the cake; it protects it from any air that floats like dust, pet hair, fuzz, and bacteria. Also, plastic wrap would mess up the frosting and mix together with the other frosting colors. Store your cake in a cake-keeper or flip a large bowl and cover it with that. It can last for about 4-5 days.

If your frosting includes heavy cream (whipped cream topping) or a fruit filling like strawberry it must stay in the fridge in order to stay off from bacteria.
 Sliced cakes are a little difficult to store and can be tricky, however it is possible. Remember as soon as you slice a cake, all the moisture leaves and it starts to become stale and hard. Try covering the cake with plastic wrap, especially the edges, to prevent that from happening. If you can, try applying frosting over the edges to protect any moisture from leaving. Sliced cake does not last for long, usually about 3-4 days., It doesn't matter if your cake is frosted, not frosted, sliced, and/or not sliced refrigerating is one of the best ways to store a birthday cake. It is recommended to do this during the hot seasons like spring or summer because a lot of heat and moisture can cause bacteria. For a cake that is not frosted, cover it well with plastic wrap. For a cake that is frosted, freeze the cake for about 15 minutes to let the frosting become a bit stiff. Your cake can last for about a week. When rooming your cake from the fridge, have it sit for about 10 minutes with room temperature or else it will be dry and dull. ., If you want your cake to last longer than a week, freeze it. A well-covered cake that is stored properly can last for nearly a month. When removing your cake from the freezer, have it thaw using room temperature.