 Any body of water can have hazards associated with it, and it is important to keep track of your surroundings. If you do accidentally enter an aquatic environment keep these things in mind.


Stay calm. Suddenly falling into water will be a bit jarring, make sure you stay calm. Panicking will work against you restoring yourself to dry land.
Ask for assistance. Have someone throw you a float, a rope, or any assistive device available.
Tread water until you make it to the edge of the pool. (If you are not sure how to tread water try the instructions below.) When you reach the edge pull yourself out, or ask for assistance. If you fell into a lake or river tread water until you can stand in the shallows. Barring that, have someone throw you a float, and then assist you in recovering your position on the dock or boat.;
, One of the best ways to avoid getting into trouble is to swim with other people. This applies to all environments, either at home or in natural bodies of water. Swimming with companions allows for a much faster response rate if anyone gets into trouble.
 Be sure to keep track of everyone you are swimming with. If someone disappears they may need assistance; you should be ready to help as effectively as possible.
 Children can easily get into a situation they cannot get out of, so be sure to keep close watch over children when near water., Make sure that weak swimmers are provided with flotation devices. It is also important to know if any of your companions have a seizure disorder. A seizure while in the water can be very dangerous, and greatly increase the possibility of drowning.
 Be sure that anyone swimming is sober as the consumption of alcohol is a major risk factor in drownings. If you plan on consuming alcohol near a body of water take precautions to ensure safety such as wearing a life jacket or other appropriate flotation devices.
 Never dive into unfamiliar water. Light refracting through water can distort the location or appearance of rocks or shallow areas which can be serious hazards while diving. Always check on local conditions, high running water, riptides, and cold temperatures can be hazardous to the strongest swimmers.