 Try to secure at least three to six references; four from your professional circle and two personal references. However, if you have a lot of work experience, you may want to simply fill your reference page with professional references.
 Your most recent employer should be your first choice, so long as you left on good terms. Potential new employers will often ask to contact your last job because they want to obtain the most recent and up-to date information about you. You can also choose referees from previous jobs within the last three years. Do not give a professional reference that you have not contacted within the last five years; a potential new employer might look at this reference as less relevant.Professional referees can also include anyone who knows you in a work context. Coworkers and people you worked closely on projects with can also be used as professional referees.
 If you have been unemployed for awhile, you can give the name of your most recent employer, even if that was up to five years ago. Professional referees also include people you have had any professional relationship with including professors, teachers, and youth group leaders.


The longer your referee has known you the better; a period of over a year can be more favorable in the eyes of potential employers.
 If you are a student but you also have recent work experience, then give the name of your previous employer first. In addition, or if you don’t have any recent work experience, give a professor’s name with whom you have a good relationship with and who has known you for the longest. Education is still a professional, working context and will look good on your reference page.


You can also give the names of anyone else at your university that you have a working relationship with. For example, if you have done any voluntary work, give the name of your Volunteer Placement Manager; if you have written for the University Newspaper, give the name of your Newspaper Editor.
 If you have been self employed for the previous five years and have now decided to apply for a job working for someone else, then you may not have the name of a recent manager or supervisor to give as a reference. In this case you should use your current or previous clients.Try to choose the clients you have known the longest and have the best relationship with.
 A personal referee is someone who knows you outside of a work context. This can include your family doctor, family solicitor or someone with a professional occupation that you have known for over two years. In these cases prospective new employers are looking to confirm that you are who you say you are.


If you have four professional referees you may choose not to include a personal referee. If you have three or less professional referees then make sure you include a personal referee who can vouch for you.

