 The body doesn't really need these. There are good and "bad" carbs. Bad carbs cause spikes in blood sugar. The key is choosing carbs that are high in fiber so the body absorbs them more slowly. Avoid carbs that are low in fiber.


Complex carbs are far better for you than refined or processed carbs. Foods with complex carbs include green vegetables, whole grains, quinoa, oatmeal, and popcorn.Avoid white foods. That's one of the best ways to figure out which carbs are in the "bad" category. Rice, potatoes, and white bread are processed, refined carbs that are bad for you. Eliminate them, and you will see weight loss fast.
Eat a lot of green vegetables. Many diets allow you to eat as many of these as you want. They're healthy for you, they fill you up, and they are low in calories. Broccoli, kale, and green beans are great choices. Anything green, fresh, and a vegetable is likely a "good" carb.;
, Water is good for you, period. It will rev up your metabolism, so drink it constantly throughout the day. This is one of the top secrets embraced by people who are able to lose weight fast. Think of metabolism as being like a furnace. You need to keep the furnace burning to lose weight.Eight glasses of water a day will spark faster weight loss. People who drink sugary sodas find it hard to lose weight. Water is a much better choice.
If you are sick of water, you can drink green tea instead. Like water, it will reduce your appetite, and it is sugar-free and low in calories.
 It's true. Many studies have found that people who eat breakfast are more likely to keep weight off. So skipping an early meal can actually backfire later.


You'll likely want to eat less later in the day if you eat breakfast.
Eat the right breakfast, though. Steel-cut oats, fresh fruit, or even eggs can keep you full. The worst choice: Sugary breakfast cereals in boxes, which are basically empty calories., This one is very important. People who keep track of what they eat lose more. You may discover that you eat more than you thought you did. Writing down what you actually eat every day can help you track calories and monitor what you're really putting into your body., Some foods that you might think are healthy, aren't. Use labels. Even better, avoid things in cans and packages, and go for fresh. And don't build your diet around juice. A lot of people mistakenly think fruit juice will help you lose weight. It can be loaded with sugar that will sabotage your weight loss.


If you must have juice, it's better to choose a homemade, green juice built largely from vegetables (remember, though, that even carrots and sweet corn can be loaded with natural sugar. Green vegetables are better.)
Fresh fruit has fiber and other nutrients that juice does not. If you are craving fruit, try buying some fresh fruit instead.
 Jalapeno and cayenne peppers may slightly boost your body's metabolism. They can be added to drinks or solid foods to give your weight loss a needed boost.


Studies have found that chili peppers increase what is called "brown fat." The more brown fat you have, the more weight you are likely to lose. Capsaicin is a compound found in hot peppers that increases adrenaline., This keeps your metabolism burning. It's a myth that you will lose weight and keep it off by starving yourself or confining your meals to one per day. It's better to eat less, more often.


Experts suggest eating small meals or snacks every three to four hours to keep your weight loss moving., You're likely using less energy at night, so eating then is a bad idea. If you eat late at night - and especially if you eat the wrong things at that time - expect to put on the pounds fast and sabotage any attempts at weight loss., It's not just calories. The problem with alcohol is it depresses your central nervous system, which means you will lose less weight. You also might be more likely to binge on your favorite comfort foods when under the influence.Alcohol consists of "empty calories." That means it has no nutritional value.
The other problem with drinking a lot of alcohol is that the body will burn it off first. So you're wasting energy that otherwise might have burned off fat. 