 Having a healthy mindset about food starts with being empowered by the knowledge of healthy eating. Not only does it help to know what foods do your body good and how much you should be eating per day to stay healthy, but the right foods can actually affect your mood and sense of well-being.A good place to start is to avoid skipping meals. Skipping meals can trigger you to binge eat because you are hungry, which can lead to feeling guilty and the desire to purge.Carry snacks with you that are high in protein and low in processed sugars, like carrots or celery with peanut butter, trail mix, nuts, cheese sticks, and so on.

Eat a balanced diet for each meal consisting of lean protein (fish, nuts), fruit (apples), and whole grains (oats, barley), as well as getting plenty of water.;
, Seeing your body as beautiful is important for preventing an eating disorder like bulimia. It is important to understand that your body is beautiful no matter what, and that you are valuable enough to eat good food. Cultivate a positive view of yourself by repeating the truth about your body.Write down a list of things you like about your body. Write each thing on a post it note and stick it around your house where you can see it every day, repeating each one out loud when you see it.
Give yourself credit and encouragement on a daily basis, such as forgiving yourself when you make mistakes or have negative thoughts about your body.When you do a good job, reward yourself by doing something you enjoy; however, you should not use food as a reward because it reinforces a false belief that food leads to either acceptance or rejection.Pay close attention to your hygiene and wear clothes that make you feel good when you look in the mirror.Develop a mantra such as, “I am worth it,” or “I am beautiful.” Repeat these mantras to yourself in order to boost your self esteem.
 To help ensure that you have high self-esteem, first understand that low self-esteem often comes from experiencing a childhood trauma and that people with low self-esteem tend to see the world as a hostile place. To combat low self-esteem, there are many things you can do. Do things to think positively, such as making lists of your strengths, achievements, and things you admire about yourself. Read over these lists on a regular basis.
Do more things that you enjoy.
 Look for people in your life who can contribute to raising your self-esteem, such as others who have conquered a difficulty with their body image. Such people can give you encouragement when you are tempted to feel bad about yourself.Look for people in your community to build relationships with, or start following celebrities with positive messages on social media, like Jessica Alba or Jennifer Lawrence.
 Finding a balance among school, work, rest, exercise, and social activities is important for feeling happy and maintaining a positive view of yourself. After all, if you are stressed and driving yourself to catch up with different activities, you’re probably not being very nice to yourself. Take a moment to rework your schedule. For example, if you work long hours and don’t get to do things you enjoy very often, talk to your boss or find a job with a better schedule.
If school is stressing you out, take more breaks. Start by dedicating one day a week (like Saturday) to not studying or thinking about your studies.
Make sure you get enough sleep each night. For teenagers ages 14 to 17, eight to 10 hours are needed; for adults 18 and up, seven to nine hours are necessary., Knowing what to look for in yourself can help you determine if you need to seek help. For example, ask yourself questions to determine what your attitude towards food is. If it is a negative attitude that centers on guilt and shame for eating, you may be experiencing the beginnings of bulimia.Ask yourself:


Do I feel guilty after I eat?
Do I throw up or take laxatives to keep from gaining weight?
Do I eat until I feel ill on purpose?
Am I obsessed with losing weight and with what I eat?
Am I afraid I won’t be able to stop eating after I start?

, Demonstrate what a healthy and balanced lifestyle looks like. Show anyone in your life who may have bulimic tendencies that it’s ok to look different from the images the media pushes. Show them how to have a balanced lifestyle and a balanced diet, as well as be available for them to talk to.Talk about yourself in positive ways to teach others how to do the same.Try saying something like, "I have a lot of really great friends who tell me how much they like my personality."
Challenge the media’s messages about body image by ripping pages out of magazines that make you feel bad about your body, or talking out loud to ads on TV and the internet that do the same.
 In order to be a strong role model, you need to stay approachable. One way to do this is to not be judgmental of others. If someone is struggling with bulimia, they will not respond well to being judged. Instead, be encouraging and open to people discussing negative things in their lives.


To avoid judging those who might have bulimia, offer a compliment before and after you express concern for their well being. In other words, accompany any criticism with 2 compliments.
 Do your part to teach others how to respect themselves. For example, demonstrate self-respect by showing self-care and talking about yourself with respect.Parents are often the best role models because children look up to them from childhood, so if you are a parent, try to demonstrate love of yourself to your children.For example, setting boundaries with your kids can teach them to respect you, which in turn teaches them to respect themselves.
You can also teach self-respect by displaying respect to yourself. When someone asks you to do something that you don't want to do, refuse to give in to peer pressure by saying no.
 You can help prevent full-blown bulimia by recognizing the signs of it in others. You will see someone with warning signs of bulimia eating a large amount of food in one sitting, going to the bathroom frequently after meals, wanting to take laxatives, and so on.Other things to look for include a lot of talking about food and their body, expressing a desire to lose weight right after a meal, withdrawal from friends and events, and scheduling life around trips to the bathroom. Someone who is bulimic may have deteriorating oral health due to the acid in their vomit, which affects their teeth and gums.
 If you see symptoms of bulimia in someone, including evidence of binging like an excessive amount of food wrappers lying around, ask that person to sit down and talk with you. Be very gentle and approachable so that they don’t feel judged. Be concerned yet direct.Encourage the person to seek professional help, and offer to assist them in this endeavor.
Say something to the effect of, "I love you so much, and I want to make sure your body stays healthy. Why don't we go get a checkup to see what the doctor says about your health?"

, Whether you feel like you might be struggling with an eating disorder or you spot someone with an eating disorder, talking to someone else can help you decide what to do. Choose an adult from your community who either knows you or the person, and ask them for advice.


This person may be your mother or father, a teacher, a school counselor, a peer if you are an adult, even just someone you look up to who has a reputation for being a good role model.
Be open to them suggesting that you (or the person you are trying to help) seek professional counseling.
 One you have identified the beginnings of bulimia in yourself or someone you know, finding a reliable and professional therapist can be a lot of help. It is good to talk about your struggle so that you don’t feel alone, and so that you can find practical things to do to overcome the bulimic mindset.Therapists can also offer strategies for battling the symptoms of bulimia. You can see a licensed clinical social worker (LCSW) or psychologist and they will be able to help. Look for therapists that have experience with eating disorders.
 You can help prevent bulimia by supporting organizations who work to eradicate the mindset that causes bulimia in society. Find local organizations you can donate money to, or volunteer your time at a local center.The National Eating Disorders Association is an organization you could support., Another way to figure out what to do if you might have bulimia or to help someone with an eating disorder is to talk to others who have struggled with bulimia and overcome it. Many people who have overcome an eating disorder are willing to talk to those struggling.


Talk to people in your place of business, church, or other social gatherings, or look online to find people among your social media friends and followers.
Remember to be sensitive and respectful. If someone has struggled but does not want to share from their experience for personal reasons, be prepared for this and respect their wishes.

