 There is a difference between a fluoride rinse and a mouthwash. Some mouthwashes do contain fluoride, but you should purchase a fluoride rinse over a general mouthwash if you want the fluoride benefits.Ask your dentist if there is a fluoride rinse that they recommend. They may also have fluoride rinse samples at their office.
Fluoride rinses and mouthwashes with fluoride added are found in most retailers that sell health and beauty products.
Fluoride rinses are available both as over the counter products and as prescriptions.
Check to make sure that the fluoride rinse that you’ve selected has been certified by a regulatory agency like the American Dental Association.;
, There are dozens of different fluoride rinses available over the counter and many will offer different added benefits to set them apart from others.


Some fluoride rinses are whitening. If you have sensitive teeth, you may want to avoid a whitening rinse since it can alter the sensitivity of your teeth.
If you avoid alcohol for personal, religious, or health reasons, you can select a rinse that is alcohol free. These rinses, like mouthwashes without alcohol, don’t have the same “sting” that many people experience with traditional rinses that have alcohol in them.
Rinses do come available in different flavors, though the majority are minty.
Some rinses will be breath freshening, much like a mouthwash. Look for odor neutralizers in the active ingredients list of the rinse. Often, the label will say that the rinse will freshen your breath if it contains odor neutralizers.Some common odor neutralizers are chlorine dioxide and zinc., It is possible to have too much fluoride. If you have fluoridated water, use fluoridated toothpaste, and use a fluoridated rinse you may be using too much fluoride. Too much fluoride can pose health risks.


Dental fluorosis is a condition caused by an excess of fluoride. It does not compromise your oral health or your tooth function, and is generally mild.
Dental fluorosis usually appears as small whitish flecks on your teeth. In more severe cases, it can turn your teeth brown and damage your enamel.Fluoride is not harmful in small amounts, but if you or your child swallows a significant amount of a fluoride rinse you should contact your local poison control or hospital.
 If you brush your teeth with a fluoridated toothpaste, you should not use a fluoride rinse immediately after. This will make the fluoridated toothpaste less effective by diluting it.After you brush your teeth, do not rinse with water or use a fluoride rinse. These will both remove the concentrated fluoride that the toothpaste has just applied to your teeth. You don't need to rinse your mouth out with water at all with a fluoride rinse.Your teeth need time to absorb the fluoride that has been applied to them so they can receive its tooth strengthening benefits. Dentists recommend that you do not eat or drink anything for at least twenty minutes after using a fluoride rinse.
 Read the directions on the back of the fluoride container to see if there are any special instructions. Your fluoride rinse should have a safety seal, if the seal is broken or damaged return the product to the store that you purchased it from and buy another one.


Children under the age of six shouldn’t use fluoride rinses because they may swallow it.Fluoride rinses are safe to use daily and for extended amounts of time. If you are prone to cavities, your dentist will most likely recommend that you use a fluoride rinse every day., You can also sip a small mouthful and hold it in your mouth., Some manufacturers may recommend swishing the rinse for up to a minute; check the packaging for directions.


It is best to use the rinse 30 minutes after eating or drinking.
 Do not rinse your mouth or gargle with water immediately after using the rinse. This will dilute the fluoride that the rinse has just left on your teeth and make it much less effective.
 Fluoride has been found to substantially prevent tooth decay. Fluoride has been added to drinking water across the world as a cost-effective way to prevent tooth decay.Fluoride prevents tooth decay by strengthening the enamel of your treat
Strong tooth enamel helps to prevent dental cavities, which are small holes that damage the structure of your teeth. They can be prevented through good oral hygiene.Exposing our children to fluoridated water helps them to maintain healthy teeth throughout their lifetime., This will vary depending on the country you are in. If you are receiving a healthy amount of fluoride from your drinking water, you may not need to use a fluoridated rinse.


If you receive your water through a municipal source, contact your local municipality and ask whether your water is fluoridated.
If you use a personal water source, like a well, there will not be fluoride added to your water. Fluoride occurs naturally in almost all water sources, but not in a level that is significant to your health. Unless your water source has a high amount of fluoride that is naturally occurring, you won't receive the same tooth strengthening benefits of fluoridated water.If your municipality does not fluoridate your water, consider asking that they begin doing so. Adding fluoride to water is a cost-effective and efficient way to protect your teeth without much investment on the municipalities’ part.If your municipal drinking water does not have fluoride added, ask the municipality to test the water to see how much fluoride is naturally occurring. It is possible to have too much fluoride, and your municipality should make this information known., Your dentist is your best source of information about oral hygiene and for personal dental recommendations. They are educated and licensed to give medical recommendations, including whether you should use a prescription or over the counter fluoride rinse.


Let your dentist know whether you use fluoridated toothpaste or get your water from a fluoridated drinking source. This will help them to gauge how much fluoride you are receiving from other sources.
During a dental exam, a dentist will examine your teeth for enamel damage and for cavities. If they feel that you are prone to cavities, they may recommend a fluoride rinse to strengthen your teeth.
You should consult your dentist to see if they think that you would benefit from a fluoride rinse before you begin to use one.
They can prescribe a fluoride rinse to you or give recommendations for an over the counter rinse to purchase.
 To protect your teeth, you need to follow good oral hygiene. If your teeth are unhealthy, a fluoride rinse is not going to be of much benefit to you.


Brush your teeth at least twice daily with a fluoridated toothpaste. Brushing your teeth regularly helps to remove plaque buildup. Plaque is damaging to teeth and is caused by the bacteria in our mouth.Use a toothbrush with soft bristles. Hard bristles can damage the enamel on your teeth and should be avoided. You can use either an electric or a manual toothbrush.
Floss daily or every other day. Flossing helps to remove plaque and food buildup from between your teeth where your toothbrush can’t reach. It is also important for healthy gums and to prevent gum diseases like gingivitis.Brush each of your teeth on all sides. Brushing your teeth should take you, on average, about two minutes.
 Fluoride is naturally occurring in water and is added to some oral hygiene products. If you are at a high risk of having cavities, ask your dentist about other ways that you can receive fluoride.


Some dentists will offer a fluoride treatment for individuals with a high risk for cavities. During this treatment, the dentist applies fluoride directly to your teeth with a gel, foam, or rinse.A dentist can also recommend a fluoride supplement, which comes in either a tablet, a lozenge, or in the form of a drop. Fluoride supplements are generally recommended for children that live in areas without fluoridated water.Most commercially sold toothpastes have fluoride added to them. You can check the ingredient label on most toothpastes to see if fluoride has been added.

