 If you already have a bachelor’s degree, you can complete additional requirements to obtain a teaching certification. Check to make sure your degree is recognized by the Texas High Education Coordinating Board. This board requires that the institution you attended is accredited by the U.S. Department of Education., Make sure the programs that appeal to you offer the appropriate training. In particular, decide which grades and types of courses you’d like to teach. These decisions will likely affect which certificate you need, and which program you should enroll in.If you intend to teach trade courses like welding or computer-aided drafting (CAD), you may not need a college degree. Look into securing specific certification necessary to teach these trade courses.
 Various institutions – including universities, community colleges, and even school districts – can prepare college graduates to earn their teaching certification. These alternative certification programs are approved by the state of Texas.Reach out to the nearest Texas Regional Education Service Center Headquarters for assistance finding a program that will work for you.
These service centers even host alternative certification programs themselves!, Ensure you meet the eligibility requirements by consulting the program’s administrators before you apply. Usually, these requirements will include some minimum skills, a minimum GPA from your undergraduate studies, and a demonstration that you are familiar with the content you hope to teach.Some requirements are state mandated and some are chosen by the programs.
Reach out to a program’s administrators if you’re curious about how strict certain requirements may be.
 Meet with program staff to help you determine the specific course of your training. This will include some sort of teaching experience in an internship-like context, tests, and other requirements. Ensure that you’re prepared for a teaching internship by taking the necessary courses and tests to qualify for an internship first.Usually, you will be trained for about a year before having the opportunity to begin working as a teaching intern with supervision and mentoring.
Meet with an advisor even before you begin your coursework, to ensure you’ll be eligible to begin your internship as quickly as the program allows.
 Once you’ve met the requirements of your program, you’ll receive an eligibility statement to begin working as a teaching intern. Apply online with the Texas Education Agency for a probationary certificate that will allow you to do so. Make a TEA login (TEAL) account, pay around $100 dollars in fees for the application and fingerprinting costs, and submit to a criminal background check.When setting up your TEAL account as a new user, select “Educator” as your “Organization Type.” The website will prompt you how to proceed., Locate and apply for a position at the grade level and in the subject area you hope to become certified in. Ask program staff about how to look for these sorts of positions. They will likely help you do so. A school that agrees to host you will assign you a mentor. You’ll also continue to be supervised by staff from your program.You'll work with many of the teachers and the principal of the school where you're teaching. They will report on your suitability for certification.
 Once you’ve completed all of your program’s requirements, they will be able to recommend you for a standard certificate. Use your TEAL account to apply by clicking the “Educator” link and choosing the standard certificate application. Follow the website’s prompts, including payment of the $78 dollar fee.For specific guidance navigating the TEA website and Educator Certification Online System, contact a representative of your region’s Education Service Center.You may be eligible to extend your probationary certificate for another year if you do not complete all of your program’s requirements within one year.

