 Exercise is important in the weight loss process. When you have an underactive thyroid, diet is the most important lifestyle change, but exercise is important, too. It not only helps boost your weight loss, but it also supports a healthy lifestyle.You don’t have to do a lot of intensive cardio. Try light cardio, such as walking. Sixty minutes of walking three to five times each week can help increase your chances of losing weight.
You can try other cardio workouts, like jogging, cycling, dancing, swimming, climbing stairs, or an elliptical machine.
 A good way to help increase weight loss is to perform strength training workouts. Lifting weights or doing bodyweight exercises helps build muscle, which leads to increased metabolism.You can do bodyweight exercises, like squats or pushups, or try dumbbell or kettlebell exercises.
 Regular sleep is important for losing weight. Lack of sleep or sleep that is bad quality can put you at a risk for obesity. If you have been diagnosed with hypothyroidism, you should start a sleep schedule where you go to bed at a certain time and make sure you get the proper amount of sleep.Adults should get at least seven hours of sleep each night. Shoot for seven to nine hours.
 Many people are dehydrated due to their diet. Many prepackaged foods, snack foods, and fast foods are full of sodium, which leads to dehydration. Drinking more water or zero calorie fluids can help boost your dehydration.Proper hydration depends on your lifestyle. For instance, if you exercise often or do a job where you sweat, you may need more water. If you are properly hydrated, your urine will be a light yellow or clear.
According to the Institute of Health, men should have 13 cups or three liters of water a day, while a woman should have nine cups or 2.2 liters. The rule of drinking eight eight-ounce cups (or 64 ounces) of water each day is a little under these values, but it's a good place to start.
 One technique you may use to help you regulate how much you eat is to put all of your food on your plate before you start eating. This helps you avoid piling your plate mindlessly at the table. It also helps you refrain from going back for seconds.Pay attention to how much you are putting on your plate. Eat a serving of protein that is approximately the size of your fist. Fill half your plate with vegetables, and leave only a fourth for carbohydrates.

