 On average, people who have diabetes incur $13,700 in expenses every year. The expenditures stem from the following components:Inpatient care, 43%
Prescription medications to treat diabetic complications, 18%
Anti-diabetic agents and diabetes supplies, 12%
Doctors’ office visits, 9%
Nursing and/or residential facility stays, 8%;
, Diabetic care has several different components that make up the average costs per year, including out-of-pocket costs. Identifying these components can help you better anticipate and budget the cost of your care. You should include the following components when calculating medical expenses:Medications
Testing supplies such as lancets and strips
Injection supplies such as alcohol swabs, syringes, and pen needles
Insulin pump, if you use one
Continuous glucose monitoring, including regular supply shipments
Doctor’s visits, including specialists
Healthy food
Fitness programs and/ or weight loss tools

, Government and private insurance cover many medical expenses if you’re diabetic. No matter if you are insured or uninsured, you likely receive bills for medical care. Carefully reading through these can help you figure out how much your insurance covered medical expenses. Reading through medical bills for the previous six months or year can give you a good idea of what your total and out-of-pocket expenses were.Request copies of medical bills from your doctors’ offices, hospitals, and insurance company if you do not have or cannot find them.
 Part of your medical bills will usually include your out-of-pocket cost. Compile this information with those from other sources such as receipts for services and bank statements. This will inform you about how much you spent on diabetic care and can provide a baseline number for your budget.Include items in your out-of-pocket expenses that may not seem related to your diabetes. For example, many diabetics have problems with their feet that require wearing special shoes for diabetes. Diabetic shoes are an expense for which you’ll want to review cost and budget funds.
 Reviewing your medical expenses can give you a better idea of what you’re spending and your insurance company is paying. Talk to your insurance provider about your expenses and see if there are ways to cut down your cost. This might be adjusting your current plan or getting a new plan that will reduce your overall costs. Some things you may want to consider with your insurance provide include:Add-on policies
Premiums and deductibles
Doctor and hospital choices
Prescription drug coverage
Coverage of diabetic supplies

