 Go to the Chamber of Knowledge. Have a couple thousand gems and buy every alpha statue, a Zios Fountain, and some Bronze Giraffe Statues. Go to Epic Wonders.


Get Crystal Statues. Get them instead of the stone ones if you want. They are 3000 gems each. Buy some Epic Seasonal Trees, an Epic Wonders Orb, and Turquoise Necklace or Bracelet.
Buy a good spirit item as a gift to all the members who come to your party (non-members can't receive gifts) like a Friendship Bracelet or Turquoise item. Buy the Jamaa Flag from the Flag Shop, then move on. Buy lots of cheap plants at Treetop Gardens.
Go to the Conservation museum to get all the banners.
Go to Jam Mart Furniture. This is hoarding heaven! Beta items like the Paw Print Vase are returning, so pick them up quick! They bring back memories of the spiritual beta. Get a Garden Plot and Garden Plot items, plus extra plots to hold the crops. That can be the food, instead of Feast Tables, etc.

Buy Fire Pots, Bamboo Fences and Hanging Vines to line the walls, then get some Seasonal Trees in all types. Even use the wintry ones and the pear tree!
Buy Sectional Sofas to sit around an open fire. Koi ponds are nice outdoor items.
Use the Coral Canyons walls and floor, and the Jammer Anthem. If you can't use Jammer Anthem, use music from a land zone other than Mt. Shiveer.
Buy Wall Torches, Tiki Torches and Pink Lamps to complete the ensemble. It helps to have a big den.

;
, By now you should be tired of Overflow, Temple of Trivia, Best Dressed and Diamond spending, but you should have most or all of the items listed. An Enchanted Hollow works well, but so does the Crystal Palace, because it has all the alpha statues inside. Outside, place Crystal Statues, all of them.


Put the Seasonal Trees/Epic Seasonal Trees behind them, and in front, place an Epic Wonders Orb.
Add the BETA carrots and garden plots/garden items. Set up a Koi Pond beneath the orb. Go down a floor.
Line the walls of every floor with the Fire Pots and Bamboo Fences, then add banners on every floor's walls.
Go back to the first floor and place some Pink Lamps, Wall Torches and Tiki Torches around, and put beta items around. On the second floor, add more Pink Lamps, Wall Torches and Tiki Torches.
Put out your Treetop Gardens items, and add the vines on all walls.
On the bottom floor, add the stone statues and a Fire Pit if you have one. If you are Fire Pit-less use another means of an open hearth.
Put your sectional sofas around the fire so you can have "Son/Daughter Of Mira/Zios" tell stories of Jamaa.



(For Mira) Put a white flower crown on her head and give them the princess necklace with a white chain, and blue gems with orange centers. If they have a turquoise necklace, even better!
Add a turquoise bracelet to the outfit. Put them in Elf Tail Armour and a Designer Skirt/Mech Angel Wings. If you want, omit necklace and add Spirit Armour.
Have Head, Neck, Back, Legs and Tail all filled on your friend's animal.
Sit them on a Princess Chair in a spot where a Sectional Sofa or 2 would be. Ask them to open Mister Chunkybuddy's AJ blog and read legends. They will be the life of the party!

, Wear spiritual clothes.


Listen to the Son/Daughter of Zios'/Mira's stories. And have fun!
Tell them about the spiritual beta. Love Jamaa with all your heart!

