 Type the URL www.planyourroom.com in your web browser. It might take a few minutes for the web page to be loaded.
 Start With a Room.


The default measurements for the room are already available on the text boxes beside the Room Width and Room Depth fields. You can alter the measurements according to your requirements by keying-in the measurements. Click on the button ‘Start With a Room’ to create the plan for a single room.
 A thick black rectangle appears on a graph sheet with the measurements entered for the room. On the left hand side, you will find menus for Furniture, Examples of Plans, Floor Coverings, General Settings, Doors and Windows. Above the graph area you will find various tools that you need to design your room.
 On selecting a particular category related pictures of furniture appear below. Click on the furniture of your choice and drag and drop it on the desired location in the black rectangular area which represents your room. Use the scroll bar to browse all the furniture available under a particular category.
 By default, the furniture’s standard measurements appear when you place it on the room. You will find arrows on the four edges and four corners of the furniture. Click on the arrows on the center of each edge and drag inwards or outwards to decrease or increase the dimension of the furniture. Click on the arrows on the corners in required direction to place the furniture in the desired angle. Alternately, you can also change the dimensions and the angle by entering the measurements and the angle in the window that appears when you click on the furniture once.
 If you intend to change the position of the furniture to a different place in the room, click on the furniture, drag and place the furniture in the desired position in the room and let go the mouse button.
 You can select different floor categories from the drop down list that is available in this menu. To use a particular pattern as your flooring select the pattern from the available patterns. On the tools menu, select the Floor tool. Click on the desired location on your room. Select the end position of the flooring and double click to place the desired flooring in that area.
 Click on the desired picture, drag and drop it in the desired position on your room’s wall.
 There are various drawing tools and text tools available above the work area. Move the mouse cursor on each of the tools to identify the name of each tool from the tool tip that appears below each tool.


Drawing tool : When you place the cursor on the drawing tool, you can choose to draw a circle or a curve by clicking on the respective tool. Click on the circle tool. Click on the desired position in the room to mark the center of the circle. Drag the mouse outward to define the radius of the circle. When you let go the mouse button the circle appears on the room. Choose the curve tool to draw a curve. Click on the desired position on the room drag and release the mouse button. Three points appear on the line. Click on each of the points and drag it in the desired direction to form the curve you require.
Text tool : Click on the text tool from the tool menu. Click anywhere in the room where you want to place the text. A text box appears. Key-in the required text.
Dimension tool : Click on the start and end point for which you want to determine the dimension. The measurement appears above the line.
 Under this menu you can select the display settings like text settings, drawing settings, room dimensions etc. Change the settings as per your requirement. These settings will be used when you use the tools from the tool menu.
 Once you are done with the required plan for your room, you may want to save the plan. To save your plan, click on the Save plan tool from the tool menu. Enter the login credentials if you have a PlanningWiz account. If you do not have an account, you can also create a new account. Once you login, you can save your plan.
 Click on the Print Plan tool from the tool menu to get a hard copy of the plan you have just created.
 Click on the Email Plan tool from the tool menu to email a copy of the plan you have just created. Enter your name, email address, receiver’s name and email address and any comments or questions if needed. Once you are done with entering the information click the Send Plan button.
 You can create an image of your plan by clicking the Export as Image tool from the tool menu. Enter a name for your plan and enter the dimensions of the image. Click Create Image button. Save the image on your local disk.



Click on an existing plan from the Examples of plans menu : You can choose from the various plans available in this menu. Use the scroll bar to browse through the plans available.
Alter the dimensions of the room/house as per your requirement.
Alter the furniture, doors, windows, flooring as per your requirement.
Include more details that you want by using the tools and furniture available.
Save, print, email or export the plan.
 Click the Start from scratch button if you are in the home page. Alternately, select New from the Plan menu. Use the tools and menu on this page to create a new plan.;
