 As the number of Harmful Algal Blooms has increased in recent years, government agencies have become more proactive in identifying problem areas and releasing warnings to the public. Before heading out to your preferred saltwater or freshwater location, check for posted warnings by the relevant local, state, or federal public health or environmental protection agencies.During the summer months, the list of impacted bodies of water can grow extensive and seem like “overkill”; in turn, you may be tempted to “take your chances.” Don’t — the problem and the risks are real and should be taken seriously. If you are advised to stay out of a lake due to an HAB, play it smart and safe.;
, HABs caused by cyanobacteria can take several forms, or may not even offer any visual evidence. However, a “scummy” foam on top of the water is often a telltale sign of an HAB. If you see it, avoid contact, stay out of the water, and contact the relevant government agency for testing.HABs can also create a noticeable odor, but that is also not always present. As cyanobacteria dies, it can emit an odor similar to rotting plants. If you smell this in the water, assume an HAB is present.
In addition to the scum and odor, cyanobacteria blooms often make water appear as though green paint has been spilled in it, or give it the look of pea soup. Sometimes, though, the coloration can be red or brown, or there may be no visible clues to the existence of the HAB. That is one reason why keeping tabs on public warnings is so important., HABs are not only a concern for people and pets, they can also have a devastating impact on aquatic life as well. Large algal blooms reduce the amount of oxygen in the surrounding water, which can negatively impact all manner of life in the water. In addition, shellfish like clams can absorb the toxins and possibly retain it in sufficient quantities to affect the health of people who consume them.While the small risk of ingesting harmful amounts of algal toxins by eating seafood should not stop you from enjoying fish and shellfish, it always makes sense to be an informed consumer. Being aware of the sourcing, freshness, and sustainability of your seafood can protect you from a range of possible contaminants and help preserve the aquatic ecosystem., While HABs can present hazards to human health, the danger is even greater for smaller animals, including pets. Among common pet species, dogs in particular have been prone to adverse impacts due to toxic exposure, for reasons including the algae sticking to their fur (which they inevitably lick) after being in the water, as well as their propensity to drink even foul-smelling algal bloom water.Keep your pets away from bodies of water when HAB warnings have been posted, and do not permit them to drink smelly, scummy, foamy, or discolored water that may contain HABs. If you discover that your pet has consumed HAB-affected water, contact your veterinarian immediately.
Signs of cyanobacteria poisoning in dogs can include: loss of appetite; decreased energy; stumbling when walking; foaming at the mouth; diarrhea; convulsions; seizures; and a host of other possible symptoms. Early intervention is important.
 Cyanobacteria feast upon nitrogen and phosphorous, which happen to be key components of agricultural fertilizers. Large-scale agricultural runoff is a far more significant cause of the recent increase in HABs, but even runoff from your backyard garden can increase the likelihood of toxic algae blooms in a nearby pond or a lake or ocean far away. (Consider, for instance, that 41% of the continental U.S. drains into the Gulf of Mexico via the Mississippi River system.)Always use the minimum amount of fertilizer possible to achieve your growing goals. Also consider growing native flowers, vegetables, etc., which are more likely to thrive in your climate without the assistance of added fertilizers.
On a related note, look for low-phosphorous detergents for cleaning your clothes, dishes, etc.
 Along with reducing your usage of materials that are high in nitrogen and/or phosphorous, you can also work to create barriers that limit runoff into bodies of water. Allowing dense, preferably native vegetation to grow along the edges of ponds, creeks, etc., helps to limit the amount of runoff that reaches these bodies of water. Think of them as natural filters that are happy to sop up the nitrogen and phosphorous for themselves.Human waste also contains significant amounts of nitrogen and phosphorous, so if you have a septic system, make sure it is operating properly, not leaking, and emptied as needed. This can reduce the amount of leeching into the water supply.
 The churning action of moving water helps to keep oxygen circulating more effectively and creates a less hospitable environment for cyanobacteria growth. Particularly if you live in close proximity to a stagnant pond or similar body of water, consider ways in which you might increase water movement in order to reduce the possibility of HABs.While methods to improve water flow are often large-scale efforts that go well beyond the means of an individual, you can also add your voice as an advocate for such projects. These can include altering or removing dams, rerouting creeks and streams, installing mechanical circulation devices, and other options.
 Government agencies rely on the public to help identify possible HABs, in part because of the resources that are required to patrol the many bodies of water that can harbor toxic algal blooms. If you suspect that there is a cyanobacteria bloom in a body of water, don’t sit back and assume it’s “the government’s job.” Contact a local, state, or national environmental or public health agency to alert them to the possibility of an HAB. Be as precise as possible as to its location within a body of water.In open bodies of water, look for signs of discoloration (often green, but sometimes red, brown, or other colors), foaming or scum, and an unpleasant odor. While HABs rarely make it through the water treatment process, if your home water supply has a musty smell or taste, contact your local water authority promptly., Commonly known as blue-green algae, cyanobacteria is the most common cause of Harmful Algal Blooms (HABs). Cyanobacteria is actually a diverse genus of bacteria that can thrive in various types of warm, slow moving water, including seawater and freshwater. Cyanobacteria blooms can grow rapidly in part because they are often unpalatable to zooplankton and similar organisms that might otherwise consume them.Most cyanobacteria blooms do not produce toxic compounds, yet blooms can go back-and-forth from being toxic to non-toxic with little explanation or warning. Only frequent testing can determine toxicity.
The toxic compounds that are produced by some cyanobacteria blooms can contain possible carcinogens, and may also cause neurological problems when consumed. HABs have been reported to have killed waterfowl, livestock, and pets, and in a few rare instances, humans.
 Human activity bears great responsibility for the marked increase in HABs throughout the United States and globally. Cyanobacteria feed on nitrogen and phosphorous, which are major components of fertilizers, sewage, and organic waste. When such products reach the water supply, they create a more hospitable environment for cyanobacteria blooms.Cyanobacteria also prefer warmer water temperatures, so the rise in global temperatures, which is at least partly due to human activity, also facilitates the growth of HABs., Harmful exposure to HAB toxins can be hard to diagnose in humans, both because it is still a rare phenomenon and because the range of possible symptoms is quite diverse. Symptoms can include (but are not limited to): nausea, vomiting, and/or diarrhea; blood in the urine or stool; muscle twitches; general lethargy; headache and fever; upper respiratory infections; and even progressive muscle paralysis.If you are experiencing unexplained symptoms after exposure to water that may possibly have contained an HAB, contact your physician immediately. When you seek medical treatment, you may want to bring along the physician reference card produced by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention: http://www.cdc.gov/nceh/hsb/hab/HABSphysician_card.pdf.

