 A good way to keep a food diary is to record your meals and snacks on your phone. You could use a simple notation file to track your meals, or you could try an app like MyFitnessPal, Lose It!, or Noom Coach.Since you’re not just monitoring what you eat, but also working out, it’s a good idea to add a workout aspect to this food diary, too. Add two additional columns to each day’s diary entries briefly describing the day’s workout routine and tallying how many calories you estimate you burned.
 The high water content in fruits and veggies will leave you feeling full but not add a significant calorie load to your diet. Their high fiber content will keep your gut clean and operating efficiently. Fruit contains many phytochemicals (naturally occurring compounds) that promote good health.Aim to eat at least two cups of produce each day.
 In addition to fruits and vegetables, popcorn, brown rice, and whole grain bread are some foods that pack in fiber that can get you fit during the summer.
 Stay away from fast food, fatty snacks like potato chips, and other junk foods. Get your fats from avocado, olive oil, peanut butter, nuts and other natural sources of fat for your fat needs.


Saturated fats are especially bad for your heart health. These are fats that can raise your blood pressure quickly. No more than 5% of your daily calories (or about 13 grams) should be from saturated fats., Try to eat most of your calories by 3:00 each day. If you eat most of your calories earlier in the day, you’ll be able to draw on that energy throughout the day and won’t need to eat as much as the day continues. This will keep you from eating continuously throughout the day.


Granola with banana or berries makes a great breakfast. Other healthy options include whole-grain toast with jam, oatmeal with fruit, or a vegetable smoothie.
 You might struggle with the temptation to eat fatty, sugary, and salty foods -- the very foods that you should avoid when trying to get and stay fit. Unless you have superhuman will power, you might give in to their temptations sometimes. You should not set up specific rules against eating any one food.Summer is a great time to eat ice cream, for instance. As long as you don’t make a regular habit of having a post-workout ice-cream cone -- thus negating any benefits you might have gained from working out -- it’s probably okay for you to have some ice cream once in a while.
Maintain portion control when eating foods that you usually wouldn’t indulge in.

