 Choose a major that will allow you to become a teacher -- it may be education, but some states don’t require it. Most schools have a grade point minimum for students -- if your grades are too low you will not be able to continue in the education program. If you are worried about your grades, meet with the professors to ask for help in raising your scores. , Every student in college has an advisor, and he or she is there to help you get through and be successful. Advisors help you choose your courses and make sure that you’re on track to graduate. If you are having trouble in a class, an advisor can also help you figure out ways to improve. , Don’t let the work get away from you, especially the courses you find difficult. Stay current with your assignments and readings. These classes are to help you achieve your goal to be a health teacher, and all of them are important. Even if they are general education courses, all of them contribute to the GPA that can keep you from achieving your goal. If you are not as strong in some of your classes, find help through the tutoring center on campus or through your professor. , Even if you aren’t having difficulties in your classes, get to know the faculty. These will be the people writing you letters of recommendation and helping you find a job after you graduate. You also might find a professor that can be a mentor to you and help you long after you have left school. A mentor would be there to help in your early years of teaching when you have questions or concerns. , All schools have different clubs and groups, and they are a great way to meet like-minded students. Some groups might be involved in health outreach into the community or volunteering in the schools. Look for the ones that most appeal to you. These groups and opportunities can help you further refine your career interests and goals. , Most education degrees require students to work with a veteran teacher in the schools. You might be asked to prepare and teach different units or assist the main teacher in grading. These assignments typically last a semester or a year, and are usually at different levels within your chosen focus area. It’s a great way to get hands-on experience and start to narrow down exactly where and what you want to teach. 