 The first step to writing a solid expository essay is to settle on a topic. As you already have animals as an overarching theme you'll need to specify further. What animal are you writing about?


An expository essay is an essay that provides the reader information about a particular topic. To write an expository essay on an animal, you'll have to choose an animal and provide a variety of information on that animal. It would likely include things like what that animal looks like, what it eats, where it lives, and so on.Choose an animal that personally interests you. You'll have more fun writing your essay if you writing about something you enjoy. Pick an animal you like. Your favorite animal could be a good topic for an expository essay on an animal.;
, Expository essays come in a variety of formats. Often, teachers want students to write in the traditional 5 paragraph form. However, if you're in a more advanced grade your teacher may want a longer, less structured essay. Before you begin researching and outlining your essay, make sure you understand your teacher's expectations. You can review the assignment sheet given to you or as your teacher in person.
 Research is the backbone of a solid expository essay. Once you've chosen your topic and learned the proper structure, you can begin researching.


To start researching, ask yourself what kind of information you're looking for. Do you want opinion pieces or pure factual pieces? Do you want researched analysis or personal reflections? For an expository essay, you may want to stick to more neutral sources as you're just presenting information to the reader.
Look for sources that are valid. Major newspapers like the New York Times and the San Francisco Chronicle are a good place to start. You also might want to find some history behind your topic. Go your school's library and ask a librarian to help you use the card catalogue to locate books and magazines on your topic. An encyclopedia could be a good reference for an expository essay.The internet is a major source of information and can be extremely helpful when researching. However, you should know how to evaluate sources before relying on the internet for information. Look for current resources so you know the information is up-to-date. Go for websites associated with universities or government organizations, with domains like .edu and .gov, over business or commercials websites. Go for pages where the author's name is clearly visible and the page is easy to navigate. Personal blogs are not a good resource. Websites for organizations advocating strongly for a particular political cause may have a strong bias. Avoid sites like Wikipedia, as they are user generated and may not have accurate information.Take notes while researching. Keep a notebook with you and jot down relevant information. Write down which source you got this information from so you can refer to the source later on. If possible, print out your own copies of library texts so you can underline and write notes in the margins.
 An outline is a work of writing that breaks down your the body of your paper. An outline can be a helpful tool to have when you begin writing.


Outlines are usually formed using a series of numbers and letter. You write down main points as headings and then expand upon these points in subheadings.For example, you can use roman numerals as headings and then use letters as subheadings. Say you're writing about potbelly pigs. You can start with I. Introduction. Then something like a. Introduce my topic, including a brief description of potbelly pigs and b. briefly state the personality traits and appearance of a potbelly pig.You don't need to use full sentences in an outline. It's just a tool to help you organize your ideas. Don't worry about forming full sentences or thoughts yet. You can get to that during the writing process.
 The first step of an expository essay is your introduction. The introduction is a place for you to state ideas clearly and give your reader a sense of what your essay will discuss.


Begin your introduction with a fun opening sentence that gets the reader's attention. You can open with a question, a quote, a joke, or anything that introduces your topic in a creative manner. For example, let's return to the potbelly pig example. Open with something like, "Did you know that not all pigs are farmyard animals? Some pigs are kept domestically as pets." This invites the reader to think about your topic.From there, briefly state what you'll be discussing in your paper. You can provide a brief description of a potbelly pig, including things like a brief overview of their appearance and personality traits.
 An expository essay should inform the reader about a given subject. As you move through your essay, each paragraph should focus on a single idea or claim about your animal.


For example, in the potbelly pig example, one paragraph can describe the appearance of a potbelly pig. Another paragraph can then describe the eating habits of a potbelly pig, and another can talk about how to care for potbelly pigs, health problems they're prone to, and so on.
Make sure you stick to one main topic per paragraph.
 Back up any information you've provided with your own research. Use your sources, while making sure to put information in your own words.


Go to your sources for support of the information you're listing. If you're talking about how potbelly pigs are prone to bacterial infections in the ear, you'll need a source that shows that this is true.
 Once you've finished the main body of your paper, you'll need to write a conclusion. A good conclusion should not just reiterate your thesis but offer some additional insight after leading the reader through a series of arguments.


Certain questions can help guide a good conclusion. Did you think of any new ideas about the animal you're researching? Are there any questions or concerns that need further research? What larger significance does your topic have in the bigger world?However, you should not suddenly introduce new information in the conclusion. Instead, you should speculate and reflect on the information provided. Think of a good closing line that will stay in readers' minds. You want to make sure your essay has an impact., Once you finish the first draft of your essay, it's a good idea to write a second draft. Another draft will allow you to further expand upon ideas in your original work. You should never turn a paper in after a single draft. It might be a good idea to wait a day or so before writing a second draft as you'll have time to rest and further digest your ideas. Start your paper early so you have time for a first and second draft.


Watch transitions between paragraphs. You want to make sure the information flows in your paper. You don't want to jump quickly between topics as this can confuse readers. Make sure there is a transition sentence at the end of each paragraph, alerting the reader as to what you'll be discussing next.

A good way to structure transitions is to make them a bridge between the old paragraph and the new. For example, to connect a paragraph on keeping a potbelly pig as a pet to a previous paragraph about eating habits, you could use something like this: "Although potbelly pigs can eat a variety of things in the wild, if you're keeping a potbelly pig as a pet, you need to be more careful about providing a balanced diet." The word Although sets up a connection between the ideas.


Focus on clarity. You want to make sure the information is presented in as straightforward means as possible. If you notice any sentences that seem unclear in your first draft, work on rewording them in revision.
 Once you finish your second draft, proofread. Keep an eye out for spelling and grammar errors, as well as typos and missed words. It can sometimes be hard to spot mistakes in your own work. Reading your paper backwards, that is starting with the conclusion and reading up, can help. It also might help to set your paper aside for a few days. That way, when proofreading you're reading what's written and not what's in your head.
 As it can be hard to spot your own errors, having a friend or family member look over your paper can help. In addition to allowing you spot typos and errors, a trusted friend or family member can also give you feedback on how to improve the overall structure of the piece. Ask for honest feedback and be open to criticism.

