 This isn't a project to rush through.;
, These are some of the most common items in a make up kit:



Foundation evens skin tone and gives a smooth palette to begin applying other products.

Concealer is applied to hide blemishes, sores, bags, and other marks on the face.

Blush adds dimension to your face and can add a youthful or sun-kissed look.

Eyeshadow is available for almost any skin tone.
Neutral and complimentary colors that can be used everyday should be put in your everyday pile.
More exotic and dramatic colors can be added to your special occasion collection.



Eyeliner is used on the edges of your eyelids closest to your eyes and just below the eyes.
Powders can set your foundation and prevent it from wearing off as fast.
Look for a good shade of lipstick and/or lipgloss to include in your kit. Find something that coordinates with the other products you plan to use daily. See tips for colors choices.
Consider a bronzer to add additional color to your face. This is great during the summer time to give the appearance of a tan without the sun damage. This may be a daily, seasonal or special occasion item depending on the frequency you use it.
 Consider what you have time to apply and what is only used for special events. Be prepared to have 5-6 piles before you're done. Gather your items into piles including:

Daily wear






These are your basic colors that match almost anything you wear with the coordinating lipstick. Keep it simple unless you want to carry a suitcase around every day.


Skin care






This includes your moisturizers, makeup removers, serums, sunscreens, acne treatments, etc. You can also include cotton balls, q-tips, etc.
Removal of makeup may be necessary if you travel, play sports or just don't like having make up on all day. To save space, buy a package of pre-moistened face cleansing cloths.


Special occasion






This includes more dramatic colors, infrequently worn colors, products you purchased to match special outfits, wild colors used for Halloween, shimmer powder you wear out to clubs, false eyelashes or anything else you rarely wear.


Seasonal (optional)







Tanning can cause your skin tone to vary from season to season. People who tan often have different foundation and powder shades they use in the summer. If you tan during the summer you may need to make an additional pile for your darker summer colors (or tan free winter colors).
 If it's old, you should get rid of it. Old makeup collects bacteria, separates and may flake off or not apply as well. Here are some general guidelines for how long you should keep an item before disposing of it:


Three Months

Mascara
Liquid Eye Liners


Six months

Eye foundations
Eye creams
Eye bases
Cream eye shadows
Any other cream or gel based item for eyes
Face Powders which have had brushes or sponges in contact with the product.
Foundations that are cream or pancake


One Year

Liquid foundations
Moisturizers
Concealer used on face providing it is in a tube and does not have an applicator.


As needed

Powder and cake blush
Powder and cake eye shadows
Eye liners (pencil) providing it doesn't harden, become difficult to apply or becomes dry.
Bronzer



, Otherwise, put it in a nail kit and store elsewhere.
 Are they sufficient? Dirty? Floating around in the bottom of a drawer or bag? These become dirty and bacteria filled quickly. Toss out any used sponge applicators that came with the makeup and invest in good washable brushes. Dispose of any dirty foundation sponges and powder puffs. By using clean brushes you can extend the life of your makeup by eliminating the amount of bacteria and oils you are introducing into it. Brush kits and brush bags are usually sold at mall makeup counters and makeup stores. The brush bags will keep your brushes organized, protect the brush ends from bending and keep your application tools clean. Here are the most popular applications tools:


Foundation brush or a wedge sponges
Powder brush
Blush brush
Large shadow brush
Small or angled shadow brush
Lip brush
Concealer brush

, Clean eye liner by rubbing an alcohol soaked cotton ball over the pencil and sharpening the tip completely. Clean brushes in antibacterial soap and rinse until they are clean. If your brushes look tangled, deformed or if they are so full of makeup you don't have to actually add make up each time, you need to dispose of those and start fresh.
 If you don't have something big enough or with the necessary pockets you should start shopping. It's always better to go with something slightly larger than something too small.
 Make sure it can hold everything you plan on putting into it including your brush bag.


Train cases are usually hard side and have extending shelves for organization. These can be heavy and bulky but protect well.
Bags vary in size and construction. Look for something made for makeup as it will probably have an interior that will wipe clean, zip closed to avoid spilling and have padded or quilted exterior to offer extra protection.
Small tackle boxes are usually larger than the train cases, less expensive and great for organizing a lot of makeup. This is an excellent product for special occasion makeup as you can easily see what you have available. Since you don't wear it all the time it's easy to forget what you have.
If you don't carry your make up with you and only apply it at home you can use a basket or drawer to store your daily makeup.
 Keep the daily kit easily accessible.
,,, Your makeup is organized and you should be on your way to a less stressful and efficient make up routine.

