 Gather your spices together and look at what you need to store. A beginning cook may only have a few different types, while a more ardent cook can have dozens.

Take stock of how much you presently have, as well as what you would like to buy more of once you have the right amount of space.
Make a note of which spices you use more often. Spices that you use more often can be stored in larger quantities.;
, Only buy food-grade tins, since other metals may affect the flavor or quality of the spices. You can buy tins with transparent plastic fronts, but spices can be damaged by prolonged exposure to light.

Most ground spices can fit inside round 2 oz. (60 ml) tins, while whole spices should usually be stored in round 4 oz. (125 ml) tins.
Ground spices that you use frequently can be stored in 4 oz. (125 ml) tins instead of 2 oz. (60 ml) tins.
Long spices, like cinnamon sticks and vanilla beans, should be stored in rectangular tins that hold 4 oz. (125 ml) or more.
 Common craft store magnets lose strength as time passes, but they are relatively safe around electronics. Rare earth magnets are very strong magnets that will not lose their strength, but they will cause damage to electrical appliances. If you do not plan to keep your spices near any electronics, rare earth magnets are the way to go. If there is a chance that you may position your spice rack near a sensitive electrical device, however, a standard craft store magnet would serve your purpose better. Just be aware of the fact that you may eventually need to change the magnets out., Rub steel wool in the center bottom of each tin and on one side of each magnet. By roughing the material in this manner, you make it easier for the glue to hold together., Most tins will need at least two small magnets to support the weight of each spice, but heavier spices may need three magnets or more. Light spices, like dried leaves, may only need one magnet, especially if you are using rare earth magnets. Super glue usually works as a bonding agent, but you could also consider mixing together epoxy and epoxy hardener for an even more secure bond.

If using super glue, simple apply a dot of glue to the roughed up back of the magnet and the rough patch on the back of the tin. Press the two dots together and allow the glue to dry.
If using epoxy, mix the epoxy and hardener together with a small stick. Place the magnet in the epoxy glue, coating it with enough of the bonding agent so that extra epoxy will be squeezed out as you press the magnet against the tin. Press the magnet against the roughed patch on the back of the tin and let dry.
 You can print out labels from a label maker or printer, or you can get plain white labels and write the name of each spice by hand. If you do not have self-adhesive paper, you can apply labels made from thick matte paper to the front or back of the tin with craft glue., Check each lid to make sure that it is secured to the tin. If it feels a little loose, you can usually remedy this problem but placing a small piece of masking tape to the inside edge of the tin's lid. The added resistance is often enough to prevent the lid from slipping.