 You will want to buy a refurbished laptop that can meet your personal needs. For example, if you plan on using your laptop primarily for traveling, you may want to verify that the computer can efficiently connect to wireless internet.


Read system requirements on the packaging of software you use. If you plan on using specific software, you will want to buy a refurbished laptop with the system requirements that can efficiently handle your software.
Refurbished laptops with multiple features will usually be higher in price; so you may want to buy a laptop that contains only the minimum requirements and features you need.;
, For example, if you use Apple software that is exclusive to Macintosh operating systems, don't buy a laptop with a Windows operating system that is not compatible with your software.


Check to see if the laptop contains the most recent version of an operating system. Operating systems that have been released years previously may no longer function completely and may no longer receive support from the manufacturer. For example, you may want to buy a laptop with Windows 7 as opposed to Windows 2000, as most Windows 2000 products are outdated and no longer supported by Microsoft.
 For example, you may want to verify that the laptop has a power cord included so you do not have the order the part separately.
 Certified and authorized refurbishers thoroughly test each laptop before they are sold and are qualified to perform repairs. In most cases, certified refurbishers offer a product warranty.


Locate refurbished laptop dealers online or in your local area. Perform an Internet search using keywords such as "authorized refurbisher" to locate online dealers. You can also refer to your local phone directory to locate authorized dealers of refurbished laptops in your area.
If you are looking for a refurbished laptop by a specific manufacturer, use search terms such as "Apple-certified technicians" or "Microsoft technology specialists" to locate dealers knowledgeable in the laptop you want to buy.
 You will want to choose a refurbished laptop dealer that will repair your laptop if problems arise or that will honor a return if the laptop stops working immediately after purchase.


Verify the length of the warranty. Most refurbished dealers offer warranties that run a minimum of 3 months.
Verify how the warranty repair process works. You may want to choose a dealer who is easily reached for repairs and can repair the laptop in a timely manner. You may not want to choose a dealer who requires you to wait several weeks or months for repairs.

