 In order to get a feeling of how each religion practices rituals, prayers etc., you would have to visit places where practitioners gather. Visiting places like churches, mosques and temples will give you a good indication of what religion would suit your mentality. Remember to be respectful of rules and regulations and prayer times.


While making your choice, finding a service that fits your schedule may be beneficial. You wouldn’t want the inconvenience of scheduling influencing a philosophical decision., Rituals are core elements in every known religion. They reinforce the basics and choice of the religion by connecting the practitioner to religiously significant events or beliefs. While visiting religious places you can study and perform the rituals in order to get an idea of what they require of you.Understanding why the procedures are practiced is just as important as performing the movements. Learn the importance and history of each movement.
 While outside of religious services, ask religious practitioners about the pros and cons of their religion. Get a feel of whether or not they would be welcoming of you, and if their belief structure aligns with what you have learned about the religion.


A few simple questions could provide a better feel for the environment. Ask things like: Why should a newcomer like me join this religion? How does this religion align with current events of the day?
If you at any time feel uncomfortable around a specific group of people, be sure to get a second set of worshippers to talk to about the religious details.
Judge whether those wishing you to join were evangelizing (telling you about the positive aspects) or proselytizing their religion (trying to get you to join).
 While speaking with practitioners is a good first step, the deeper meaning and understanding of religion’s tougher questions must come from religious leaders (e.g. priests, rabbis, imams). They are the guides for religious understanding, sometimes believed to be a conduit of sorts to the deity. Before meeting with the leader, ensure you have a basic grasp of the religion and can ask more profound questions. Potential questions follow:


What happens when we die?
Why do you believe in your religion over others?
What do you want others to know about their religion?
How does the religion respond/reply to current social problems?