 You can use whichever type of apple you like, but the tartness of Granny smith apples goes well with the sweetness of chocolate. Remove any produce stickers that might be on the apples’ skin, then rinse them under water to remove any chemicals or germs that might be on the surface. Dry them with a clean towel.
 This will allow you to eat the apple like a lollipop once it’s been dipped in chocolate. You may have to press firmly, but you should be able to ease a stick into the apple fairly easily.
 If you can find good quality chocolate in chocolate chip form, skip this step. However, if you bought a bar of chocolate, you’ll need to cut it up into smaller pieces. If you bought a chocolate bar that snaps easily into bite-sized pieces, break it up along the suggested lines. If it’s a solid bar, use a sharp knife to break the chocolate bar down into very small chunks.


If the pre-portioned pieces of chocolate from your bar are too large, run your knife through those, too.
The smaller the pieces, the more quickly and easily the chocolate will melt down into a sauce.
 To guard against that, use the double boiler method to steam the chocolate gently from below, warming it evenly and preventing it from burning. To create a double boiler, you’ll need a large saucepan; a double boiler pan that fits over the saucepan, but does not touch the bottom of it; and a stirrer.


Fill the bottom of the large saucepan with water, making sure that the water does not touch the bottom of the double boiler pan when it’s in place.
Place the saucepan, water, and double boiler pan combination over medium-low heat on the stove.
Place the chocolate pieces in the double boiler pan.
As the steam from the hot water rises up to the double boiler pan, the chocolate will begin to slowly melt.
Stir the chocolate to speed up the melting process and ensure an even texture to the sauce.
When the chocolate has melted through, turn off the heat source.
 Hold each apple by the skewer, and dip it into the chocolate in the double boiler pan. Roll it around to make sure that the apple is completely covered by chocolate sauce.
 If you want to add any other toppings to the chocolate apples, do it immediately after rolling the apple in the chocolate sauce, while it’s still wet. You can top the apple with anything that strikes your fancy. Some common toppings include chopped hazelnuts, sprinkles, crushed candy canes, and so on. You can dip the apple into a bowl of the topping, or you can sprinkle the topping over the apple.
 Place a sheet of wax paper over a cookie pan, then place each apple upside down on the wax paper. The skewer should be sticking up toward the sky. Place the cookie pan in the refrigerator for at least 15 minutes to allow the chocolate to harden once more, then you’re ready to serve your chocolate apples!

