 A skinny scarf can easily be worn to the office when paired with formal clothes. Things like blouses and dress paints or skirts, dress shirts, and formal dresses all work great with the right skinny scarf. If your office's dress code allows for scarves, try sporting a skinny scarf at work.Make sure you choose a skinny scarf that matches with your outfit and is a bit more conservative. For example, wear a solid black skinny scarf with a black and white dress for a striking color combo that does not sacrifice any formality.
 Skinny scarves look cute with vests. If you want a neat look, wear a vest over your shirt and then wrap a skinny scarf around your neck. This is a versatile look that can be worn for both formal and informal occasions.For example, wear a plain white t-shirt with a black vest over it. Pair this with a black skinny scarf tied like a necktie.
 Skinny scarves can be great for a night out on the town with friends. Pair a skinny scarf with clothing you might wear to a club, such as an informal dress, or something like leather pants or skinny jeans with a cute top.Add other accessories to your going out look as well. Skinny scarves can easily be paired with chunky bracelets and stud earrings for a fun, informal affair.
 If you're going out for something simple, like brunch with friends, skinny scarves can be used as part of your casual attire. Pair a skinny scarf with a plain t-shirt and jeans or something like a cute, casual sundress for an informal look.For example, try pairing flared jeans, a peasant blouse, and sandals with a skinny scarf.
 Skinny scarves can be worn with a variety of shoes. Account for the event and the rest of your outfit when choosing shoes to pair with skinny scarves.Heels can be paired with skinny scarves for both formal and informal events.
Sandals, flats, and flip-flops can be worn with a skinny scarf for casual occasions.
Dress shoes or boots can be worth with a skinny scarf for a night out or to somewhere casual, like the office.

