 Before making any decisions, you’ll need to make sure the necklace can work as a belt and/or fits your waist.


Take measurements and select something that is slightly longer. Having your waist measurements will allow you to focus on pieces that might work alone or with another strand or piece.
Consider how the necklace is made. If the necklace does not have a clasp and is one contiguous strand, you may want to either cut it so you can wrap it around your waist or integrate the necklace into another piece to create a belt.
Select several options that can be designed together to create the belt. If you love a certain piece but it is either too short or may not work alone as a belt, inspect the piece to see if it can be integrated into a belt you currently own or woven into another necklace.;
, As long as the necklace has a clasp and fits your waist you can create a classic look by wrapping the necklace around your waist and using the clasp to hold it in place.


Look for a necklace that offers several fastening options. In some cases a necklace that allows you to attach ¾ of the strand, but allow the rest of the chain to dangle downward, creates an alluring, sexy look.
Shop for other fasteners/clasps for a more finished look. While you can use the necklace clasp to hold the necklace in place, you may want to either add a jewel or even change the clasp for a more dramatic look. For example, visit your local bead store for clasp options to find something more substantial and alluring.
 This will mean, however that you will need to cut the necklace in order to create the belt. Make sure you can commit to cutting the strand before going forward.


Hold the beads in place while making one cut into the necklace. This will provide you with one long strand, which will allow you to wrap the necklace around your waist.
Tie knots at the end of the necklace wire/string to hold beading in place. This will allow you to retain the integrity of the necklace while you find/locate a fastener for your belt.
Determine how you’d like to fasten the belt. In some cases you could reduce the number of beads and add a traditional, small buckle or add a clasp.

