 If your kid is older or is in their teens, try to keep them included in what's going on. Talk to them about the prospect of you dating again. Let them give you their opinion. Know that they might be angry or resentful at first. Nobody likes the idea of their parent getting together with someone who isn't their other parent. Some kids (especially younger ones) might be quick to accept you going back to the dating world. Others will need a bit of convincing and time to adjust to the idea. When going out on a date, figure out whether it would be better for your children to tell them that you're going on a date, or just "going out". If telling your children the truth about your date would scare them or make them anxious, it's okay to keep it to yourself for now.;
, Don't try to hide that you're a parent. No matter how much you pretend that you don't have kids, reality is that you do, and your potential partner must be willing to accept them if you ever want to have a serious, committed relationship down the line. It's okay if your date is a bit freaked out at first. Let them know that they can talk with you about what they're feeling. Tell your date sooner rather than later about your child. If things don't work out due to the mention of a child, don't beat yourself up over it. They weren't right for you.
 If things aren't going too well, don't introduce them to your child just yet - it may cause further complications down the line. If you're not really into your date, there's no point giving out lots of information about him or her to your children just yet. Keep things on a need-to-know basis.
 When things are really starting to go well, start thinking about introducing your date to your child. Don't make the introduction too formal. Don't have a one-on-one introduction at your house over dinner - it'll be awkward for everyone. The last thing you want is for your kid and your date to sit down beside each other on the couch and feebly try to get to know each other while you're in the kitchen making dinner. Keep it casual by introducing then to your kid at church, at a sports game, or at a social gathering while you introduce them to other people as well.
 This time there should be a more intimate setting, but still not one-on-one. Your kid still needs to get used to your date. Have a small party at your house with some friends, and have your date there. Re-introduce them to your kid. Keep it casual, like this isn't a big deal.
 Once they're starting to get friendly and your kid seems to like your date, take it a step further. Your date goes from being a "friend" to a "good friend".
 Keep your kid included, even though they might resent your date. Have your date and your child have some bonding time together. This should be more of a friendship-type bonding rather than a parent bonding. Let your kid know that your date just wants to befriend them, they don't want to replace their mother or father. Take your date and your kid to do something fun for a little bit. Have them walk the dog together or play outside for a little bit, and once they get used to each other have them spend a bit more time together by going to the beach or the pool with you. If the child feels included, things will go a lot smoother.
 When a children's parents start dating, lots of kids feel like the date is stealing their parent away from them, and that their mother/father won't have time for them anymore. Make sure to spend lots of time with your child just like you did before you dated. Don't break the routine of making crafts with your child on Saturday, otherwise your kid will feel left-out and forgotten. Have some quality time with just you and your child to keep your bond strong.
 Remember that even though you're trying to work things out with your child, your date is still your romantic partner. In order to keep your relationship strong you two will need some alone time too. Hire a babysitter and go out dancing, out to dinner, to a play, etc. Bond with your date and have some good conversations together. Don't forget to keep your romance going.
 Kids are usually grossed-out by kissing and hugging, and it's even worse when their parent is doing it. When you're with your date and your child, keep things lightly flirty. Holding hands, hugging, and a kiss on the cheek are usually okay in front of children. Gradually get your child used to you interacting with your date. Start by holding hands in front of your child, then once they're used to it, move on to hugging, then a kiss on the cheek, and after a while even a quick kiss is fine. However, more romantic things such as making out and having sex should be done privately, when your kid is not around.

