 In order for your computer to run an accurate energy report, there must not be any applications or programs running in the background.


Close any and all applications, programs, and Internet sessions that are currently open and running.;
,


Click on the Start menu within the taskbar on your desktop. On most Windows 7 computers, the Start menu resembles the Microsoft Windows logo.
Type "command prompt" into the search box within the Start menu. The Command Prompt application will then be displayed in the list of results.
Right-click directly on the Command Prompt application, then select "Run as administrator." The Command Prompt dialog box will then display on your screen.
 When you have finished running the energy report, a message will display that indicates the amount of errors, warnings, and informational notes that are present within the energy report.


Type "powercfg energy" into the Command Prompt dialog box. There should be a space present between "powercfg" and the dash preceding "energy."
Press the "Enter" key on your keyboard to run the energy report. Your computer will take at least 60 seconds to evaluate your computer's power efficiency and run the energy report.
 This step will allow you to review the details of your energy report in Internet Explorer; including an explanation of every error and warning detected.


Type "energy-report.html" into the Command Prompt dialog box. Your Internet Explorer browser will then open and display the details of the energy report.
 The analysis results will display details of your computer's power efficiency; such as the names of applications that prevent your computer from entering sleep mode when necessary, and more.


Read through the list of errors, which are highlighted in pink, and the warnings highlighted in yellow to determine where your problem areas lie. The white informational section of the report will display facts and other general information about your computer's power efficiency.
 The steps to resolve any existing errors and warnings will vary depending on the results of your energy report.


Modify certain settings in your computer, or cease applications that may be draining your battery. For example, if your sleep mode is disabled, go into the Windows 7 Control Panel and allow your computer to enter sleep mode after a certain period of inactivity.

