 Some products may help minimize skin damage and blemishes caused by acne. If the blemished area appears inflamed, irritated, red, or swollen, then you may be able to reduce the size and appearance of the blemish by using the topical steroid cream.Hydrocortisone cream is available in 0.5% and 1% strengths without a prescription.
The active ingredient, absorbed by skin cells in the damaged area, works to reduce the inflammation and improve the appearance of the blemish.
Apply the cream or ointment several times a day according to the product directions. General recommendations limit the use of topical steroid products to no more than seven days.
Monitor the area for any unwanted effects. Sometimes the prolonged use of topical steroid products can cause the skin to atrophy, or start to break down. This reaction most commonly occurs with use in moist areas of the body and on the face.;
, Studies support the benefit of using products containing onion skin derivatives mixed with other ingredients, such as allantoin, for its healing abilities.Products that contain onion skin derivatives are available without a prescription.
Recommendations for use include a once daily application for several months. It takes time to alter the skin tissue and allow for remodeling to occur.
 Silicone sheeting products are effective in reducing the size and appearance of some types of scars. Many variables may influence your response to using this type of treatment to improve the appearance of your scars.Silicone gel sheets are available without a prescription at most local and online pharmacies.
The package contains sheets that can be cut to fit the size of the area.
Using the silicone gel sheeting daily may help minimize or fade a scar as well as prevent it from getting worse. Use silicone sheeting for 3 months for best results.
 Sun protection is vital for minimizing scars. Choose a sunscreen with zinc or titanium oxide to protect against both UVA and UVB rays. Choose a sunscreen with a sun protection factor (SPF) of 30 or higher., Green tea contains chemical compounds called phenols that have both antioxidant and anti-inflammatory properties. Applying green tea topically causes a release of a phenol compound that provides benefit in treating scar tissue.Research supports the topical use of green tea extract. One study was able to show a significant reduction in the growth of scar tissue as well as shrinking tissue that was already developed.
Every scar is different. Green tea extract was studied in the types of scars called keloid scars. This generally means that the scar tissue formed above the regular skin tissue, causing a raised scar that can be felt.
Green tea extract creams can be purchased at most pharmacies or online.
 There is no scientific or absolute recipe for making your own topical green tea extract product, so use caution. Adjust your recipe as you learn what works best for your skin.One recipe suggests using two tablespoons full of green tea added to ¾ cup of very hot, but not boiling, water.
Steep the tea for five minutes, then strain it through a fine filter or cheesecloth. The remaining liquid should equal about ½ cup of strong tea. Let the liquid cool completely, maybe overnight.
Select your base cream. Basic emollient creams that do not contain any added preservatives or fragrances are available for purchase and are not expensive.
Use a sturdy spatula, or even a blender or electric mixer, and add cream to the tea in small portions until you have the desired thickness.
Store your cream in a jar or other suitable container in a cool, dry place.
Remember, you did not add preservatives. Do not keep your cream around for an extended amount of time. Store your cream in the refrigerator, but not the freezer, to extend the time it will remain uncontaminated.
 Hydroquinone 2 to 4% topical products work by fading discolored areas of skin. For some types of scars, including those caused by acne, the skin can appear discolored with a pinkish or reddish tone.Hydroquinone products require a prescription.
Concerns have developed about the use of topical hydroquinone and the possible development of some forms of cancer. The FDA is reviewing products that contain hydroquinone for safety.
Talk to your doctor or dermatologist about the risks and be sure this is the most effective treatment option for managing your scars.
 Some scars are too large and possibly too old to respond well to topical remedies. In some cases, you may want to talk to a dermatologist about procedures available to remove your scars.Laser resurfacing is a procedure that removes the external surface layers of the skin where the scar or skin damage is located. Newer techniques and equipment accomplish the desired results in very little time.
Dermabrasion uses special equipment and procedures that target the damaged or scarred areas. The procedure removes the outer layers of skin in those areas and stimulates the growth of new skin.
Microdermabrasion is a milder form of dermabrasion. This procedure is helpful in reducing scars and imperfections that are more superficial.
Steroid injections into the skin can soften existing scar tissue. Steroid injections often need repeated treatments.
Injectable fillers, such as collagen and fat injections, can immediately raise sunken scars, making them more level with the natural surface of the skin. However, this treatment is not permanent and may need to be repeated.
Radiotherapy is not used often due to the potential problem with longer term side effects. Radiotherapy uses low-dose radiation to prevent the formation of certain types of scar tissue.
Surgery can be performed to alter the size, depth, or color of a scar, although it can’t be removed completely. However, surgery isn’t suggested for hypertrophic or keloid scars because it can make them worse.
 Putting concealer on a scar is a good way to hide it temporarily. Pick a shade that is as similar to the color of your skin as possible. If the scar is red or pink, try a concealer with a green undertone. If the scar is brown, try a concealer with a yellow undertone. Be sure to choose a waterproof concealer.