 Think about what activity you need the sandals for. The activity you need the sandals for determines what type of sandals you need to buy. Choosing the wrong sandal for your activity can make the wearing experience very uncomfortable, even if it is typically a comfortable sandal. Along with type of sandal, you should consider if you would like an open or closed toe design. Some types of sandals are:A hiking sandal is meant to have rugged outsoles, stiff midsoles, and tough toe boxes. The straps of a hiking sandal should tightly cover the foot.
A water sandal should be lighter than a hiking sandal. It should also be water resistant. This type of sandal would come in handy for walking on the beach, rafting, and walking around the pool.
A fashion sandal is meant to be worn mostly for looks. You should not use this type of sandal to take part in physical activity. It is meant to be worn to occasions, such as weddings and parties.
Huaraches are ideal for walking. They are more lightweight than a hiking sandal. Huaraches usually have a rubber sole and webbing splits around the big toe.
 It is better to invest in a higher quality material that will support your feet better and last longer. The type of material you choose depends on the type of sandal you need. Some high quality materials are leather, suede, and fabric straps. These kinds of materials prevent blisters and allow your feet to breathe. Nylon webbing and polyurethane are ideal materials for water activities. For the soles, look for memory foam, ethylene-vinyl acetate, and durable rubbers that will last long and provide support., Look for brands that are well-made, quality, and specialize in sandals regularly. Some sandals are built better than others and will feel more comfortable than lower quality brands. For example, Birkenstocks and Tevas are known for their support and comfort (but not necessarily their fashionista mark of approval). Havaianas flip-flops are comfortable and stylish.Ask for the advice of the salesperson when shopping, or look online for recommendations.
 Your feet are the smallest when you wake up in the morning. As the days goes on, your feet swell. It is best to try on sandals during the late afternoon or evening to avoid buying sandals that will be too small.Consider how much your feet will swell after physical activities like hiking.
 Even if you have the best quality sandal made for the activity you need it for, it will not be comfortable if it doesn’t fit correctly. No part of your foot should hang over the sandal—neither your toes nor heels. Your foot shouldn’t be the exact size of the sole. The sandals shouldn’t be too large, or sliding and rubbing will occur, which causes blisters.Make sure the toe box is wide enough to accommodate the widest part of your foot.
Check the straps to make sure that they fits tightly, but do not suffocate your feet.

