 Lavender plants, unlike many perennials, do not handle division well. Read the section on deciding how to propagate lavender for more advice, or refer to either section on cuttings instead if your main goal is to produce new lavender plants.
 Lavender plants are dormant during winter, although they may retain their greyish-green color. Wait until early spring to divide the plant, but do not wait until the plant begins the growing season in earnest., If the center of the plant is dead, you should be able to identify individual clusters of stems circling the dead area, attached to the same section of roots. Plan to divide the plant so each new section has at least three to five growing stems and roughly equal shares of the root base.


This may require you to include multiple clusters in one division.
 As a rough guide, each hole should be about twice as wide as the root ball, and approximately 12 inches (30 cm) deep. Keep in mind that these root balls will be smaller after division.
 Organic material such as compost or pine bark can be mixed into your garden soil to use as backfill, or the material can be placed in a layer about 3 inches (7.5 cm) deep at the base of each hole.


Optionally, add a small amount of fertilizer high in phosphorus and potassium to the base of the hole as well., If the plant is not excessively large, the center is not dead, or separate divisions are not easily visible while the plant it is in the ground, you may wish to remove the entire plant before dividing it. Otherwise, remove portions of the soil around the plant to increase visibility and access to the root ball.


Pry down on the handle of the shovel as you move around the plant until the plant releases from the ground.
 Most lavender plants cannot easily be pried apart, but if your variety grows discrete clusters, you may attempt to pry them apart with two garden forks. More commonly, you will need to use a clean, sharp shovel to cut the lavender plant as you decided above, then use garden forks to pry apart the entwined roots.
 Plant each new lavender plant to the same depth it was planted previously, gently tamping down the soil around it as you fill the hole. Water thoroughly after planting to encourage new roots growth and set the plant in the soil. Continue to care for the lavender as usual.

