 There are several ways you might do this, depending on your child's personality and how well they are able to choose from a selection of books.


Take your child to the library and let them choose several picture books to bring home. For a child who is new to books, choose just two or three books; children who love story time and want a different book each night should get five to ten. When it is time for a bedtime story, let your child choose from the library books. You can also let your child choose from books in your home library, if you have one.
Alternately, if your child needs a bit of help with choosing, narrow it down to two or three books and then let your child choose.
 Children at this age learn from repetition, and you may literally have to read the same bedtime story dozens of times before your child tires of it. Your child is busy memorizing the pictures and words, and gets a thrill from knowing what is coming on the next page.


Kids learn from repetition. Reading the same book over and over can help to increase your child's vocabulary.Reading a familiar book is also a great way for a child to wind down at the end of the day. Their favorite books are comforting and soothing and can help ease them into a sleepy state., It can be a lot of fun to read books to children, but it can also be stressful or boring if you choose the wrong type of book. Some people love reading the tongue-twisting rhymes of Dr. Seuss books, for example, while other people find that type of reading difficult and unpleasant. If you enjoy a particular type of children's book or a particular author, be sure to incorporate those books into your reading ritual.


If your child is old enough and has a good attention span, you might try reading two short picture books every night. Let your child choose one, and you choose the other.
 Most toddlers and preschoolers love picture books that feature interesting but simple stories, lovable characters, and rhythm or rhyme in the words. Try to choose a book that is not too long, or your child (or you) might become bored.


Most children's picture books are around thirty pages; for this age group, look for books that do not have dense paragraphs of text but rather just a few lines on every page.
Some good titles for two to five year old children include What! Cried Granny by Kate Lum, The Napping House by Audrey Wood, and The Going to Bed Book by Sandra Boynton.