 The first step in doing something new is to come up with some fresh ideas. Start by generating a list of things you’ve always wanted to do. Remember that there are no wrong answers when you’re brainstorming! Aim for at least five items on your list.Perhaps you’ve always wanted to skydive, bungee jump, or go white water rafting.
Maybe you’ve always wanted to write a book, perform at an open mic, or grow your own garden.
Maybe you’ve always wanted to work as a barista, make a short film, or try a vegan diet.;
, Another way to generate some new ideas is to make a list of things you’d like to learn. Learning new things is a great way to meet people, have fun, and feel a sense of fulfillment. Aim to come up with at least five things you’d like to learn.Perhaps you’d like to learn a new language, such as Spanish, Italian, or Chinese.
Perhaps you’d like to learn a new creative skill, such as photography, pottery, or landscape painting.
Perhaps you’d like to learn how to cook, do yoga, or write poetry.
 Finally, you can add to this ongoing list of new things by listing places (or things) that you’ve always wanted to see. Traveling to a new place (even someplace that is just around the corner) can open your eyes to new possibilities.Maybe you have always wanted to visit the Louvre in Paris and see the Mona Lisa.
Maybe you have always wanted to climb a mountain in the Alps.
Maybe there is a restaurant in your city that you’ve always wanted to try.
 You don’t need to think too hard about it. Simply select the item from these lists that jumps out at you, makes your heart race, and gets you a little excited. This is the first new thing you should do. Even if it is seems big and far away, with a little planning, you can do it.
 In order for you to overcome obstacles and formulate a plan, you will need some more info about what you plan to do. If you hope to take a trip, for example, you will need to know the price of travel and lodging, as well as other considerations (like obtaining a passport). This information can be obtained by conducting internet research or visiting your local library.
 If this is something you’ve always wanted to do, list all the reasons why you never tried this activity before now. If this is something new that you’ve just thought of, simply list all the things that stand in your way.A prime obstacle might be money.
Another important obstacle might be time. You may not feel like you have time to do the new things you’d like to.
Other obstacles could really by anything. For instance, perhaps you would need someone to watch you dog, or perhaps you have a fear of flying that would get in the way.
 Take some time to examine each reason, and isolate obstacles into individual parts. (This should help reduce feelings of being overwhelmed.) Begin thinking of ways to overcome each problem, one by one.For example, if the problem is financial, begin by determining how much money you would need to complete your goal. Figure out how much you would need to save each week or each month in order to have enough money within a certain amount of time (like six months or one year). Then determine how you can save that money. Could you give up some of your luxuries? Could you find some extra work?
If the problem is time, you can create a similar budget. How much time would you need to complete this goal? Let's say you would need to work on this goal 1 hour per day, for six months. Is there anywhere you can spare an hour? Maybe there is something you could give up (an hour of sleep, an hour of TV, and hour of social media). Then you also may need a bigger chunk of time to actually do the thing. This may require getting time off of work, or obtaining childcare. If you are beginning six months ahead of time, hopefully you can talk to your boss, and/or find a friend or relative to help out.
If the problem is fear, you can begin facing it little by little. If you are afraid of heights, for example, you can begin by doing some high-elevation hiking, riding a ski-lift, or even taking a glass elevator to a high floor. Begin testing your limits with a new "height obstacle" each week, until you feel ready to tackle your big goal.
 Now that you have your obstacles broken down into smaller parts, you can figure out how to overcome them one by one. Figure out everything you need to do in order to accomplish your goal. Place these steps in a sequential order, and set them to a timeline. You may want to purchase a calendar and write down deadlines for yourself to finish each step., Anytime you make a lifestyle change, or make the decision to try something new, it is important to get support from those around you. Be sure to surround yourself with family and friends who support what you're trying to do and encourage you. This may even mean reaching out and making new friends. Look for a club in your area, or even an interest group online for people who are seeking a similar goal. Having someone to talk to is likely to help you achieve what you want to do.
 Making a plan is one thing, but you still may struggle with taking that first step. Set a date for yourself to begin (no more than one week in the future). Each day, leading up to your “begin” date, look in the mirror and say, “I’m ready for something new.”

, If you have a lot of obstacles to overcome, you are going to need to maintain your focus over a long period of time, without losing motivation. Post images or words of encouragement where you can see them that remind you why this goal is important. Set reminders on your phone to accomplish each step on time. And feel good about yourself each time you take a new step., During this journey, you may experience set-backs, lose motivation, or feel discouraged. This is a natural part of seeking a goal. But you can combat negative feelings, keep your spirits high, and keep progressing by practicing positive self-talk. In other words, speak to yourself (and about yourself) in a kind way.Rather than saying, "I feel stupid for trying something new," say "I am facing a difficult challenge, but I'm still pushing."
Rather than saying, "I'm scared," try saying, "I am excited," or "I am exhilarated."
Look in the mirror and say nice things to yourself each day, such as "I am proud of you for trying something new."

, Your journey toward achieving something new can potentially be a long one and/or a difficult one. That is part of what will make it all worthwhile. But in the meantime, make sure that you celebrate some milestones along the way. Have you secured the time off of work that you need? Amazing! Have you managed to save your first $100? Congrats! Take time to rejoice in your achievements as you go to help stay positive and motivated.
 From the moment you chose to seek out something new, you have been on a journey toward fulfillment. Finally completing your new goal is not your only reward. Instead, the journey itself is what will bring you satisfaction. Stop and enjoy it along the way. Don’t focus so much on everything you still need to do, instead, pause and give thanks for how far you have already come., When you have completed every step, and finally taken that trip, learned to paint, or jumped out of a plane, the only thing left to do is to start the process all over again! You are now a person who seeks out new experiences. Kudos to you!

