 Drinking water gives you energy and helps you through the day. Water also makes your skin look and feel great. So drinking 8 cups of water a day scattered throughout the day is great for your health.;
, You need to follow the food pyramid and should get 6 or more servings of bread and cereals, 2-5 servings of fruits and veggies, 2 servings of dairy and meat, and only eat what it says to eat. Doing this will make sure you get as many servings as needed to get all the necessary vitamins. You can eat fats, oils, and sweets occasionally.
 Make sure that you get at least 8 hours of sleep. If you are under the age of 13, get 10-11 hours of sleep each night. If you don't, you won't be able to function well mentally or physically throughout the day.
 Washing your hair depends on your hair type. If your hair is really oily, wash it every day. However, if it's dry, wash it every other day so that you don't get dandruff. If your hair gets really frizzy when you wash it and you don't have the time to straighten it everyday, and you don't have the money to get it professionally straightened then you should use dry shampoo. Its also important to brush your hair at least twice a day. This helps to distribute natural oils.
 It is important to wear clean clothes so that you don't smell and so that you aren't all sweaty.
 Shower at least once a day and wash your face twice a day for clean skin.
 Brush your teeth twice a day, floss, and use mouthwash.
 Read at least once a day, especially on the weekends and during summer when you're not in school. It's also a good idea to read at least 20 minutes per night. You don't have to read a 500 page novel. Even reading things like your favorite magazine, or yahoo news will keep your mind healthy and moving.
 Keep a daily routine to exercise your mind as well as your body.
 Make sure you have some time to spare for yourself everyday. Use that time to engage in a relaxing technique to clear off your mind and body of the stress and fatigue received during the day.





