 Start keeping a record of your child’s behavior to provide more information to your child’s speech language therapist. By paying attention to the situations and people that cause your child to go silent, you may be able to identify patterns and these patterns can help your child’s SLP come up with ways to make your child more comfortable.For example, you might find that your child will talk to new people if you are present, or that your child will not speak in groups of more than three people, no matter who is present.
 Stimulus fading is when you put your child into a situation that will make her feel comfortable enough to talk, and then slowly change something.Making gradual changes should help your child to adjust to any discomfort she is feeling and this may make it easier for her to speak in the same situations in the future.


For example, if you notice that your child is comfortable speaking to a new person with you in the room, then you might start by sitting in the room and then slowly leave after a little time has passed.
 With shaping, your child will have the opportunity to use nonverbal communication methods first, such as gestures, writing, or drawing. Then, the speech language therapist will start to encourage your child to make sounds, such as a single consonant sound or a whispering a single word. For example, the SLP might begin by having your child draw something, such as a horse. Then, the SLP might as your child what noise a horse makes.
 Showing your child videos of herself speaking may help to encourage her to speak as well. To use self-modeling, your speech language therapist may ask you to provide a home video where your child is speaking. Then, the SLP may watch the video with your child to help build up her confidence and encourage her to speak again.Make sure that the video portrays the type of behavior that you want your child to display. For example, you might choose a home movie where she is laughing and speaking with some other children.
 Pressuring your child to speak may cause her to feel uncomfortable and she may associate this feeling with speaking. Instead, do not pressure your child to speak. Just respond warmly when she does speak.Do not overreact when your child speaks, but praise her for communicating.
Do not praise your child in public, as this may embarrass her. Instead, wait until you get home and then reward her.