 Exposure to the sun's ultraviolet rays increases the risk of various kinds of cancer, including cancer of the lips. Avoiding excessive sun can lower your risk of lip cancer, a cancer that can spread to other parts of the mouth.


If you want to spend time in the sun, be sure to use broad-spectrum lip balm and sunscreen.
Avoid going out in the sun during peak hours, usually between 10 a.m. and 2 p.m.
The lower lips are more commonly affected than the upper lips, due to their higher degree of exposure to the sun.
Consider using a broad hat, which provides shade to your face and lips.
 The foods in your daily diet play an important role in fighting cancer-causing agents in your body. Incorporate plenty of fresh fruits and vegetables in your diet, while avoiding preservatives and processed foods. This type of diet will minimize your chances of developing mouth cancer.


Include lots of dark green leafy vegetables, beans, berries, tomatoes, garlic, cabbage, broccoli, soy, green tea, citrus fruits, fish, poultry, and olive oil in your diet.
Eat at least 2½ cups of vegetable and fruits daily.
Choose whole grain breads and pastas over the white versions of these foods.
It is better to prepare foods by baking, boiling, or steaming, rather than grilling and deep-frying.

Residue and char from grilling can be carcinogenic.


Do not add artificial food flavors, instead add natural spices and curry powder for flavor.
Try to avoid red meat and processed meats.
 Tobacco is one of the leading causes of mouth cancer. Tobacco products, including all forms of smoking and chewing tobacco, bring the cells in your mouth in contact with cancer causing chemicals. Abstaining from tobacco will cut down sharply on the amount of carcinogens that your mouth is exposed to.


There is a variety of cancer causing chemicals in most tobacco products, such as: stearic acid, nicotine, ammonia, butane, toluene and methane.
If you are not currently using tobacco, then continue your abstinence for a healthy mouth.
Avoid social and recreational situations where you will be exposed to or reminded of smoking.
When you stop using tobacco, the risk for mouth cancer also decreases as your cells repair themselves.
In order to quit, seek the help of trained advisers or support groups.
Keep quitting aides, such as nicotine gum and patches, in mind to help you quit.
 If you enjoy drinking alcohol, drink only a moderate quantity. Although alcohol's cancerous properties are not fully understood, it has been linked to a variety of cancers.


Limit yourself to two drinks for a man and one drink for a woman, per drinking session.
Hard liquors and beer are especially noted for increasing your risk of mouth cancer.
Excessive alcohol use irritates the cells in your mouth and elevates the risk of cancer.
Alcohol and smoking work in synergy because their toxins inflict repeated damage to cells inside the mouth.
 Human papilloma virus can increase the risk of mouth cancer. It is commonly transmitted through kissing, sharing drinks, and some kinds of sexual activity. Many people carry the virus with them unknowingly, so try to avoid contracting HPV by taking extra precautions when choosing sexual partners.


HPV is common in smokers, because the smoke damages the cells lining the mouth and weakens the immune system.
HPV vaccination may reduce the risk of contracting this infection but is not completely effective.

This vaccination is only effective if you receive it before getting infected with HPV.
Therefore, getting vaccinated early in life may reduce the risk of HPV infection.



