 Use a ponytail holder or headband to get your hair out of the way. Your mask will be messy and you probably don’t want it getting all over the place.Consider protecting your clothes as well by wearing an apron or draping a towel over you. The mask may drip.
 Since you will be applying the mask with your fingers, make sure they are clean. Wash your hands with a gentle soap in warm water and dry them prior to applying the mask.
 Dip your fingers into your mixture and rub it over your face, avoiding your eyes. Massage it in gently by forming small circles with your fingertips. This should be soothing and relaxing. It will also help to cleanse and exfoliate your skin. Make sure to fully cover your face with the mixture. It should form a thin layer over your skin.


You could also apply the mask with a brush. Try using a thick makeup brush, such as a foundation brush, to apply the mask. Simply dip it into your mixture and paint it onto your face.
The mask is not limited to your face. If you wish to hydrate and soften the skin on other portions of your body, you can apply it as you wish. Rub some on your arms, back, or chest to reap the benefits of this mask on your body. To remove, you can simply hop in the shower.
 This will allow the mask to soak in so that your skin can absorb the nutrients and be hydrated and moisturized. Try listening to some relaxing music while you wait or you could read a magazine. Just make sure not to touch your face during this time., Your mask should come off easily by splashing some warm water on your face. Just don’t use water that is too hot, or this could irritate your skin.


Make sure to dry your face with a clean towel. You don’t want to add dirt or oil to your face after it has just been cleansed.
 This will allow you to reap maximum benefits from this mask. As you continue to apply the mask, you can adjust your formula slightly and use different optional ingredients to see which you like the best. Over time, your skin will continue to grow soft, moisturized, and hydrated.

