 “Sleep tight,” might work, but a bit of creativity can go a long way here. It’s intimate to text in the evening, as you may be the last person your crush interacts with before drifting off to sleep. “Sweet dreams,” is also an old standby, but if you’re feeling more forward, you can always go with “Trying to fall asleep, but I can’t stop thinking about you.”, This is the simplest step of the article: actually go out with the person you’re so hype about texting with. You’re already standing on lava, why not dive into the volcano? After a few rounds of compliments and wisecracks, ask your crush if they’d like to meet up. If nothing else, you’ll have more to text about after a real world interaction.


You’ve got options. There’s the tried and true, “What are you up to tonight/ tomorrow night/ this weekend?” The implied spontaneity of deciding to get together on a whim can make meeting seem more casual, and allows your crush the space to respond casually.
Alternatively, asking “Can you sneak away for coffee?” adds the intrigue of the unexpected, and can get your crush thinking about you for the rest of the day even if they’re unable to meet up.Be explicit. If you invite someone to hangout, specify what you have in mind. At least mention a place, a day, or an activity. You don’t have to plan a whole date in one text, but you should at least accompany an invitation with an idea.Before a date, let your crush know you’re excited. Be explicit. Try, “I’m really looking forward to tonight.”, The date went well? (I knew you could do it.) What did you talk about? Did your crush say something especially interesting, or tilt their head in a way that caught the streetlight just right? If so, mention it.


Say things like… “You looked great tonight,” but also mention more substantial aspects of your affection by saying things like, “I really liked how you described ________.”

, So you’ve spent an evening together. It went exactly how you’d hoped, and you’re hoping for more. You don’t have to immediately start texting about sex positions or genitalia. Go more for reaffirmations of contentment and attraction. Here’s a few examples: “Last night was incredible,” “I’ve been thinking about you all day,” or “It really turned me on when you______.”
Even better: “Can’t wait to see you again,” or “I have a feeling our next date will be even better.”
Describe the sensations you’re feeling. You know they’re into you. You’re into them. It’s time to text about it. Send a series of messages, with each one describing a different sensation you’re feeling, or that they’ve made you feel. Be creative, and reference the time you’ve spent together and specific experiences you’ve shared.