 Write a list of activities that you enjoy. Brainstorm others that you would like to try for the first time. Narrow down your destination options by knowing exactly what you expect to be there waiting for you.Such activities could include:


Physical pastimes, like hiking, swimming, or skiing.
Cultural activities, such as museums, dining, and theater.
Rest and relaxation, such as spa treatments or simply reading a book poolside.;
, Now that you have created a list of things you enjoy in general, take a step back. Examine your life and situation as it stands today. Ask yourself what you would want most out of a trip if you were to go on one this minute. Then go back through your list and cross out those activities that don’t suit your needs at the moment.For example, if you’ve been working 60 hours per week, fixing your house up during your off-hours, and training for a marathon, you might appreciate more laidback activities that will allow you to unwind.
Conversely, if you’re bored stiff by your routine, you may want to climb out of your rut by challenging yourself with more adventurous pursuits.
 If anyone will be travelling with you (such as family or a significant other), have them write their own list(s) of preferred pastimes. Share your lists as a group. Discover which activities everyone hopes to experience so you focus on destinations that will make everybody happy.If there’s an odd duck in the group whose interests don’t match everyone else’s, ask them to prioritize items on their list so at least some of their expectations are met. For example, if their #1 priority is hiking, while everyone else is more interested in museums, shopping, and theater, consider going to a city that also offers a lot of walking tours.
If only you and your significant other are going on this trip, and your lists don’t match, consider letting one person decide on a destination this time around, and then let the other decide your next trip.
 Consult online and print publications to find locations offering the experiences that you are seeking. Use tourism websites, travel blogs, and travel guides to gain an idea of what is out there. Search by location (say, "Italy") or interests (like "Top 10 Destinations for Rock Climbing").Ask friends, family, or other associates for recommendations and warnings based on their own travels. However, maintain a healthy skepticism when researching. Be on the lookout for:


Sources that are attempting to sell you something.
Out-of-date information
Reviews based on a different set of criteria than yours.

