 Don't get book bags that fall apart easily. Get a book bag that has enough zippers and compartments so that everything has a place, but not so many compartments that you're constantly looking for things. It's better to get a backpack if you will be carrying a lot of heavy books or binders, because the sling bags can ruin your shoulders. Recommendations for carry weight is 10% of your total weight.If your school allows it, it's a good idea to have a medium sized book bag or tote to carry around class to class also, though some schools don't allow any bags, many will say no backpacks but totes or book bags are fine. This really helps as you will not have to carry around a huge load of books, as most will fit in your bag.;
, A key to having everything organized in middle school is having all the supplies you need, nice and clean and organized. Some schools give you out the supplies you'll need, but you can generally buy supplies cheap at stationary stores, especially at the Back-To-School times. Here are some purchases you should make:


Check each teacher's supply list to make sure you have everything you need. Have your parents or guardians get everything on the lists so you're not the last student to have supplies. At the very least, you should have notebook paper, pencils, and folders for each class. Remember, you will be changing classes and taking your things with you to your next class so there is no need to purchase multiple packs of things like colored pencils or highlighters.






Buy, make, or reuse a pencil case. In the pencil case put things in like pencils, pens, erasers, sticky notes, etc.






Keep your planner with you. With your planner, your whole homework schedule and after school activities can be organized. Write things in it like homework, events, meetings, etc.
 Math papers don't belong in your English notebook or your pocket. Be consistent. Keep papers in their corresponding notebook at all times. It will make things so much easier. You won't have to be worried on the way home about which binder something is in (and you forgot one of your binders). Many schools or teachers will require you to have a binder for their class and even schedule "notebook checks" where they make sure that you have all your papers in the right places in your binder.
 A sample schedule might be: Wake up and shower at 6:00, get dressed at 6:20, eat breakfast at 6:45, do your hair and makeup at 7:00, and leave at 7:15. It also helps to pack everything you can the night before, like putting all your homework and books in your bag, so all you have to add is your lunch. With the schedule, make sure you allow extra time in case something goes wrong (ex: you wake up late and don't have time to do something).When you have LOADS of homework: Take a sheet of paper write down all the subjects you have, then write the time you think you will need for each subject. Then try to put that time for homework in your weekly schedule.
 You want to have backup supplies just in case you lose any of it, or you forget it somewhere. Make sure to have a couple of extra packs of paper and pens/pencils in your locker.
 This really helps as you know where everything you're not using is. It is also a good idea if you plan to buy bulk packs of things, which is very cheap, but can be hard to keep track of. If you have a "School Supply Drawer", you will always have a place to put extras, and know where those things are when you eventually need them.
 If you are in 8th grade, you probably won't need to buy lots of glue sticks and crayons, while a 5th grader won't need a graphing calculator. If you only buy what's on your supply list, and anything else you KNOW that you will use, you'll have a lot less junk to keep track of.
 Labeling your notebooks and folders makes them easier to find. If you can make the folder and notebook for a class the same color, that helps too.
,,, All of your papers will also get crumpled and ripped, and you don't want to hand them in like that!

, If you do not pay attention and one of your teachers calls on you, how will you know the right answer? You could use your study guide if you have one and know where it is.
 Otherwise, do your best to divide it into several sections. Example: One for textbooks, one for notebooks, one for binder, and another for a backpack.


Keep a magnetic pencil holder and a whiteboard on your locker door. The magnetic pencil holder is for spare pens, pencils, highlighters, erasers, and supplies. The whiteboard is where you will write your assignments, classes, and memos on.







