 Before you set up the arena, you will need to make sure that you have a big enough place for the arena. A standard dressage arena is 20 meters by 60 meters (or about 66 feet by 197 feet). A short dressage arena is 20 meters by 40 meters (or about 66 feet by 132 feet).Find a space where you will have 1-2 meters (about 3 to 6 feet) of buffer around the outside of the arena.A standard-sized or larger arena (100x200 ft) will give you room for a full jump course and for advanced riders to practice longer gaits with more space.;
, If your arena is dry, you can always water it. However, if your arena has bad drainage, you will spend lots of time and money to ensure proper drainage. It can also be a danger – if your arena doesn’t drain well, the footing will be too soggy to ride without risking injury. Put your arena on a high point in your property. It will make a big difference!, If you are planning on using the ring for show purposes, you will need to make sure that there is a place where you can set up the judge’s table. Try to find a place where the sun will not be in the judge’s eyes during early morning shows and where the judge can see all parts of the arena. Typically, the judge will sit on one of the “long sides” of the arena.
 Walk through the area you’ve chosen for your arena. Look for large rocks, debris, or any unevenness in the footing that could affect your measurement of the area or cause a horse to trip or spook.
 Are there trees that could drop branches into the arena? Is there anything nearby that could fall and spook horses? Is there anything that could drain or wash into the arena during a storm? Carefully consider the area around your location to rule out potential hazards., It’s really important that you have an exact right angle for your dressage arena, because your arena will be rectangular. In order to make a rectangle, you must make a perfect right angle on the ground, for the perimeter for the rectangle. To do this, you should make a 3-4-5 triangle. By the Pythagorean Theorem, if the sides of a triangle are in the ratio 3:4:5 (or 6:8:10, etc.), then the angle formed by the “3” and “4” sides should be exactly 90 degrees.


Put one stake in the ground. This will be one part of the corner of your dressage arena.
Lay two stakes out in what looks like a right angle. With your measuring tape, measure out a distance of about 3 feet, perfectly in line with the stake. Mark the 3 foot place on the ground.
Do the same with the 4 foot mark on the other side of the right angle. Measure from the 3 foot marker to the 4 foot marker. It should be exactly 5 feet. If it is not, adjust the stakes so that the 3 foot and 4 foot markers are exactly 5 feet away from one another.
 The long side of your arena will be either 40 meters or 60 meters, depending on the size of arena that you want and/or need. If you are using the ring for more advanced purposes (higher level competition) or want the standard arena size, you should mark out 60 meters. If you do not have space for the standard size arena or plan to use your arena more casually, you could mark out 40 meters. Ask your trainer which is better for you. Use surveyor’s tape or a measuring wheel to mark out this distance from the first stake that you’ve used to create your right angle. Put another stake in the ground to signify this distance.Tie string between the two stakes and measure the distance again, to be sure.
 The short side of your arena will be 20 meters long, no matter which size of ring you’re building. Mark out 20 meters with surveyor’s tape or a measuring wheel and put another stake in the ground there.Tie string between the two stakes and measure the distance again, to be sure.
 Now you should use the other two stakes as your initial starting corners and measure out right angles again. You should also still tie string around each stake and remeasure the distances to make sure that they are correct.
 You can make a dressage arena out of many different materials, but you probably want to purchase the fencing online from a specialty equestrian retailer or order it through a tack shop. If you do not want to spend that much money, you could use a short, low-cost wooden fence. Dressage arenas typically are no taller than a foot or so.
 Make sure that the fencing is straight and lines up with the string you’ve tied around the stakes. Make sure that there is a gate or an opening so that horses can get in and out of the arena. This gate is typically on one (or sometimes both) of the short sides.
 You will need one letter in the middle of each short side. Use a measuring tape to measure 10 meters, to the middle of the short side, and then put something there to mark it (like a rock or a stake).


Next, measure where the other letters will go. On a standard arena, put a mark 6 meters from the short side, then another mark 12 meters from that mark. Put another mark 12 meters from that mark, and then another mark 12 meters from that one. Finally, put a mark 6 meters from the other short side. In total you'll have 5 marks for letters.
Put marks in these same places along the other long side and also along the center line. So, you should have marks for 17 different letters on a standard arena.
For a smaller arena, the process is similar. Still put a mark in the middle of each short side. Then, mark a place on the long side that is 6 meters from the short side. Then put another marker 14 meters from that marker, and then another marker 14 meters from that one, coming down the long side (this one should also be 6 meters from the other short side). In total there should be 3 markers on that long side.
Put marks in these same places along the other long side and also long the center line. So, you should have 11 different letters on a small arena.
 Letters in a dressage arena, which are used for the purpose of memorizing and executing patterns, are always in a specific pattern. They are also different for standard arenas and small arenas. Placing your letters in the right order is very important. You’ll need them in practicing and memorizing your patterns, which will give you confidence when you go to a show with similarly arranged letters.


The easiest way to place dressage letters is to look at a diagram of the arena size that you want. These diagrams are available easily online.
The letters for a standard dressage arena are in the pattern, if you are starting on the short side and moving counter-clockwise, A (on the short side), K, V, E, S, H (all on the long side), C (on the short side), M, R, B, P, F (all on the long side). Then, on the center line, moving away from A, there are D, L, X, I, G.The letters and placement are a little bit different for a small arena. Going counterclockwise, you should still place A in the middle of the short side, then K, E, H (all on the long side), C (in the middle of the other short side), then M, B, F (all on the long side), and then, going up the center line from A, D, X, and G. 