 The prostate is a gland located below the bladder and in front of the rectum in males. It starts off as the size of a walnut in young men but then grows gradually as they age. The prostate function is to make some of the fluid that nourishes our sperm cells that make up male semen. The urethra, the duct we urinate through and males ejaculate from, passes through the prostate on the way from the bladder., Prostate cancer is a malignant tumor of the prostate. When cancer emerges, the prostate cells grow too rapidly (malignant cells) and cause a mass to form within the prostate gland. Because of its location, the bladder, urethra and muscles around the area are affected. Prostate cancer has several stages:Early prostate cancer is also known as localized prostate cancer. The cancer is contained within the prostate, and can even be present for years without causing any problems.
At the advanced prostate cancer stage, the cancer has spread beyond the prostate and has entered other parts of the body and tissues. Prostate cancer can spread to lymph nodes in the pelvis and to other parts of the body through the bloodstream, such as the lungs and bones., Some risk factors, such as those related to lifestyle, you can control; however, most of the risk factors you cannot control. While you can't control them, it is good to know that you may be at higher risk. Risk factors for prostate cancer include:


Age. Can happen at young or older ages but the risk is minimal in those younger than 40. Risk drastically increases after age 50. 6 out of 10 cases of cancer occur after age 65.
Race/Ethnicity. Though the reasons are still not clear, prostate cancer occurs more often in African-American men than in white men. African American men are more likely to get prostate cancer in their lifetime and twice as more likely to die from it.
Geography. Though not clear but cultural diets and environment may be factors, North America, northwestern Europe, Australia, and the Caribbean islands are at higher risk than those in Asia, Africa, Central America, and South America.
Genetics. A father or brother with prostate cancer more than doubles a man’s risk. Those with several affected relatives, particularly if they were young, are even more at risk.
Diet. Men who eat a lot of red meat or high-fat dairy products appear to have a slightly higher chance of getting prostate cancer. These men also tend to eat fewer fruits and vegetables. Doctors aren’t sure which of these factors is responsible for raising the risk.Obesity. Some studies, not all, have found an association with prostate cancer and increasing body mass index.The link was greater with higher grade or advanced cancers. A recent study also found that obesity in African-American men leads to increased risk of both low grade and high grade prostate cancer.Smoking. Many studies have found that tobacco smoking increases the rate of prostate cancer.Though, according to the American Cancer Society some studies show no link. Some research has linked smoking to a possible small increase in the risk of death from prostate cancer, but this finding will need to be confirmed by other studies.Inflammation of prostate (prostatitis). Studies have found links with prostatitis and prostate cancer but the link is not yet clear or definitive. In addition many tissue samples from prostate cancers show inflammation upon microscopy.