 Before you hang your artwork and create unnecessary screw or nail holes, you can lay it out on the ground to get a feeling for how it will look when finally hung. Lay down a large piece of disposable paper and lay your artwork over it. Configure your art by starting with the largest pieces and then arranging your smaller pieces around it. Envision how it will look on your wall and choose a configuration that you find aesthetically pleasing.


Rectangle, square, and diamond frames typically look best when hanging art.
Smaller pieces of art look best when grouped 1 to 2 inch (2.5 - 5 cm) apart from one another while larger pieces of art typically look best with a 3 inch (7.6 cm) border around them., Use a marker to make an outline around your artwork onto the paper. Remove your artwork once you are done and cut out the outlines you drew. You'll use these pieces of paper to act as a visualization of how your artwork will look on the wall.If you rearrange your artwork on the floor next to your sheet of paper, you can save your design so you don't forget where your pieces of art should go.
 Once you've finished cutting out all of your pieces, you can now hang it on the wall with scotch tape. It's possible that your layout will look very differently on the wall than it did on the floor. The centerpiece of your art arrangement should be about 5 feet (1.5 meters) tall, so it's eye level with most people. If you have high ceilings, you can opt to hang the art higher than usual.
 Take a couple of steps back and assess how your arrangement looks on your wall. If you're unsure, taking a break may allow your brain the rest it needs to evaluate the layout objectively.If you don't like something about it, move your pieces of paper around until the layout looks perfect.


Arranging the layout perfectly in this step will help you avoid drilling unnecessary holes when you hang your art.
If your floors are uneven, using a level may help you line up your artwork.
 Replace your pieces of paper with the artwork that you intend on hanging. Mark where you want the art to hang with a pencil. Hang your art on your wall using a nail or other mounting method.


Popular mounting methods include using a wall anchor, a nail, or a hanging hook.
When hanging larger and heavier artwork, you may need to use a drill to drive larger anchors into your wall studs. 