 Focusing on music can make you more interesting and give you a pleasant way to pass the timeOne of the first rules for alleviating boredom is that you should focus on trying new things. Therefore, experiment with new bands, new albums, or even new genres of music.


You should also look around for local concerts. Even small towns generally have a handful of local bands. While they might not always be of the highest caliber, they might be interesting in their own way.
Try an online radio program. Relinquishing control over your queue means that you might happen across some songs you otherwise wouldn’t listen to.
Alternatively, ask friends if they have heard any good new music.;
, Things that require your brain to be active and attentive will help cure boredom. Creative pursuits can also help you cultivate skills that will, in the long run, get you out of your boring town. They can make you interesting within your community and help you build a circle of other creative people.Try to learn an instrument or sing. Once you have some experience, find other musicians/singers to put together a band. When you start playing shows, you’ll have an opportunity to meet a lot of new people.

If you were in band, choir, or orchestra in high school or college, you can still be part of the same groups in the community. Many small towns have community bands, orchestras, or choirs that you can take part of. You can always learn a new instrument or sing, and join these groups as well.
 Some schools have local poetry clubs; if not, you can help put one together. Try to publish a journal with short stories and poetry.

Many small towns will also have a community of people interested in visual arts, like painting and drawing. You can try to display your work at cafes or take courses at the local community college.
 Once upon a time, reading was the only reliable distraction people could turn to. It is still one of the best ways to banish boredom. It requires that you dedicate attention to what you’re doing. You will meet interesting characters, get engaged by a story, and learn more about the world outside of your town.


To engage with the book more thoroughly, consider writing as you read. Underline important passages, write in the margins.
 Evidence suggests that, even if daydreaming seems to give you something to do, it actually only makes boredom worse. When our minds drift to exotic places, our current environment seem even less interesting that it would otherwise.Instead of allowing your mind to drift off into fantasy, try to practice "mindfulness." Mindfulness means focusing intensely on the world around you. Be conscious of your breathing. Listen for sounds, pay attention smells. Try to notice things you otherwise wouldn't. Mindfulness has been shown to improve your mood and your cognitive abilities., Doing new things is one of the best ways to eliminate boredom. In fact, doing something you don’t enjoy, but aren’t accustomed to, is a better way of alleviating boredom than doing something you enjoy, but are used to. Given the choice between eating candy and shocking themselves, bored people have been shown to prefer electrocution. Regardless of whether the sensation is good or bad, something novel is the best cure for boredom.
It can be hard to come up with a new pastime. That is why the first step is often surrounding yourself with people who are interesting and have diverse tastes. They can help expose you to new things you wouldn’t pursue otherwise.
Try a new type of food that might seem exotic or scary. Go skiing or skydiving. Watch a movie from a genre you would generally avoid. Go to a concert. Often there are plenty of opportunities to experiment with new things, but our fears prevent us from pursuing them.
 Meditation might not seem like the most exciting activity, but it does pass the time. Evidence also demonstrates that it increases concentration, which can make it easier to focus on interesting distractions. To really improve your focus, try to dedicate 20 minutes daily to mediation.Meditation means focusing on only one thing for an extended period of time. Take a mantra (a phrase) or an image and focus on it. Clear you mind of everything else. When something else enters you mind, gently brush it aside.
 Travel can spice up your life and expose you to new things. You might even find when you come back that there were somethings that you missed while away. If you don't have the resources for an international trip, try taking a trip nearby.


If you don't have the resources to jump on a plane, go somewhere nearby. You can drive, take a bus, or ride on a train for a reasonable price. Pick a nearby city, a small town you have never been too, or a scenic, outdoor location.
Housing on a vacation might seem expensive, but that is not necessarily the case. Most cities have hostels and, if you are willing to share a room with others, you will probably only need to pay $20-$35 a night.. There are also now websites that allow you to rent space in a local's home, typically for less money than you would spend on a hotel.
You can also get involved with a local club. Often, clubs and sports organizations will travel. Typically, this sort of group travel is reasonably priced.
A busy vacation, with a lot of sights and destinations, is a good way to alleviate boredom, however, it can also be a bit overwhelming. One good way to enjoy a busy vacation is to plan it with a purpose. Come up with a goal that makes all of your experiences connected, like checking out all the local blues bars or seeing all the paintings of a particular artist. You can even try to write a story based on your traveling experience.