 Get a large 2 liter (0.5 US gal) soda bottle and pour in some hydrogen peroxide.The stronger (high concentration or percentage) the hydrogen peroxide you use, the bigger the explosion will be...but be careful: hydrogen peroxide can easily burn you! When you pour it in, use a funnel and get help from an adult.


A 30% hydrogen peroxide will be needed to make the most impressive explosion, but you'll definitely need an adult to help you with this.;
, Pour a tablespoon or two of liquid dish soap into the soda bottle.
 Add a healthy squirt of food coloring if you want your explosion to have a color.
 Mix 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of dried yeast with 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of water in a separate, small bowl.
 Pour it in quickly and stand back!

, The yeast and the hydrogen peroxide will combine to make an explosion of foam. Be careful, this reaction is exothermic, which means it creates heat. Don't touch the foam right away because it will be hot!

, It needs to be Ivory specifically and it needs to be fresh and unused.
 Cut the bar of soap into about 6 pieces. You might need an adult's help to cut the bar safely, but it shouldn't be too hard. Just use a butter knife and cut it into 6 pieces.
 Put the pieces of soap onto a microwave-safe plate or a piece of wax paper.
 Microwave the plate of soap for about 1 1/2 minutes.
 Watch the soap as it goes through the microwave and you will see it grow to enormous size!

, Get a large bottle (2 liter, preferably) of Diet Coke or Diet A&W root beer.


The aspartame in the "diet" variety is needed to make the reaction work, so don't try it with regular sodas.Use a soda that is fresh and has not been opened before. A flat soda will make a smaller explosion.
 Usually mint, Original Mentos are used for this experiment, but you can also use rock salt.


Try experimenting with lots of different highly porous materials, as the porous surface is what makes the reaction occur. Can you make a bigger explosion?

, Open the soda bottle and drop in the Mentos or rock salt.
 A giant geyser of soda will explode up into the air! Be careful or you'll end up taking a shower in Coke!

