;
, The spray will make it easier to release the cakes from the cups when they're baked. You can also use molds or ramekins, for a fancier touch. You may even want to lightly dust the insides of the molds with white sugar. You won't be needing the cups for serving, so it doesn't matter if they don't look incredibly fancy. You can use a bit of butter instead of the baking spray if you choose.
 You can line the sheet with aluminum to catch any stray bits of chocolate that might drip onto it.
 Place the butter and chocolate in a large bowl and heat it up on high until the butter is completely melted. You can use semisweet chocolate, bittersweet chocolate, or even a mixture of the two, for a unique flavor. However, it's best to either use semisweet on its own or use a half and half mixture. Once the butter is melted, just whisk the mixture until the chocolate is melted, too.


You can also melt the butter and chocolate in a double-boiler over simmering water instead. A medium-sized saucepan will also do the trick.
 Now, stir in the powdered sugar until it is fully incorporated. Then, crack the eggs and whisk them in. (You can whisk the egg whites in a separate bowl first if you like.) After that, add the vanilla and the flour. (Just make sure not to use self-rising flour.) Stir the ingredients together until you have a nice, creamy mixture.
 You don't have to divide it perfectly. Just fill each of the cups to be about 3/4ths full until you've filled each of the four cups. You'll need to leave some room in the cups for the cakes to rise.
 This should take between 11-15 minutes. You'll know the cakes are done when the sides become firm while the centers are nice and soft. If you bake them too much, then your "lava" won't flow. The centers shouldn't be completely liquid-like, but they should still be soft. The tops should be puffed and a little bit cracked.
 Once you take the cakes out of the oven, let them sit for 1 minute to cool off and harden just a bit. Try to resist the temptation to eat them as they are.
 Now, use a knife or spatula to gently scrape the sides of the cups so the cakes are loosened from the cups a bit. Then, place a plate over the top of each cake and turn it over, so that the plate is under the cake as the cake falls out of its cup and is ready to eat. For best results, you should hold each custard cup down over the plate for 10 seconds before releasing each cake.
 These tasty cakes should be served warm so the "lava" is at its most delicious. They can be enjoyed on their own, but they'll be even tastier if you serve each cake with a scoop of vanilla ice cream and/or a healthy dose of whipped cream. You can also try the cake with coffee-flavored ice cream as well. For an added touch, you can sprinkle the cakes with powdered sugar and garnish each one with a few raspberries or kumquats.


If you want to prepare the batter in advance, you can store the filled cups in the fridge for a few hours after covering them with plastic wrap. Just wait at least an hour for them to return to room temperature before you bake them.







