 Plecos are herbivores and are known to tear up plant life in their tank. It may also be a problem when including artificial plants.


Plecos may tear apart any planted plant life in their tank. This can create quite a mess and injure the pleco.Some species of plecos will do fine in a planted tank. Talk to the pet store and do research before choosing a planted tank for your pleco.
 Most tap water has chlorine in it, which can be harmful to your pleco. You can also make your own using a dechlorinator or purchase it at a pet store.Chlorine can cause chemical burns, stress, or excess ammonia for your fish and their tank. You can leave out tap water to get rid of chlorine in your water, but it will not get dissolve chloramine from your tap water.Purchasing a dechlorinator is the best option for making your water safe for your fish. You can add this chemical to tap water in order to get rid of chlorine, chloramine and other potentially harmful chemicals.
 Plecos do not need substrate, but they do prefer it. Once you find these rocks, place the rocks in the bottom of the tank.


Plecos are also fine if there is no substrate in the tank. However, it helps them move around the tank, since they use their sucker to find food throughout the tank.
Gravel can work well for plecos. Leave the same batch of gravel once it’s added, since it retains beneficial bacteria for your pleco.
Use about 1.5-2 pounds of gravel for every gallon of water. The gravel should be cleaned and rinsed before being added to the tank.
 The tank should be filled to about 2 inches from the top. After filling up the tank, you can put decorations in the tank.Don’t pour water on top of the gravel in the tank. It can disrupt the gravel. Use a clean dish to pour your tank water into to keep the gravel settled.
Room temperature water is the best to use. Cold water can cause condensation and make you think the tank is leaking.
 You’ll want to have a filter suitable for the tank size you have. Test it out to make sure it works once it’s installed with the water and gravel.


All aquariums need a filtration system. Your filter should be able to do mechanical (solid debris), chemical (pollutants), and biological filtration (bacteria).Observe your filter for a few days. Since there are no fish in the tank at this point, observe how well the filtration system works.
 Your pleco tank needs to be well lit and heated. It’s important to check the water’s temperature so your pleco is comfortable and safe.Lighting can bring our your pleco's colors and help plant growth. Limit your lighting to only 7-10 hours per day to avoid bacteria growth in your tank.
Heaters set the tank temperature at between 75-80 degrees for tropical fish. Your pleco is adaptable and can handle temperatures as low as the 60s.
Use a thermometer to make sure your heater is working and your water temperature has not changed. Plecos can be injured by water that is too cold or too warm.
 Cycling is when you set up a bacteria bed for your filter to work with the fish's natural bacteria, along with ammonia and nitrate. This will help to prevent new tank syndrome.You can cycle your tank with fish or without. If you use fish, get some durable fish that your local pet store can recommend.
You can cycle the tank without fish as well. You’ll just need to use ammonia and water to get the right chemical makeup for your new tank.
Check the ammonia and nitrate level regularly. You'll want it to be just right for your new pleco.

