 You really wish that he would kiss you more often, so tell him. Tell him just how important it really is to you and your relationship together. This is sure to encourage him to try kissing you more often. NO a relationship shouldn't be based on the physical stuff, it should be able to last without that intimacy. You can say it is important to you but if you bring the relationship into it, you are just taking things to a next level.;
, Is it a light, feathery brush of the lips? A hard, dominating kiss? Or a passionate, open-mouthed, lingering kiss? However he kisses, it may not be the kind of kiss that you prefer at first. Even if this is the case, never criticize his kissing! The reason that he didn't like kissing you in the first place may have been due to the fact that he doesn't feel like he knows how to kiss well. It's up to you to rebuild his confidence! Decide what kind of a kisser he is and follow his lead. If he's a soft kisser, and you prefer deep, passionate kisses, then kiss him softly at first but slowly open your mouth and introduce him to a passionate kiss. If his kiss is sloppy and you prefer a hard, demanding kiss, wait until he's least expecting it, grab him and plant a hard kiss on his lips. Show him that it's okay to kiss spontaneously, and that, depending upon whichever mood you and he are in at any given time, the style of kiss is sure to change.
 encouraging him and praising him when he kisses you (even if he isn't the best kisser at first) is the only way to make him feel confident enough to continue to try kissing you. And, eventually, through practice and your examples, he will become a fantastic kisser, and love doing it!


If he is nervous then complement him on his kissing (e.g. 'stop being nervous you are an excellent kisser') he will stop being nervous and start kissing you more often.
 Simply asking him how he likes to be kissed will often garner appreciation and an instant make out session. Remember, he probably wants to make out with you but feels nervous.
 Guys will sometimes feel nervous and start shaking if you are waiting for him to make the first move. Therefore, make the first move because it will tell him that you are comfortable to kiss him and he will stop being nervous after the first kiss. You might even get a kiss from him!

, Be smooth and slow.


When you go for the first move and he looks surprised, just wait. Chances are that he will kiss you back. If and when he does kiss you, don't just sit there like a puppet; kiss him back!

,