 If you both agree on the conditions of your divorce, you probably can file for divorce without an attorney or by using an online document preparation service. However, if you cannot agree, you will most likely need the assistance of an attorney to protect your interests.


If you decide to hire an attorney, she will prepare and file all of your divorce forms with your assistance.
In order to file without an attorney, you and your spouse should agree on how your property will be divided, whether one spouse will receive any support (alimony) payments from the other, and the child custody/support arrangement that will be implemented (if you have children).;
, To understand how a court will divide your property in a divorce, you should determine whether your state is a “community property state” or a “common law property state.”


If you live in a “community property” state, spouses are presumed to own all property acquired during the marriage equally. Therefore, all property owned by married persons on the dissolution of a marriage is presumed to be the property of both the husband and the wife equally and together. Likewise, any debts incurred during marriage are presumed to be community debt. Therefore, if you get a divorce in a community property state, it is assumed that you will get 50% of the total property and your spouse will get 50%.
If you live in a “common law property” state: property acquired by one member of a married couple during the marriage is owned solely by that person. However, if the title or deed to a piece of property is in the names of both spouses, then that property would belong to both spouses. If spouses living in a common law state divorce, the court will have wide discretion to divide the property of the couple, whether that property is considered “marital” or “separate.” The court will “equitably distribute” the property in the way that the judge thinks is most fair.
Even though property acquired during the marriage is deemed “marital property” for purposes of equitable distribution, property that is acquired before the marriage, gifts to one spouse, and inheritance can still be considered “separate” and is more likely to be awarded to the spouse that “acquired” the property, regardless of the equitable distribution.
 If you and your spouse have any children, the court will provide for the custody and financial support for those children until they reach age 18 or graduate from high school. The term "custody" in a divorce basically means “who gets the children."


Custody: The court that handles a divorce proceeding will determine who will have custody of any children from the marriage. The vast majority of parents are awarded “joint custody” in a divorce, meaning that all rights and duties concerning the children are equally shared. In every case, however, the court must ultimately decide what custody arrangement is in the children’s best interest.
Visitation: If one parent does not have custody of the children, that parent may still be entitled to visitation. In most states, a parent can be awarded “supervised” or “unsupervised” visitation. Supervised visitation is usually ordered by the court when there is a history of parental abuse from one spouse. Unsupervised visitation can have many different forms, and parents can agree on almost any arrangement.
Child support: If one parent has sole custody, or pays for many of the expenses related to the children due to the custody arrangement, that parent is usually entitled to child support for the child. Child support laws differ widely from state to state, but generally, a non-custodial parent can be required to pay 20% of 50% of income for the support to children.
Medical care for child: Generally, the non-custodial parent must also contribute to the child’s medical expenses, in addition to paying child support.
 Spousal Maintenance, which is also known as “alimony” or “spousal support,” is a payment ordered to be made from the future income of one spouse for the support of the other spouse. The court’s ability to order alimony differs widely from state to state, with some state’s courts only able to order it in exceptional circumstances, while other state’s courts routinely order payment of alimony. In most states, parties can agree either before the marriage, during the marriage, or after deciding to divorce whether or not alimony will be paid.
 Usually, you must be a resident of the state where you plan to get a divorce. For example, in California and Florida, you must have lived in the state for 6 months preceding your divorce, While in Texas you must have only lived there for 3 months in order to get a divorce.


Once you determine which state to get a divorce in, you must also choose the correct county. Choosing the county where you will file for divorce also usually depends on where you live: In Texas and California, you must have lived in the county you file in for 90 days prior to filing, while in Florida you simply file in the county where you or your spouse lives, regardless of the amount of time you have lived there.
 To fill your forms out online, visit the website for the court where you will file your divorce. Most court websites have links to the forms you need to file for divorce. These forms have the legal language in place with space where you can fill in details for yourself and your spouse. Every state requires specific forms, which could include:


Petition for Divorce.
Summons: this form causes an officer of the court (either a process server or the sheriff) to contact your spouse and let them know that you are filing for divorce and that they need to respond. This is required as a matter of form, even if you and your spouse have both agreed to the divorce and fill out the paperwork together.
Financial Affidavit: you and your spouse fully disclose your financial situation and determine how your assets and debts will be divided.
Notice of Hearing: this is filed when the court sets a date for your court hearing.
Answer and Affidavit: in some states, if your spouse doesn't want to go to the hearing, he or she can agree to the conditions of the divorce by sending in this document.
Settlement Agreement: this lays out the agreement that you and your spouse have come to regarding assets.
Custody agreement: if applicable, you will be required to have a form that lays out your custody arraignments.
 If your state provides online fillable forms, you will be able to complete them directly on your computer. If you have an attorney, your attorney will fill these out for you and have you review them. Typically, the following information will be required to fill out the forms correctly:


your name and your spouse’s name,
your full address and your spouse’s full address,
your social security number and your spouse’s social security number,
your driver’s license number (if applicable) and your spouse’s driver’s license number,
the names and ages of any children that you and your spouse have,
the date that you and your spouse were married,
the date you and your spouse separated,
the grounds for divorce (either no-fault or one of the grounds specified in your state laws),
whether or not there is a protective order in place (either against you or against your spouse), and
what property you and your spouse own.
 If you have any questions about filling out the divorce forms online, call the clerk of court at the court where you will file for divorce. He may be able to answer questions that you may have about the process or the forms.


You can also bring in your completed forms for the clerk to look at.
 Some courts allow parties to file their forms online instead of at the courthouse. to determine whether your state allows e-filing, review the court website. Here are some search tips for locating information on e-filing.


Use the search function to search for divorce or divorce forms.
Look for a “self help” or “self service” link.
Look for an “e-filing” link of run a search for e-filing.
If the site has a Family Court or Family Law section, look there.
Keep in mind that even if your state does allow e-filing, you may have to have an attorney file for you because many courts only make e-file available to attorneys that pay a monthly fee to use the service.
 If your state allows parties to use e-file without an attorney, see if there is a fee associated with the service. Typically, regardless of whether you file for divorce online or at the courthouse, you will be required to pay a filing fee.


The filing fee will vary by state, so make sure you check the court website to determine the fee in your state.
You may also have to pay an extra fee to use e-file. However, this fee would probably be fairly low, and is not more than $20 in the majority of states.
 If your state does not have a way for you to fill out and file your forms online, you could use a for-profit business to help you complete your forms. Online preparation services allow you to complete your forms online and then file them for your or give you copies to file yourself. However, keep in mind that these companies all charge a fee (in addition to the filing fee) so make sure that you are aware of how much you will be paying, and what you will get in return. Usually, online document preparation services charge between $199 and $399 to prepare state specific divorce forms.
The forms will not be reviewed by an attorney, so there is no guarantee that they have been filled out correctly. If you are considering a document preparation service, check online with the Better Business Bureau at https://www.bbb.org/ https://www.bbb.org/ to make sure that the company has been positively reviewed and is not a scam.
 After you have filed your divorce with the court (either online or through a document preparation service), you will need to give copies of the divorce papers to your spouse as “notice.” You can use one of several methods for doing this, depending on your situation with your spouse:


Serve your spouse in person or by mail. if your spouse doesn't agree to the divorce or any part of the proceedings, you'll need to serve him or her in person, through a process server, or through registered or certified mail.
Serve your spouse by publication: if you can't find your spouse, you can serve him or her by publishing notice of the divorce filing in a newspaper of general circulation in the last town or city of his or her residence. You have to obtain permission of the Court to do this, stating that you've made an honest effort to find your spouse.
Make sure you check your state laws to determine which types of service are permitted. If you serve your spouse in a way that is not authorized by your state’s law, the divorce could be dismissed and you may have to start the process over from the beginning.
 In this situation, you usually will be required to do the following to complete your divorce:


Write up a divorce agreement. Here, you will write up how you and your spouse decided to divide your property, whether any party will pay the other any type of alimony or support, and if you have children together, what custody and support arrangement you want. Keep in mind that with some parts of the agreement, particularly the “child support” section (if applicable), you must meet certain legal requirements (such as how much support will be paid).
Fill out any final forms. Either you or your spouse must turn in “final forms” to the court asking for a judgment of divorce. You must also include the other orders you want the court to make about property, alimony, and, if you have children with your spouse, about custody, visitation, and child support.
Each state will have different forms for this stage, so make sure you get the correct ones from the clerk or online. In some states, you may have to fill out a “declaration of divorce” or other named form for the judge to sign off on your divorce.
For more information on this step, check with your state.
 The divorce can be contested for a variety of reasons, such as if you do not agree on how to divide your property and your debt, or if you do not agree about custody and visitation, child support, or spousal/partner support.


In a contested proceeding, you may still agree on some of the issues, but not others. If this is the case, write up what you agree on and then leave the other issues for the judge to decide.
In a contested divorce, you may want to try mediation to resolve your case yourselves and not leave the decision up to a judge. In some states, mediation is required for all contested divorces. If you and your spouse can agree on the divorce terms during mediation, you will save time and money, as well as the stress of fighting over all of the issues in court.
In most states, when there are issues you and your spouse cannot resolve by agreement, one of you has to file and serve a form to set a trial date.
Ask the court clerk what your next step should be and whether there are any special, local forms you need to fill out.
 Mediation is an “alternative dispute resolution” technique where a third party “neutral mediator” (that is, someone who is not on your side, or your spouse’s side), yourself and your spouse discuss the divorce and try to come to an agreement on a settlement. The mediator is there to help the your and your spouse discuss the issues without getting angry or frustrated with each other.


Many states offer low cost programs that supply mediators for divorce cases.
Usually, you and your spouse will discuss options directly with each other during a mediation session, even if your spouse is represented by an attorney.
While at your session, remember that the goal is to solve the issue and come up with terms that work for both parties.Don’t go into mediation with a mindset that you have to “win” or “punish” your spouse. Instead, you should be prepared to work collaboratively with the mediator and your spouse to come up with a creative solution to your issues.
 The divorce process can take months, so it is very important that you always know where your case stands and what you need to be doing to help the process along.


For example, you need to make sure that both you and your spouse are completing all required documents on time, and are both attending any hearings or any mediation sessions.
It is possible that the court might be waiting on you to act, so you need to know what's happening so you can finalize the divorce in a reasonable amount of time.
 Not all states require a hearing for uncontested divorces. To determine if your state requires a hearing for an uncontested divorce, visit your state court website. If your divorce is contested, you will likely have the case set for a trial.


If you have a hearing or a trial, you and your spouse should make sure that you have met all requirements for asking for a trial or completing the required hearing documents.
You will be notified of the date and time of your court hearing by mail.
 Make sure that you are prepared for your hearing or trial.


Have copies of all necessary documents and paperwork to bring to your court date. Even uncontested divorces (where both spouses agree on everything) can take months, so you don't want to slow down the process even more by having to reschedule your court date because you don't have all of the right information.
Know what to expect at the hearing. If you and your spouse have amicably settled your divorce and you appear in court, it is likely that the judge will simply give you what you have asked for, especially if there are no children involved.
If your divorce is contested, there may be a full trial with testimony and witnesses, so you should consult with an attorney to help you prepare if possible.
 After your hearing, the judge will grant your divorce and (if your divorce was contested) set the terms. The full agreement between you and your spouse will be “ordered” by the judge in a divorce decree. The decree is the “law” of the divorce, so you will need as proof of your divorce.


Make sure that you get a certified copy of your divorce decree. The court clerk should be able to provide you with a certified copy, but if not, they'll be able to direct you to the appropriate place.
You'll need a copy of your divorce decree for many things in the future (buying a house, getting remarried, etc.), so make sure you get a certified copy and put it in a safe place.

