 Know what class you are going to next and where it is located. Be sure to bring the supplies you need for that class. For example, if you have opted for Geometry, it might be a good idea to bring a calculator, ruler, compass, and protractor; and if you have opted for Creative Writing class, it would be be a good idea to bring a separate notebook for notes, writing prompts, etc.;
, A good book bag with padding on the shoulder straps and different compartments will make your school load much easier to carry for example JanSport's Superbreak. It is big enough for all your stuff, comes in many colors/patterns, and has only two compartments--a main one and a front one--for easy organization. Too many compartments will get confusing.
 Carry only the books relevant to the subjects scheduled for the day. If you only have periods 2, 4, 6, and 8 that day, do not bring first period's textbook with you in your backpack.
 Having all of your school papers organized in a binder will enable to find the required paper easily. Dividers with tabs separates each period's work, allowing easy access to your papers.
 Making the notes of your teacher's lectures will assist you in the completing your homework efficiently. Always take notes of the important things the teachers says. Plus, fellow students may ask you for paper. It's always good to be prepared.
 A pencil pouch is great for carrying pens, pencils, eraser, sharpener, a calculator, and other writing utensils. It's also small enough to fit in the front of your binder.
 An agenda is a list of things you are expected to do on a particular day. It is essential for remembering the important assignments and their due dates, thus allowing no surprises and giving you the feeling that you are on top of things. Sometimes agendas are provided for you already.
 Use your locker to keep books relevant to the next periods so that you don't have to carry them around in your backpack. Keep your locker clean and devoid of all unnecessary papers and books. The cleaner and more organized the locker, the more easily accessible it becomes.

