 A daily shower or bath will remove grime and old odors from you. In hotter weather, you may need two briefer showers, morning and night, to remain your freshest (just be careful of your water usage).


Use a scented shower gel for an added burst of scent. Choose one that you absolutely love. If it's not to be shared with others, keep it elsewhere or mark it as yours only.
Use a deliciously scented soap in the shower or bath.;
, The "regularity" depends on your hair type and your age. When you do shampoo, use a scented shampoo that you love and be sure that the conditioner matches this.
 Soap can be used in different parts of the house, not just in the shower or bath. It's also used at the hand basin after using the bathroom or for cleaning your hands. It can also be found in the kitchen and in the laundry, places where a scented soap will give you a life whenever you need to wash your hands in these locations. Keep a small bar of soap or some fresh smelling sanitizer close by at all times to ensure soft, clean hands.


Soap is also handy when out and about. A scented gel or sanitizer soap can be kept in your handbag/purse, in the car, in your office or desk, and so forth, ready for use as needed.
 Here there is a need to be careful, for you don't want the deodorant to overpower your fragrance. However, a softly scented deodorant can help you not only to stay fresh but to smell great too. Try different sorts until you find several you like, allowing you to mix and match them with your favorite perfumes, to check that they don't overwhelm the perfume. Of course, the other alternative is to get a no-scented or lightly scented deodorant; it still does the job but it's not competing with your other scented products.


Keep your deodorant handy in case you need to re-apply.
 When you wear perfume during the daytime, wear a floral, fruity or freshly scented product. Try to find one that hasn't got too many chemicals in it and isn't too strong. When you wear a perfume at night, wear a slightly stronger scent that tends to linger in the air. As always, make sure it isn't too strong.


Read How to choose perfume for details on selecting a good perfume.
 If you choose to wear body spray, unless you are a teenager, steer clear of Charlie, Impulse and Own Brand products. You may find these smell as cheap as they actually are. Chose an up-market brand if you can afford it. The key to body spray is to not wear perfume as well; if you do, you will smell overwhelming to others and the end mixture won't be very pleasant.
 When you wear nice smelling products, always test them together to ensure that they mix and layer well. For instance, do not wear a strong lavender soap, a light passion flower deodorant, a really strong tacky body spray and a light rose perfume. It just won't work together. If you can, buy products from the same range, such as a light lime soap, a lemon shower gel, a 'go fresh' Dove deodorant and a citrus body spray. These particular scents will layer well, will last the whole day and will help you to smell wonderful because they are fresh and luscious.
 When you have your period, you may find you smell a lot more than usual. To battle Mother Nature, it is recommended that wear a scented sanitary towel, change your sanitary ware frequently and wash twice a day. There are sprays that can be used but this is a delicate area of your body and the less products used, the better for your health.
 Be sure to take good care of your feet and keep them hygienic. Never wear the same socks two days in a row and never forget your feet when showering. You can add a few drops of tea tree oil or a sprinkle of baking soda to smelly shoes, to improve the odor. Tea tree oil is also anti-bacterial, which can help your feet to smell less too.
 This includes such foods as tuna, garlic or onion. Eat something fruity or sweet for lunch, preferably something that won't get stuck in your teeth. Consider an apple or blueberries.


If you love garlic (after all, it's good for you) and other smelly foods, try eating parsley afterwards, to minimize the odor.
 Wear clothes for a maximum of 24 hours. For a sweet subtle scent, use a scented clothes detergent.


Wash your pajamas weekly, at least. This may need to be more frequent during hot weather.
Clothing close to your body needs to be changed more frequently than outer wear. If you try to wear the same t-shirt twice in a row without washing, eventually your skin oils will discolor it and odors may be hard to shift. On the other hand, an overcoat can be worn plenty of times before it needs a dry clean or other suitable wash. Spot wash outer clothing to remove stains and odors.

