 Only use wax that is made for use on your face, known as facial wax. It will often come in a kit with an applicator or strips that are made for certain areas of your face. Facial wax will be more gentle on your skin than body wax, as the skin on your face is more sensitive.You can find facial wax at your local beauty supply store or online.;
, If you have sensitive skin or acne prone skin, look for facial wax with aloe vera. The aloe vera will help to soothe your skin and make the wax less harsh on your skin. Get facial wax that is marked “for sensitive skin.”If you use acne medication, use facial wax made for sensitive skin. Acne medication can make your skin extra sensitive to wax.
 If you are using loose facial wax, you will need an applicator stick. You can use an applicator stick made for waxing or popsicle sticks. Get popsicle sticks in a wide and small size, as you can use the small size for applying wax on your eyebrows.You will also need fabric strips to help remove the hair. You can buy pre-made fabric strips for waxing or make your own by buying white, cotton fabric and cutting it into small strips.
 If you are new to waxing your body, particularly your face, look for wax that comes in prepared strips. The strips will often come in a kit for facial waxing. They will be cut to fit certain areas of your face, such as your upper lip, your eyebrows, or your jawline.

It is usually easier to apply wax in strips, rather than have to deal with loose wax and an application stick. If you are a seasoned waxer, you may feel more comfortable with loose wax.
 Start by washing your face your normal facial cleanser. Use lukewarm water to clean your face well. Having a clean face will make waxing easier and reduce your chances of a breakout after waxing.Gently exfoliate your skin as you clean it by pressing the cleanser to your skin in small circles. Exfoliating your skin will help to remove dead skin.
 If you have a long beard or hairs that are longer than 2 cm, trim them with small scissors or a hair trimmer. Only trim your hairs so they are no shorter than 1 cm or 1/6th to 1/8th of an inch.Do not try to wax any hairs on your face that are shorter than 1 cm, as this can lead to ingrown hairs and damage to your skin. Wait until your hair grows out and is long enough to wax off.
 Put baby powder on your upper lip and your eyebrows to make it easier for the wax to grab your hairs. The baby powder will also absorb any excess oil and reduce irritation due to the wax., Clean your hands well with soap and water. Having clean hands will ensure no bacteria or germs end up on your face during the waxing.You may also position yourself in front of a mirror to make it easier for you to see what you are doing as you wax your face.
 Notice if your hair grows downward in a straight line or diagonally towards the center of your face. You will then apply the wax in the direction of your hair growth.Your eyebrow hair and upper lip hair will usually grow at a diagonal. Hair on your cheeks and jawline may grow straight downward or at a diagonal.
 If you are using wax strips, warm the strip up by rubbing them between your hands for 30-40 seconds. If you are using loose wax, warm up the wax over the stove or in the microwave. Check that the wax is not burning hot to the touch. It should be warm enough that the wax is wet and easy to spread, but not boiling hot., If you are using loose wax, use an applicator stick or a popsicle stick to apply a thin layer of wax in the direction of your hair growth. Then, take a strip of fabric and press it down on the wax. Massage the fabric onto the wax using your fingers.If you are using prepared wax strips, peel off the non sticky side and apply it to your skin in the direction of your hair growth. Press down on the strip, massaging it into your skin so it picks up your hairs.
 This will give the wax time to set onto your hairs and onto the strip. Do not let the wax sit for longer than 30 seconds, as it can be difficult to remove and more painful to remove.

The wax should not feel like it is burning your skin when you let it sit. It should feel hot, but not burning.
 After 30 seconds, put one hand underneath the strip and press down on your skin, holding it taut. Grip the bottom edge of the strip with your other hand and pull off the strip upwards, in the opposite direction of your hair growth.You do not have to remove the strip quickly as long as you remove it in one continuous go. Do not tug at the strip too hard.
 Your skin may tingle after the wax has been removed. Use a wet, cool cloth or pad to press your skin and soothe it. Try to do this right after the wax has been removed so the area does not feel too painful.Do not use soothing oils on your skin right after the wax has been removed as this can clog your pores. A wet clean cloth is fine.
 Put small dabs of wax under and above your eyebrows to remove excess hairs. If you want to shape your eyebrows, remove a small amount of hair at a time. This way, you are not at risk of waxing off too much of your brows in one go.

You may want to avoid waxing off too much of your eyebrows or shaping them using the wax. When in doubt, consult a professional.
 If you want to wax your upper lip hairs, use two strips of wax. This will ensure you follow the direction of your hair growth and do not irritate your skin. Apply wax on one side of your upper lip and remove the hair. Then, apply wax to the other side of your lip and remove the hair., Once you are done waxing your skin, apply a facial moisturizer to the area to ensure it does not get dry or irritated. Use a moisturizer with soothing ingredients like aloe vera and shea butter.Do not use moisturizer that is heavy with oils or fragrance, as they can clog your pores.
 To maintain your facial hair, get in the habit of waxing your face every four to six weeks. This will give your hair enough time to grow back. Your facial hair will also be easier to remove if you wax it more regularly., If you develop acne or a break out on your face, do not wax these areas. Waxing these areas can make them worse and lead to scarring. If you notice your skin breaking out due to waxing, you may want to consult a professional.