 Crysis 2 has very unique maps, lots of angles and places to fight from. Learn the map and flank the enemy, get to vantage points, find shortcuts to the objectives.;
, Crysis 2 has a free running mechanic that lets you climb over things, jump crazy distances and slide on the ground, use this to surprise your enemy. There's a wall where a campers hiding behind, jump over it and take him from behind.
 These abilities are very useful, when in the open use cloak to get across fast, or when in a firefight, tip the balance in your favor with armor enhancement. Gap in front of you, super jump over it by holding jump. Use these moves to help you and your team.
 The game rewards creativity, you get bonus xp and it looks cool. Jump over walls to get the advantage on 2 guys suppressing your team. This will greatly increase your dominance on the battlefield

, Since the massive maps are both vertical and horizontal, expect to be fired upon from all angles. I flank the enemy from above then drop down right on top of them, very useful.
 Often times when an enemy is engaging your team, they won't expect a guy right in front of them, go cloak and run at them from the side, stay out of line of fire though.
 Find a clear and level point on a map where you can actually lay for a while , use visor to tag almost every enemy whether close or far away. Do all this in cloak mode.
 The reason for using the "nano-recharge" module is in case you failed to armor during shooting and drained your energy, the nano-recharge will help you to fill suit's power quickly, so that you can go in cloak again for little time to shake off your pursuers.
 This means taking out the far guys or close ones. The far guys are best taken out first.
 This is important because crouching stabilizes your aim much better.
 (This is crucial.) Aim your sniper scope and use nanovision to find out where you will the target.
 This is because your suit's power will not drain in armor mode during sniping.
 This whole procedure of "Aim - Armor - Shoot - Cloak" should be done in a fraction of seconds.
 This technique requires lot of practice; one failed move, namely "Shoot in cloak mode - leads to power drainage immediately" or "Failed to cloak after shoot - leads to exposure of your sniping position. If that happens, change your position with any other backup location.

