 An anti-inflammatory diet stresses whole foods (preferably organic), complex carbohydrates, and foods with lots of nutrients like lean proteins and healthy fats. Many doctors recommend an anti-inflammatory diet which has been shown to reverse obesity and Type 2 diabetes.Controlling your blood pressure by changing your diet is one of the best ways to reverse insulin resistance. Improvements in your diet can prevent pre-diabetes, diabetes, hyperglycemia, and obesity.;
, Limit the chemicals and extra sugars and fats that are usually added to processed food. Instead, try to eat natural or simply prepared foods. Cook from scratch as often as possible and choose organic foods to avoid chemicals.If you're pressed for time, remember you can prepare the basics (like rice, beans or meats) ahead of time and freeze them. Or, you can cook meals in a crock pot or slow cooker.


Since little is known about what chemicals may do to an individual, you should avoid them if you're trying to reverse insulin resistance.
 At least 90 to 95% of the carbohydrates you eat should be complex. These molecules are more complicated than simple carbohydrates, so they take longer for your body to break down. This can help regulate your blood sugar. Try to eat most of your complex carbohydrates at lunch and cut down on the portion sizes for other meals. Complex carbohydrates are found in whole, unprocessed foods like:Whole grains
Peas
Lentils
Beans
Vegetables

, Read food labels to determine how much sugar is in a food and try to avoid processed foods which often contain added sugars that aren't listed. Over-eating sugars like glucose, sucrose, fructose, and high fructose corn syrup can increase your risk for Type 2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and obesity.Sugar by itself does not cause diabetes, but drinking more sugar-filled beverages for example is linked to higher blood sugar levels and to an increased risk of Type 2 diabetes., Research shows that increasing your insoluble fiber intake along with whole grains can reduce your risk of developing Type 2 diabetes.Good sources of fiber include brans, beans, berries, whole grains, vegetables, and seeds. Some fiber like flaxseeds also contains a good amount of omega-3 fatty acids.


To help you get into the habit, try adding one tablespoon of ground flaxseeds at every meal. Keep pre-ground flaxseeds in your freezer or use a coffee grinder to grind your own flaxseeds to keep them from getting rancid.
 Eat fish and skinless poultry which are good sources of protein. When picking fish, look for wild-caught fish like salmon, cod, haddock, and tuna. These are good sources of omega-3 fatty acids that your body needs. They're also anti-inflammatory.Try to limit red meats and skin from poultry. These can be high in animal fat and may be higher in added hormones and antibiotics., Don't think that you have to avoid fruits because they're sweet. You should actually a variety of fruits and vegetables to get nutrients your body needs. Since the sugars in fruit are combined with the fiber, your body will slowly absorb the sugar. Try to eat fruits and vegetables with the peel so you get more fiber and select fresh versions instead of dried produce (which has higher sugar concentrations).You should also increase the amount of water you drink. The Institute of Medicine recommends that you drink 1 to 2 liters or about 6 to 8 eight-ounce glasses of water a day., You can easily add flavor to a meal and regulate your blood sugar levels by using herbs. These herbs are hypoglycemic, so they increase insulin production and prevent the intestines from absorbing sugars.Since these herbs have no side effects when you take them in commonly used amounts as food, use them whenever you want. Herbs can also help you get over sugar cravings. To control blood sugar levels, cook with:


Cinnamon
Fenugreek
Ginger
Garlic and onions
Basil

, Gymnema sylvestre is an herb that's been used for hundreds of years to treat diabetes and hypoglycemia. It helps the pancreas produce insulin. To supplement, take 1 gram of gymnema sylvestre a day. You can also take bitter melon which lowers blood sugar and improves glucose tolerance. To supplement using liquid drops, take 5 to 30 drops twice a day.


You can also try coptis chinensis. Studies have shown that it can reduce insulin resistance by increasing your body's responsiveness to insulin., Consult with your doctor before taking any herbs or supplements. Some herbs and supplements can interact with prescription and over-the-counter medication so it's important to always ask before taking them. You can also ask your pharmacist about possible interactions since most pharmacists are extremely knowledgeable about potential problems.


Read package instructions and always follow the manufacturer's dosing instructions. Be sure to follow your doctor's advice about how long to take a supplement.
 Current research suggests that several vitamins and minerals are important to control blood sugar. Take a B-complex vitamin to get biotin, niacin, vitamin B6, and vitamin B12. Biotin helps regulate glucose, niacin can lower cholesterol, and B6 and B12 prevent nerve damage from high blood sugar.You can also take vitamin C to reduce insulin resistance and 600 IU of vitamin D to boost your sensitivity to insulin.Get 1000 mcg of vitamin B12 and 50 to 100 mcg of vitamin B6 every day. Since these are probably in a supplement with many other vitamins, follow the manufacturer's dosing recommendation.
 Several minerals can maintain your blood glucose levels. Choose a supplement that contains magnesium, zinc, 50 to 5000 mcg of chromium, 200 to 800 mcg of vanadium, potassium, manganese, and selenium.


Since many of these minerals will be combined with other minerals, always follow the manufacturer's dosing instructions and your doctor's advice. Avoid taking extra doses of any mineral. Since these are trace minerals, they can be toxic in high amounts.
 Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is an antioxidant that keeps blood glucose levels stable. It also stimulates blood flow and can nerve damage caused by high blood sugar. Take 300 to 1000 mg of ALA every day.


L-carnitine is another antioxidant that can repair nerve damage caused by high blood sugar. It may also reduce nerve pain. To supplement, take 1 to 3 grams of L-carnitine a day., CoEnzyme Q10 is an antioxidant is found in all cells of your body. People with diabetes tend to have lower amounts of CoEnzyme Q10, so supplementing may improve blood sugar regulation.It's also involved in energy production.


To treat Type 1 diabetes, take 100 mg every day for 12 weeks. To treat Type 2 diabetes, take 100 mg twice every day for up to 12 weeks., Your body needs fat to function efficiently. Healthy fats, like omega-3 fatty acids, evening primrose oil, and flaxseed can all reduce inflammation caused by high blood sugar levels. Omega-3 fatty acids can improve insulin sensitivity.Take a fish oil supplement or eat fatty fish several times a week.


While evening primrose oil can lower blood sugar levels, it can interact with other herbs or supplements, so speak with a doctor before adding this oil.Research showed that eating 40 grams of flaxseed taken every day over the course of several months may reduce insulin resistance.