 Summer time is never good as the temperature goes up to 50 degrees Celsius (122 degrees Fahrenheit) in some parts of the country. The other parts are also too warm to bear for a person not used to warm weather. So, plan your trip in winter, which is usually from October to February.;
, In Islamabad, Karachi, and Quetta, there is some trouble. However,it is safe to visit Lahore, Faisalabad, Multan, and other areas of the Punjab.
 In Pakistan, people can take advantage of you if you are alone, so it is best to travel in a group.
 Consider staying in a class one or 4-5 star hotel. These hotels have their own security so they are safer.
 Before going to Pakistan, consult your G.P (general practitioner) and ask about the medicines you would need over there. Especially take precautions for Malaria, typhoid, Hepatitis C, and other ailments. Pakistan is not exactly the cleanliest place, so it is easy for people with weaker immune systems to fall ill.
 In Pakistan, even the bottled water is not safe to drink. So plan for the water -- either take some unit to clean the water or boil the tap water at your kitchen.
 In Pakistan, people bargain a lot and you have to be very vigilant when buying something. Never trust anyone in the matters of pricing. Always check the prices from other store keepers and then buy.
 When you are in Pakistan, you will need a taxi, rickshaw, or auto to travel, so I suggest asking for a lower pricing. People usually charge a lot from foreigners; try to look like you fit in for the sake of your wallet.
 Security is not always at its best here. Please do not visit far off, deserted and barren areas--especially in the evenings and nights.
 In Pakistan, women are not allowed to wear modern dresses to walk and move around. Although, some do dare to wear what they like, but they put themselves in danger! Culture dictates that women cover themselves from the eyes of men, so wearing a pair of shorts and a tank top is not your best clothing option.
 You cannot go to just any place to eat. Either cook your own food to be safe or go to a reputable restaurant. Pakistani food is wonderful, but if you order a dish from a poor shack, your defense against disease better be flawless.
 When you are in the country, please avoid all types of gatherings, rush, or celebrations. Nowadays, it is not safe to become a part of any group--you might become a victim of reckless behavior.
 In Pakistan, people may hide their identities and try to cheat you. Be careful and vigilant at all times.
 In Pakistan online business is not secure. If you need to buy something, buy it on the store; if you want to rent a room, meet the persons face to face; and if you want to transfer the money, go to the bank personally. You might use an ATM card, but with extreme caution and vigilance to be safe and secure.

