 Requirements to become a public adjust vary greatly by state. As you begin seeking out necessary licenses and certifications, familiarize yourself with the requirements in your state. The licenses and certifications needed to legally practice as a public adjuster vary greatly depending on your area.


In some states, such as Florida and North Carolina, public adjusters must be licensed by the state Department of Financial Services. In such states, you will usually be required to complete a certain amount of work as an apprenticeship under the supervision of a licensed public adjuster. Then, you will likely take a certification or licensing exam provided by the state. You can find out information specific to your state by looking at their Department of Financial Services website. You can also ask a public adjuster in your area how he or she got licensed and certified.Most states require you to pass some kind of licensing exam, regardless of whether you're required to have apprenticeship experience. All states require a minimum of a high school education to apply to take the exam., If your state requires it, you may have to complete a certain number of work hours as an apprentice. Generally, the number of hours is around 100 although some states may require more or less. An apprenticeship is an invaluable experience. You'll be working one-on-one with a skilled, experienced public adjuster and learning the ins and outs of the field. Work hard at your apprenticeship and take the work seriously. The contacts you make during this time can be used later on when you're seeking work on the job market., Nearly all states require some kind of licensing exam to become a public adjuster. If you want to become a public adjuster, take the exam required by your state's laws.


Fees vary by state, but can be quite pricey. Put away money to go towards the required fees, which may be in the upper hundreds in some states.Familiarize yourself with the nature of the exam in your state. Most exams will take at least 2 to 3 hours to complete. In some states, exams will be administered on a computer. In other states, exams will be pen and paper. Most states have set testing areas where you must go to complete the exam. You will likely not be allowed to bring electronics, outside notes, or outside food and drink into the exam room.Know the retake policies in your states. Some states allow you to retake the exam after a certain period of time has passed. Some states may have limits on how many times you can take the exam per year or testing period., Regardless of your state's requirement, seeking certification from the National Association of Public Defenders can help you stand out on the job market. It can also help give you credibility if you change states as the NAPD across the US.


Consider membership. If you're a practicing public adjuster for a certain number of years, you may be eligible for membership in the organization. Being a standing member of the NAPD not only looks good on a resume but it can keep you informed on any changes to licensing requirements in your state and alert you to job openings earlier than your colleagues.If you have five years of adjusting experience, you can apply for the Certified Professional Public Adjuster (CPPA) and the Senior Professional Public Adjuster (SPPA) designations. The application process is somewhat similar to a job application. You submit your resume, as well as a list of references and other evidence of your experience in the field. Such designations look great on a resume and can help you land clients down the road.