 If you have access to another computer with internet access, you can download a utility called NTPassword that will help you reset your Windows 7 password. You’ll need to either burn a bootable copy of this utility or use it to create a bootable USB flash drive.,, Click one of the following buttons to download the NTPassword files:Click Download USB Version if you want to create a bootable USB flash drive. The drive you use should have nothing else on it.
Click Download Disc Version to save the file (cd140201.iso) image to your computer. Once downloaded, you’ll be able to burn a bootable CD of this image.
 If you choose Download USB Version:

Unzip the downloaded file (usb140201.zip) to your USB flash drive. The files should be directly on the drive, not inside another directory.
Click the Start menu and type cmd into the search box.
Right-click “Command Prompt” in the search results and select “Run as Administrator.”
Type cd x: (replace “x:” with the actual drive letter of your USB drive) and press ↵ Enter.
Type X:syslinux.exe -ma X: (replace both X: with the actual drive letter) and press ↵ Enter.
Remove the flash drive from the second computer.
 If you choose Download Disc Version:

Insert a recordable CD-R or DVD-R.
Right-click the downloaded file (cd140201.iso) and select “Burn to disc.”
Follow the prompts to create the disc.
Eject the disc from the second computer once the burn is complete.
, The computer should boot to a black screen with white text that begins with “Windows Reset Password”.If the computer boots back to the login screen instead, you’ll need to change the boot order in the BIOS before continuing with this method.
, Near the bottom of the screen you’ll see text that says “STEP ONE: Select disk where the Windows partition is.”

Look at the partitions beneath “Candidate Windows partitions found.”
Press the number (on the keyboard) next to the largest partition that does not say “Boot.”
Press ↵ Enter.
 Now you’ll see “Select which part of registry to load, use predefined choices or list the files with space delimiter.”, This accepts the default setting, “Edit user data and passwords.,,

Locate your account username under “Username” at the bottom of the screen.
Find its corresponding “RID” number in the column to the left.
Type the RID number and press ↵ Enter.
, This clears the password for the specified user account., Now you’ll be prompted to save your changes., This confirms you want to save the changes.,, Your computer will restart to the login screen, where you’ll be able to click your user name and set a new password