 They change almost by the hour so it will be costly. Instead, focus on defining your own individual style. Being unique is hotter than being a carbon copy of a fashion magazine.;
, Instead, go for a pencil skirt - classic, and thus always in fashion, plus (bonus!) you get the illusion of a perfectly proportioned figure. A mix of trendy pieces and classics always looks classier and more elegant than an entire wardrobe of fashion-magazine items.
 The options there are greater than that of most supermarkets, and cheaper than that of most specialty stores.
 If you must splurge, do so on conditioner. Never use any more shampoo or conditioner than a dime-sized amount unless you have long hair. And be sure to also cut off split ends.
 They can be a huge, mostly untapped resource. Go to ones in college towns where young people move often and may get rid of clothing only a year or two old. Also look for outlet stores. Again, even though the clothing is cheap, look for things that look great on you, not just things that "fit ok."

, Get some basic items like white t-shirts, skinny jeans, things that you can pair with other accessories and clothes to make them seem new and different every time you wear them. Don't buy a shirt if it only goes with one outfit.
 Check out the section here at wikiHow.
 Others will never see a difference between a $25 pair and a $125 pair. However, be aware that sometimes you do get what you pay for: at least some of the price of designer jeans reflects the quality of the cut, the stitching and the fabric.
, Even low-priced bargain stores (even Walmart!) can accidentally make something good, so always have an eye out.
 Look for end of the season clearance sales. Also look for before and after Christmas sales but be aware that, even at a deep discount, some clothes may not be worth the price. Know ahead of time how much you intend to spend on something and try to stick with it.
 For example, look for a button down shirt that looks good open over a t-shirt or buttoned under a sweater. Extra points if it also looks good tucked into dress pants or a skirt for fancy occasions!

, Trips to the dry-cleaners can eat up money for gas and service, and no one likes doing their laundry by hand.
 But for basics you'll wear every season (basic pumps, black boots that you can wear and look good in the winter, simple strappy sandals), buy good-to-excellent models that are seriously comfortable, in real leather rather than fake, and buy the oils and polishes too so you can keep them in good condition. Try remnant department stores like TJ Maxx for good-quality shoes at discount prices.
 Especially if you have problems with acne or dry skin, a good-quality foundation for sensitive skin (applied with a very light hand on the sponge) is a worthy place to splurge, and really contributes to a polished look. Bad foundation makes the prettiest woman look trashy and tired, and good foundation lifts your whole look.
 It's much cheaper than women's lotion and gels. Shaving with shampoo or conditioner also does the trick.
