 iOS 9.3 introduced syncing for ebooks and PDF files to your iCloud Drive storage. This allows you to access all of your PDFs from any of your connected devices.
 You can choose to enable iCloud syncing for iBooks if you'd like to sync your PDFs. These will count against your iCloud Storage. All iCloud accounts have 5 GB of free storage, which is also used for iCloud backups.You don't need to enable iCloud to use iBooks. You'll still have access to all of the PDFs you've added to iBooks on your device, as well as PDF files synced with iTunes.
 You can load PDF files by following any of the methods outlined above. You can download PDF files from websites, send them from email attachments, and sync them from your computer. All PDF files that you've added to your iPhone will appear in iBooks.


If you have iCloud enabled for iBooks, PDFs that you add to iBooks on any of your devices will be visible.
 When the iBooks app loads, you'll see your entire iBooks library. If you want to just see the PDFs that you have stored, tap the "All Books" button at the top of the screen and then select "PDFs." This will filter the view to just show PDF files.
 When viewing a PDF file in iBooks, swiping the screen will move to the next page in the document.


Tap a PDF that you're reading to open the interface, and you'll see a preview of all of the pages at the bottom of the screen. Tapping a page in the preview will take you directly to it.
 Tap the PDF to display the interface, then tap the Bookmark button to mark the page you're currently reading. You'll be able to see the bookmark when you're viewing a preview of the whole document., You'll find this button next to the share button at the top of the screen. Tapping this will show a zoomed-out view of all of the pages in the document. Pages with bookmarks will have a little bookmark icon in the corner.
 Release your finger when the magnification lens appears on the screen. You can then drag the handles on each end of the selection to adjust what's highlighted.


If the PDF was created from scanned pages, it may be difficult or impossible to select text.
 If you've enabled iCloud for iBooks, some of your PDFs may be stored in your iCloud drive but not downloaded to your iPhone. These PDFs will have an iCloud icon in the corner when viewing your iBooks library. Tapping this iCloud icon will download the PDF to your iPhone.

