 You can find kits in most drugstores or beauty stores. Your kit should contain a softener to loosen your hair, a solution to set the curls, and perm rods (which may be sold separately). In addition to these materials, you'll need activator (aka Jheri juice, which keeps the curls looking moist and tight) and a shower cap.Making Jheri curls the classic way requires using chemicals that can cause permanent damage to your hair. If you apply the chemicals incorrectly, use too much, or overdo it in any way, your hair could become dry and brittle, and it might even break. This extreme hair damage is one reason why people stopped making Jheri curls the classic way in the mid-nineties. If you want the Jheri curl look without the harsh chemicals, skip down to the next section.
You might want to consider having your Jheri curls put in at a salon instead of doing them yourself. You're essentially giving yourself a perm, which requires some skill and knowledge of hair. Whether you have your hair done at a salon or do it yourself at home, you'll need regular touch ups.;
, Follow the instructions to apply the softener that came with your Jheri curl kit. Smooth it all over your hair and smooth out your hair as much as possible. Leave the softener in for the allotted amount of time. This will relax your natural curls and get your hair ready to be permed.
 Following the directions in your package, saturate your hair with setting solution, divide it into sections and roll it up in the perm rods. Make sure to divide the sections evenly and don’t put too much hair into the rods. Secure each rod and use more setting solution to begin the process of permanently curling your hair.









Perm rods come in lots of different sizes. Choose the size that you want your curls to be. Also consider the length of your hair and how long you want the curls to be when choosing perm rods.
 Don't leave them in too long; the setting solution contains damaging chemicals that can really harm your hair if you overdo it. When time is up, rinse the solution out of your hair for at least 10 minutes.
 Apply it to your hair and use your fingers to create defined curls. It's important to keep your hair moisturized all day long, since otherwise it will become very brittle and dry. Use the activator on your hair at night and wear a shower cap to keep your pillow from getting messy.








