,,, *Note: Wi-Fi needed. The Internet application Safari is very useful for checking movie times or seeing what is going on in this world. Ensure that your Wi-Fi is on and click on "Safari". The dashboard for Safari and the last webpage you have been to will load. On the top of the screen there are three buttons.


The top-left one is a picture of a magnifying glass. Tap it and the Google or Yahoo! search text box will appear depending on your preferences. Tap in what you want to search and click "Google" or "Yahoo!".
In the center of the top of the screen is a text box. Tap on it and you will be able to type in a website. After you do, click "Go".
On the top-right side of the screen there are two options that might appear: the "Refresh" button or the "Stop" button. If you want a loading page to stop loading click the "Stop" button. If you want to refresh the page for and updated version click the "Refresh" button.
On the bottom left side of the screen there are the "Back" button and the "Forward" buttons. These will go to the previous page or the page you have looked at but went back.
The center bottom button on the screen is the plus sign. Tap on it and four options will come up: Add Bookmark, Add to Home Screen, Mail Link to this Page, or Cancel.
The next button to the right is a book. Tap on it to go to Bookmarks or your History.
The last button is a picture of two squares. Tap on it to make a new page or flip through other pages you have.;
,


On the top-left part of the screen is the "Today" button. Click it to go to today on the calendar.
The next three buttons are: List, Day, and Month. These are the different ways of viewing your calendar.
The last button is the plus sign. Tap on it to make a new event.
On the actual calendar you can tap days and view them that way. Tap the arrow buttons to view previous and future months.
 *Note: Wi-Fi needed. After choosing one or more of the four mail services (or Other) enter your account information. Your iPod will remember the account information so you can check your mail without effort (unless your Wi-Fi isn't on).


You can write emails (tap the square with the pencil) and read emails. After choosing a folder to go into you can refresh the page(bottom-left side) and edit your messages (top-right).
 To add a contact tap the plus sign. You can include details such as name, job, birthday, phone number, email address, home address, and more. You can even add a picture. All the contacts you make can be viewable at any time.
 *Note: Wi-Fi needed; does not come with iOS 6 and later. You may view the Featured, Most Viewed, and Bookmarks. You can also Search. If you go to More there you can view the Most Recent, Top Rated, and your History. To see information on videos, click the blue arrow sign next to the video. To watch it just tap on the video.
 *Note: Wi-Fi needed. You may view your favorite company's stock by tapping the "i" button. View your favorite company's stock in one day, one week, one month, three months, six months, one year, or two years options.
 *Note: Wi-Fi possibly needed. You may see where you are by tapping the bottom-left button. You may search a place in the world or get directions from one place to another. Click on the picture of the eye and you will see options such as Map, Satellite, Hybrid, and List views, and you can Show Traffic and Drop Pin. Tap on a contact in Contacts and tap on their address to find them on Maps.
 *Note: Wi-Fi needed. Click on the "i" button and you can view and add cities you want weather forecasts for. This will tell you the High and Lows for five days including the weather.
 You can view world clocks by clicking the World Clock button. Add places in the world by pressing the plus sign at the top-right part of the screen. View alarm clocks at Alarm button by adding one. Start, stop, make laps, and reset in Stopwatch. Set a timer and choose why in Timer.
 Multiply, add, divide, subtract, use decimals and more. M+, M- and MRMC are included.
 Create notes using the keyboard and add reminders. View notes and delete them. Flip through your notes and see what you need to do today.
 You can turn Wi-Fi on and off, adjust brightness, and change General, Music, Video, Photos, Mail, Safari, and Contacts settings.
 View your music in Playlists, Artists, Albums, Songs, Audiobooks, Compilations, Composers, Genres, and Podcasts. Edit your bottom panel by going to More and clicking Edit on the top-left part of the screen. Drag your preferred buttons to the panel.


For Artists, Albums, and Songs you may view them by letter (shown on the right side).
To view your albums by coverflow, turn your iPod Touch around so the long ways is down. Tap on an album to view songs and click them to play. Tap outside the album to keep flipping.
While playing a song on the screen tap the screen to view time and lyrics if you have any.
 For movies, you can view it by going through the chapters on the movie screen.
 Flip through photos by moving your finger across the screen one way.


You may Use As Wallpaper, Email Photo, Assign To Contact, or Cancel in the square and the arrow picture. Play it as a slideshow by pushing the play button.
 *Note: Wi-Fi needed. View Featured, Top Tens, Search, and Downloads. Listen to songs or buy them on your iPod.

