 To get comfortable going backwards you should use a soft surface to prevent injury of any kind. Find a cushy, soft mat and practice jumping backwards on to it.






;
, It's important that you stretch before you do a back handspring or you are putting yourself in serious risk for getting an injury. The most important parts of your body that you should stretch are your back your wrists and your ankles, though stretching your legs, arms, and neck won't hurt, either. Here are some stretches to try:









To stretch your back, do a backbend. If you don't know how to do one, you should master this skill before you move on.
After the backbend, you should curl up into a ball on the floor and roll up and down, rolling out your back.
To stretch your wrists, get on your knees and place your hands on the ground palms-down, with the fingers pointed at you. Then, pull back on your arms to feel a deep stretch in your wrists.
After you stretch your wrists, roll them clockwise and counterclockwise five times each.
 If you're not feeling confident about backwards movements, or you're a beginner to this move, start off on a trampoline or mat. This way, you can gain your confidence until you're ready to go and do it on a harder surface like grass without the risk of injury. Also, having an experienced gymnast watching you will help you get over the fear of doing a back handspring so you can boost your confidence.
 Make sure that when you try to do a back handspring for the first time, you have a spotter, a coach or gymnastics teacher to spot you. This will prevent you from hurting yourself and will give you the confidence you need to successfully do the back handspring. The spotter should place one hand on your lower back and one hand under your thighs to help you flip backwards., As you stand by your spotter, bring your legs and feet together, your knees together and your arms in front of you. Also, make sure they can do the move and that you can support their weight and properly spot.
Practice doing a "trust fall" -- just fall back into your spotter's arms to make sure that the spotter can handle your weight. Make sure you are on a soft mat in case they lie or can't handle your weight.
At the beginning, your spotter can help you flip your body over by pushing your back and thighs upwards. As you get more experienced, the spotter will only be there for your safety and won't help you gather momentum. Make sure you jump hard, the spotter can not do all of the work

, First, stand tall with your arms up. Then, sit back, like you're going to lean back in a chair. Your knees should be directly over your feet, not positioned in front of your feet, or you won't generate enough momentum to land on your hands.









Raise your arms high, so they're pointing straight up and almost touching your ears, as you assume the sitting position.
Then, move your shoulders down and lower your arms to your sides and swing them upwards to generate momentum as you begin to fall further backwards.
 Continue swinging your arms to generate momentum until they reach over your head. At the same time, push through your toes to get that upward momentum. Lean your arms back as far as you can -- you shouldn't land your arms right near the place where your feet stood.









Tighten the arm and shoulder muscles driving up and back from your feet, raising your head back between your arms.
Make sure your arms are by your ears.
 Arching your back too much is called undercutting and will not only make your back handspring look less pretty, but it could also injure your back. As you fall, let your legs continue to drive you upward and backward. Point your toes and extend through your ankles. Make sure you keep your head back between your arms as they approach the floor. Start to look for your landing spot on the mat.
 Reach for the floor as you fall backwards. Keep your body arched as your hands touch the floor. Make sure you keep your arms straight so you don't hit your head on the floor. Your fingers should be pointing up and away from your face with your palms flat on the ground. Let the momentum of your legs, with your lower body still following, carry you over. This position is similar to a handstand, which is why it's important to know how to hold a handstand for a few seconds before you attempt the back handspring.









When your hands are planted on the floor, use the pads of your hands and fingers, your arms, and your shoulders for support. Don't put all of your weight and pressure on your hands.
 Make sure that when you swing your legs over if you feel the need to fall don't let your strength just loosen, lean off to the side like you were going to do a cartwheel.Your body will look like it's in the handstand position at this point, though you'll be holding this position very briefly. Just keep your feet together and pointed and keep your shoulders strong, directly over your hands. Don't lock your knees, but keep your legs almost straight.
 Continue by swinging your legs and feet over and snapping them down firmly toward the floor. Keep your upper body straight as your toes approach the floor.
 To finish the back handspring, just land with your legs slightly bent, pop up a bit, and swing your arms straight in front of you and then up, to strike the finishing pose with your arms up and your feet straight and touching. Don't be discouraged if you don't get it right immediately. Work with a spotter until you feel comfortable enough to do it on your own. With enough hard work, you'll have a neat and smoothly-executed back handspring in no time.








