 (A sheet you can handle easily without any help.)






;
, Plexiglass is hard to break, but it does scratch easily, so Plexiglass sheets are sold with a protective paper covering to protect the surface during transportation.









Leave as much of the paper on the plastic as possible until your cutting project is complete.( When you are ready to completely remove the covering, simply peel and lift 1 corner of the protective paper and pull it off the sheet.)

, If you don’t have a workbench, you can set up 2 or 3 sawhorses. Use enough sawhorses to support the weight of the sheet.
 Don’t use a metal or cloth measuring tape; a yardstick works better with this type of material.
 Use a black marker or a grease pencil to mark off the size of the piece you want to cut.
 Use a glass cutter or the dull side of a box cutter. You need to score the line you want to “cut” because you will actually be snapping the piece off, not cutting it.









Line up your yardstick on the lines you have marked.
Score each line at least 5 times, and as many as 10 times. The deeper you score, the easier the piece will break off. There are several ways to score the plexiglass:
Use a glass cutter.
Use a box cutter (utility knife) with the sharp tip of the blade broken off, or use the back of the knife to do the scoring.
Score the front and the back of the plexiglass to make it easier to snap it off. (Technically, you are not “cutting” the Plexiglass, you are simply making a deep indent so that you can snap off the piece you need.)

, If you have only scored 1 side, place the scored side up so that you can clearly see the line you have marked and scored.
 Use enough pressure to snap the scored piece off. This is sometimes easier if you place a length of wood along the piece and apply the pressure to the wood; the pressure will be more even.
 You will most likely end up with a piece of Plexiglass that has rough edges.









Clamp the piece to a table or workbench.
Use a power saw to smooth the edges. This method works best if your sheet of Plexiglass is at least 1/8” thick (4.57 mm). Position the Plexiglass so that there is just enough overhang to allow for the saw blade’s clearance.
Use a drill with a buffer for thicker pieces of Plexiglass. Coat the buffing pad with a rouge polishing compound before you begin buffing.

