 Diffusion paper is clamped onto the “barn doors” of the light you’re using. These papers create an even field of soft light and they are best used to slightly soften up the overall look of a shot. They are sold with different finishes to create different lighting effects and look a lot like tracing paper.


These light diffusing materials are quite affordable, but if you’re forced to improvise, try using wax paper instead. A similar effect can be achieved.Wax paper should only be used to diffuse LED lighting. Avoid using wax paper with tungsten lights, since the paper could possibly catch on fire.
 Professional silks come in many different sizes and are usually hung on a metal frame. When placed between the light source and your subject, a silk can very effectively diffuse light. If you’re on a budget, a similar effect can be achieved by using a sheer piece of fabric you already have around, like a white bed sheet or clear shower curtain liner.Though this approach won’t give you the same results that a more professional diffuser will, it does serve to soften the light and to reduce harsh transitions and shadows.
You can use any type of light-colored sheer fabric as a diffuser. In a pinch, you can even use a tissue as a diffuser.
 Chinese paper lanterns, sometimes referred to as China balls, cost very little and can create very even, soft lighting. They are able to diffuse light in almost every direction simultaneously, making them very versatile.Chinese lanterns come in many different sizes and colors. The all-white ones are best for diffusing light in a typical way. Experiment with colored lanterns if you are trying to create unusual lighting effects.


You can buy China balls online, at most home décor shops and at Asian markets.
To get an idea of how China balls can be used – you could hang several of them from the ceiling to softly brighten up a scene, or you could use a single lantern to light a more intimate shot, such as a dinner conversation in a restaurant.