 Most communities have a division of Victim Services, also known as Victim Assistance, offering free support to domestic violence and other crime victims. When you work at Victim Services as an advocate, you provide guidance, emotional support, legal help and connect victims with resources such as social service agencies. For some Victim Services roles, you need an educational background in social work, counseling or law. For others, you need prior volunteer or work experience helping trauma and crime victims.


The FBI, police stations, prisons, courts and non-profit agencies are some of the organizations with a division of Victim Services. Online career sites are good places to start your victim advocate job search., With an advanced degree, such as a master of counseling or social work, you can provide individual, group and family counseling to people dealing with domestic abuse. Counselors or therapists help victims understand the cycle of abuse so they can break the pattern in future relationships. They help victims rebuild confidence and self-esteem. Domestic violence counselors work in private practice, domestic violence crisis centers or social service agencies.


Find out the counseling and social work licensure laws in your state. Some states require that you obtain a license before you provide counseling., Domestic violence victims need help with legal issues such as immigration, protection orders and child custody. With an associate’s degree, you can work as a paralegal and help family or immigration attorneys. To become an attorney, you need a bachelor’s and a law degree.As an attorney, you can offer pro bono, or free, services to help domestic violence victims who are struggling to make ends meet., When you work as a domestic violence shelter or hotline coordinator, you are typically the first point of contact for victims. You’re responsible for helping them get the emergency resources they need to be safe, as well as connecting them with ongoing support. Some positions require prior volunteer or work experience with domestic violence victims, while other positions have minimum educational requirements.Shelter or hotline advocates can also take on additional responsibilities such as community outreach and education and program coordination.

