 Migraines may affect children in different ways than adults. Some children may have no head pain or pain that goes away. Instead, your child may exhibit other symptoms in conjunction with or without head pain. Your child may have any of the following symptoms:Abdominal pain
Nausea, vomiting, or car sickness
Sensitivity to light and noise
Dizziness
Fatigue or lethargy
Disturbed vision or aura
Loss of appetite, There are many different things that can trigger a migraine, and they are different for everyone. To get to know what may be triggering your child’s migraines, start keeping a log of what they eat and drink, as well as any other notable circumstances. Keep this log for a few weeks to see if you can identify a pattern and to help determine what might be triggering your child’s migraines. Some of the potential triggers you might note include:Certain foods and drinks, such as those that contain artificial colors, flavors, or preservatives.
Eating at odd times of the day or skipping meals.
Emotional stress.
Weather changes.
Ovulating/Menstruating (for girls past puberty)

, In some cases, migraines may be a symptom of dehydration. Making sure that your child is drinking enough water may help relieve the pain. It can also help get rid of other migraine symptoms including lethargy and dizziness.Have your child drink water because it’s the best way to keep them hydrated. Sports drinks, 100% fruit juices, and clear sodas may also help, especially if your child isn’t eating or has nausea.
 Changes in a child’s diet and skipping meals can trigger migraines. Giving your child a small snack may help relieve the pain and associated symptoms such as fatigue, dizziness, or nausea.Give your child fruit, some nuts, granola, or a canned soup. Yogurt or some hummus and pita are also good options.Provide broth, toast, plain, or a banana if your child is vomiting or has nausea.
 In some cases, your child may have nausea or vomit. This could be mild to severe. If your child has severe nausea or vomiting, consider giving them an anti-nausea, or anti-emetic, medication. You can use either an over the counter or prescribed anti-nausea drug.Anti-nausea and anti-emetic medications your doctor may prescribe include: diphenhydramine (Dramamine), dronabinol (Marinol), chlorpromazine, and ondansetron (Zofran), which is the most commonly used one.Recognize that doctors often prescribe anti-nausea medication in conjunction with other drugs, including sedatives or pain relievers, to treat migraines.Follow dosing or the pediatrician’s instruction for giving your child an anti-nausea medication.
 If your child senses the onset of a migraine, administer abortive therapy medications prescribed by a doctor. Abortive therapy stops the process that causes headache pain and can prevent other symptoms such as light sensitivity and nausea. Ask your doctor about prescribing or dosing anti-abortive medications including:Ergotamine tartrate (Cafergot)
Dihydroergotamine mesylate (DHE-45)
Sumatriptan succinate (Imitrex)
Zolmitriptan (Zomig)

