 A great way to build a good neighborhood is to start with your home. Basic maintenance is a great way of creating the impression that your neighborhood is a good place to live. If you don’t maintain your home, you’ll send the impression that you don’t care about your neighborhood or your neighbors.


Paint your home (as needed).
Make necessary repairs to your home. This includes rotten wood, broken shutters, and more.
While some repairs might be expensive, basic maintenance (paint touchups and replacing wood rot) can be inexpensive if you do it yourself.;
, In many places, the idea of a good neighborhood is tied to positive and desirable aesthetics. One of the most important aspects of this is the way people’s lawns and yards look. If you want to make your neighborhood a better place, you should put some effort into tending to your lawn and yard.


Cut your grass regularly. This might mean cutting every week or two depending on the season and your region.
Remove fallen limbs, sticks, and other organic debris from your yard.
Sod or seed your yard, if you lack grass., If you are serious about building a better neighborhood, you should make sure that you aren’t accumulating junk in your yard. Storing junk in sight of your neighbors can alienate them and create a negative vibe in your neighborhood. This is because you’re likely to decrease property values and give the impression that your neighborhood is a less nice place than it really is.


Don’t store your collection of classic project cars in your front yard or where your neighbors can see them. If you are serious about your fifteen project cars, put up a privacy fence to protect them and hide them from sight.
Make sure trash makes it to the curb on trash pick-up day.
Avoid storing excess furniture, Christmas decorations, your lawn mower, or other collectables on your porch., One of the best ways to create a good neighborhood is to make sure that you don’t create any problems for your neighbors. After all, if you create problems for your neighbors, they’ll probably resent you and won’t want to interact with you. This will help establish a negative vibe in your neighborhood.


Don’t let your animals roam freely. Free ranging dogs may chase children on bikes, runners, or otherwise cause problems. Free roaming cats could kill birds, squirrels, and more.
Avoid blocking the path to your neighbor’s driveway. This could include not putting trash on the curb next to your neighbor’s driveway, or parking your car (or visitors’ cars) in certain spots., Noise complaints and noise problems are one of the biggest issues in many neighborhoods. As a result, if you want to better your neighborhood, limit the noise you produce.


Monitor your dog (or other pets) and make sure they don’t bark or otherwise disturb your neighbors on a continual basis.
If you have parties, make sure to limit the noise you produce and turn all music off at a reasonable hour. In many cases, eleven or midnight on the weekend is a good time to turn your music off. Nine or ten at night is a good time to turn it off on a week day.
Try not to blast the radio too loud as you’re washing your car.
Avoid sawing wood or cutting down a tree at inopportune times. Home improvement projects are best done between the hours of 10 and 5 on weekends.