 Expect that your life is different and unique. Don't think that you have to do any of these things in any particular order if you want to dive into the mosh pit of awesome (that is punk rock culture).;
,


Hallmark of punk music is using your band to stand up for what you believe in and fight against what you think is wrong.
 Don't take yourself too seriously, and don't allow yourself to be easily offended. Just have some fun.
 For example, "ska punk", "riot grrrl", "classic punk", "hardcore", "straight edge", "pop punk", and "psychobilly", among others, are all considered part of punk music, but they all sound very different from each other. (Please note that "emo", "screamo", "metal", "goth", and "grunge" genres are very different from punk, although they occasionally get confused.)


When you first get into the punk genre as a whole, you might realize that you don't particularly like some of its subgenres. However, don't give up until you've tried a little bit of everything!

, Examples of those include YouTube, Spotify, and Pandora. Those are all free accounts! Once you choose one and log in, type in a band name and/or song and just give it a shot. If you don't like what you're hearing, try a new song. Don't give up on the band or artist right away, since a lot of bands change drastically over time. There might be other albums that you'd like better.


Here are a few accessible band names (both popular and classic!) to help get the ball rolling: The Sex Pistols, The Ramones, X-Ray Spex, The Dead Kennedys, NOFX, Green Day, The Cramps, The Reverend Horton Heat, Bikini Kill, Joy Division, Blondie, Minor Threat, The Red Hot Chili Peppers, Nirvana, and Sublime.
All of those bands have a home in the punk genre, but none of them sound alike, so don't be afraid to try them all.
If you like any of the above mentioned bands (or any other bands for that matter), then that's awesome! Now, do a quick search to find out who influenced the band you're listening to. Often that can lead you to even more great music. For instance, early Green Day was heavily influenced by both Operation Ivy, and the Kinks. So if you like Green Day, then you might also like those bands, and so on and so on.
 There is Google, there are sometimes books (fiction and non-fiction) and movies are to use for search.


Don't forget that you can sometimes find these at second hand stores and libraries. After all, spending $25 on a book about anarchy is kind of ironic.
 This is of course a broad generalization.


Almost all self identified punks tend to have in common is that they all like talking about "posers" and "sell-outs". A poser is someone who is pretending to be punk for whatever reason, and a sell-out is someone or something that used to be genuinely punk but then started making money or getting a lot of mainstream attention.
If you are new to punk and you don't know very much about it, or if you are a casual fan, or even if you are doing something innocuous like wearing deodorant or clean underwear, be prepared to get called a poser. But don't be offended, because even though it's supposed to be the ultimate insult, it doesn't really mean anything. Just brush it off and continue enjoying yourself.
 One way to do this would be to walk around in your area and look for small places like bars, clubs, coffee shops and record stores that host live bands.


If you get lucky, you'll find a new favorite just by showing up. If there isn't anything like that near you, or if you aren't finding anything you like, then try looking up the touring schedule of a band you already know and love.
Assuming they're still touring and alive, see if you can go see them. If you get lucky enough to find a really great punk scene, take advantage of it! Go to shows, protests, skate parks and roller derby matches, and make friends there.

