 It is important to tell your physician that you are taking these supplements. If you decide to take herbs as supplements, always follow the manufacturer’s instructions and your doctor’s recommendations.


When taken as food, most herbs are considered safe, but it is still wise to let your doctor know that you are using these herbs for medicinal purposes.;
, Garlic and onions can help to prevent DVT in a variety of ways, including decreasing cholesterol levels, decreasing blood pressure, and promoting healthy blood glucose levels.To get these benefits, add garlic and onions to recipes or use as a garnish.


Safe amounts of onions and garlic are those that you would normally use for cooking, so enjoy them at one or more of your meals during the day.
 Green tea is high in antioxidants and also has anti-cancer properties. Green teas has been shown to help prevent mutations and tumor initiation. Green tea also has anti-platelet properties and may reduce blood clotting.Green tea is safe in the amounts normally used in food, so drink some green tea throughout the day. A common recommendation is to drink 3–4 cups a day.


Keep in mind that green tea contains caffeine. You may drink decaffeinated green tea instead to reap the same benefits.
 Ginger decreases platelet aggregation, which may help to prevent blood clots.You can add fresh ginger to recipes, drink it as a tea, or look for a supplement if you are not a fan of the taste.


Try eating about two to four grams (one to two teaspoons) of fresh ginger per day. Talk to your doctor first if you are taking any prescription blood thinners.
 Turmeric, also known as curcumin, has antioxidant properties and decreases platelet aggregation.You can add curry powder (which contains turmeric) to food or even try adding fresh turmeric to food.


If you are on blood thinners, make sure to tell your physician. A common recommended daily amount is about 1.5 to three grams of turmeric a day (about one-half to one teaspoon).
 Ginkgo biloba inhibits blood clotting and decreases the level of D-dimer, a protein that accompanies blood clots.You can also use ginkgo biloba as a tea.


As a tea, drink two to three glasses a day. As a supplement, take 120mg twice a day for up to six years.Talk to your doctor first if you are on blood thinners.
 Pau d'arco is a traditional South American medicinal herb that decreases platelet aggregation.This herb is considered safe if used as a tea. Look for Pau d'arco online or look at your local herb store.


Drink one to two cups a day. Talk to your doctor first, especially if you are on blood thinners.
Do not use Pau d'arco if you are pregnant or nursing.
 Gotu kola, also known as centella asiatica, has been used in Traditional Chinese Medicine for centuries. Recent research has shown that gotu kola can be safe and effective in improving the circulation and decreasing the symptoms of venous insufficiency.Taking gotu kola may also help you to avoid DVT during airplane flights lasting over three hours.


Try taking 30 mg twice a day. Talk to your doctor first if you are taking any other medications.
 Butcher’s broom, also known as Ruscus aculeatus, may also help to treat venous insufficiency and reduce the risk of DVT. You can take it alone or combine it with Vitamin C and hesperidin, a substance derived from citrus fruit.Capsules of butcher’s broom, Vitamin C, and hesperidin contain 30–150 mg of butcher’s broom. The recommended dosage is two to three capsules taken daily. Talk to your doctor first if you are taking any other medications.

