 Kids around age three can attempt simple tasks like rinsing off fruits and vegetables, stirring or spooning a batter, mashing bananas with a dull fork, or sprinkling decorations on baked goods. Supervise them at all times, give them pointers, and be ready to clean up the mess.By roughly age three to five, you can permit a child to cut soft items (butter, bananas, etc.) with a dull, nonmetal, kid-friendly kitchen knife. Still supervise them closely, though.
 If they have previous kitchen experience, seven-year-olds (give or take a year) may be ready to handle a sharper knife and kitchen shears. Use your best judgment regarding their experience and skills, of course, and always supervise them at all times when they use sharper tools like these.Before you allow them to do any kind of slicing or chopping with a kitchen knife, instruct them in the "claw technique,” which keeps the fingertips and thumb of the off-hand safe from the knife blade at all times.
 In addition to possibly using a kitchen knife, kids in this age range can often handle tasks like peeling, grating, whisking, folding, and measuring. They can also help — enthusiastically or not — with setting the table and cleaning up messes.Don’t feel like you need to push your eight-year-old to use a grater or knife, though — let them develop kitchen skills at their own pace, and keep it fun.
 By around ten years of age, a child who is comfortable in the kitchen may be ready to use small appliances like hand mixers, blenders, food processors, and microwaves. Also, they may be capable of baking or cooking over heat on the stovetop — with constant supervision.You could help a child of this age make sauteed mushrooms, for instance, since this recipe involves skills like chopping and cooking over heat — but is also quick and easy., By around age twelve, a child who has ample kitchen experience may be ready to have a generally free hand in preparing and cooking typical recipes. Many kids won’t be to this point by this age, and that’s fine. But, you also shouldn’t feel the need to hold back a child around this age who is ready to tackle general cooking techniques.Continue to supervise kids though, likely at least into the mid-teen years. Think of it as an opportunity for more bonding time.

