 If you do stand still, bounce on the balls of your feet to dodge if you need to.Try to stay on the balls of your feet at all times.;
, Also, practice catching balls thrown at your feet. These are the two most common throws you'll see.
,, When they jump, they'll have a split-second of air-time in which they won't be able to really maneuver much. Use it.
 If your opponent throws at your mid-section or face, try to catch it.
 Being able to drop into a push-up position quickly and recover also helps.
 You'll have more reaction time to get out of the way, and your power shots won't be affected much by the greater distance.
 Try to deflect them in an upward angle (not back at the other team) so that when the deflected ball bounces way up, and then back down, your teammates can catch it, thus eliminating the opposing player that originally threw it while gaining an advantage in the number of balls your team now has.
 When they throw at one of your team, throw at them while they are unaware of your position.


The Lob and Drill technique: Player 1 lobs the ball high in the air. The opponent gets under the ball to catch. Player 2 drills the ball and gets the player out.
The Run and Hit technique: In the middle of the game, you wait for a ball to roll to the back of your side of the court. You, hopefully unnoticed, quickly grab the ball and run back and forth still in the back of the room. Staying behind the crowd either give the ball to a better player, or get down on all fours and dive under a player to quickly drill the ball.
The Sacrifice technique: This is the last resort technique. Player 1 stands in front of the best player and hands them a ball. Using player one as a shield, the better player throws as many balls as possible with protection until the shield gets out.
The Aerial Attack: 1 tall player and 1 short player team up. the taller player puts the shorter player on shoulders. They both CAREFULLY get a ball and drill at the same time.
Sliding Attack: Grab a ball or two. Sprint up to the line at a player who is also close to the line. Throw one ball at them, and, as you do, lean back and, just after you let go, fall completely down on your shoulder blades and slide. Put your feet down to stop quickly. Then, throw the other ball. Get up and dash back to safety as quickly as possible. This works extremely well if there is a ball just on your side of the line.
 Throw the ball before touching the ground. The opponent will be out, but so will you. Be careful not to be hit before throwing the ball.


The Suicide Attack (Version 2): Grab a ball and maybe a friend to increase your chances of hitting someone. Start at the back of your side. Run towards the front while screaming like a banshee. When you're at the front of your side, throw the ball as hard as you can and run back to the back. If you're lucky, you won't get hit!
The Pegging Technique: If someone runs up to the line to throw a ball over, run up and time it so that they are leaning over when you throw. When someone is leaning over, they can't move out of the way fast enough, if they're close.
 If you have a ball, you can use it as a shield to defend yourself by blocking your opponents thrown balls. Try to block their balls with your balls by angling your ball correctly so that their ball will bounce of yours and fly up so you or a team member can catch the ball. Sometimes this is not allowed.

