 If you cannot get through even one book at a time, starting several at once is only going to make the whole process slower. Even if you can only spend a few minutes per day reading, you can still switch on and off between different books.


The books may be related or unrelated, depending on your purpose. If you are researching a particular subject, they will probably be related. If you are reading for fun, the books may be any assortment you wish.
Choose books that draw you in. It will be easier to come back to a book you enjoy.
 You can read the beginnings (one at a time), or you can pre-read. Look at the table of contents, and read or skim the summaries, introductions, and prefaces., Try to start the day you bring it home or the day you begin a project. Use your fresh interest to read a larger portion of a new book in the first sitting or sittings. Thoroughly engage with and commit to reading each book in turn. Reading more the first time will also give you a good head start.

You need not start several books at the same time to read them concurrently. Instead, try laddering them, getting well into the first before starting the next.
 Leave one on your nightstand, one by the breakfast table, and another in your bag. Read whichever book is nearby when you are there. Match the book to the focus or mood you usually have when you visit a certain place.

Place one in your home bathroom in easy reach of the toilet, especially if it's nonfiction with a lot of short subtopics. You'll be surprised at how often you read in the bathroom. Don't put it where the shower will get it wet though and be careful if you read during soaking baths to have a towel handy to dry your hands while handling pages. You might want a short reading stand next to a bathtub.
 Listen to an audio book in the car, keep a paperback or e-book in your purse, have e-books on your iPad, etc. Depending on your purpose, choose books of different subjects and difficulties, so that you'll have choices for different places and moods. Reading about different topics will help you keep straight which book is which.

Your mind can cope well with associating different books being read within the same time period but in different places. So, have books for the bus or train to and from work, books for bedtime, books for the hammock afternoon, and books for moments when you need instructions, such as cookbooks.
Keep in mind that reading a politically charged tome at bedtime will be more effort than a lightweight genre read. Another good reason for having several books on the go at once! Good bedtime choices include rereading old favorites - when you know how it ends, it's easier to set it down when you finally drowse.
 If no library or project due date is built into your reading choices, notice when you begin each book and pay attention to your progress. Use this awareness of time to keep yourself relatively focused., The books you read concurrently must compete for your attention. If a book interests you much less than others, change your approach. Read that book separately. Read that book alongside others of a similar interest level. Or, consider dropping the book altogether., Reading an entire section in a sitting will help you keep continuity when you skip from book to book. Reading one or two shorter sections of a book per sitting can also help you understand difficult or complex writing better., If you find yourself drawn into a book and feel like continuing for longer, go ahead. Read whichever book you are in the mood to read at a given moment., Let yourself read the fun book for awhile when you get through part of the difficult book.,, Endings in fiction are often the most intense part of the story. In nonfiction, they usually contain summaries, conclusions, and other important information. Either way, try to read with more continuity near the end., However many books you choose to read at a time, make sure to continue to read the important ones until you finish with them.