 Kicking the ball to nobody in particular may result in a goal being scored against you. Instead, either pass the ball to a teammate or shoot it. Look up before passing/shooting so that you can aim the ball. Always send the ball to someplace or someone.
 Don't just run around, following the movement of the ball. Know where you are on the field in relation to where the other players and positions are on the field.
 The other defenders should "mark" other opponents who could receive and shoot the ball. In "marking up" your opponent, you should position yourself between the ball and your opponent and prevent them from receiving the ball. A common error on defense is to have too many defenders move to the ball, leaving opponents open to receive a pass and score an unopposed goal.
 On the offensive side of the field move the ball toward the centre, where your teammates can take a good shot on goal. This is "centering" the ball.
 Don't hog the ball. Pass it to your teammates.
 Whether clearing, passing or shooting, move the ball. Proper technique on striking the ball will enable even small players to effectively move the ball a good distance.
 Don't hesitate to fire a shot if you feel an opportunity. Shoot into the back of the net. Shoot where the keeper isn't.
 Good opportunities for goals are hard shots taken further out from the goal. Keep your head up, shoot, and follow through the ball for the goal.
 Resist "kicking" the ball directly into the shin guards of the defender in front of you. Passing or dribbling the ball laterally or even backwards can be a better choice if it maintains possession of the ball.
 Supporting your teammate means being in a position where they can pass the ball to you. Stay far enough away so the pass effectively neutralizes the defender. Stay close enough so they can make a good pass. If you are too far to make a good pass to your teammate, then you are too far for your teammate to make a good pass to you, and you are not supporting them or the play.
 You can't push, trip, punch, kick, or slap other players without getting a penalty, but don't be afraid to shove them with your shoulder to get the ball. Soccer is a contact sport, after all.
 If you have given 100%, when you walk off the field, know that you have nothing to regret and no reason to be ashamed. Just be proud of who you are! Whether you scored an own-goal or missed a few goals just remember that accidents happen, and you just have to practice more on your game play strategies!

, Wearing comfortable outfits and footwear lets your body feel comfy during the game and increases your chances of playing better. Wearing shoes that are too tight make your foot pain or strain your legs while running. Also wearing loose shoes increase the chances of the shoes coming out and someone getting hurt. Take care, play safe.

