 The most common cause of itchy skin is dry skin. The more water you drink, the more water gets absorbed into the skin. The recommendation is to drink at least six to eight 8-ounce glasses of water every day.If you are very active or sweat a lot, you will need to drink more water.
 Use lukewarm or cool water and be sure to moisturize your whole body after each shower. Don’t stay in the shower or bath longer than 30 minutes.Many people don’t realize it but showering or bathing actually dries out the skin, especially if you use harsh or heavy soaps. Avoid any soaps that contain dyes, perfumes, or alcohol.Lukewarm water is recommended because water that is too hot can damage the skin by stripping off protective oils that help to keep the skin moisturized.
 Select a moisturizer with as few added chemical ingredients as possible. In so doing, you will reduce your skin’s exposure to chemicals that you may be sensitive to or which may actually worsen the itching.


Avoid products with added alcohol or fragrances. Alcohol can dry out your skin and again, make the itching problem worse. Fragrances, which are often dissolved in alcohol, can do the same.Petroleum jelly is fragrance-free and can often work very well to keep irritated patches moisturized.Studies suggest that creams that include omega-3 fatty acids may be helpful in reducing symptoms of eczema, a condition that causes severe skin itching., You can also make a moisturizing cream yourself. Apply any of the following homemade moisturizers on your face, body, and hands. Let the moisturizer soak in for a few minutes and then wipe or rinse off any excess.



Cream-Avocado-Honey moisturizer - Mix 3 tablespoons of fresh heavy cream, 1/4 fresh avocado and 1 tablespoon of honey in a blender until it is smooth.Shea butter moisturizer - Take 4 ounces of shea butter at room temperature and mash it using a wooden spoon. Add 2 tablespoons of either almond oil or olive oil (whichever you prefer or whichever you have handy). Add 8-10 drops of lavender oil or any scent you prefer (such as lemon, orange, mint or gardenia). Using an electric mixer, mix the ingredients for about 2-4 minutes on high speed or until creamy. Store in a closed glass jar (with lid) in a cool, dark place.Aloe vera-almond oil-chamomile lotion - Mix 1/2 cup of almond oil and 1/2 cup of chamomile tea in a mixer (to make the tea, steep two teabags into 1/2 cup of boiling water for at least 5 minutes). Slowly, at low speed, add one cup of aloe vera gel. Use a spatula to ensure that all the aloe vera gel is mixed in. Make sure all ingredients are at room temperature before mixing. Spoon into a clean, lidded jar and keep in refrigerator. Take out a small amount and warm in your hand and apply to skin.Coconut oil is also helpful for improving your skin’s ability to retain moisture. Apply directly to irritated or itchy skin., The American Academy of Dermatology recommends that you see a dermatologist for a skin evaluation before you exfoliate because not every type of exfoliation works for every skin type.Incorrect or very aggressive or abrasive exfoliation could actually damage your skin, potentially increasing inflammation and itching and aggravating any existing skin conditions. Moreover, how often you exfoliate and what method you use should be determined by your skin type, something a dermatologist can advise on.However, there are still some approaches you could try:


Try dry brushing. This is a traditional Chinese medicine approach that has been shown to remove dead skin cells on the surface of your skin and help increase blood circulation. Use a natural bristle brush with a long handle. Starting at your feet, brush in long, gentle strokes. For large areas such as the torso and back, use a long circular motion. Brush each area 3-4 times, overlapping sections, and covering your entire body. Shower and pat dry, then apply a moisturizer. Do not dry brush on broken skin.Try an exfoliating cloth. These cloths mostly made of finely woven synthetic fibers like nylon, though some natural fibers, such as silk or linen, are also available. Use these gently over your whole body; they're available in various sizes. After use, shower off and pat dry, then apply a moisturizer.
Never scrub your skin. This can actually cause further irritation and itching. Use gentle strokes instead.

