 Bring a pot of water to boil. You'll want to use water that's around 205 degrees for brewing your coffee. Be sure to use clean, filtered water for the best taste.Either use a kettle that has a long thin spout or carefully transfer the water to a pouring kettle with a long thin spout. Take care not to burn yourself when handling boiling water.
 Unfold your Chemex paper filter so that it's shaped like a cone. Set it in the top part of the Chemex. Pour a little hot water over the filter so that it's completely soaked. Carefully, pour out and discard the soaking liquid.


This will help create a seal against the Chemex pot, can get rid of any paper taste from the filter, and preheats your pot, so you don't end up with cold coffee., Ideally, you should weigh your ground coffee so you get an accurate measurement. Weigh out 42 grams or use 6 tablespoons of ground coffee for an 8-cup Chemex. Always use medium-coarse grounds.


If you can, grind your beans just before using them. Fresher beans will make a better tasting pot of coffee. If you need to buy pre-ground coffee, just take care to store it in an air-tight container out of direct sunlight and use it within a week., Place the grounds in the pre-moistened filter that should still be in the top of your Chemex.Set the Chemex on top of a digital scale. You should also have a digital timer or clock ready before you start brewing.


Make sure to zero out the scale once the prepared Chemex is on it. This will help you accurately measure out the water.
 Start the digital timer or look at the clock to keep track of when you start brewing. Slowly pour about 2/3 of a cup or 150 grams of the hot water over the grounds in the filter. Gently stir the grounds with a spoon or chopstick.


Stirring can break up any clumps of coffee grounds and make sure the grounds are completely saturated., Once your grounds are saturated, wait around 45 seconds. Slowly, pour about 2 1/2 cups or 450 grams of water over the grounds. The water should come almost to the top of the Chemex.You should use a circular wiggling motion when pouring the water over the grounds. This can help mix the coffee and water together.
 Wait another 45 seconds. This will give the coffee a chance to brew while slowly filtering into the Chemex. Add more water. Slowly, pour enough to almost completely fill the filter and cover the grounds.Your scale should read close to 700 grams.
 The water will slowly filter through the grounds and the paper, into the bottom of the Chemex. This process should take a few more minutes. You don't need to stir the coffee, just let it filter down.


The entire process should take around 4 minutes, from when you started saturating the grounds to when it's done brewing., After you've brewed your coffee for around 4 minutes and it's reached enough volume, lift up the filter and let it drain a few seconds. Set the filter aside. Swirl the coffee in the bottom of the Chemex and pour it into two mugs.There's a small glass bubble on the side of your Chemex. This indicates a 20 ounce measurement.

