 Make some sugar sea glass, but do not coat the shards with powdered sugar. Leave them colored, but translucent.
 Make some sugar sea glass, but do not coat the shards with powdered sugar. Leave them translucent. Try making the yellow shards the largest, and the red shards the smallest. Coat a cake or cupcake with some buttercream frosting, and stick the shards into the frosting.


You will need to make a separate batch of candy for each color.
 Crumble the crackers into a fine powder and mix it together with some brown sugar. Spread this on a shallow dish and top it with some sugar sea glass. You can also add some white chocolate sea shells.If you can't find any graham crackers, any thin, cinnamon, honey, or ginger flavored cookies will do.
 Frost some cupcakes with white, buttercream frosting. Stick some clear, sugar glass shards into the frosting. Dribble some red gel/writing frosting over the top edges of the sugar glass.


This is perfect for a scary Halloween party.
 Place your gingerbread house walls on a sheet of parchment paper. Pour the melted candy into the window holes. Wait at one hour for the candy to harden. Gently pry the walls off the parchment paper. The candy will be hardened inside the window holes.Use icing to draw a frame around the window. You can also use icing to draw a # or + over the window to create a lattice.
To create a stained glass look: use icing to glue different colored shards of hardened sugar glass behind a window opening.
If your gingerbread house does not have window holes: put some square-shaped cookie cutters onto a sheet of parchment paper. Fill them with melted sugar glass. Wait one hour for the candy to harden, then pop it out of the cookie cutter. Use icing to glue the squares to a gingerbread house wall., Make several batches of sugar glass, each in a different color. Smash them into shards with a hammer. Cover a cake with some buttercream icing, then stick the shards against the sides of the cake.
 Choose some clear cellophane bags that match the theme of your party. Fill each one with a few shards of sugar glass. Tie the bag off with a ribbon that matches the bag.


Clear white and clear blue sugar glass are perfect for a winter-themed party. You can also include tiny, sugar snowflake sprinkles in the bag as well.
Sugar sea glass is perfect for a beach-themed party. Try dropping some chocolate seashells into the bag as well.

