 Be open to listening to what others have to say about your talkativeness. They may have some helpful insight about ways to stop being so talkative. Ask them to prompt you if they catch you interrupting people or talking too much. Having people hold you accountable will help you reach your goal faster.


Consider asking a trusted friend or family member if they have faced the same challenges as you with being overly talkative. They may be able to explain what has helped them, or what they’ve been through.
Listen to their suggestions about ways to change your habits.
 While it may seem hard at first to change the way you talk or interact with others, it’s important that you find ways to communicate that adapt and change to fit your audience.


Know your audience. Is it a large group? Just one person? Someone who’s quiet or someone else who’s really talkative? Is it a classroom setting? At work? Or just hanging out with friends?
Each situation may merit a change in your way of communicating. Be attuned to what others are saying or doing. If everyone else is quiet, then think about ways to be quiet. If it’s a social gathering, find ways to engage others in the conversation.
 Some talkativeness comes from personality differences, such as being very extroverted. Other times it could be a symptom of a medical or mental health condition. Most commonly, being overly talkative is a nervous or stress-related habit that can be controlled.


Watch out for any concerns that your excessive talkativeness may be pressured, rapid, and seemingly uncontrollable. Maybe it feels like you can't stop, and the pace of speech seems inappropriately urgent. If this is your situation, talk with a mental health or medical professional for an evaluation. There may be medication or therapy that can help. Evaluate if you constantly crave to be with others, or get your energy from talking with other people. You may be strongly extroverted, and thus might come off as bothersome to others if you are constantly restless and want to talk with people.
Be aware that sometimes anxiety and stress can lead to heightened or rapid talking. Find ways to notice what you're doing, and refocus your mind on how to stay calm, focused, and relaxed in that moment. Practicing mindfulness techniques and meditation may help.
 If you feel like people are treating you differently, or making you feel unwelcome due to your talkative behavior, consider talking with a counselor about how to cope.Find a counselor at your school, through an Employee Assistance Program, or in the community. Ask them about how to help with communication skills.
Discuss how to establish boundaries of communication, and how to respect others’ communication styles. A counselor can give you an unbiased and non-judgmental opinion on the situation.

