 You won't be doing any painting, but you will be doing quite a lot of sanding. If possible, try to take your cabinets outside. If you can't, consider placing a painter's cloth down on the floor for easy cleanup.
 If the knobs or handles are made out of wood, consider leaving them on so that you can weather them too.
 Use a quick, flicking motion. Keep going until some of the raw wood starts to show though. Don't worry about getting it perfectly even. It's okay if some parts of the edges and corners still have paint on them.


If you left the handles or knots on, give them a give buff with the sandpaper too. Focus on the areas that will get the more wear, sure such the edges.
 This will help "blend" in the initial weathering you did on the edges. It will also buff the paint, making it look less new. It can also help give the cabinet a slight texture.
 If you don't do this, the dust will get into the wax in the next steps, which may result in a messy finish rather than a weathered one. Get out your vacuum cleaner, and vacuum the floor of your work area. Next, wipe down the entire cabinet using a tack cloth. Finish off by wiping it down with a damp cloth.
 This will help give your cabinet that distinctive weathered look.Apply the wax using a soft cloth or a foam sponge. Focus on the cracks and corners where dust and dirt are most likely to collect.


You will want to buy specifically designed weathering wax for furniture. You can find it in hardware stores as well as in some arts and crafts stores.
 This will not only re-seal the paint, but also help protect the raw edges you just uncovered through sanding. Start by applying a small amount of wax onto the tips of a large, short-bristled brush. Use small, circular motions to "massage" the wax into the cabinet. Work in small areas at a time, and pick up more wax with your brush as needed. Finish off by buffing the wax with the brush.It should not feel sticky when you are done.


A small amount of wax goes a long way.
 If you took off the hardware, wait until the wax has absorbed into the cabinet, then put the hinges, knobs, and handles back on.

