 This is the easiest length to manage when it comes to waxing. If your hair is shorter, the wax won't be able to grip it. If it's longer, it could become tangled and difficult to manage.If necessary, wait a few extra days for it to grow or trim your armpit hair to the correct length.
 Any type of body wax works well for removing armpit hair. Most kits come with a pot of wax that needs to be heated up in a microwave or in a special wax warmer. The kit will also have applicators and cloth strips you use to pull off the hardened wax.


Warm your wax according to the manufacturer's instructions.
Test the wax on the back of your hand to make sure it's not too hot.
 Use a body scrub or a loofah to remove dead skin and dirt, then rinse your armpits clean. This will make the waxing process easier and prevent infection from occurring.
 The powder dries your armpits and keeps the wax from sticking to your skin when you pull it off. Turning on a fan or opening a window can also help to keep your armpits dry during the process.
 Raise it all the way up, so your armpit skin is taut. This will help the hairs come out more easily and keep the process as pain-free as possible.
 Dip the applicator into the wax and spread a small amount on your armpit hairs in the direction of your hair growth. Place a cloth strip on top of the wax and press down lightly.
 Do it quickly, like you'd pull off a bandaid. If you go too slowly, the wax won't pull out your armpit hair cleanly. It will also hurt more if you go slowly.


If you have trouble pulling it off, your skin may not be taut. Try bending your elbow and using your fingers to hold your skin taut while you use your other hand to pull off the strip.
You may also be sweating a bit, causing your armpit to get wet. Try turning on a fan to cool things off.
 Depending on how much hair you have, it might take two or three wax applications per armpit to get the job done. Finish the first armpit, then move on to the second. You can pull out stray hairs using a tweezers when you're finished.
 This will soothe your armpits an help remove extra bits of wax that are clinging to your skin.
 If you apply it right away, your skin might feel irritated. Wait at least a few hours before applying any products.

