 Instead of going through the full application process, which includes resubmitting proof of citizenship, many Canadian adults may fill out a simplified form instead. If every item on the list below describes your situation, you may follow the instructions in this section.Otherwise, skip to the general application section.


The last time you applied for a Canadian passport or a renewal, you were at least 16 years old.
You own a Canadian passport that is not damaged, and has not been reported lost or stolen.
That same passport is either still valid or expired no more than one year ago.
That passport was issued to be valid for 5 or 10 years exactly. (The difference in time between the issue date and the expiration date is 5 or 10 years.)
Your name is still exactly the same as it appears on page 2 of that passport.;
, Download the simplified renewal form from the Canadian government website by clicking this link. Print the form at home, or find a location near you with a publicly accessible printer. Copy shops and libraries are good places to look.


If your pdf viewer allows you to fill out forms before you print, you may do so. Type using all capital letters.
 Use a black or dark blue pen to fill out section 1. This section lists personal information, such as your physical description and contact information. If you have any questions, look further down the form at section H. In certain situations, this section may require additional forms.
 Continue to use dark ink and capital letters. Note that section 3 of the form is only required if you were born outside of Canada between February 15, 1977 and April 16, 1981. All other numbered sections are required for all applicants.


Note that a passport valid for 10 years costs additional fees, as described below and in section C of your form.
If you are required to fill out section 3, and you do not have a certificate of citizenship issued in 2007 or later, print and fill out this form as well.
 You are required to have a commercial photographer take your photo and give you two identical copies to include with your application. The photo should include your face and shoulders, with eyes open and a neutral expression (no smiling). It should measure 50 mm wide X 70 mm high (2 inches x 2 3/4 inches).


Any place that advertises passport photo services should be able to follow the correct instructions. If it is located outside of Canada, let them know that they should follow Canadian passport photo requirements. You may wish to print these instructions for them.
The back of one photo should list the name and address of the photography studio, and the date taken. You do not need the photographer's signature for a renewal application., You will need to mail (or give in person) your previous passport along with your application. This passport will be destroyed if you do not specify otherwise in section 2 of your renewal form.



Note: Your passport will be marked invalid as soon as the passport office receives it. If your passport contains a valid visa you intend to use for travel, include a letter stating that the visa should be returned to you intact., If you are delivering your application in person to a passport office, you may pay in person using any credit card, debit card, prepaid card, certified cheque (not a personal cheque), or money order.. If you are mailing your application as described below, you should either fill out section D of the renewal form to pay by credit card, or include a certified cheque or money order.Cash or personal cheques are never accepted. Debit cards are not accepted by mail. Prepaid cards may only be mailed if they include embossed (raised) lettering or numbers.If you are in Canada, a 10 year passport will cost C$160, while a 5 year passport will cost C$120.
If you are in the United States or a U.S. territory, a 10 year passport will cost C$260, while a 5 year passport will cost C$190.
If you are located outside Canada and the U.S., or you wish to pay for additional services such as faster processing time or copies of documents, see this page for additional fee information. Note that not all services are available in all regions, as described in the footnotes to that page.
 You have now prepared a completed renewal form, two passport photos, your old passport, a method of fee payment, and any additional forms that apply to your specific situation. Check to make sure all of these documents are present.


To present in person within Canada, find a passport office or receiving agent by clicking this link. Note that a receiving agent, unlike a passport office, may charge an additional fee, and will not be able to provide all extra services, such as urgent pickup.Mail documents from Canada or the U.S. to "Passport Canada Program, Gatineau QC K1A 0G3, Canada" or, if using a courier service instead of ordinary post, to "Passport Canada Program, 22 de Varennes Street, Gatineau QC J8T 8R1, Canada"/
If you are located outside Canada and the U.S., find the nearest consulate or embassy by clicking this link and ask them for mailing instructions.
 A passport office will attempt to process your application in 10 days, while a receiving agent will likely take 20 days. This does not include the time it takes for your application and passport to travel through the mail. Your passport application may take longer if the office is receiving a large number of applications.


You may pay additional fees for Express (2–9 days processing) or Urgent (24 hour processing) if you need your passport soon.
If you dropped off your application in person, your new passport will be mailed back to you unless you have made specific arrangements to pick it up or applied for urgent service. If you mailed the application, your new passport will be mailed back to you via traceable mail.
 When the new passport arrives, sign with ink in the space provided on page 3. Include contact information for someone in case of emergency on page 4.

