 You will need to order a replacement screen and digitizer for your iPod. Replacement screens can be ordered online for about $100 USD. Make sure to order the display for the iPod Touch Gen 5, or the display will not work.
 To remove the front panel of your iPod, you will need a small, strong suction cup. Place the suction cup on front of the iPod, towards the bottom. The bottom edge of the suction cup should be covering the upper half of the Home button. Press the suction cup firmly to create a good seal.


Hold the iPod firmly on a table or workbench with one hand, gripping the edges. With your other hand lift the suction cup. Pull firmly, as you will need to break the adhesive in order to lift it out.
Only remove the front panel about an inch or so.
 Once one end of the panel has been lifted, you can start working on removing the small plastic frame that sits between the front panel and the metal backing. There are several clips running along each side of the iPod. Insert your opening tool to release these clips, which will eventually release the frame.


Once the frame is released, flip the front panel up so that the insides are completely exposed. Take care not to separate the halves at the top as they are still connected with cables. Lay both halves end to end on your work space.
 The inside of the iPod is protected by a large metal plate. You will need to remove 11 screws in order to take the metal panel off. Once the screws have been removed, lift the plate out of the iPod.
 In order to get at the cables in the iPod, you will need to remove the battery. First, remove the three screws at the top that secure the logic board to the iPod case.


Insert the iPod opener tool into the notches around the battery. Gently pry the battery up using these notches.
The battery is secured with a lot of adhesive, so you will need to proceed slowly and use all of the notches.
Once the battery has been freed from the adhesive, flip it to the side of the case. Proceed slowly, as the cable is soldered to the logic board.
 Use the opening tool to pop the front camera out of it's housing at the top of the iPod. It will flip out of the housing.
 These can be found at the bottom of the iPod. You will need to remove an edge of the copper tape to reveal one of the screws. There are five screws total: three around the Lightning connector, and two holding the headphone jack and speaker.


Pry the speaker out of the case once you have removed the screws.
Pull the Lightning connector out by gripping the large flat cable and pulling gently.
 Flip everything over, and you will see the back of the logic board. On the edge of the board, you will see a cable connecting the logic board to the digitizer. Use your opening tool to remove the cable.


Disconnect the display cable (separate from the digitizer cable) from its socket on the logic board.
Flip the Lightning connector assembly up and peel the display cable off of the logic board.
 Pull the old display assembly out of the iPod once it's all separated. Install the New display assembly and follow these steps in reverse to secure all of the components and close up the iPod.