 As any other public place, especially theme parks, caution and security are very much needed when the stroller is unattended.


If you fear of it being stolen while you're on a ride, you may find yourself having an adult stay with the stroller. This won't allow two adults to enjoy the same ride together with kids, so you may need to figure out which rides each adult will go on throughout the theme park.






Only collapsible strollers (commonly the single umbrella ones) are allowed on buses, parking lot trams, and monorails. Plan accordingly if you don't have a collapsible stroller and wanting to visit different sections. Also, during peak hours of the park, you will always have to perform stroller etiquette, so that everyone around you can enjoy the park as well. It's not fun at all when there's a stroller in your scenic view while traveling.
 Like trying to find your baggage at the airport, it will be a hassle to search for your stroller, especially if a cast member has moved it to a designated area while you're on a ride. Examples to use are balloons, a strip of a plastic bag, or tied yarn.
 Disney Parks are huge, and may look even bigger in a child's eye when it comes to walking. The Disney stroller rentals are not recommended for infants nor toddlers, so you may want to bring your own for smaller kids. The rentals are perfect for elementary school children and even extra storage for bags.
 It may be a good thought of parking yourselves somewhere for a rest, but time doesn't stop when you have a tight schedule. Allow kids to walk by themselves and be in the stroller whenever they get tired. This way, you're always moving and allowing them to rest their feet at the same time.
 The material of the stroller is a huge factor when visiting the theme park, as they are hard plastic, which can either be a "make or break" decision when putting temperatures and weather conditions into your plans. On hot days, it's essential to have a towel to relieve the heat from the plastic. On the other hand, if it drizzles or rains that day, you will need a towel or napkins available to wipe the water off.;
, As soon as you enter the Magic Kingdom, they are located at the entrance under the train station. If you wish to explore the other areas of the park, you must return it at the same location. Although, if you present a receipt at the different park, you can get a stroller at no extra charge.

Epcot (at the main entrance and International Gateway)






Animal Kingdom (at the Garden Gate Gifts)






Downtown Disney (Marketplace Strollers & Wheelchairs and DisneyQuest Emporium)






Disney's Hollywood Studios (at the Oscar's Super Service)







, A typical family vacation tends to be a few days to a week, so putting any stroller rental prices might be a good thing when visiting on a budget. Know that the Downtown Disney Park does ask for a $100 USD credit card deposit for a single stroller. You will need to return the stroller to the same location in order to receive the deposit back. Double strollers are not rented at the Downtown park.

Single strollers are $15 each day or can be rented for $13 on a multi-day visit. These are recommended for kids whom are 50 pounds or less.






Double strollers are $31 each day or can be rented for $27 on a multi-day visit. These are recommended for kids whom are 100 pounds or less.
 If you have misplaced a rented stroller or found out that it has been taken, you can get a replacement at no charge at certain stroller locations. Just be advised, that these are based on availability, so you may have to do location searching if needed.

