 A good way to introduce yourself into the world of acting is by reading books written by actors or acting teachers. You can learn about acting techniques and methods, how auditions are conducted, or what the best ways to get started are.Good books to start with might be Sanford Meisner on Acting written by Sanford Meisner and Dennis Longwell, or The Art Of Acting by Stella Adler. These books will help you learn about what to expect as an actor.;
, While acting classes are a great place for actors to start, you can learn so much from watching classic films. Each film can teach you a different acting skill such as instinct, character development, stage directing, blocking, and physicality. These are just some of the essential tools and skills you will need to learn as an actor, and a great way to begin learning them is by watching professionals practice them. Here are some famous actors showcasing their talent in well-known movies:Quvenzhané Wallis in Beasts of the Southern Wild

Peter Sellers in The Pink Panther

Johnny Cash in Walk the Line

Meryl Streep in The Devil Wears Prada


, Acting is very time consuming, and if you seriously want to start your career in acting, you will need to dedicate more time to it than just the weekends. If you currently have a job with demanding hours, you may want to consider getting a job with fewer hours, or a more flexible schedule.


Many aspiring actors find jobs in the restaurant industry either serving or bartending. It is a great way to earn good money while allowing you the opportunity to switch shifts with another employee if you have a last minute audition, or only work during times that still allow you to go out for auditions.
 Many aspiring actors are surprised at how time consuming it is to constantly go out on auditions, memorize lines, and develop their acting career. Once you realize how much time you need to dedicate toward acting, you may want to cut back at work, or be tempted to leave your job altogether to focus on acting. Before you make any drastic decisions about your job, make sure you have a hefty savings account to fall back on. You do not want to find yourself looking for acting work, and not able to pay your bills.
 With a little searching around online, you can find acting schools near you that offer a wide range of classes. Before joining the first class you come across, do some research about the school and teachers to make sure they can offer you what you are looking for. It is important to take classes that teach you the basics of acting, so that you can develop a strong foundation to build from.Look for classes that teach you how to break down a script, create a truthful character, and show you how to have a strong and flexible body and voice., This will allow you to find out what it is really like to go out on auditions, and pursue a career in acting. Speaking with both working actors, and those who have been struggling to find work, may be enlightening, and help to mentally prepare you for what is to come. You may also learn tips and get great advice from people who have already been down the road you are just beginning.Here are some questions you may want to ask:


"What does a typical day look like for someone who is pursuing acting?"
"How many times have you been rejected from an audition?"
"How many auditions do you go on a week?"
"How much money do I need to get started?"
"Do you have any advice for someone who is just starting off"?

, There are many different types of acting jobs available, and deciding which type you want will narrow your focus and help you find what you are looking for. Here are some different fields of acting to think about:Film, TV on prime-time, or soap operas
Television hosting
Commercials
Theatre

