 What is the person you intend to diss especially proud of? What are they especially embarrassed about? Figuring out these weak points is a good way to plan out disses in advance that you can use in your favor. Pick on their points of pride.


If the person teasing you is always dressed really well, or seems to be proud of their Nike sneakers, remember what kinds of clothes they usually wear and prepare insults related to their clothing.
If the person is a very good student or a very bad student, insulting their grades or their smarts can be a good way to get to them.
Sports are often important in school. If you're being dissed by an athlete, consider calling them out on their granny-like basketball dribble or their missed shots.
 Disses are supposed to make you mad, so practice your poker face. When you get insulted, you should act as if it doesn't hurt your feelings at all, no matter what they say. Chuckle and let the diss roll off. If you see your tormentor coming up to you, think about something else and plan out what you'll say in advance to avoid listening to them.


Focus on a funny feature, like the person's nose or their ear to distract yourself while they're talking. If they've got a pimple, stare at it hard. It might even make you laugh.
 Getting into a diss-trading duel with a good "disser" is probably a bad idea. If you play it cool when you get insulted initially, the ball is in your court and you can wait for the opportune moment to let loose with your well-planned insult.


If you're going with the clothes tactic, wait until they're wearing some stylish new duds and tell them that you like their new shirt, before saying: "The guy who picks up garbage outside my house wears the same thing."
Wait until gym class to insult their athletic skills. If they trip or fall down, start pointing and laughing and get your friends to join in.
If you're going to insult their smarts, wait until they have to read out loud in class. If you're next, imitate their reading style before switching over to your normal voice and say, "Oh, I forgot. I'm not an idiot." If they get a question wrong in math, mutter something like "Einstein speaks" that only they can hear. Doing this in front of others will make sure they're embarrassed.
 Confusing someone by making them think you're being sincere and letting them in on information will let you get past their defenses.


Take the person aside after class really seriously and say something really sincerely like "I didn't want to say this in front of everyone, but your pants smell like a grease trap. I almost puked all through that period. Maybe you should call your mom and ask for new ones." Make it as specific as possible. Act like you're doing them a favor.
Tell them you overheard the coach talking about how your football throw reminds him of a fourth grader and ask sincerely if practice is going okay.
Tell them you'll help them with math homework for fifty bucks an hour, if their parents can afford to pay you.
 Sometimes, the most effective diss can be to say nothing at all. Freezing someone out of social situations can be effective if you've already got lots of friends. Pretend you're talking about the person until they come up to you and then completely ignore everything they say. Don't look at or speak to the person.

