 Official warrant search sites, whether sponsored by a court or by a law enforcement branch, generally do not ask for your identification in order to conduct a search. You do need to enter the name and other identifying information of the person you are searching for, but you do not need to need to identify yourself as the person conducting the search. The court cannot infer that the person conducting the search is the same as the person being searched.


By contrast, many of the online, commercial sites require you to provide your credit card or your own residential address in order to conduct a search. Although the companies suggest that your search will be anonymous, the information that you provide online is not protected by any legal privilege and could be obtained by law enforcement agencies., If you believe that a criminal warrant may exist for your arrest, you may wish to work with an attorney. In addition to advising you on the legal issues involved, an attorney can anonymously conduct a search for you. The work that an attorney does on your behalf, such as contacting a police department or a court clerk's office, will be protected by the attorney/client privilege.


For example, if your attorney calls the police department to check on any outstanding warrants for your arrest, the inquiry could make the police suspicious if they are looking for you. If the police ask your attorney to tell them how to find you, your attorney would respond that the information is privileged and cannot be disclosed., If you are concerned about maintaining your anonymity, you may not want to visit the court or police department in person. In most cases, anyone can request information about outstanding warrants. You could ask a friend or family member to visit the court or police station on your behalf and ask for the information.


Many court clerk's offices provide one or more computer terminals that are available for public use to check official records. Your friend can generally access these computers without providing any identification and then conduct the search individually.
If anyone at the court should happen to ask your friend to provide information about your location, your friend is not required to do so. If asked, your friend should respond, "I don't believe I am required to provide that information for searching public records."

