 Though adjusting your diet cannot cure Crohn’s disease, it can help to reduce your symptoms and make recurrences of the disease less common. You may try doing a low-fiber diet so your body is able to digest your food properly.You may opt to bake or steam fruits and vegetables rather than eat them raw. This can make them easier for your body to digest. You should also avoid high-fiber fruits like apples.
You should avoid eating foods high in processed sugars as the sugars can irritate your symptoms.
You may also have food high in antioxidants, such as blueberries, cherries, and tomatoes as well as squash and bell peppers.
You should eat foods high in B vitamins, calcium, and magnesium. If you are going for a low-fiber diet avoid whole grains and have dark, leafy greens like spinach or kale.
 You can also adjust your diet so you eat smaller portions throughout the day. This can help you avoid overwhelming your gut and make it easier for your digestive system to function properly. You may try to break up your meals so you have five to six small meals a day rather than three large meals a day.You may create a daily food schedule and plan out your meals. You may try doing a low-fiber diet in which you eat smaller meals throughout the day to see if this diet improves your symptoms, including inflammation.
 You may also try to avoid foods that can trigger or aggravate your symptoms. You may try cutting out dairy products, spicy foods, and food high in fat from your diet to avoid triggering your symptoms. Some people with Crohn’s disease also avoid eating foods that contain gluten.You may work with a dietician to help you identify your own trigger foods and create meals together to avoid them while making sure you get all the nutrients you need to stay healthy.
 You should avoid drinking alcohol, as it can irritate or trigger the symptoms of Crohn’s disease. You should also stay away from caffeine.Avoid smoking tobacco products, as it can make your symptoms worse. If you smoke, you should try to quit.

