 If your cat’s third eyelid is protruding, you will see it covering at least part of the cornea. Fortunately, third eyelid protrusion will not automatically affect your cat’s vision—as long as the third eyelid covers less than 50% of her cornea, she will still be able to see relatively well.If your cat has an eye injury, the third eyelid of the affected eye will cover more of the cornea than the third eyelid of the non-injured eye.;
, The third eyelid has its own tear gland, which works with the upper and lower eyelids to keep the cornea moist. In a condition called cherry eye, the firm attachment holding the tear gland in place becomes loose, causing the pink-colored gland to protrude from the third eyelid. Cherry eye can occur in one or both eyes.If you see a pink mass in the corner of your cat’s eye, she may have cherry eye.
 A healthy third eyelid is white or light pink. If it is irritated, it will become red.With cherry eye, the protruded tear gland may look red because of irritation from dust or debris in the air., Cherry eye in cats can produce a liquid discharge, the consistency of which will vary according to the underlying cause of the cherry eye. If the cause is an infection, the discharge will be thick and mucus-like. Weakness in the attachment of the tear gland causes watery and clear discharge.Protrusion of the third eyelid itself (without tear gland protrusion) may not cause discharge.
 Not all cases of third eyelid protrusion are abnormal. For example, if your cat is in a deep sleep or perceives the threat of eye injury, her third eyelids will come out to cover to her eyes.In these cases, the third eyelid will retract back to its normal position. However, if you see the third eyelid come out and not go back in, this signals a problem that could require veterinary treatment.
 Although a protruded third eyelid is easy to notice, it is important to determine the cause of the protrusion, which your vet will be able to do. Before your appointment, do not give your cat any over-the-counter eye treatments, such as Visine®. They are not very effective in cats and can make diagnosis of third eyelid protrusion more difficult., A full medical history is always important when making a diagnosis. During the appointment, tell your vet about your cat’s previous and current health conditions. For example, if your cat recently had an intestinal infection, the inflammation from that infection could have damaged the nerve controlling third eyelid movement, leading to protrusion.Tell your vet when you first noticed the protrusion.
If your cat has lost a lot of weight, describe her diet.
If your vet is already familiar with your cat’s medical history, they may be able to look through her medical records to identify some possible causes of the protrusion.
 In addition to a physical examination, your vet will perform a thorough examination of your cat’s eyes. A number of ophthalmic diagnostic tests are available:Examination of the protruded third eyelid with small forceps. Your vet will apply an anesthetic to the eyelid first.
Pupillary light reflex, which determines how the pupils respond to light. When your vet flashes a light in your cat’s eyes, the pupils should get smaller.
Schirmer tear test, which measures the amount of tears your cat’s tear glands produce. A thin test strip is placed in the area of the third eyelid for 1 minute. The strip will dampen as tears are produced.
Fluorescein stain of the cornea, which helps to visualize injury to the cornea. Fluorescein is green. Your vet will apply the stain to your cat’s cornea and turn off the lights to visualize the fluorescent stain.
If only one of your cat’s third eyelids is protruded, your vet will examine the unaffected third eyelid to see if it looks like it may start protruding., After taking a good look at your cat’s eyes, your vet may want to use other diagnostic methods to determine the cause of the third eyelid protrusion. For example, a neurologic exam would be useful if your vet suspects a neurologic cause. Skull x-rays would help your vet see if there’s a problem with the bony socket of the eye. Blood work would indicate overall health status and the presence of an infection.If your cat has an active respiratory infection, your vet will want to take a fluid sample (e.g., discharge from the eyes or nose) and analyze it under a microscope.

