 Even if you're not the best writer of all time, the fact that you tried will probably please her. The poem should be light and fun, not heady and about love at this point.


One benefit of writing a poem in a new relationship is that poetry is subjective, meaning there are many ways to interpret it. And, in the beginning of a relationship, you will generally want to be a little mysterious still.
You could focus the poem on an attribute of hers that you like. Don't only think physical (but, if you do, pick something like the color of her eyes or her smile). Keep it short!
Instead, focus on a trait of hers you admire. Maybe it's how she talks to everyone the same, no matter their socioeconomic status. Maybe it's that she loves animals. Maybe it's that she is fearless or hard-working.
 You could find a card that is geared toward a new relationship. Hunt around in the card aisle.


Find one that doesn't convey platonic friendship, but isn't gushing with love, either. You can find poems with statements that fit an early relationship.
Inside the card, write something short but heartfelt. You could write something like, "I've really enjoyed getting to know you, and I'm glad we met. Happy birthday! I look forward to seeing how this evolves."
A nice touch would be to include a pressed flower inside the card representing a trait you see in her. Alternatively, you could write her a handwritten letter that expresses that you are happy you met her, and explains what attracted you to her.
 Everyone knows that jewelry connotes seriousness in a relationship, especially if it's a ring. So stay away from rings! It's too soon!


However, that doesn't mean you can't give her jewelry just because the relationship is new. You can, but it should be something more decorative than romantic. You could get ideas of what she likes from her Pinterest page, if she has one.For example, you could pick up a pair of vintage earrings, and tell her you knew they'd look good on her when you saw them because they reminded you of the color she was wearing when you met.
You could buy her a pretty bracelet, turquoise earrings, or basically any type of jewelry that is not a ring! Avoid gemstones like diamonds for now. Go quirky and artistic, not expensive.
 Tell her you know she might be busy on her birthday, but if she's not, you'd love to take her to dinner. You could also make her dinner! Since it's a new relationship, don't assume she is spending her birthday with you, though. Ask her a few days before if you can take her to dinner for it!


Ask her what her favorite restaurant is, unless you already know it. Pick something she will like or simply ask her where she would like to go. Make sure to pay!
Come armed with a card. A dinner is an inherently romantic setting if you pick a place where you have to dress up.
The other benefit of inviting her to dinner is that you will have a chance to talk to her and get to know her better. Make sure you tell the server it's her birthday!

, Candles are great because they have a romantic connotation, but they also can be simply decorative.


Buy her a candle with a romantic scent, like cinnamon, ocean mist, or vanilla. Vanilla is an aphrodisiac.Try not to pick something too homespun, like apple or pumpkin pie. The goal here is to send her a subtle signal that you want to pursue more than friendship.
Put the candle in a pretty bag, and include a nice card that thanks her for the time you've spent together.
 Tell her you know she has a lot on her plate at work (if she does), and that you wanted to make sure she takes time for herself!


Give her a gift certificate for a massage at a reputable local salon, or for a manicure or pedicure.
You could also treat her to a facial, but a massage might be a safer route because she won't think you're implying she needs it!
You could just give her a general gift certificate to the spa, and include a list of the services inside, letting her pick!

