 When you enter into a relationship, your dating life will become exclusive to that person. This means you will stop dating other people and only see the person you are in the relationship with. Before you decide to be in a relationship, you need to make sure you are at this point.


If you are still interested in dating other people, you are not ready for a committed relationship to one person., When you are thinking about being more serious with your dating partner, you need to make sure he is the right one for you and that it is something that you want. You want to make sure your partner is making your life better and that you will thrive in a new relationship. Ask yourself:


Do I feel better when I’m around my partner?
Do I enjoy our time together?
Do I leave our dates feeling better about myself?
Do I feel respected?, Even though you may really want to be in a relationship, you need to make sure that you are at a good point in your own life to start a relationship. Relationships take up much more time than just casually dating. You will have to make more time to be around your partner and be available when you are needed. This may be difficult in certain circumstances.


Decide if you have extra time in your week to spend with your partner. If you work 50 to 60 hours a week and barely have time to go on the dates you do, moving forward into a relationship may not be the right move.
If you really want to get into a relationship but you are busy, you may need to make time for a relationship if it is important to you., You need to make sure you actually enjoy spending time with your partner before you move from dating to a relationship. Do you feel comfortable around your partner and feel you can be yourself? If you don’t, then you may not be ready for a relationship.


Many of the best relationships feel as if you are with your best friend in addition to being with your partner.
If you find yourself wanting to be alone or away from him for long periods of time, you may not be ready to go to the next step.