 Most women need to change their pads, which are also called maxi pads or sanitary napkins, every few hours.If you have to change your pad more than every 3-4 hours, get a pad made for heavier periods.Explore the different shapes and sizes of pads available for heavier periods.
Ask your doctor or pharmacist to suggest a product that can best absorb your flow.
Consider getting a pad with “wings.” These pads have extra material that folds over the sides of your underwear to reduce possible leakage.;
, You might not be able to tell if you need to change your pad just by the way it feels. Go to the bathroom every couple of hours to see if you need to change it.Don’t feel ashamed. If someone asks, just tell the person you had a lot to drink that day.
Checking and changing your pad regularly can reduce the possibility of odor.Put an extra pad in your pocket or bag when you go to the bathroom. This allows you to change your pad if need be.
 Peel the pad off of your underwear to remove it. Getting rid of the old pad will let you put on a new pad.


Take off the pad with a piece of toilet paper if there is a lot of blood or you don’t want to directly contact the pad.
Make sure your hands are clean before you remove the pad.
 Once the pad is off, wrap it in a piece of toilet paper. You can also wrap it in the packaging from the new pad. After this, dispose of the pad in a special container or trash bin.Put the old pad in a disposal box for sanitary napkins or trash can. Put it in a covered trash can so that pets or small children can’t get the pad.Avoid flushing the pad down the toilet, which can back up the septic system and create a huge mess., You may want to clean yourself after you remove the old pad.This can remove excess blood, prevent odor, and may make you feel more comfortable.Wipe yourself with toilet paper. Remember to wipe front to back to avoid getting bacteria in your vagina.Use a moist feminine wipe if you want to clean yourself more thoroughly.Remember not to insert the wipe inside of your vagina., Pull off the backing of your new pad to expose the adhesive. Align the new pad with your underwear and then stick it on firmly.


Press down on the length of the pad so that it’s securely in place.
Fold over any wings and make sure they’re securely stuck to your underwear.
Pull up your underwear and see if the pad is comfortable. If not, rearrange it until you feel good.
 Avoid temptation to double up on pads to protect your clothing and underwear. This can make it difficult to know when to change your pad and may cause health problems like rashes or toxic shock syndrome.Change your pad often instead of doubling up.
 Once you’ve changed your pad, wash your hands. This can remove any bacteria or other material on your hands.Make sure to use soap and lather up for at least 20 seconds.
Rinse your hands well before drying.
 Many herbs have properties that could reduce bleeding. They may also help with hormonal imbalances.


Drink lady’s mantle tea to help reduce heavy menstrual flow.Infuse one ounce of dried lady’s mantle leaves in one pint of boiling water and drink it three times a day.Drink 1 milliliter of warm water with 1 to 2 teaspoons of shepherd's purse to constrict blood flow.Use 4-6mg of chasteberry extract in water to balance your hormones and stop a heavy flow.Drink one cup of hot water with three teaspoons powdered cinnamon every thirty minutes to reduce heavy blood flow., Resonance homeopathy may improve the tone of uterine muscles and reduce uterine contractions. These may help reduce your flow.Take Cimicifuga Racemosa to regulate hormone levels, which may relieve heavy periods.Use Sabina, which could reduce the severity and length of your period., Put an ice pack on your belly and uterus. This might minimize bleeding and could relieve pain and discomfort.Put the ice on your stomach for about 20 minutes.Reapply the ice every 2 to 4 hours when have heavy bleeding or other symptoms.Take off the ice if it gets too cold or your skin is numb., When you are in a lot of pain or discomfort from your period, use a pain medication. This could reduce blood less and relieve discomfort.Take an NSAID (Non-Steroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drug) like ibuprofen or naproxen sodium, which you can get over-the-counter.
Follow the dosing instructions on the package.
 Make sure you have a healthy diet. This can keep your period regular and may prevent heavy bleeding.Eat foods with protein such as nuts or lean meat, iron rich foods like kale, and dairy like yogurt or cheese for calcium.Eating healthy oils and seeds like olive and flaxseed may also relieve heavy periods.Consider trying the Mediterranean diet, which is a mixture of fruit, vegetables, fish, meat and whole grains. Some studies have shown this can regulate your periods., The B vitamins can convert excess estrogen and generate prostaglandins. Eating foods high in vitamin B may help reduce cramping and menstrual flow.Eat breads and grains fortified with iron, Vitamin B, fiber and protein.Include vegetables such as green beans., Getting foods containing both vitamins may help control your heavy flow.Vegetables including broccoli, kale, sweet potatoes, and spinach have iron, calcium, and Vitamin C.Fruit including oranges and strawberries are high in Vitamin C. Prunes and dried apricots are good sources of iron.
 Magnesium helps balance hormones including estrogen. Increasing the magnesium in your diet may regulate hormones and minimize bleeding.Eat dark chocolate, which is a good source of magnesium and may make you feel better.
 Research suggests that acupuncture and acupressure could minimize bleeding. Schedule a session with a certified practitioner to reduce a heavy flow.Acupressure may increase blood flow to your back and uterus. This can get rid of painful cramping.Some studies have shown that acupressure or acupuncture can reduce hormonal shifts and pain during your period.