 Most herbs used to make sleep aids are available either in loose-leaf form to brew as a tea or as readymade supplements. Many people may find the evening herbal tea part of their relaxation ritual helps them get to sleep whereas other people might not be able to stand herbal tea. Decide which option you’d prefer for your sleep aid.


Keep in mind that drinking an herbal tea before bed may increase the chances that you will need to get up in the middle of the night to use the bathroom. This can disrupt your sleep.;
, If you decide to use herbs as a tea, boil water and add either one teaspoon of loose herb (or one tea bag for options that come packaged) to a cup of boiled water and let it steep for five minutes. Strain if necessary and add honey and/or lemon to taste.


For herbal teas, reputable companies include Alvita and Traditional Medicinals. For loose-leaf teas, try Mountain Rose Herbs or Gaia Herbs.
 If you prefer to take herbal sleep aids as a supplement, follow manufacturer’s instructions. Many herbal sleep aids are combinations of one or more herbs.


Try to ensure you buy quality supplements by buying only organic supplements, checking expiration dates for freshness, looking for verifiable contact information for the company, and looking for “seals of approval” from the Natural Products Association (NPA), Consumer Labs, or the US Pharmacopeia (USP). You also want to make sure the manufacturer follows Good Manufacturing Practices (GMP).
 Valerian root is a mild sedative and allows you to fall asleep faster and better.These sedative properties are thanks to a chemical compound called valepotriate.Valerian should not be used with children under three years old and may interact with prescription medicines such as antidepressants and anti-anxiety medications.Valerian tea is an acquired taste, so add a bit of honey and/or lemon to suit your tastes.
 Passiflora/passionflower comes from South America and has been used since the time of the Aztecs. It reduces anxiety and has a light, pleasant taste.It can lower blood pressure, so if you take blood pressure medications, talk to your physician first.Do not use passionflower if you are pregnant because it may induce contractions.Passiflora has not been studied in children. Talk to a qualified healthcare professional to determine a safe dose for children., Chamomile increases calm and reduces anxiety.German chamomile is more commonly found than Roman chamomile, but you can use either one. Chamomile contains a flavonoid called apigenin, which is responsible for its relaxing properties.Chamomile is safe for children, but dilute the tea with warm water (use ½ cup of tea and add ½ cup of water).
Chamomile can interact with a number of medications, including blood thinners, anti-seizure medications, birth control, and antidepressants.Talk to a knowledgeable healthcare professional before use.
You should not take chamomile if you are pregnant due to the risk of the herb inducing a miscarriage., Kava kava is a Polynesian herb, long used to decrease anxiety.Kava can interact with a number of prescription medications, so talk to a knowledgeable healthcare professional before use.


Kava kava’s safety has not been determined in children under eighteen years old or pregnant/nursing women.
 Lemon balm (Melissa officinalis) can also reduce anxiety and improve sleep quality, but you should not use it if you are pregnant or have an overactive thyroid.Lemon balm has Generally Regarded as Safe (GRAS) status in the U.S. and can be used with children older than three years old, but dilute the tea with warm water (use ½ cup of tea and add ½ cup of water)., Ashwaganda (or withania) is an Indian herb traditionally used to help induce sleep and treat anxiety.It can interact with diabetes and high blood pressure medications, so talk to a knowledgeable healthcare professional before using., Melatonin is the “sleep hormone” and can help regulate sleep cycles. Melatonin may interact with prescription medications (including those taken for diabetes, seizures, and high blood pressure) and should not be taken when pregnant or nursing.Do not use more than one to three milligrams of melatonin nightly, except under the supervision of a qualified healthcare professional.
 Commercially available in the amino acid formula GABAdone, 5-HTP is used by the body to make a neurotransmitter, serotonin, known to be involved in sleep.You should not take 5-HTP in combination with antidepressants or other sedatives.Do not take more than 50 to 100 milligrams nightly, except under the supervision of a qualified healthcare professional.
 For children who are too young or if you cannot take many of these herbs due to drug interactions, you can make a soothing aromatherapy sachet to place near your pillow at night. Try mixing 1/2 cup of the following:Hops
Chamomile flowers
Lavender flowers
Lemon balm
If you cannot find a loose-leaf version of these herbs, you can also try using a few drops of essential oils, especially of lavender or chamomile, to rub on your temples before bed.

