 If your zipper keeps unzipping itself, the zipper slider may be broken and need to be replaced. You can do this at home with a few supplies, including:End nippers. These can be found at your local hardware store and can be used to cut nails, wires, and zipper stops.
Tweezers.
Small pliers.
A replacement zipper slider, which you can buy at your local craft or fabric store. Be sure to get a replacement coil zipper slider if you have a coil zipper and a plastic tooth zipper slider if you have a plastic tooth zipper. Coil zippers are made of tight coil and plastic tooth zippers are made of plastic.A replacement zipper stop. Zipper stops can be made of metal (for coil zipper sliders) or plastic (for plastic tooth zippers).
 The zipper stop will be the small piece that is used to connect the zipper slider to the zipper teeth. Peel back any fabric that is covering the zipper stop and place your thumb and forefinger on the top of the zipper stop, on the side with the slider., Make sure you cut the plastic or metal stop only. Do not damage the webbing behind the stop as this could then damage the zipper.Once you cut and remove the zipper stop, use a pair of tweezers to get rid of any remaining pieces of the zipper stop. Make sure all of the zipper stop has been completely removed from the zipper teeth.
 Once the zipper stop is removed, you can slide the damaged zipper slider off the zipper. Then, replace it with the replacement zipper slider. You may need to tug the replacement over the old zipper stop gently.Make sure the zipper slider is facing right side up when you slide it on the zipper. The zipper slider should move easily up and down the zipper once it is attached.
 Use tweezers to hold the new zipper stop. Then, insert the teeth on one end of the zipper stop into the webbing on the zipper, right where the old zipper stop used to be.Take the pliers and bend the top of the zipper stop around the edge of the webbing. The single tooth on the stop should go through the back part of the webbing.
Use the pliers to crimp the stop into place. Try out your new zipper, making sure it runs smoothly and does not unzip on it’s own.

