 Before lowering your ferret into the tub or sink, make sure he is comfortable. This way, he'll be less nervous during the actual bath.


Any time you hold your ferret, support his body completely. Make sure his feet are resting on the floor and, if they're not, make sure your hands are supporting his feet.Make sure the water is not too deep. Hold the ferret up above water if he seems distressed and let the water drain some until he is relaxed. Ideally, your ferret should only be submerged up to his chest.Your ferret's feet may slip on the floor of a bath or sink. Consider a rubber matt to make sure he can stand steady and therefore feel safe.Having some of your ferrets favorite toys in the water can help him relax during bath time., After getting your ferret in the water, you can begin the process of shampooing the ferret.


First, get your ferret thoroughly wet. You can do this by gently splashing water on his sides, running the faucet over him, or using a measure cup to pour water of his back, head, and tail.
Run the shampoo bottle under warm water before applying it to your ferret's skin. Ferrets get cold easily and you want to make sure the shampoo is slightly hotter than room temperature.
Apply a thin line of shampoo down your ferret's back and massage the shampoo deep into the ferret's coat. Be particularly diligent about washing his tail and abdomen, as these are areas where oils build up and increase odor.Be careful to not get soap in the ferret's eyes or mouth. Only use your fingertips when washing around the head to reduce the likelihood of this happening.Keep one hand on your ferret while you wash him to make sure he doesn't move around too much, which can cause injury to you via biting and scratching.
If you're choosing to condition the ferret's coat, repeat this process with conditioner after rinsing the shampoo from the ferret's coat.
 Leaving shampoo in can cause your ferret's skin to dry out. Make sure to get all the shampoo out before letting your ferret out of the bath.


If you're bathing your ferret in standing water, drain the tub before beginning the rinsing process. The water is likely diluted with shampoo, hair, and debris and it's counterintuitive to use it to rinse the ferret.Refill the tub with fresh water, once again making sure it's hot to the touch. Use this water to work shampoo out of your ferret's coat.
Rinse the head carefully with your hand. Do not pour water directly on his head as you do not want soap to run into his eyes.
If possible, use a faucet during the rinsing process as this can help work shampoo out of the ferret's fur.Do not take the ferret out of the bath until no soap residue surfaces when water is being poured over his coat.

