 Go over your completed coursework to confirm everything is taken care of. Discuss your next steps. Are you going on to higher education? Are you entering the workforce? Talk to an advisor or counselor about your plans and listen to any advice they may have to give you.
 If you plan to go on to higher education or additional schooling, make sure everything is in place. Get your transcripts ready, visit financial aid offices and apply to the schools of your choice in plenty of time to make a final decision. Find out if there are any testing requirements you have to meet, such as the GRE or GMAT, before starting school.Gather the deadlines for these items and start a checklist.
Research funding resources and grant opportunities.If your next steps involve relocation, begin thinking about the logistics of your move.
 Keep it concise and clear. List your experience, accomplishments and skills clearly. Choose three to five professional references. Check with those people to confirm they have no issue with being your reference. Gather any letters of recommendation you might need. Prepare an interview outfit.Don’t forget to create a cover letter to go with your resume. Most professional businesses will require one.
Visit your school’s career center to see if they have any resources to help you find work, internships or scholarship opportunities., Most professional places of employment will check your credit history before hiring you, as well. There are websites online where you can obtain a free credit report. Do this and examine yours closely for errors.


Mistakes can occur on credit reports and unfortunately, if they aren’t caught ahead of time, these can impact your plans and economic status.
Prepare a post-graduation budget so that you can start preparing for life after the ceremony.
 These accounts are easy to access and people can tell a lot about you by looking at your communication and behavior online. Comb through your Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, Tumblr, YouTube and any other social media accounts and eliminate anything glaringly irresponsible.


Create a LinkedIn account and put some time into filling out your profile professionally.