 Stuff like "It is socially unacceptable to blow your nose in Japan but OK to pick it"... that fascinates geeks, who trade the facts around like bubble gum.;
, Please. This should go without saying but doesn't. It makes you sound like a dweeb by a geek's OR nerd's definition, and they'll avoid you. This says something, because geeks are usually pretty easygoing unless you're mean to them.
 The reason you don't see geeks chatting away with five people at once all the time is that they don't want or need to--not that they can't or are too shy to.
 Or nerd. Geeks and nerds are very proud of their intellect and unusual hobbies. There are a lot of idiots in this world who wear glasses or braces, and geeks and nerds hate to be associated with them. Possession of glasses or braces doesn't relate to geekiness at all, and having them doesn't magically cause a person to become a geek. Sometimes people even make efforts not to become a geek when they get glasses because they are afraid of being an outcast.
 If you're at school, don't EVER talk to a geek who is in the middle of a project, even if they talk to you first or continue talking while working on the __________. They're most likely doing this to be nice, because people don't seem to like being ignored in the middle of a conversation. Geeks do not like to be nagged to go somewhere the night before a test, especially finals for high schoolers. Ask once--they may have studied already, which is common--but tell them that you understand if they're studying and won't be hurt if they decline. (It had better be true.) Grades matter to geeks.
 You can invite them to stuff. It's OK.
 Don't expect a huge amount of conversation, because a lot of geeks are introverted as opposed to extroverted (they like to be by themselves). Some geeks only date other geeks, but most are very open to other people as long as the "other people" are intelligent. Some geeks may not want a boyfriend/girlfriend, because it draws a lot of attention, or because they're just not into romance. If you are rejected by a geek, it may not be an issue with you. In fact, it most likely isn't.
 Just like you are with everyone else. Geeks are humans. They have feelings, goals, and often a huge ego. They have their own likes and dislikes, and that set of likes/dislikes isn't shared by all geeks. Geeks are not something you watch in a natural habitat on Discovery, n'est-ce pas? They are people.

