 Is it the cute children's design, or the big beastly monster that will have everybody screaming with delight and fear?;
, You wouldn't want your work to collapse into a giant pile of garbage.
 Clay, metal, some people even make them out of Popsicle sticks and toothpicks! Create a list of all the materials which you selected in the previous step, and purchase them. These can be found in most arts and crafts stores.
 These categories, are very important for completing the entire project, and supporting the model. Using Plexiglas, layout the shape of the model first with a regular marker. once the layout of the model is properly put down, go over the layout in permanent marker. Now you are ready to begin the building process. Begin to gather all necessary supplies for the model such as glue, the material used for the model itself, paint, and scenery pieces. Take time to carefully put the model together, so that you are sure that it is securely constructed, and strong.
,


Now the lift hill, or launch sections will be applied.
Lift Hill

,


A wooden roller coaster will be harder to apply, as the chain of the lift must squeeze in between the supports underneath the track.
,, Glue both together, and allow to dry.


Steel roller coasters are much easier to apply the lift to.



Launch sections

, The following will explain the most common forms of launches.


LSM
Linear Synchronous Motor is basically the simplest to apply, and can be found on the recently opened roller coaster Maverick, at Cedar Point.
 As easily as that, you're done!


LIM
Linear Induction Motors are fairly easy to apply, and are often featured inside of the coaster's station. Most launched roller coasters are LIM roller coasters.
 Small pieces of plastic can easily do the job. Begin to gently squirt glue onto the inner portion of the designated track. begin placing each piece on the track individually, and hold each into place for a short amount of time.


Hydraulic

, Kingda Ka, Top Thrill Dragster, and Storm Runner are all hydraulic launched.
 begin applying glue and the plates/plastic onto the track. Make sure the brakes are the closest to being perfectly aligned.


NOTE: Hydraulic launched roller coasters must have a rectangular track.
 The type of paint that you choose isn't the most important thing in the world, but you do need to make a good choice however. Watercolor is acceptable for wood, but less useful for metal. The choice is yours, and yours alone.
 Make sure that it is able to be placed on any part of the track, however, it does not need to roll.
 This final step is important, to grab the eye of your company. without scenery, the roller coaster will often look droll, and the viewers will have a lack of interest.

