 If people sense that you're speaking from the heart and that you believe and will stand behind your actions, words, and beliefs, you'll present yourself as a person to be respected. Learn to cultivate sincerity among your friends, at work, in school, and in all parts of your life.


When you're among different crowds of people, act the same way you act when you're alone, or when you're with other groups. We've all experienced the social pressure to act a certain way, or seen a friend suddenly fawn over a successful business contact you were moments ago trash-talking in a private conversation. Be consistent in your personality, regardless of who's around.;
, Many people wait to talk in conversations, rather than listening what the other person has to say. This can give off an unpleasantly self-centered vibe. We all have things we want to say, but learning to be a good listener will ultimately make people more interested in what you have to say. If you want to earn the respect of people you talk to, learn to listen actively and cultivate a reputation as a good listener.


Ask lots of questions. Even if you're talking to someone you know well, learn as much as you can by asking questions, follow up questions, and personal questions. People like to feel interesting when they're listened to. Showing a genuine interest in what other people have to say will earn you respect. Follow up specific questions like "How many siblings do you have?" with deeper questions that show you're interested. Ask, "What are they like?"






Follow up on conversations. If someone recommends a book or album to you, shoot them a quick text when you've read a few chapters to let them know what you think of it., When the actions, ideas, or statements of a friend or colleague stand out to you as being particularly notable, compliment them with brief praise. Some people let jealousy fester when someone else meets success. If you want to earn respect, learn to acknowledge greatness and praise it.


Be honest in your compliments. Overly enthusiastic blanket praise of anything someone does won't earn you respect, but might give you a reputation as a brown-noser. When something genuinely impresses you,
Try to compliment actions, deeds, and ideas rather than superficial things like possessions or looks. Saying, for instance, "You've got such a great sense of style," is better than "That's a nice dress."

, Learning the skills of empathy are an important way to respect others and become respected yourself. If you can anticipate someone's emotional needs, you can be respected as a caring, thoughtful individual, attentive to the needs of people around you.


Notice people's body language. If people are upset or frustrated, they might not always be willing to voice their frustration. If you can learn to notice this, you can adjust your behavior appropriately.
Make yourself available for emotional assistance if it's required, and back off if it isn't. If your friend has just ended a messy relationship, gauge their needs. Some people will want to blow off steam by talking about it endlessly and wallowing in the details, in which you might lend a sympathetic ear. Others might want to ignore the matter and go about their business solo. Don't pester them. There's no right way to grieve.
 Everyone needs a favor every now and then, but it's a sign of respect to keep in touch with your friends, colleagues, and family members, even when you don't need anything from them.


Call or text your friends just to chat. Send them funny links on Facebook or other social media, just to let them know you're thinking of them.






Keep your family updated on your successes and failures, especially if you live in different places. Talk to your parents and let them know how you're doing at school, what you're feeling about your relationship. Let people into your life.






Treat work friends as real friends. Don't just hit them up when you need to find out what time you're supposed to show up next week, or to find out what you missed at the last meeting. Learn about their lives and treat them with respect to earn respect yourself.







