 When you two are spending time with your mutual friends, see if they treat you differently than how they treat other people they are friends with. They may be more affectionate with you, try to talk more to you, or make comments about your relationship.


When your best friend treats you the same as any of their other friends, it’s unlikely that they’re interested in you romantically. A friend that treats you like they treated their exes may be interested.
This can help you determine whether they are just being their normal friendly selves or if they are interested romantically in you.;
, Naturally, you’re going to spend time with your best friend. However, ask yourself whether the things that you do together seem like dates.For example, do you go out to dinner and a movie? If so, is it usually just the two of you?When someone starts to become interested in someone romantically, they’ll want to spend more and more time with them. If you notice that the two of you are spending way more time together than you normally do, and that those hangouts start to feel like potential dates, they may be interested in you.
You should also notice if they start to tell you how much they enjoy spending time with you one on one. This might be a way for them to try and tell you that they’re looking for something more than just friendship.
 Listen to how they speak about you to other people and how they speak when they are talking to you. When people are attracted to someone, they may speak in a special tone of voice reserved for that special someone. They may also be a little nervous around you and blush.


Pay attention to how much they laugh at your jokes or things that you do. If they laugh more frequently than usual, it might be because they like you.
Friends aren’t awkward with one another, so if you start noticing that they seem shy and bashful about certain topics, it could be a sign that they’re interested in you. For example, they may become shy when you bring up school dances or dates that you've been on.
 They may be trying to tell you how they feel in a subtle way. They may try to bring up romantic subjects or ask whether you are interested in someone right now. They may also try to deepen your connection by asking you very deep questions about your life, dreams, goals, and desires.


Since this is your best friend, they probably pay attention to what you say already. But, you may notice that they start to remember small details about your life that they would otherwise forget, like when you have a test or a special appointment. They might show you that they remember these things by wishing you luck or commenting when the day is here.
 Flirting can signal that they are attracted to you, or it could mean that they are a naturally flirtatious person. You’ll need to distinguish what their flirting means, but you have the benefit of knowing their personality already. Look for signs of flirting like:They compliment you frequently.
They smile and gaze at you when they talk about you.They touch their hair or face when speaking to you.
They laugh at all your jokes, even when they aren’t that funny.
They gently tease you or playfully poke fun at you.
 You may notice that they start to pay more attention to their appearance when they know they are spending time with you. For instance, they may wear nicer clothes or clothing that they know that you like or wear makeup and do their hair. When someone is attracted to someone, they often try to present their best selves.If you start to notice that they consistently seem to be spending more time on their appearance when the two of you are together, they may be interested in you.

