 If you are not seeing a therapist, it’s important that you start to see one when you have a severe disorder. Otherwise, the anxiety can continue to increase. A therapist can track your progress over time and see if the condition is improving or worsening. A therapist can provide a diagnosis as well as help you through recovery. Therapy can help bring awareness to the thoughts and behaviors that drive disorders and teach you how to change those thoughts and behaviors.For more information, check out How to Choose a Therapist.;
, Especially if the anxiety seems unmanageable and you feel you are unable to stop it, medication may be necessary for treatment. Make an appointment with a psychiatrist to talk about the possibility of using anxiety medication. It’s important to note that medication often includes side effects, and most anxiety medications are meant for short-term use. If used over prolonged periods of time, anxiety medications run the risk of dependence.Medication is not a long-term solution for anxiety, and it does not treat any underlying causes of anxiety. It is often recommended to simultaneously take medication while in therapy.
 Some anxiety is so severe that it requires intensive treatment. Residential treatment (continuous day and overnight care) or day-treatment (four to six hours of care each day) includes on-site care for both medical and psychological needs.Treatment is intense and often includes individual therapy, group therapy, activities, medical check-ups, and monitoring medication.


Depending on one’s condition, treatment can last from weeks to months.
 Whether you have a career or are in school or university, you can reach out for accommodations for anxiety. Your anxiety may affect your ability to perform in a class or work situation, as well as interfere in the learning process. Obtaining accommodations for your anxiety can alleviate a lot of stress that is created by having an anxiety disorder.


For work, know that you cannot be discriminated against for having anxiety and the Americans with Disabilities Act, and, if you choose to discuss your anxiety with your workplace, can find accommodations for work that are appropriate for your job.If you’re in school, make sure you document your anxiety with the appropriate professional. For instance, you might have to go to a clinical psychologist to document how your anxiety is affecting your academic performance. You may be allowed extra time on tests, be able to take tests in another room, and have compromises with class participation (for instance, you and your teacher may work out a signal so that he can alert you that he will be calling on you soon).To get accommodations for a psychiatric condition, you will need an assessment from a clinical psychologist — this cannot be done by your family doctor. The psychologist can write a formal diagnosis for you to show to your employer or school as well as recommendations for you to help with school or work., Activities such as yoga and meditation have been found to be helpful in treating anxiety.You can also practice relaxation exercises such as deep breathing or progressive muscle relaxation.These techniques work best when practiced regularly.


To practice deep breathing, find a comfortable position for your body (either sitting, standing, or lying down) and begin to focus on your breath. Increase the lengths of your inhales and exhales, and take four deep breaths. Notice how you feel after practicing the deep breathing exercise. How does your mind feel, and how does your body feel? Are you anxious in the same way as before you did the breathing?

, One of the hardest parts of dealing with anxiety is accepting uncertainty. You may want to be prepared for all outcomes to a situation and feel that by trying to think through every possibility, you are somehow actively preparing yourself for the worst or even preventing bad things from happening. Unfortunately, this is not the case. Instead of making life more safe or predictable, you keep yourself from enjoying what’s around you and what’s ahead.If you feel like you must worry, then set aside a 10 minute period of the day and worry. Don’t try to correct or interrupt the worries during this time. The rest of the day is devoted to not worrying at all.
When a worry occurs to you during the day, stop and write it down. Tell yourself, "I will worry about this later, during my worry period," and try to move on with your day.
You can also use this time to evaluate and strategize. If your worry is beyond your control — say, the sudden anxiety that a comet is going to hit the earth — you can remind yourself that this is not something you can solve or prevent. If it's something over which you do have some control — such as a looming deadline — you can take the time to start brainstorming about how you can tackle the issue and use problem solving skills to find a solution., Even the most positive people have negative thoughts at times — they often pop into a person's head, seemingly out of nowhere. Because negative thoughts cannot simply be stopped, it is important to learn how to deal with them. Instead of ruminating on them or immediately believing these thoughts to be fact, take a moment to challenge whether or not these thoughts are really true.


Write down the negative thought at the top of a page and then divide the page into two columns. One column will be fore evidence that supports the negative though, the other for evidence against the negative thought. Then fill in these columns to see if there's really any merit to the thought.
If you are worried that your best friend suddenly hates you, for instance, write that at the top of the page. In the first column, you might write something like, "She didn't respond to my text from yesterday." In the second column, you may counter that with evidence such as: "She was visiting her grandmother yesterday, so she was busy and she doesn't really get good reception up at her grandmother's house," or, "We have had fights before and she has assured me that she's my friend for the long-haul. If something is wrong, we promised each other we would talk about it and work it out."

, Spend some time each day doing things that you enjoy. It can be as simple as reading a chapter in a book, sipping on delicious coffee, or taking a walk by yourself. If you are interested in sports, join a local league and play with other adults that also enjoy the same activity. Doing something you love each day helps ward off stress and helps you enjoy each day., If you have a busy or hectic lifestyle, you increase your chances of experiencing anxiety. If you’re having difficulty managing home and work or school, find ways to decrease your load such as delegating tasks to others, saying no to things you reasonably cannot do, or giving up certain responsibilities you no longer can perform well. Find ways to cut stress out of your life.Be aware that there may be a negative aspect to decreasing your activities — when you have more time to think, you may fill those minutes or hours with worrying. If this happens, try the method of writing down the cause of anxiety and promising you will think about it during your established worry period.
 Exercise naturally helps to combat stress and relieve anxiety. When you exercise, get in touch with how your body feels: notice your breathing, the flexing of your muscles, or the sweat on your skin. This can help you get out of your head and your worries and place your focus on your body. Aim to exercise most days for 30 minutes or more.Not sure where to start? Start walking, running or jogging. Take your dog for a daily walk, run around the yard with your kids, or ride your bike. Join a fitness program or exercise class at your gym.
 A lack of sleep can trigger anxiety, so aim to get quality sleep each night.When establishing your sleep habits, aim to go to bed and wake up at the same time each day, even on weekends. Avoid snacking right before bed, cut back on caffeine in the afternoons, and be cautious about napping throughout the day to not disrupt your nighttime sleep.If you have a hard time falling asleep, don’t spend the time right before sleeping worrying. Clear your mind and don’t allow worries to take over. Create a beautiful space in your imagination of where you want to sleep (such as a beach or a garden) and allow yourself to relax there.
Again, meditation or progressive muscle relaxation can be helpful here. Consider mindful meditation, which is all about simply observing and accepting your thoughts without attaching judgement.
 Alcohol and nicotine lead to more anxiety, not less.Begin to cut back on your consumption of alcohol or nicotine as a way to fight anxiety. Remember that temporary relief through alcohol and nicotine is more damaging than productive.


While cutting back, find other activities that fulfill similar roles. For instance, if you feel more relaxed after smoking, try taking a bath to relax instead. If alcohol is the main way you spend time with friends, offer to host a game night at your home.

