 A vegan smoked cheese and sage cheese ball is a vegan cheese alternative that is just as yummy and flavorful as a traditional cheese ball. To begin making this cheese ball, place the 2 tablespoons (29.57 ml) of dairy-free margarine in a skillet over medium heat.Once the margarine begins to sizzle, drop in the 10 sage leaves and toss them in the margarine.
Cook the leaves for a few minutes until they are crispy.
Once the leaves are crispy, use a spatula or tongs to take the leaves out of the skillet and place them on a sheet of paper towel to absorb excess oil.
Take the skillet of margarine off the heat and allow the margarine to cool.
 Turn on your oven to 200 °F (93.3 °C) (93.33 C), then sprinkle the pumpkin seeds and pistachios on a tray. Wait about ten minutes for the oven to preheat, then place the tray of nuts in the oven. Toast the nuts for five minutes, then take them out of the oven., Shred the smoked vegan cheese, then add the shredded cheese, vegan cream cheese, salt, sage, pumpkin seeds, pistachios and cooled margarine into a food processor.You also can use a blender, or put everything in a mixing bowl and mix by hand if you don’t have a food processor or blender.
 Pulse the ingredients in the food processor or blender for a couple seconds, then take off the top and stir. Repeat several times until the mixture is combined.If you are mixing by hand, vigorously mix the ingredients until the mixture is homogenous.
 After you blend the mixture, scoop out the mixture and place it on a sheet of plastic wrap or aluminum foil. Then mold the mixture into a ball and wrap it in the plastic wrap or aluminum foil. Chill the vegan cheese ball in the fridge for 20 minutes., While the vegan cheese ball is in the fridge, chop the dried cranberries into small pieces. After the cheese ball has chilled for 20 minutes, take it out of the fridge and roll the ball in the dried cranberries. Stick any excess cranberries to the outside of the vegan cheese ball to completely coat it., Once the vegan cheese ball has chilled for 20 minutes, take it out of the fridge, unwrap it and serve it alongside vegan crackers and snacks. If you aren’t serving it immediately, keep the ball wrapped the fridge until you are ready to serve it.