 Keeping the brush dry after a cleaning session is important to avoiding bacterial contamination. Check the area you are storing your brush and its container for adequate ventilation. You want air to flow to prevent bacteria from concentrating on the brush., This will accomplish two sanitary features. Firstly, it will allow the water and any other fluids to drain from the bristles with gravity. Also, the bristles will not be sitting in any bacteria collecting in the bottom of the container. Make sure the container you select is short enough to allow the toothbrush to lean so the bristles are well above the rim, but not so high it tips over.Whether you use a cup or rack-style container—you might want to put paper towels under the area you store the toothbrush to catch its drippings. This way you can dispose of the contaminated fluids without them contacting other surfaces.
 You don’t want the toothbrush bristles coming in contact with other contaminant sources such as a toilet, wall, or cabinet. Keep any containers two to three feet away from a toilet to avoid spray-contamination from flushing.Another good option is to keep toothbrushes inside the bathroom cabinet.
 You can put the brush in a holster that has a mounting that keeps it stationary on a wall. Purchase a mounting bracket and holder from a hardware store. Use a screwdriver to fasten the bracket to the wall near the back of the bathroom sink at least 2-3 feet away from the toilet, shower, and/or bathtub. Place the toothbrush holder onto the bracket by sliding it vertically into place.These holders usually have room for several brushes. Make sure the brushes don’t touch each other. There is also usually a center holder for a cup to hold accessories such as toothpaste. Make sure the toothbrush bristles don’t touch the center items either.
 The only time you should cover your toothbrush is when traveling. There are plenty of commercially available covers, and some even have antimicrobial features. Use the latter if available. Whichever you choose will function mostly the same way--by slipping the brush head with bristles into the cover’s pocket, and sealing or snapping it shut on the top-end (non-handle end). Take the brush out as soon as you reach your destination to clean it and give it time to dry before usage.