


Ornamental quilts are often used as wall hangings. These are usually not expected to be cleaned or laundered at all. If so, you may not have to prepare your fabric as rigorously as one destined for a bed. You can skip many steps, use fabrics that are delicate or do not wash well, and save quite a bit of time. But, if some well-meaning soul decides to wash a dusty commemorative quilt, it may well be ruined.
Functional quilts are meant to be used as bedding. As such, they will likely face washing, and perhaps put in a dryer. This doesn't mean it could not be used as decorative wall art, but it will require a bit more care in preparation.;
, If you are buying fabric, this will typically be labelled on the fabric bolt. Reclaimed clothes will usually have fabric content on the label.


Most quilts are typically made with a cotton, or cotton/polyester blend. These are usually the easiest to work with and launder.
Other fabrics, such as wool, silk, linen, and some other fabrics are usable, but may need special care if it will be washed. Sometimes fabrics (silk and wool especially) will have a "finish" that will change if washed in soap and water. This may not be a problem if you do not mind the change, or if it will be dry-clean only, or if it will only be decorative.
If you using an unknown fabric, you run a risk of having it act unpredictably upon laundering. Usually nothing horrible happens. However, fabrics are known to do everything from change color, spot, to run color over the rest of the quilt, fray, even melt in a hot dryer.
 You will want any shrinkage to happen now rather than after the quilt is made!


Launder the fabric in the hottest washing setting recommended for your fabric.
Cottons, cotton/poly blends, and linen: HOT
Silk, Wool: COOL or COLD (Note: Silk will not shrink much, but wool is very prone to shrinkage. But do not try to purposely shrink it as cottons, because it hot water will damage wool in a way it does not with cottons.)
Polyester, other synthetic fibers: HOT (Note: These fabrics generally do not shrink, but it is good to confirm your fabrics can handle a hot bath if it happens again)

,


Dry your fabric in the hottest dryer setting recommended.
Cottons, cotton/polyester, and linen: HOT (Note: If possible, use a commercial laundry dryer, as these generally reach higher temperature than home dryers.)
Silk, Wool: LOW
Polyester, other synthetic fibers: Medium or HOT

, Doing so helps assure fabric is uniform in consistency and makes the fabric easier to work with.


Fleece fabrics should not be ironed.
Be sure you use the setting recommended on your iron.
Many quilters like to use starch or other product to stiffen the fabric, in order to make it easier to work with. This is optional.
 Be sure it is stored neatly. If it is left in a heap, it may re-develop wrinkles. Ideally, re-wrap it on a bolt or piece of cardboard to prevent creases, but folding it is better than having to re-do all your work.
 After you cut your fabric, serge the raw edges of the pieces. (Optional)


This step helps avoid fabrics fraying, moving off-grain, and lengthen the life of the quilt.
This adds significantly to the time creating the quilt.
Many quilters do not serge any raw edges and get decades of use from quilts that are used and washed regularly.

