 You don't have to visit a Redbox kiosk to rent movies. By using Redbox online services, you can see which movies are available for renting, reserve them for in-person pickup, and even stream movies for instant viewing! To start, visit the Redbox homepage, Redbox.com.
 At the top of the Redbox homepage, click the "Movies" tab to be taken to the current library of titles available from Redbox kiosks. The movies you see on the first page will be the most recent, high-demand titles — you can find more by using the search bar at the top or browsing with the genre, DVD/Blu-ray and rating options at the top of the screen.
 On a movie's page, you should see large buttons at the top right of the screen that say "Hold for Pickup DVD", "Hold for Pickup Blu-ray", or both. Click the appropriate button for the video format your want. You'll be asked to provide your location information. Based on this, Redbox will display a list of Redbox locations near you with the title you selected in stock. Click "Hold for Pickup" next to the most convenient location.


If you're done looking for videos, on the next screen, click "Continue". If you don't have an account, you'll be asked to make one and provide your payment information. Otherwise, continue reserving movies in the same way as above.
Note that the same rental rules apply for online reservations as normal. If you don't check your movie out by 9:00 PM the day after you reserve it, you will still be charged for a normal rental.
 For many movies, you don't even need the house to start watching. Redbox's streaming service, Redbox Instant, allows registered users to view movies on their computer on demand. To start, visit Redboxinstant.com. Use the search bar to find a movie you want to watch, then click on the movie and press "Watch Now." You'll be prompted to enter your email address. If you don't already have a Redbox account, you'll be taken to a series of screens where you can sign up for one. Once you've subscribed (and arranged for your membership payment), you can start watching movies.


Redbox Instant offers three pricing tiers: $6, $8, and $9 per month. At $6 per month, you're allowed unlimited streaming from the Redbox library of content. At $8, you're allowed to stream, plus you're given 4 free DVD rentals per month. At $9, you're given 4 Blu-ray rentals on top of the previous tiers' benefits.