 Use the flip-and-fold method (like you did to construct the body) to make a slightly oversized rectangle, then trim it down to size. This will later become a pocket in which to hold a card.


Note that the card pocket is slightly narrower than half of the wallet body. This is to ensure that the wallet can still fold in half once the pocket is installed.
The standard bank/credit card is just over 2 inches (5cm) high. Making your card pockets slightly shorter than your cards will allow you to see and retrieve them more easily.
If you would like to have an ID card on display, make a rectangular sheet 3.75 inches (9.5cm) wide by however high that card is, then cut the center out so that the card information is displayed but the remaining frame still holds the card in place. You may even want to tape a piece of plastic (e.g. cut out of a clear document cover) behind this frame for a more finished effect.
 It’s best not to make more than three per side or the wallet will become bulky.
 Align it with the bottom-most edge of either the left- or right-hand side and run a thin strip of tape over the edge to secure it to the wallet interior. Flip the pocket over and repeat on the interior edge so that the cards cannot force its way under that first strip of tape. Do not tape the sides just yet.









The same applies if you have made an ID-display pocket.
 This will allow you to see all your cards at the same time. Remember that each card flap is slightly shorter than the card it will hold, so be sure not to place your pockets so high that the cards jut out of the wallet.
 For a cleaner look, you may even want to place your pieces of tape so that they run from the interior crease outwards across the pockets, around the corners, over the front face of the wallet, and finally back around the pockets on the other side, leaving no visible breaks on the front of the wallet.
 Alternatively, give the wallet as a gift or sell it.



When you first use the wallet, you may notice it doesn't stay closed; flatten it beneath some books for a few hours to fix the problem.

