 Campbell's Russian hamsters are best housed in glass aquariums or tanks.Be sure there is a top that allows air in so the hamsters don't asphyxiate


Make sure the aquarium is at least 3 feet (0.9 m). long (0.9 m) and has an ample amount of "floor area." In addition to having space to exercise and burrow, your hamster must have ample bedding, food, water, hideouts, nesting boxes, wheels, and toys.
Secure the tank with a wire mesh lid to prevent escape.
Avoid cages that are sold for normal-sized hamsters. The Campbell's Russian hamster may be able to squeeze through the bars. Additionally, cages marketed specifically for mice and Dwarf hamsters such as CritterTrail are often too small, so the aquarium is the best choice.;
, A 3-in. layer should suffice. If you wish, you can provide up to 4 or 5 in. of bedding. There are several brands of bedding available in pet stores. Shredded paper can also be used.


Do not use pine or cedar wood shavings. Wood shavings can contain harmful oils and cause a number of health problems for your hamster. The safe kind is aspen shavings which can be used without problem.
 Make sure you have:


Water bottle. Place it in a corner of the aquarium using some sort of stand.
Nesting boxes.
Food. Tip: To occupy your hamster, scatter the pellets or blocks around the habitat for your hamster to forage for instead of placing food in a regular hamster bowl.
Toys. Provide at least some of the following: wheel, tubes, tunnels, ladders, wooden chews, sticks, hideouts, toilet paper rolls. A sufficient number of toys are essential to your pet's stimulation, health, and overall happiness.
Change out the toys in the habitat frequently to keep your hamster interested. Introduce new toys and bring back old ones.
 Some Campbell's Russian hamsters can be housed in pairs if introduced to one another at a young age. For two hamsters, provide two water bottles, enough food for both hamsters, two nesting boxes, and enough toys to prevent territorial disputes.
 A plastic storage bin would work as well.


If you would like, you can let your hamster explore a room. Remove all dangerous items (such as electrical cords) and block escape paths (vents, airways, spaces under the doors).
Make sure there are no cracks or holes in the walls.
Keep toys and food in their play areas.
 They should not be bought from pet stores as you will almost always end up with a hybrid, not a Campbell's Russian hamster. Responsible breeders can provide you with a specific color or coat-type, if desired.


Avoid buying hamsters online.
If you are purchasing them from a pet store, go in the afternoon or early evening when they are most active.
Confirm with the seller that the hamsters are separated by gender. Responsible sellers will do this to ensure that female hamsters are not pregnant at purchase.
Ask your seller about the age, size, gender, and the temperaments of the hamsters. Aim for a hamster who is 4-6 weeks old (less than 3 in. long).
Healthy hamsters have a round shape and are alert and active. Dry fur, clear ears, and erect ears are other indicators of health. Be wary if any hamster has wet fur around its rump -- this indicates a disease called "wet tail," which can be spread to others in a living space.
If possible, place your hand inside the tank to test the hamster's temperament. Avoid buying hamsters that bite aggressively.
Bring your hamster home as quickly as possible to minimize stress and confusion.
 Allow it to adjust and explore its new surroundings. Cover the aquarium with a light cloth, if desired. Provide the hamster with enough food and water for this period of time.



Remove old food and spoiled bedding.
Change the water, put in fresh food, and change out some toys.
Acclimate your hamster to your physical presence. Begin "taming sessions" during the evening, when the hamster is most awake. Place your hand in the habitat and allow your pet to investigate. Be patient if it bites the first few times. Once your pet is comfortable with your hand in the habitat, invite your hamster to take treats out of your hand. Slowly encourage your hamster to sit on your hand, then try slowly lifting your hand up. Each step of the taming process may take a few days or a week. Let your hamster run away and explore. Never chase it around the tank. Leave it alone if it rolls on its back and bares its teeth.
 Introduce it to the storage bin, the hamster playpen, and/or the safe room. Always supervise your hamster in any of these play areas to prevent escape or injuries.
 Avoid cleaning the hamster cage every week. This can cause stress for your hamster. Move your hamster to a safe play area first. Soak toys in warm, soapy water. Clean the habitat with warm water and soap as well. When dry, place fresh bedding, food, water, and toys into the habitat for your pet to enjoy. Return your hamster back to the habitat.
