 Being well rested will help with willpower, which is important for mentally overcoming the hard physical conditioning you will be engaging in.
 Training fasted is great for fat loss, but has some rather major drawbacks - not all people suffer from all of them, or to the same degree. Training after a meal will eliminate most of those drawbacks, but may slow or stop some fitness goals.

Here are some drawbacks to training fasted:

Decreased energy, leading to "gassing out" quickly.
Muscle loss due to low glycogen levels prompting your body to break down muscle for energy.
Trouble concentrating due to dizziness.


Drawbacks to training after eating:

Reduced fat loss.
Possibility of puking due to over-exertion or a knee to the stomach.
Some foods, or too much food, may cause lethargy.


Benefits to training fasted:

Increased fat loss.
An increase in your body's energy efficiency.


Benefits to training after eating:

Increased energy levels - assuming the "right" type of meal is eaten beforehand.
Prevention of muscle loss.
 Take Citrulline Malate, Beta Alanine and some Leucine an hour before going to train, and also put some in your water for while you train. This will help keep your energy levels up and prevent fatiguing.

Consume some protein immediately after you finish training to preserve and build muscle.


Eat something that doesn't put you to sleep. This tends to be different for each person. Some people find fatty meats to be energizing and others find them to induce food coma. You'll have to experiment if you don't already know what kinds of food get your body going.
 The basic idea is to make sure that you have comfortable, light shoes and coverings for your knees, arms and shoulders. Men should have a protective cup and women should take precautions so that they can jump around without discomfort., In Krav Maga, there is an assumption for training purposes that you are in a potentially lethal situation, and you need to get your head in the game. You won't have a good training session if you are daydreaming or otherwise not focused. It's ok if you're groggy, but try to follow along. If you find you'd rather be chatting with other classmates or staring at the ceiling, then you need to buckle down and focus on the matter at hand.