 Regardless of your understanding, your property deed dictates the actual legal boundaries of your property.


Deeds describe property using one of several different methods. It may refer to a plat in a subdivision or to a government survey. Property boundaries also may be described using metes and bounds, in which land is marked in each direction from a certain central point.Some property descriptions may require calculations based on an understanding of the surrounding property.Additionally, deeds may describe the property line as running with a natural barrier, such as a river or a cliff, or an artificial barrier such as a wall or a highway., Surveys can settle property description issues and legally delineate the boundaries of your property.


Before you build a fence, driveway, or other structure to mark the boundaries of your property, it's important to figure out exactly where your boundaries legally lie.Surveys also can determine if your property blocks your neighbor's access to the road or to another shared asset such as lake or beach access.Surveys also can determine the existence of underground cables, drains, or pipes used by water, gas, and other utility services., A written contract protects your property rights by ensuring that a use does not diminish your rights over time.


If your property line blocks your neighbor's access to a road or other common property, you may have to establish an easement or right-of-way.This should be done using a contract so your property rights aren't diminished as a result of continual use of a particular thoroughfare.
For example, suppose you have a house on a lake and there is a dock that both you and your neighbor share. However, the path to the dock runs solely through your property. A contractual agreement for your neighbor to use that path ensures that you don't lose control over that portion of your property.
Without an agreement, your neighbor can acquire what's known as a prescriptive easement by using your property the same way without any objection from you for a period as brief as five years.An easement can significantly devalue your propertyOnce that happens, you lose the right to sell your property without that easement attached. You also lose the right to block that path if you ever change your mind and decide you no longer want your neighbors traipsing through your lawn to get to the lake.The contract does not have to be overly complicated or use a lot of fancy legal terms. You can simply state that you give your neighbor the right to use the path through your property to get to the dock for a certain period of time.
Make sure your contract acknowledges that the path is on your private property and that you reserve the right to cut off or prohibit that usage.
 If you enter into agreements with neighbors or others regarding the use of your property, they should be recorded along with your deed.


Although the contract itself doesn't require any specific legal formalities, the signing of it might. In many states, for example, any contract involving the sale or use of real property must be signed in front of witnesses and notarized. Check the requirements in your state or county before you sign the contract.After the contract is signed, make copies for you and your neighbor, then take it to the county recorder's office and have it recorded. You'll have to pay a fee, generally under $50.It will then appear in the records for your property.
Be sure to also record any subsequent agreements that change or limit the initial contract.

