 Physical therapy may be hard for your dog, so you will need to help your dog through its therapy. Performing at-home physical therapy can help your dog feel better and get back to its normal activities. When your vet prescribes physical therapy, they will give you different at-home exercises to perform on your dog.


At-home physical therapy includes passive range-of-motion (PROM) exercises and massage therapy.
For PROM exercises, you are doing the exercises for your dog.;
, PROM exercises involve gently and slowly moving joints (ankle, knee, hips) through their natural ranges of motion. They can help reduce pain, improve blood flow, and increase flexibility.Your vet will recommend specific exercises according to which of your dog’s joints need physical therapy:


With your dog laying on the floor, place a pillow between your dog’s legs. The pillow will ensure your dog’s body is properly aligned before beginning the exercises.Repeat each exercise 5 to 10 times, two to three times a day (or, as your vet prescribed).Consider giving your dog a treat at the end of each physical therapy session as a reward for good behavior.
Do not move your dog's joints outside of their natural ranges of motion. For example, if you need to work on your dog's elbow, only flex and extend it, rather than trying to rotate it., Massage therapy may sound like nothing more than pampering. However, massage therapy can give your dog just what it needs to get through its physical therapy. It has many benefits, including pain reduction and improved blood flow.Many types of massage therapy are available to help your dog, such as direct pressure and petrissage (kneading or rolling).Depending on your dog’s overall physical therapy needs, your vet will recommend the ideal type of massage therapy for your dog.
Create a comfortable, quiet massage area in your home: play some soft music and place a few layers of blankets on the floor.Always use gentle movements when massaging your dog. If your dog is really stiff or has a lot of pain, you do not want to make the stiffness or pain worse by making forceful massage movements with your hands.

