 Visual learners are people who process information best when they can read about a topic or look at visual representations.


Visual learners often diagram, draw, visualize, and read about topics when they attempt to learn them. These help learners visualize the topic and apply it to different scenarios., One of the primary learning techniques that visual learners employ is active reading.When we read actively, we intellectually engage with the material that we read. This means that you are looking for key points to help you understand a topic and retaining them.
Highlight information as you read it so you can return to important points later on. Part of active reading is engaging and analyzing what you read, so consider having a separate piece of paper next to you as you read where you can write down questions that you have about the material. Return to these questions and see if your notes can answer them.
Not all reading material is created equally. If you want to learn your chosen topic by reading about it, identify good scholarly sources. Use the Internet or a library catalogue to search for books from reputable authors who are experts in that field.
 Even though visual learners tend to remember the things that they read and see, notes are a good way to remember this information later on.


Write in the margins of the book or take notes on a separate piece of paper.
To take good notes, write down key points, dates, places, people, and actions. Your notes should not be a copy of everything that is said; instead they should contain the most relevant information.
After you have reviewed your notes, make flashcards to study this information with.
 Visual learners tend to be able to make visual representations of what they are learning. This spatial awareness helps a visual learner connect key themes and points as they read.


Drawing word or mind maps that connect key points together helps visual learners retain information. A mind map is essentially a diagram that connects information and data around a central concept.These mental maps can be applied to a variety of topics. For example, if you are learning about a historical event it may be helpful to draw a timeline that incorporates important dates and events. This will help you to visually organize the information that you’ve learned.
 Because visual learners do best when information is presented visually, outside distractions can make it difficult to focus on studying or learning. Eliminate these distractions by attempting to learn your topic in a quiet area where you can study alone.


Some visual learners are able to work and learn with music in the background, but many must work in quiet. If you prefer quiet, consider using a white noise machine or earplugs to eliminate background noise.