 Before you even buy your first anime DVD or Volume of manga, do some research (if you haven't already) - the different Genres, the history, terminology, notable titles, etc. Doing research will make sure that 1) you know what you want to buy, and 2) nothing will surprise you. Wikipedia is a good start.;
, After you've identified what genre you are interested in, find a few series to start with and then research them - characters, plot (be careful about spoilers), author, etc. Make sure the title is something you like before you buy it. The easiest way to find a series you might be interested in is to simply Google or wiki search "(insert anime genre here) anime series" - at least some of the results you get should be anime series.
 This will serve as your first actual step into anime fandom. Once you've found a series to get, go out and buy the first volume or DVD. Do not go and buy every volume or DVD of a series until you know you like it - otherwise you just end up wasting $90-$100. It is a good idea to check YouTube first for the episode videos to see if you like it. Two of the easiest places to find Anime and Manga are Borders (for manga - $7.95-$9.95 a volume) and Suncoast Movies ($19.99-$26.99 each).
 If you like to try different types of anime without spending too much money on it, try visiting the library. They often carry some well-known manga that you can check out for free. If you're looking for more variety, renting anime online is also pretty inexpensive (usually costing about $5-$20 per month, depending on the service/plan).
 Now it is time to talk to your fellow fans. There are several anime communities out on the net, both general anime (Gaia online) and series specific. These sites are often free to join, requiring only an email, and often have a large amount of free media content (Gaia online has entire episodes of some anime series online) These sites also give you a chance to talk to fans of other series - and fans of yours. This is why joining a community is listed after buying into a series - it gives you something to build off of. When you get to the online community, you'll actually be able to contribute to discussions.
 Start using the online communities as a stepping stone to other series. General anime sites will often have discussions topics about a series in general the starts with an overview of the series.

