 Is it just a bedroom, or does it double as a playroom? How much space is there to work with, both in terms of floor space and wall space? How many windows are there? What are the dimensions of the closet and any furniture you plan to keep? Using a notepad, a tape measure, and a critical eye, all of these questions can be quickly answered to form a rock-solid starting point for redecoration. Good home decor starts with a clear sense of purpose and an eye on working within limits, rather than indulging every fantasy.;
, Now that the dimensions and the purpose of the room have been established, find ways to free up as much space as possible. Extra space opens up extra redecorating options. Even the simple emptiness of empty space its own reward, as empty, temporarily used space is easier to keep organized than cluttered, permanently occupied space.


Closet space can be maximized with hanging organizers and specially designed closet shelving to create more room in the main part of the bedroom. Anything currently boxed inside the closet can be moved to the garage or another storage area, freeing up the bedroom closet for clothes, sports equipment, and other regularly-used items.






As girls grow, their furniture may become impractically small. Anticipate what size of furniture will be useful over the next few years and take into account the extra space you will need.
Striking a parent-daughter deal to get rid of (or permanently store) old toys, clothing, and other items in exchange for redecoration can open up quite a lot of space. Consider staging a garage sale after decorating to move gently used items on to new homes and make a bit of money at the same time. A charity thrift store or clothing drive donation pile is a great way to empty out a chest of drawers or overstuffed closet. Round up everything that is broken or irreparably damaged and toss it for good. Anything you can't bear to part with but no longer use can be boxed up and stored elsewhere.
 With a notepad full of dimensions and a streamlined bedroom, the time to imagine and dream has come. Begin with general ideas about what the room will look like. It is useful to start a scrapbook with pictures and notes describing your ideas or hopes for the room. Your job is to settle on a theme and then decide how to make it work on a budget.


Themes can be very specific, or simple and general. Either way, don't limit your thinking to standard motifs alone. For every girl who wants a pink and lacy room or a fairy princess room, there is a girl who would rather do a rainbow room or a zoo room instead. Everyone involved in the redecoration should be encouraged to give input. The goal is to find a balance between a theme that the girl will enjoy, and a theme that the parents can live with in terms of time and money spent.






Not every theme has to be clear-cut or unified by subject. Consider using a two or three-tone approach utilizing favorite colors, or an approach that emphasizes handsome, useful furnishings rather than decorative objects. Go window shopping together at thrift stores and imagine how the various items you see might guide the theme or tone of the room. Keep short descriptions or photos of interesting items in your scrapbook for reference.
Think outside the box. There are an astonishing number of redecorating ideas in magazines like Martha Stewart Living and online at websites such as HGTV.com. Many of these ideas are quite clever and can be easily customized to fit any theme:

Instead of putting a poster on a blank wall, why not put a cluster of smaller pictures and mirrors in cheap, ornate frames? The frames can be quickly repainted to match the theme of the room.
New pillowcases and other cloth elements can be chosen in specific patterns to gently contrast with the walls and ceiling, making both elements pop a bit more.
Hidden organizers, such as under-the-bed storage and door-hanging pockets, create a quieter, more open environment, while bright and obvious options like a painted cubby shelf or multicolored chest of drawers create a bright and kinetic space.



