 Try to start the conversation in a positive way. You can talk about shared interests, or your life outside of work. Be friendly, and avoid seeming frustrated.Asking them about their life shows you’re interested in them as a person. You can say something like, “How was your weekend? Did you get to spend some time with your family?”
You can let them know how you’re doing. This can also be a way to introduce the idea that you’re having a hard time focusing. You can say, “I finally got some rest this weekend. I’m hoping that will help me have more energy and focus this week.”;
, Before you assume that they’re the one causing all the problems for you, find out how things have been for them. You may learn that they’re having a hard time focusing, or have been frustrated by something you’re doing.Really listen to your colleague’s answer and consider what you can do to help make their working environment better. For example, they may be making a lot of noise to block out the sound from another department. In that case, the two of you could approach that department together.
It’s possible they haven’t had any difficulties in the workplace. They may just not realize that their noise is disturbing.
 Avoid sounding like you’re complaining. Focus on the ways that their noise is preventing you from being productive in the workplace. Make sure they know that this isn’t just about your personal preference, it’s about your ability to do your job. You can say something like, “I can tell that listening to music doesn’t bother you while you’re working, but I have a hard time focusing when there’s music on. And I hear your music very loudly at my desk.”
Be honest without expressing judgement. For example, instead of saying, “You shouldn’t be taking loud personal calls while you’re on the clock,” you could say, “I’ve overheard a lot of the personal calls you’ve made lately. I don’t want to feel like I’m eavesdropping, but it’s actually hard for me to tune it out, because of your volume.”

, You don't want to make your coworker feel awkward or embarrassed, since you have to see them everyday. Make sure they know that it's not personal. Point out ways that external factors contribute to your difficulty with the noise.


You can blame the situation on your own difficulty focusing, on the office acoustics or cramped quarters, or anything else in order to avoid blaming the person or making them feel as if you think they are inconsiderate.
You can say something like, "I know it's not your fault. The walls here are ridiculously thin. But that ends up meaning I can hear everything you're doing in your office."

, A signal is a great tool for keeping the dialog around noise open. This way, you’re not telling your colleague that they must be absolutely silent at all times. Instead, you’re creating a way that they can learn to gauge when they’ve gotten too loud.If your work setup is such that you can see each other, you can use a hand signal, such as thumbs down, waving, or pointing to your ears.
If you can’t see each other, but have phones or computers handy, you can send a text or message simply saying, “volume” or “shhh.” Be sure to agree on the text of the message ahead of time, so your brief messages don’t come off as rude.
 This helps them know that the conversation wasn’t personal. Let them know you appreciate them helping to create a healthy and happy working environment for you. Offer to help in the future if they have any issues with the workplace themselves.You can say something like, “Thanks so much for being flexible. I really appreciate being able to work alongside someone as considerate as you."
Let them know that you can also be flexible. Say, “And of course, if there’s anything I can do to make a better workplace for you, I hope you’ll let me know.”

