 This BLT variation is great for early birds looking for a satisfying sandwich on the way to work. To begin, start cooking your bacon as normal, but, when you're finished, save some of the grease, which will be used for frying an egg.


If you don't like the idea of frying an egg in bacon grease, you may dispose of the grease and instead use another form of fat to fry your egg, like butter, oil, or margarine.
 While you're waiting for your bacon to finish cooking, you'll probably want to make the most of your time by doing most of the work to assemble your sandwich. Lay down a piece of bread, add any spreads you desire, and add tomato, lettuce, and bacon (when it finishes cooking). As above, you'll build on this basic BLT template to create your new sandwich.
 When you've transferred all of your bacon out of the frying pan, drained it, and added it to your sandwich, crack an egg over your frying pan. Wait for your egg to cook to your desired level of hardness, monitoring as it cooks to ensure it doesn't overcook or burn.


See How to Fry an Egg for specific egg-frying techniques. Essentially, you'll want to fry your egg in the pan for several minutes until its edges are white, then drop a spoonful of water in the pan next to the egg and cover both the egg and the water with a lid. This steams the upper side of the egg, ensuring it cooks. After this point, cook to your desired level of hardness, checking under the lid several times to observe your progress. Transfer the egg out of the pan when it's done — you shouldn't ever need to flip it.
 When your egg is finished cooking, gently place it on top of your sandwich. Then, add a few slices of your favorite cheese on top of the egg. Almost any type of cheese pairs well with these ingredients, though standard omelet cheeses like cheddar, jack, and Swiss are all safe bets.
 Congratulations! Your Breakfast Special BLT is ready to eat. The fried egg and cheese make this hearty, satisfying meal that tastes something like an entire American breakfast in one sandwich.


If you're eating on the go, bring a napkin — the egg yolk can be quite runny, depending on how you've cooked it.

