 People with eating disorder may come from families where eating disorders are common or where other types of mental illness are prevalent. Think about whether or not other family members have dealt with eating disorders or other mental health issues.For example, if he has a parent or sibling who had an eating disorder, then he is at a higher risk of developing one himself. Likewise, having a parent or sibling who suffered from depression or an anxiety disorder may also put him at a higher risk of developing an eating disorder.
 People who have eating disorders often have other mental health issues that put them at a higher risk of developing an eating disorder. Consider whether this man has dealt with any mental health issues himself.For example, a man who has an anxiety disorder or depression may be more likely to develop and eating disorder.
High stress levels can increase a man’s risk of developing an eating disorder as well. Pay attention to stressors such as a difficult job, financial troubles, and relationship issues.
A history of abuse or alcoholism can also increase the risk of developing an eating disorder in some men, so consider these factors as well., Professional athletes have a higher incidence of eating disorders, especially those who participate in sports that require lots of jumping.For example, someone who is a pole vaulter may be more likely to develop an eating disorder. Ballet dancers, models, and actors are also more prone to eating disorders because of the pressure to stay thin for the job.If he is involved in a sport, then consider whether this may be putting pressure on him and increasing his desire to be thin.
 Anyone can develop an eating disorder whether they are gay or straight, male or female. Among men with eating disorders, about half are gay and half are straight.However, there is some evidence that gay men may be at a higher risk of developing an eating disorder due to peer pressure and media influence.Do not use sexual orientation as evidence that a man may have an eating disorder, but recognize that there may be a higher risk for a man to develop an eating disorder if he is gay.

