 Twists are a great way to detoxify your body and kick your immune system into high gear. Doing a seated twist will ensure you are well supported as you twist your spine and internal organs. Try to hold this seated twist pose for at least five to ten breaths to get the full benefits of the pose.Start by sitting with your legs long in front of you on the mat. Bend your right need and place your right foot on the outside of your left knee. Keep your left leg long, with your toes flexed, or curl it under you with your left ankle underneath your right thigh.
Wrap your left arm around your right leg and place your right hand on the ground behind you. Inhale as you slowly twist your spine towards the right. Use each inhale and exhale to twist a little further from the waist.
Repeat these steps on the left side.
 This pose is great for opening your chest area and for stimulating your thymus glands. Your thymus glands help your immune system to function properly, which will be a big benefit if you are trying to recover from an illness. This pose can be done with or without a bolster or a yoga block.Begin by lying down on your back with your knees bent and your feet flat on the mat, hip width apart. Let your arms rest by your sides. Make sure you can brush your heels with your hands.
Press your feet into the mat and inhale as you lift your hips up. Interlace your hands together and tuck your shoulders underneath your chest. Keep your chin away from your chest and gaze up at the ceiling. Keep your feet parallel and pressing into the mat.
Hold this pose for five to ten breaths. For more support, you can slide a bolster or a block underneath your lower back and let your lower back rest on the block or bolster.
 This is one of the most common yoga poses. It is great for draining your sinuses and getting your white blood cells moving. You can do several downward dogs throughout your yoga practice or try holding the downward dog for five to ten breaths at a time.Start on all fours. Then, inhale as you tuck your toes and lift your hips high towards the ceiling. Let your heels reach down toward the mat. Press into your knuckles, thumbs, and forefingers so your weight is equally distributed between your hands and your feet.
Hold this pose for five to ten breaths. Come out of the pose by going back down on all fours.
If your head feels very stuffed up or congested, you may only hold downward dog for a few breaths.
Avoid doing inversions besides downward dog if you feel stuffed up, such as headstand, handstand, or shoulder stand pose, as this could make your congestion worse.

