 One of the most basic details about your home’s history is the year that it was built. You can find out the what year your house was built by checking websites like Zillow and qPublic.Learning the year that your home was built will help you to determine how old it is and it may be helpful when trying to determine the styles and other details about your home.;
, Another basic detail of a house's construction and appearance is the architectural style. This information might also be available from sites like Zillow and qPublic.You can also use an online database of house styles to identify the style that most closely resembles your own home. This information can provide you with clues regarding your house's history, since different styles have been popular at different times.Many older homes have undergone substantial renovations and additions. Be certain to note these changes when you find them.
Consider the year that your home was built when you start looking into the architectural style of your home. Some style were more popular during certain time periods, so knowing the year your home was built may help you to hone in on your home’s architectural style.
You should also try to identify the builder and architect of the home, if possible.
 Finding out about the people who owned your home from the time it was built to before you purchased it can also offer valuable insight. Your home might have been owned by a prominent member of your community, which can add historical value to your home. This information might also be available from sites like Zillow and qPublic.Try searching for information about the previous owners as well, especially for owners of older homes.
Try looking in old census records, newspapers, and city/county hall records to find this information.
 If you cannot find the basic details about your home using internet resources, then you can make a trip to your county courthouse for this information. Over the course of your home's history, many documents will have been filed with your local government. These documents contain information regarding your home's construction, renovation, and occupants. While each state catalogs and stores these documents differently, the county courthouse is the best place to start looking for them. Here are a few useful documents to ask about:Tax records, which contain information on property taxes for the property. A sudden increase in property tax in a particular year often indicates the year in which the home was built.
Property abstracts, containing information about the selling prices and purchase dates of your home as it has transitioned between owners.
Building permits, which contain information regarding the original construction of the home.
 When you've located documents pertaining to your home, neatly organize them with any pictures and notes that you have. This will aid in your analysis of the home's history. It will also make it easier to take your information to a professional or post it online so that you can get help.