 You will need to be at least 13 years old to create a Facebook account. Facebook accounts are free, but you can purchase things for your Facebook account. You can only create one Facebook account per email address.;
, On the Facebook homepage, enter in your first name, last name, email address, password, birthday, and gender. You must use your real name for your account. Nicknames are allowed as long as they are a variation on your real name (Jim instead of James, for example).
 If all of your information is correct, you will be sent a verification email to the address you provided.
 It may take a few minutes for the email to get delivered. Click the link in the email to activate your account.
 The first thing you should do after creating an account is add a profile picture. This will allow others to quickly see who you are, making conversations between friends and family easier.
 Facebook is nothing if you don't have friends and family to share with. You can search for people by their name or email, import your contact lists, and invite friends that aren't currently using Facebook.


When you find someone that you want to add, you will need to send a friend invite. Once they accept your invitation, that person will be added to your Friends list.
 There are countless horror stories of people posting things that they don't want others to see, or losing a job because of something controversial they shared. Take some time to set up your privacy settings to prevent the wrong people from seeing what you post.
 You can post to your own timeline or post to your friends' timelines. You can also share content from elsewhere on the internet, including links, images, and videos.
 Facebook allows you to chat with anyone on your friends list. If the person you are chatting with is not online, they will receive your message the next time they log in. You can also download the Messenger app for your phone to chat on the go.
 Facebook allows you to upload your photos to post to your profile and share with friends and family. You can upload single photos or organize your photos into albums. Make sure to not upload anything containing questionable content.
 You can use Facebook to create events and invite people. You can set the date and time, enter a location, make posts for people that will be attending, and invite specific people. Facebook events are quickly becoming one of the main ways that people organize gatherings.

