 You should wear a helmet just when doing general riding. So it is especially important to wear one when attempting a trick like a wheelie, where you're more in danger of falling than usual. And you'll get the respect of your friends and fellow riders for showing that you're not reckless, and are taking bike riding seriously.;
, You might want to begin practicing on a level grass field in case of a fall. Test the flatness of the field by riding through it once before beginning. Otherwise, if you're confident enough, find a slightly uphill dirt or concrete path. , You'll be sitting down for the whole trick, and the lower you sit the better-positioned your center of gravity will be. But make sure you're able to sit firmly on the saddle without slipping off the back. Test this by lifting the front wheel at a standstill and leaning back on the seat. , If you start in too high or too low a gear, it will be difficult to pedal with enough force to lift the front wheel. Adjust the gears higher or lower as you find the right speed for your ability and the terrain. , This allows you to put as much drive as possible into your initial pedaling. You'll want to initiate the first thrust from 11 o'clock with your strongest leg, which should be the leg you usually begin pedaling with from a standstill. , Bend your arms and move your upper body over the front of the bike in a crouch position, but stay sitting.This will help you to "load the spring"--you're positioning your body toward the front at first in order to create more force for the sharp backward movement that will follow. , This should be done with a sharp movement, giving a strong pedal stroke at the same time. Let your arms straighten without pulling the handlebars back (the front wheel should pop up without your needing to pull back).


Continue pedaling at a consistent rate. If you stop pedaling, the front wheel tends to fall back down.
Keep your fingers on the rear brake--this is your safety in case you feel yourself losing balance and tilting too far backward. , Feather the rear brake (to lower the front wheel) or pedal (to lift the front wheel) to adjust the vertical balance. To help balance sideways, flare your knees or arms out, or turn the handlebars in the direction opposite to the side the bike is leaning to. , Lean slightly forward and let the front wheel land softly back down. Be careful not to lean too far forward, just try to shift your weight back to center.