 Dreadlock removal is a very time-consuming process. You should plan on it taking a few days if you are going it alone. The more friends you have helping, the faster it will go.


Many people recommend taking a long weekend, or even a few days off work to complete the process.If you cannot remove your dreadlocks in a single block of time, consider working on just one section at a time, and either braiding the loose hair, or disguising it in a ponytail. You can also cover your work-in-progress hair in a head wrap or scarf.
 There are a number of commercial products that are designed for dreadlock removal, but you can easily assemble a do-it-yourself kit at a local drugstore or salon supply store.


A strong comb for each person who will be helping. A metal rat tail comb works best. If you end up using plastic combs, have extras on hand for when they break.
Deep-cleaning shampoo. If you have ever used any kind of wax on your dreadlocks, you will need one formulated for wax-removal. Many people swear by baby shampoo as a great residue-remover.
2-4 bottles of conditioner to lubricate the hair and make it easier to untangle. Any conditioner will work, but a specialized detangler, knot removal or "slippery" conditioner will be more efficient. Some people also swear by children's detangler sprays, or even coconut or olive oil.A spray bottle filled with water.
 If you have not had your dreadlocks for a long time (less than 2 years) you may skip this step, but most people find it helpful to trim at least the bottom 1/2" from each dreadlock before they begin. The more you cut off, the less combing you have to do!

, It is important that your dreadlocks be saturated with water while you comb them out. Soak your dreadlocks for 10 minutes in the warmest water you can tolerate.
 Thoroughly shampoo your dreadlocks with a deep-cleaning or wax-removal shampoo. Rinse them until there are no more suds in the rinse water. This could take 20 or 30 minutes.
 Begin at the top of each dreadlock, and work your way to the bottom, using both hand to massage conditioner into the dreads. Add a little extra conditioner to the ends.
 Choose a lock to start on. Begin 1/2" from the bottom of the lock, and use the tail of your comb to begin picking it apart. Pick some hair loose and then use your fingers and the comb to detangle the strand, and finally comb it out smooth. Once this is done, go up another 1/2" and repeat the process until you get to your scalp.


If you have helpers, have them work on the strands in the back, while you work on the strands up front.
A rat tail comb is not the only tool you can use. Some people like to use a regular comb, or even sewing and knitting needles to pick the knots out. Use whatever you have on hand that gets the job done.
This process takes a lot of time and patience, so plan some entertainment in the form of music and movies to keep yourself distracted.
Your arms, shoulders and scalp are likely to get very sore in this process. Use an over-the-counter pain reliever as directed to manage the discomfort.
 Have a spray bottle full of water on hand and make sure the dreadlock you are working on stays wet as you untangle it. You can also add conditioner as needed, either by massaging it in with your hands, or using a spray conditioner as you work.
 As you detangle and comb your dreadlocks, a lot of hair will pull free, but don't panic! Most of this is hair that you shed naturally a long time ago, not new hair loss.
 You will probably need a trim to even out the ends, but wait a few days for the hair to settle down before getting this done.

