 If you have a utility knife, x-acto knife, or pair of scissors available, you should be able to sharpen your pencil with little effort. Simply scrape the edges of your pencil along the sharp edge of any of these tools.









If you use scissors, open them as wide as they'll go. Hold the blade (whether it's the scissors blade or knife blade) firmly in your non-dominant hand, and the pencil in your dominant hand.
The pencil should be at about a 45 degree angle. Pull the pencil down towards you, scraping the wood and graphite against the sharp edge at that 45 degree angle. Rotate the pencil and repeat this motion until you get a good enough point.
DO NOT draw the blade towards you. Instead, hold it steady and move the pencil along it.DO NOT bring a knife or x-acto blade to school with the intention of having it on hand for this purpose. We only suggest using these sorts of blades in the instances when they are readily available and permitted by school policy (perhaps in art class or shop class).
 You most likely aren't allowed to keep a blade or x-acto knife at school, and you may not have scissors. If so, look through the supplies you have for unexpected sharp edges.









For example, the edge of your ruler may be sharp enough to help you out, particularly if you have a metal ruler (even some plastic rulers may work—it doesn't hurt to try).
Hold the ruler firmly in your non-dominant hand and scrape the pencil down along the edge carefully and slowly. Rotate the pencil every couple of strokes, and you should be able to sharpen it up a bit.
 Most rulers have holes so that they can be placed in three-ring binders. If yours does, you may be able to use this hole to push back the wood on your pencil to reveal the graphite below.









Once you've either pushed back the wood (or you may even be able to shave some of it away), you can try to sharpen up the tip by scraping it along the rough edge of the hole or use some of our later advice on how to sharpen just the graphite tip.
 Most metal keys have fairly sharp edges, and they likewise have holes for placing them on key rings. In a pinch, you may be able to repurpose your key as a make-shift pencil sharpener.









If your tip has broken off completely and you can't see any graphite, then start by using the keyhole to push back the wood.
Once you've revealed the graphite, you can gently scrape it along the sharper edge of your key until you are able to write with it again.
Your final result may not be pretty, but it should be sufficient to get you through the rest of your writing or drawing task.
 So you don't have a nail file, scissors, a ruler, or a key! What should you do? Look around your chair and desk to see if you can spot a Philip's head screw (you'll see a cross on the top of the screw instead of a single line).









If you can reach the screw easily, leave it in place and place your pencil tip in the top of the screw. Rotate your pencil clockwise. This should grind down the wood and reveal more graphite.
If you are able to find a loose screw, you can then use the side of the screw to continue to sharpen the pencil. We don't, however, recommend that you try to remove any screws: you don't want to risk collapsing your desk or chair!

, If you keep nail clippers in your pocket or desk, you should be able to use them to help you out of this jamb. We talked above about how you may be able to use the attached nail file. Even if your clippers don't have a file, though, they can still be useful.









Simply make tiny clips all along the tip of your pencil to trim away the wood. This will work best if you hold the pencil horizontally with your non-dominant hand and hold the clippers perpendicularly with your dominant hand. This should line up the cutting edge of the clippers with the wooden tip of the pencil.
 If you're not adverse to using your nails and teeth as tools, you may be able to use them to push back (or carefully nibble away) some of the wood of your pencil. Once you've revealed enough of the graphite to begin working again, consider honing it to a tip using some of our other suggestions.


Be very careful not to swallow any of the wood shavings. You also want to avoid ingesting the graphite—not because it's toxic like old lead pencils were—but just because it's gross! You also don't want to discolor your teeth.

