 Also consider whether you will buy or steal the horse (stealing a horse will net a bounty if anybody or another horse sees you), and whether or not you will purchase armor (only available if you have the Horse Armor Pack DLC).


Old Nag: Has a speed of 23 and an attack of 5. Health is 250 with armor. Available at Chestnut Handy Stables by the Imperial City for free, but only if you have the Horse Armor Pack DLC. Also note that you cannot buy armor for a stolen horse.






Paint Horse: Has a speed of 23 and an attack of 10. Health is 300 without armor and 600 with armor. Available from Prior Maborel if you ask him for assistance during the Find the Heir quest at Weynon Priory near Chorrol, can also be bought. Price is 500 gold when bought from either Petrine at Wildeye Stables near Bruma or from Cat-Face at Five Riders Stables near Leyawiin.






Weynon Priory Horse: Has a speed of 23 and an attack of 10. Health is 200 without armor, no armor is available. It's Jauffre's horse, but you're welcome to ride it if you're a part of the Blades faction. Available at Cloud Ruler Temple.






Bay Horse: Has a speed of 26 and an attack of 10. Health is 250 without armor and 500 with armor. Can be bought for 1,000 gold from either Isabeau Bienne at Bay Roan Stables near Bravil or from Ugak gra-Mogakh at Grateful Pass Stables near Skingrad.






Chestnut Horse: Has a speed of 29 and an attack of 10. Health is 200 without armor and 400 with armor. Can be bought for 2,500 gold from Bongond at North Country Stables near Chorrol.






White Horse: Has a speed of 29 and an attack of 12. Heath is 400 without armor and 750 without armor. Can be bought for 4,000 gold from Clesa at Horse Whisperer Stables near Anvil.






Black Horse: Has a speed of 33 and an attack of 15. Heath is 325 without armor and 650 with armor. Can be bought for 5,000 gold from Torvas Selvani at Black Waterside Stables near Cheydinhal.






Shadowmere: Has a speed of 33 and an attack of 20. Heath is 500 without armor and 750 with armor; is essential and thusly does not die. Is a gift from Lucien Lachance after completion of the Dark Brotherhood quest The Purification. Found at Fort Farragut near Cherdinhal.






Unicorn: Has a speed of 29 and an attack of 45. Heath is 300 without armor, no armor is available. Resists normal weapons, disease, paralysis, and poison 100%. resists magic 50% and reflects damage 20%. Found at Harcane Grove in the Great Forest near the Inn of Ill Omen, this unicorn is killed to complete Hircine's quest. Be warned, it will become hostile to anyone with a weapon drawn, including the player, guards, and any followers excluding conjured creatures. Doesn't react to destruction magic being cast, so is viable for a mage.





;
,


No resources are necessary if you're going to steal a horse, though invisibility will be a big help (mounting a horse while invisible is unseen, so nobody will report the theft if you ride off with the horse).



If looking to get the paint horse from Prior Maborel, you need to talk to Jauffre at Weynon Priory to get to the appropriate quest stage.






If you want to use the Weynon Priory Horse, you need to finish the quest Weynon Priory in the main quest line. You must become a Blade to take this horse without stealing it.






To acquire Shadowmere, advance far enough in the Dark Brotherhood quest line.







