 Make beds with plants that like natural mulch near the trees in your yard that shed leaves. When there are leaves on the ground, run them over once with a mower. Then rake them right into the beds.For your bed, consider shrubs, garlic, roses, and tender perennials.;
, Several inches of leaf layer is natural and even an ecosystem. Wildlife like salamanders, turtles, chipmunks, and other species survive on such mini habitats.Leaf litter also provides an overwintering shelter for beneficial insects and earthworms. However, if thick piles of leaves are smothering your lawn, you may want to break them down, if not collect them.Consider collecting the leaves if they cover over a third of your yard and you can’t see the top of the grass blades.You may need to collect the leaves if you have a Home Owners Association that has specific requirements about autumn cleanup.
If you decide to collect them, don’t try to do a whole season of leaf pickup in a single day. Plan leaf cleanup for several days in the autumn season., You may want to separate pine shedding from deciduous leaves. Pine needles are acidic, and there are certain plants that like acidic soil – and others that don’t. Therefore it’s beneficial to separate the pine needles to use as their own separate mulch.Rake the needles as soon as you notice them on the ground, since they usually fall before leaves do.
Pack the pine needles in garbage bags and store them in a dry place. Use them when you need acidic mulch.
 Wet leaves will form a more stable pile, but they are also heavier to rake.Choose dry weather if you want to use a leaf vacuum, as wet leaves can clog the vacuum.Don’t rake wet leaves if you have allergies, as mold and mildew in wet leaves can upset your sinuses.
 You can choose to do this before or during leaf cleanup. Gather up the sticks in your yard and put them aside in a pile. Consider keeping the brush pile there as a shelter for birds, chipmunks and other wildlife. You can also set sticks aside for use as fire kindling.Use a wheelbarrow or yard waste bin if you want to move the stick pile somewhere else in your yard.

