 Although there’s some debate, most doctors agree that being barefoot is great for foot development. Shoes can look great and provide warmth for a non-walking child. However, once your kid is mobile, ditching the shoes is best. This allows your kid’s foot to develop naturally and build strength in growing tendons without relying on the support of shoes. It’s great to let your kid run around barefoot, but make sure to keep an eye on the terrain. Walking on the grass may be fine, but be on the lookout for sharp objects that could hurt your unsuspecting explorer.;
, Your child’s feet may get cold so socks are important, whether they’re sleeping or on the move. With your kid’s feet constantly growing, you’ll want to choose a sock that fits properly without being constricting.


When fitting socks, it’s a good idea to always make sure they’re at least ¼ inch longer than the big toe.
 Although barefoot is best, your kid will need shoes eventually. Many doctors say shoes aren’t necessary until your kid is walking outside. There are so many stylish options for kid’s shoes but comfort and health should be your top priority.


Avoid overly stiff shoes. You may think they’re more protective, but developing muscles in your child's feet need to grow and develop on their own. An overly sturdy shoe may also do the work that your child’s developing muscles should be doing, hindering their development. Choose comfort over fashion. It may be tempting to choose a pair of stylish shoes for your new walker, but always choose proper support and fit over good looks. For an early walker, shoes with leather bottoms may be best for traction’s sake, whereas those entering into a walking/running phase may want something a little more athletic.
 Kids feet are always growing — sometimes as much as much as a half size every two months. You may want to buy big shoes to anticipate that next growth spurt, but shoes that are too big greatly increase the chance of stumbles and falls.


Stay proactive to prevent overly tight shoes. You may think your kid will tell you if their shoes are too tight, or feet hurt, but this often isn’t the case. Check the fit regularly so you're ready to get them in the next size up when the time comes.
 Although tasks like bath time can be difficult, it is important to maintain good hygiene.


Bathe your kid’s feet at least 2-3 times a week. This can help prevent common fungal infections like athlete’s foot and also teach your child good habits with which to grow. Dry them well to prevent any trapped moisture.
 This helps prevent in-grown toenails. , Once your kid is mobile, you can help reduce development problems by showing them to walk right. Teach them to walk with their feet and toes straight to help avoid issues. , Just like any other part of your kid’s body, proper foot development requires proper diet and nutrition. Calcium, Vitamin D, readily available in dairy foods, and good overall nutrition can go a long way to reducing the likelihood of development problems. A healthy diet, proper nutrition and exercise can help to ensure feet stay healthy.

