 Many attorneys and established management companies make music management agreements available online for free. You can study these contracts to get an understanding of the standard form.Some of these contracts also include commentary on how particular clauses can be negotiated to favor the band more, or to be more favorable to the manager. These negotiation tips can come in handy no matter which side of the negotiating table you're on.
Management contracts contain many clauses known as "boilerplate" – standard provisions that are required to create a legally binding document, but that don't typically favor one party to the agreement over the other.
In most cases you can copy boilerplate provisions straight from a sample contract. However, be careful when copying clauses from someone else's contract verbatim – make sure you understand what the clause is saying and that it actually applies to the contract you're drafting.
When someone else hands you a contract to sign, you also need to read and make sure you understand every clause, regardless of whether the other party says it's "just boilerplate." Sometimes the other party will claim something is just boilerplate because they want to discourage you from reading it carefully or looking into it further.;
, Your contract should begin by naming the band and its members along with the name of the individual who will serve as the band's manager. Create basic titles such as "Band" or "Artist" and "Manager" to refer to the parties throughout the rest of the contract.The first paragraph of your contract, in which the parties are named, also typically states the date when the contract relationship will begin. This isn't always the date you both sign the contract – you may want to plan your contract to begin on a specific date.
This same paragraph also typically gives a title and basic description of the subject matter of the contract. In this case, you're writing a management contract.
You may want to limit it by calling it a "music management contract," but if the manager's duties potentially will extend beyond the music industry into other band activities such as books, movies, or commercial appearances, you can call it an "entertainment management contract."

, One of the most important aspects of any agreement is the period of time it will remain in effect. This portion of the agreement also may provide information on how the agreement can be renewed.Management contracts typically last between two and five years. One year is considered extremely short, while seven years would be the longest. Service contracts lasting that long may not be enforceable in some states.
You may choose to have the contract term defined as a number of years, or you may want to define it as a specific number of albums. This type of term measurement is more common if the band already has a record deal.
If you define the contract term as lasting through a number of albums rather than a number of years, you still must include a maximum term of years as an alternative measure, because contracts cannot have an indefinite term and the amount of time it will take for the band to record several full-length albums is not a defined period of time.
If no maximum term is specified, or if the contract term is longer than the maximum term recognized by your state's law for service contracts, the courts will substitute the maximum term recognized under state law as the term of the agreement.
 The first part of a contract typically includes "recitals" also known as "whereas" clauses because they traditionally begin with the word "whereas." These clauses explain why the two parties are creating a contract.Typically you can copy these provisions from any sample agreement you're using, but make sure you understand the words you are copying and that they accurately reflect the agreement between the parties.
The "whereas" clauses essentially state that the band wants to hire the manager to represent the group and serve as the group's exclusive manager and advisor in the music industry.
Typically managers represent bands throughout the world, not just in a single country. In the event you have a local manager representing the band in another region, the "whereas" clauses should spell out precisely where the manager will operate.
A separate "whereas" clause should state that the manager is interested in representing the band in that capacity and is willing to accept the agreement.
 The heart of a contract between a band and a manager is a list of the specific duties the manager carries out on behalf of the band, as well as the specific aspects of the band's career that the manager controls.Generally, the manager serves as the representative of the band in the group's music or entertainment career.
In this role, the manager has the responsibility to negotiate the terms of agreements on behalf of the band, including hiring tour support, arranging for promotions and advertising, and acquiring contracts and other deals to enhance the band's public exposure and reputation.
The manager's responsibilities may be broad, encompassing all aspects of the band's entertainment ventures, or they may be more narrowly defined to involve only the band's music endeavors.
When writing a contract between a band and a manager, take care to include details on whether the manager will represent only the band as a group, or also represent individual band members in their solo efforts.
The band's duties also should be included, binding the band to perform musically and complete any other activities to the best of its ability.
 While performing their duties, managers often must make decisions on the band's behalf. The contract between the band and the manager should dictate types of decisions the manager cannot make alone without first consulting and getting the band's agreement.Through a management contract, the manager is granted power of attorney. This means the manager can sign agreements on behalf of the band.
This power must be defined specifically to avoid abuse. To protect the band members, requiring written permission for the manager to act in non-routine situations may be preferred.
At the same time, the manager should have the freedom to sign routine agreements and perform relatively minor daily actions on behalf of the band. Without this freedom, the manager has little power and his or her role is significantly encumbered.
However, at a minimum band approval should be required any time agents, booking agents, or other employees are hired and fired.
 Managers typically earn a percentage of the band's gross income, although this amount may be limited to income from music or other projects in which the manager plays a role.Typically managers are paid 15 to 20 percent of the band's gross income. The definition of gross income is a hotly contested subject of negotiation.
Managers want all income to be included, while artists typically want to limit the income included in "gross income" to some extent.
At a minimum, money paid to the band that the band spends on production or recording should not be included in gross income for the purposes of calculating the manager's rate of pay.
For example, if the band gets a $200,000 advance on a record album from a record label, and spends $80,000 of that advance recording the album, the manager's rate should be calculated as a percentage of $120,000, not a percentage of the full advance.
 From time to time, you can expect the manager to spend money on the band's behalf. Usually these expenses relate to travel and accommodations. The manager typically is entitled to reimbursement of these expenses above and beyond the standard rate of pay.Expenses are related to cash flow. If the money is flowing to the manager, who is deducting his or her percentage and expenses, the band generally doesn't have to worry about accounting for the manager's expenses.
However, careful accounting and auditing requirements should be put in places if the money is going through the manager first, to protect the band and ensure the manager isn't taking more money than he or she is due.
If the money goes directly to the band (or the band's accountant), and the manager is paid, the manager should provide an accounting of expenses incurred as a direct result of managerial duties.
The contract also may include a provision that the manager must get permission from the band before incurring expenses above a certain amount.
 When the manager gets paid may depend on when the band receives royalty checks, or the contract may provide for a different schedule of payment, such as monthly.Typically the manager is paid monthly, after an accounting of the band's income.
The contract should include the number of times the manager will be paid each year, with dates. You also should include a provision for when a payment is considered late, with written notifications and demands for payment before it is considered a breach of contract.
 Management contracts typically have what is known as a "sunset" period, which allows the manager to continue to receive a smaller commission on the band's earnings for a short period of time after the agreement term has expired.The sunset provision provides recognition of the manager's efforts to promote and advance the band's career while the contract was in effect.
Essentially, the manager gets a smaller percentage of the band's gross income for a few years after the contract ends because without the manager the band wouldn't have been in the same position.
The percentage typically is higher in the first year after the contract ends, and decreases with each passing year. The decreasing percentage allows the band to transition in a new manager at a gradually increasing percentage.
 Include information related to the state law that governs the interpretation of the contract and the courts or other bodies empowered to hear and decide any dispute under the contract.Typically, you'll choose the state where the manager's office is located, but in some cases you may want to use a different state.
This is an area where an attorney can help you decide which state's law would be best to govern the contract.
Some management agreements may provide for binding arbitration rather than a lawsuit to resolve disputes under the contract.
Most management contracts also include a provision that the performances under the contract are unique. This clause is necessary to trigger specific performance rather than monetary damages if one party sues the other for breach.
With specific performance, the court or arbitrator can order the party in breach to perform its duties under the contract.
 Because of the particular services offered, a management contract typically will include a clause stating that neither party may assign its duties under the contract to any other party without permission.Without this sort of clause, one party could assign the contract to another. In a management contract, an assignment would produce an unwanted result.
The band is contracting with this particular individual for management services. Similarly, the manager wants to represent this particular band.
Your assignment clause may include information to allow the assignment of the contract if the band incorporates. In that situation, the contract would be assigned to the band's corporation.
 A management contract typically includes an escape clause, through which either party may get out of the contract with written notice when specific damaging events occur.In some situations, it is appropriate to allow the parties to end the contract early. This typically is a boilerplate provision, although the parties may negotiate to include or exclude some situations.
Typical situations in which one party is permitted to terminate the contract early include when one party files for bankruptcy, is convicted of a serious crime, or becomes ill and physically incapacitated for an extended period of time, usually three to four months.
 All contracts include this sort of "boilerplate" provision, which essentially states that both parties have the right to enter into the agreement and that it doesn't conflict with any other agreement either party has already made with anyone else.Keep in mind that just because a provision is called "boilerplate" doesn't mean it's not important.
These clauses are essential to the legal enforceability of the contract, but typically aren't considered topics of negotiation because they protect both parties equally.

