 Obesity is associated with an increased risk of heart problems. Obesity also causes hypertension and diabetes, which are risk factors for atherosclerosis and ischemic heart disease.Therefore, if you are obese, especially if your BMI is >35, you should take a healthy approach to losing weight, including appropriate changes to your diet and lifestyle.
If you are already at a healthy weight, you should make sure that you maintain this weight.To calculate your BMI, see this article.
 Several clinical trials have proved that regular exercise prevents atherosclerosis, therefore preventing ischemia and heart attacks. The general population and people at risk of developing heart attack should engage in:


2 hours and 30 minutes per week of moderate-intensity physical activity (for example, a brisk walk for half an hour daily for 5 days a week), or
1 hour and 15 minutes per week of vigorous-intensity aerobic physical activity (for example, running for at least 10 minutes daily throughout the week, or 15 minutes daily for 5 days a week), or
an equivalent combination of both.
 Although exercise should be made a lifelong habit, trials have shown that doing the kind of exercise described above for 3 months results in a significant decrease in the risk of developing heart attack.


However, it should be emphasized that this is the minimum recommended amount of exercise. Exercising more than this will further decrease the risk of developing heart conditions.
Aside from walking and running, you can also engage in activities such as stretching exercises (to increase blood flow), swimming, dancing, cycling and yoga.
 As oxygen is bound to hemoglobin in order to be carried in the blood, decreased levels of hemoglobin also result in a decreased level of oxygen in the blood.


Therefore anemia should be prevented by eating foods containing enough iron, vitamin B-12 and folic acid. Rich sources of iron are meat, leafy green vegetables (spinach, collards), beans and dried fruits.
Vitamin B-12 is found in fish, liver, crab, cheese and eggs, while folic acid is present in green leafy vegetables., Smoking is a very serious risk factor for heart disease. Smoking also damages the lungs and causes lung diseases like COPD (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease) and lung cancer. Therefore, if you are a smoker, you should discuss your plan for quitting with your doctor and set a “quit-smoking timeframe”.


Decide on a quit smoking day; it may be your birthday, the start of a new year, your wedding anniversary, or any other day that carries some importance in your life. Start gradually reducing the number of cigarettes that you daily smoke, and finally, on your quit-smoking day, announce to your family and friends that you have quit smoking, so that they can support you throughout the quitting process.
Your doctor may help you decide if you need any nicotine replacements, including nicotine patches and nicotine gums.
 Some medical conditions are risk factors for the development of heart diseases and should be treated according to the advice of your doctor.


These include, but not limited to, diabetes, hypertension, lipid disorders and kidney disorders.
Appropriate treatment of these conditions can prevent or delay the development of heart issues.

