 If you put the car in drive first, you will change the driving dynamics. This will make the Prius navigate better in packed snow.


There is no way to turn off the anti-skid feature in a Prius while driving. Instead, turn on the brake mode. To do this: Turn off traction control temporarily. In 60 seconds, set the ignition switch to on.
Put the transmission in park, and then press the gas pedal twice before applying the parking brake. Now push down on the brake pedal. Put the transmission into neutral by surpassing drive.
Press the gas pedal two times. Press the gas pedal two times with the transmission back in park. You will see a car warning flash on the LCD screen. Now press the brake pedal again. Turn the ignition switch to start. Start the engine. The warning symbol on the LCD screen will likely disappear.
 Make sure that you remove snow from the lights, the license plates, and the radiator, where it may accumulate.


It takes more energy for the car to move extra weight. One thing that it’s worth carrying though is a small bag of sand or cat litter, so that you can get out if you get stuck in the snow.
If you clean out the interior of the Prius, you will also improve its efficiency. The lighter the better.
The only extra weight you should carry is the emergency kit., Give yourself more space. Driving a Prius in snow and ice isn’t only about the car itself. It’s also about the driver.


In the winter, give yourself more space between the car in front of you. Basically you should double the space you would leave in the summer.
For every 10 miles per hour (16 kph) you drive, you should give yourself four car lengths of space. So if you are driving 30 miles per hour, leave 12 car lengths between your Prius and the car ahead of you.
Be very observant so you can navigate slippery curves and spot stop signs and stoplights. If your brakes start to lock up, don’t slam on your brakes. Instead ease your foot off the accelerator and allow the car to slow down by itself. Don’t drive too fast for conditions! Don’t drive at your normal speed.
 Use your seat belt at all times. If you become stuck, stay with your vehicle so people can find you and you have shelter. Don’t walk in a severe storm.


Use small, slow motions and go easy on the brakes. Apply steady and gentle pressure on the gas. Slow down. Drive defensively. Make sure the battery is good. Warm up your engine to improve efficiency. All of these tips can help the Prius navigate ice and snow more safely.
Make sure that you have enough anti-freeze and windshield wiper fluid. You have to come prepared when it’s winter.

