 Local birds love native plants because they provide a great food source. Habitat loss is one of the leading causes of population declines among birds, and as a result, it is very important to grow native plant species. Select a variety of native plants that will offer birds year round food in the form of berries, nuts, and nectar. The best way to create a plentiful garden year round, is to mimic the plant ecosystem native to the area. Plants will also give birds shelter from potential predators, and natural nesting sites. Here are a few plant suggestions:Black-eyed Susans and Sunflowers: Are an excellent source of food for some birds because their seeds and flowers are edible.
Ferns, thistles, and sumacs: Are great for producing materials that birds use while constructing nests.
Crabapples, Dogwoods, and Serviceberries: Are a great source of food and provide birds with small edible fruits and berries.
Coniferous trees: Pines and Spruce trees, for example, provide birds with cover and protection from predator species as well as sap and seeds for eating. They also make great nesting sites for many birds.
Deciduous trees: Oak, Cherry, and Hickory trees, to name a few, provide birds with nesting sites as well as multiple food sources. For instance, these trees often produce edible nuts and are home to a variety of insects.
 Dead trees can provide birds with a source of shelter and food. For example, dead trees will often contain hollow areas and alcoves that birds can use for nesting or to seek shelter from the weather. Insects are also often found on dead trees and can provide birds with a great source of food., Brush piles can provide birds with an area to hunt, roost, and even nest. Begin by putting down a few large logs, then add some smaller branches and leaves. This is relatively easy and can be a great way to make use of garden clippings after you have pruned the trees, hedges, and shrubs in your garden.Brush piles also contain many insects and will provide ground feeders with an excellent food source. For instance, some bird species will never land on, or use, a bird feeder because they like to eat insects off the ground. Robins, Towhees, and Thrashers, for example, will use these piles as a food source., Invasive plants will compete with native plants for space, water, and sunlight. They can often out-compete the plants that are preferred by local bird and insect populations. As a result, you should minimize and remove the number of invasive species that are planted within your garden., Large areas of manicured lawn provides very little of substance for bird populations. If you want to attract birds to your garden, you should reduce the lawn area and ensure that the garden is filled with local plants, water sources, and feeders. Manicured grass is essentially wasted space and requires more maintenance in the form of mowing, watering, and fertilizing.