 One way to make someone mad is to belittle what she says or does by attributing it to her gender. This works best with females, since sexist comments are rude and offensive and easily make women angry.


Say, "A woman is too emotional to do that."
Try replying with, "That's just like a typical woman."
When a woman is upset, say, "Are you on your period?"
Tell a woman, "That's not very ladylike.";
, People don't like to hear about how well you eat, how much you work out, or how much weight you've lost. To make people mad, talk about these things at dinner. Make sure people are eating unhealthy foods to make your words have more impact.


While everyone is eating burgers and fries, eat a salad or grilled chicken. Then talk about how you never eat fried foods and red meat. Talk about how many calories are in a serving of fries. Tell everyone you never eat that kind of stuff and your waistline is showing it., When someone is nice to you, don't be nice back. Instead, respond with a mean comment. Tell them to leave you alone, or to go away. Shoot down every nice word or action with a rude, mean response.


When someone smiles and says hello in the morning, glare in response. Don't say anything to them.
If someone asks if you want a doughnut he brought for the office, say, "No. Don't ask me again." Or say, "Only idiots like doughnuts.", People are very sensitive about their children and pets. A surefire way to offend someone is to say something rude about them. You don't even have to come out and say they are ugly; try backhanded compliments or rude questions.


Ask someone what gender their baby is. Or if you know the gender, talk about the child as if it's the other gender.
Tell a pet owner that animals don't matter because they're just animals. Or claim they don't have feelings.
 In the middle of someone's conversation, just jump in without regard to the person talking. Start adding your own opinion about the topic, or go completely off topic with a random question or unrelated topic.
 One way to annoy and anger someone is to ask a lot of stupid questions. If they have just explained something, ask them a question that they obviously just answered. Ask them a question that has nothing to do with what they just asked.


Go around asking "Why?" repeatedly. Whenever someone tells you something, follow that with "Why?" Continue asking "why?" until the person is angry.
 Those three concepts are extremely personal to people. By insulting a person's race, religion, or sexuality, you are hitting on sensitive subjects.


Try saying something like, "You don't act black/Christian/gay." Boil them down to a stereotype.Ask people what gender, race, or religion they are when it's very obvious., When people are angry or upset, they usually don't want to hear that they are being over dramatic or things aren't as bad as they seem. Doing this takes away the validity of their feelings. When people are mad, point out that things aren't bad. Tell them they should feel lucky despite their feelings.


Tell someone, "It could be worse." That is likely to irritate them further.
Tell the person to smile. If you know the person well, push her cheek into a smile. If you don't know the person well, shoot them an obnoxiously wide fake smile and point to your smile.
Say, "You shouldn't care this much. It doesn't even affect you."
Tell the person to calm down., Whenever someone says something, reply with a sarcastic one-liner. This shows you aren't taking what the person said seriously, and it irritates the person because you are being a jerk.


Reply with "that's what you think!"Try saying "your mom" or "as if!"
Instead of replying sarcastically to others, start or end your sentences with sarcasm. Say, "Fun fact!" or "In fact" before each sentence. End the sentence with something strange, like "until the aliens come" or "in accordance with the prophesy."

, Sounds are a great way to annoy people and tick them off. Go around making random sounds as you walk through a store or while you work. Walk by someone and make a weird sound instead of speaking.


Make a beeping noise when someone backs up.
Yell randomness or random numbers while someone is counting.Croak like a frog. Walk by someone and meow.
Yell like Tarzan or talk like a baby.

