 While feature-length movies are typically beyond the time and budget constraints of most viral video producers, shorts offer a more attainable target. There are no rules here. You can go for a dramatic narrative, a simple comedy setup, or even take an experimental approach by stringing together images and textures without a traditional storyline — it's all up to your vision as director.



Examples: Five Second Films, SNL Digital shorts, etc.Viral Tip: Sometimes, the key to achieving viral success with a short film is to make it a really short film. For example, the "Five Second Films" YouTube channel, which makes humorous clips that run just five seconds in length, has millions of subscribers.
 These videos are a step above and beyond basic staring-into-the-webcam lipsync videos. Good music videos pair a memorable concept with a catchy song for potent results. Though it's by no means easy to plan, choreograph, and shoot an awesome music video, the results speak for themselves: as of 2014, seven of the eight most-viewed YouTube videos of all time are music videos.Examples: "Autotune the News" videos, "Here it Goes Again" by OKGO, etc.

Viral Tip: While you don't necessarily have to make a music video for your own original music to go viral, be prepared for difficulties if you make one for someone else's music — song copyright holders are quick to issue takedown notices for content they believe uses their material unfairly.
 People everywhere love seeing amazing feats of strength, intelligence, and creativity. Though you'll have to literally be the best in the world at something to break a world record, if you're willing to pick a very narrow category, it may not be that big of a stretch to break the record, so get creative!



Examples: "Guinness World Record: Most Shirts Worn at One Time," "Tightest Parallel Park Record Broken," etc.

Viral Tip: You don't necessarily have to break a record on your own — records like "Biggest Sock Hop," for instance, recognize community organizing rather than one person's individual skill.
 Viral videos don't necessarily have to be of real people and places. If you're skilled with animation software (like, for instance, Adobe Flash), you can put your skills to use by making cartoons, animated gags, music videos and more. Best of all, animation allows you to depict things that would be impossible to actually shoot with a camera, so you're free to be as creative as you like.



Examples: Potter Puppet Pals, Charlie the Unicorn, etc.

Viral Tip: Don't know how to animate? See our Adobe Flash articles to start learning about one of the most popular animation programs in use today.

