 Measure out 1 oz (30 ml) of orange juice. If you don’t have a way to measure exact amounts, you can use a shot glass and keep the right proportions for each liquid.If you have a shaker with no lid, that’s okay, too. You’ll just need to use a large glass inverted into the shaker to mix the drink.
If you don’t have a shaker at all, consider using an empty water bottle to shake up the drink. You can also simply pour the ingredients into a glass and stir them together, but shaken is the preferred method.;
, Measure out 4 oz (120 ml) of pineapple juice. If you aren’t measuring exact amounts, then make it 4x the amount of orange juice. Pineapple juice is one of sweeter parts of the cocktail, so for a less sweet taste, reduce the amount.
 Measure the same amount that you used for the orange juice. Cream of coconut is not the same thing as coconut milk or coconut cream, so make sure you use the right thing.


If you need a substitute, you can use coconut syrup or sweetened condensed milk with coconut extract.
 The Painkiller is trademarked by Pusser’s, so if you have to use another brand of rum, it won’t technically be a Painkiller, but if you use dark rum the taste should be similar. This recipe calls for 2 oz (60 ml), but for a stronger drink you can add more rum., This is not a mandatory step, as some recommend it and others don’t. Adding ice to the shaker will cool the ingredients while you shake rather than waiting until you pour them into the glass of ice.


If you are stirring in a glass rather than using a shaker, don’t add the ice until you have mixed the drink up thoroughly. If you are mixing in a water bottle, ice probably won’t fit anyway.
 If you are using a shaker with an inverted glass, make sure you hold them together tightly so no liquid leaks out. Shake for 5-10 seconds.


If you don’t have a shaker, stir the drink in fast circles for the same amount of time.
 It’s recommended to use a Collins, a hurricane, or a highball glass, but really any glass will work. You can fill the glass full or only put half a glass of ice.
 As you pour, strain out the ice that was in the shaker. It usually works best to pour quickly so you avoid spilling the drink down the side of the shaker.
 You can use a grater to sprinkle some fresh nutmeg or you can use powdered nutmeg from a bottle. This is just to add a taste, so don’t go overboard.To finish the drink off, you can garnish with a wedge of pineapple or lime. Add a cocktail umbrella to add a festive look to the drink.
 The original Painkiller drink was created at this bar on Jost Van Dyke Island, British Virgin Islands. It’s been served at this island bar for over 40 years. The island is said to not have a dock, so you’ll have to swim out to have your drink., Mix all of the liquid ingredients as you would for the normal drink, but pour them into a blender with a few cups of ice. Blend for just long enough to crush all of the ice small enough to drink. Be sure to drink it slowly so you don’t get a brain freeze!

, If you are hosting a party with young ones present, this drink will be just as satisfying for them without the rum as it is for you! Mix up the orange juice, pineapple juice, and cream of coconut and pour them over ice.