 If you suspect your cat has mothball poisoning, don’t delay in getting it treatment. You should take your cat to the vet immediately., If you have the original packaging of the mothballs, take it with you to the vet. This can tell your vet if they are made out of naphthalene or paradichlorobenzene. While both types can harm your cat, they are treated differently. The packaging can help your vet decide which course of action to take.If you no longer have the packaging, take one of the mothballs with you instead. The vet can identify them by seeing if they float in salt water. Naphthalene balls will sink while paradichlorobenzene will float., Your vet might recommend an x-ray for your cat. This allows them to make sure there are no other mothballs anywhere else in your cat’s system., This allows your vet to check for any damage caused by the mothballs. This can include anemia, or liver or kidney damage. To fully cure your cat of mothball poisoning, your vet needs to know what other issues have been caused by it., In very serious cases, your cat might need a blood transfusion. This will more completely flush out the toxins in your cat’s system. Your vet will recommend this if they believe it’s necessary., If the mothballs have done damage to your cat’s kidneys, your vet might order a round of intravenous fluids. This treatment would need to take place in your vet’s office., Depending on the severity of your cat’s poisoning, and how long it’s been since it ingested the mothballs, your vet might prescribe medication. This can include anti-vomiting medication, anti-seizure medication, and medication to protect your cat’s liver., A gastric lavage is a medical procedure wherein your vet “washes” your cat’s stomach. Your cat will need to be placed under anesthesia for this procedure, and it can be expensive. This is usually used in cases where the poisoning is severe., After your cat has been treated, you might want to schedule additional blood work. This allows your vet to check that status of your cat’s liver and kidneys and make sure there isn’t lasting damage.