 Use a marker and a ruler. Measure twice, and then cut. Just make sure you're wearing those eye goggles. Wood chips in the eye are not recommended, and can be painful. Matter of fact, it's not uncommon to be injured by flying debris. So don't be stupid.;
, You can use the level to make sure of this.
, Measure one square that is 16" x 16", and one rectangle that is 4" x 6". Carefully cut these pieces, making sure that you don't cut yourself with the sharp blades.
 Then place the 2x4 board on it and trace around it. Cut that part out, just a little larger than the actual dimension of the 2x4, so that you'll be able to fit the board into the hole without obstruction from carpet fibers.
 Then mark & drill 2 more holes, about 3/4" on either side of the first one.
 Attach the two with hot melt glue and let it dry for 15 minutes. You can also staple through the top of the carpet onto the base. But watch out for staple ends coming through the other side.
 Staple the rope down at the end of the post and then about every 1/2" as you turn it to come back to one full wrap. Then turn the post, using a glove to hold the rope, and hammering one row against the last one until you get to about 2" from the top. Then staple as you did at the bottom, until you have come to about 1.5" from the top. Cut the rope neatly with the blade, being careful to cut away from hands, face, and other vital body parts.
 Locate the remaining small rectangular piece of carpet. Center that on top of the post, making sure that the first, longer edge will reach to the even row of rope (the side without the rope end). Staple that side first. Cut the other side of the carpet to fit the irregular terrain of the other side of the rope. Cut flaps on the narrow sides of the board, and staple all sides down.
 Also clip errant strands of rope.
 Staple the flaps over to the bottom, cut the edges, and fit the opposite edges together. Staple the remaining edges together.
 Push any loose carpet fibers away from the center of the base so you can get an unobstructed fit between the post and base. Hold the 2 together upside down (easier with 2 people), and drill a shallow pilot hole through the base & into the post (about 1.5" deep). Using the drywall bit, drive a screw with the washer into the center of the base through to the post. If you mess up, reverse the drill and back the screw out. If it bends, toss it, and use another.
 Use the level here. If you've done this right, it will be level when the post is set upright. If there's a minor variance from perpendicular, your cat will never know. But if there's a huge difference, review the preceding steps. Now that we know it's level, drive two more screws in with those washers and clean up. Finally, set that post by the nearest sofa.







Go to the most comfortable chair or sofa in the house.






Place the finished post next to the end of whatever you will be sitting on. This is the critical part.... Don't seem too interested in what your cat is doing now. Just drape the string over and down the length of the post and sit there, reading or watching TV (just ignore that critter). When your cat comes to investigate, slowly drag the string up the post. Don't look at the cat. Let him be the predator and he will follow the string up the post. After that, he'll be hooked on scratching on sisal rope.






What you've done here is you've outsmarted you cat. Better yet, you solved one of the age-old problems of cat ownership by being creative - as opposed to flying off the handle and intimidating and terrorizing the little guy. If you remember this in the future, you'll be able to apply this type of solution to other cat problems. There will be many, and if you can just remember that you are smarter than a cat, and infinitely more creative (although sometimes you will doubt this), and that it's always better to be kind and gentle to your cat - well, you will have one world class pet for many years.







