 Clear ornaments will work best for this project, but you can also use clear iridescent ones, shiny metallic ones, or frosted-pearl ones.
 This is especially important if you are using old ornaments. Once you clean them, try to handle them only by the metal cap. Any dirt or fingerprints may prevent the glitter from sticking.
 If the tape is too thick to work with, cut it in half using a sharp pair of scissors.


If you wish to make polka dots, you can skip this step.
If you want to make more intricate shapes, use self-adhesive stencils.
 Handle the ornament by the cap so that you don't accidentally mess up your design. If your ornament is very large, it might be a good idea to work on a small area first so that the glue doesn't dry out.


If you wish to make polka dots, use a round foam brush or pouncer to dab the glue onto the ornament.
If you wish to use more than one color of glitter, apply the glue to the areas where you want your first color.
 Hold the ornament over a paper plate or sheet of paper. Shake some glitter onto the ornament, rotating it will you do. You can use any type of glitter you want for this, but extra-find glitter, like the kind used in scrapbooking, would work best.


If you plan on using multiple colors of glitter, shake on your first color and hold off on the others for now.
Scoop the glitter back into its container when you are done so that you don't waste any. If you are using a sheet of paper, fold the paper in half, and funnel it back inside.
 Shake the ornament over your plate or paper to knock off any excess glitter. This will help give you crisper lines and reduce shedding.
 If you need to cover more of your ornament, or if you need to add more colors, now is the time to apply more glue and more glitter. Keep repeating these steps, one color at a time, until the ornament is covered to your liking.
 Be sure to lift these straight up and away from the ornament, or you will risk messing up your design. If some of the lines got messed up, you can nudge the glitter back into place with a toothpick, or gently brush it away with a soft-bristled paintbrush.
 You can hang the ornament from your tree, a dowel, or a piece of string. Make sure that there's nothing close by that can bump into it and mess up the glitter. The ornament will require a few hours to dry.
 This is not completely necessary, but it will help protect your design. Use a paintbrush to paint clear, glossy sealer onto your designs. Extend the sealer just past the outlines of your designs—enough to seal them in but not so much to make it obvious. This is great for all ornaments, including matte ones!


Make sure that the sealer you are using has a glossy finish, or the glitter will turn out dull.
If you used a clear ornament, you can spray your entire ornament with a clear, glossy, acrylic sealer.Do not use this on matte ornaments.
 If you'd like to, you can tie a skinny ribbon in a bow around the cap, or you can add extras into the ornament itself, such as curled strips of sheet music or fake snow.