, Though the Air Chair is heavy, if the post and blades are attached to the chair correctly, nothing will sink. Only the last few inches of the nose of the ski will be above the surface.


As you approach the Air Chair be wary of the post and blades which are below the surface that you can't see.
 Strap your feet into the booties by pulling the heel strap below your foot and snugly on your heel.
 Once in position, tighten the seatbelt and secure it.
 If you are learning to get up, have the boat drag you very slowly (idle) in a straight line. Try to learn to keep the Air Chair pointed in the correct direction.
 The Air Chair uses leverage as it's primary means of control. Move the rope to the right and it will pull you to the left, and vice versa. Control the angle of the Air Chair by compensating with the location of the rope. This will take a lot of practice to perfect.


The driver of the boat will have to be patience (as will you) because you will get turned sideways more than once and you will fall, once up, more than once!

, As the boat accelerates (after you say, "Hit it!" (or whatever your "go" phrase is) keep your back straight (perpendicular to the ski), your arms outstretched and make and minor adjustments to your direction with the location of the rope (read above). As soon as the ski has planed (no longer being pulled through the water — but on top of it), lean forward to keep the ski down on the water.
 This is the best way to learn the basics of steering and control.
 Like a bicycle, you must lean and turn at the same time. But unlike skiing or wakeboarding, if you only lean to turn you will likely fall. You must turn (using the rope), then lean into the turn to compensate for the forces put on the rope. This all becomes even more important when riding on the hydrofoil rather than the ski.
 At first it is usually best to try leaning back to bring the ski off the water. As soon as you are off the water, lean forward again to bring it back down. Keep your arms steady for now (don't move them higher or lower). Try leaning back and forth until you get more comfortable with the idea of being above the water.
 Lower your arms until you start lifting off the water, then bring it back down by raising the rope again. Practice this a few times until you are able to comfortably control your height off the water just by using your arms (remember, if you need to go down in an emergency, you can lean forward).
 Be aware that going to high will most likely cause you to crash as air being caught under the hydrofoil will remove all lift and will bring you down to the ski in a hurry. The picture at right is an example of what happens after you go too high.


Cutting (turning to the extremities of the usable water) is a unique experience among water sports. The Air Chair requires a good deal of balance and control to maneuver over the wake then to keep level as the rope pulls you at more of an angle. The rope has been keeping you level while behind the boat, but as the rope pulls at nearly a perpendicular angle to your motion, the downward leverage is gone. You must compensate by leaning forward or back to keep level.
 This is a bit of giant leap from the rest of the article, but it is a natural progression, and learning to jump is very easy, it is the landing that is very difficult. Land by leaning back until your descent is slowed then straighten your back and control your elevation with the rope.

