 Fruits and vegetables are great sources of the vitamins and minerals that your body needs. Vitamins and minerals are important when you are young for growing a strong and healthy body, but they are also important when you are older for staying healthy.Eat at least four servings of fruits and five servings of vegetables per day. Fruits include berries, apples, pears, plums, bananas, pumpkin, squash, beans, olives, peppers, corn, peas, cucumber and tomatoes. Vegetables include beets, carrots, spinach, cauliflower, lettuce, broccoli, celery, and others. Fresh fruits and vegetables are the healthiest, but in the winter months, when they are not available, purchasing frozen fruits and vegetables is a good solution. Avoid fried and breaded fruits and vegetables because they also contain a lot of fat.
A healthy diet rich in fresh produce lowers your risk of cancers, heart disease, high blood pressure, strokes, and diabetes.
 Protein is necessary for your body to repair and rebuilt cells after sustaining damage. Cell turnover is a natural part of life and maintaining a healthy body.People who eat meat often get much of their protein from meat and animal products such as beef, pork, poultry, and eggs.
Vegetarians (people who do not eat meat) and vegans (people who do not eat animal products) get protein from soy, beans, legumes, and nuts. Vegetarians may also supplement this with milk and cheeses.
The average adult requires two to three servings of protein per day. Talk to your child’s doctor to determine what your child may need. Children’s requirements change as they age and grow.
 Sugars, starches, and fiber are all types of carbohydrates. When they are digested, your body obtains energy. Simple sugars are digested more quickly than complex carbohydrates. Because it takes complex carbohydrates longer to break down, your body will be getting that energy at a steady pace instead of all at once. This means it will provide you with energy for longer and it will also keep your blood sugar stable.Supply your body with complex carbohydrates by eating beans, parsnips, corn, peas, lentils, peanuts, and whole-grain breads. Many breads will say on the packaging if they are whole-grain.
Substitute complex carbohydrates for simple sugars like cakes, candy, cookies, and processed sweets. In order to have enough energy to maintain an active lifestyle, you should be getting about half of your calories from complex carbohydrates.
 Drinking enough water will dilute and help you pass toxins and keep your kidneys and urinary tract healthy.While drinking eight glasses of water a day is a good start, there is new science suggesting you may need more fluids than that. Taking into account the water contained in drinks like milk and tea and in foods like watermelon, your daily intake of fluids can be determined by dividing your weight in half. The resulting number is the number of ounces of fluids you need each day. So if you weigh 180lbs., you need 90oz of fluids each day.If you are an athlete, you should be drinking about two-thirds of your body weight in ounces.
How much you need to drink to stay well hydrated will depend on how physically active you are, how warm and dry the weather is, and your body size. You may need four or more liters of water per day.
If you are urinating less than usual or have dark or cloudy urine, this is a symptom of dehydration.
Carry a reusable water bottle with you during the day to help remind you to stay hydrated.
 A small amount of fat is necessary so you can absorb fat soluble vitamins, control inflammation, clot blood, and maintain proper brain function, but many people eat too much. A diet that is high in fat increases your chances of obesity, high cholesterol, heart disease, and strokes.Foods that have a high fat content include butter, cheese, whole milk, cream, meats, and vegetable oils. You can reduce your fat intake by trimming fat off of meats, eating lean meat like poultry and fish, drinking low-fat milk, and eating low-fat yogurt.Choose healthier fats by cooking with monounsaturated fats, polyunsaturated fats, and fats that are high in omega-3 and omega-6 fatty acids. Healthy sources of fat include olive oil, safflower oil, peanut oil, corn oil, flaxseed oil, canola oil, and soybean oil., Too much sodium may lead to high blood pressure which raises your risks for heart disease and stroke. While some salt is necessary to maintain proper nerve and muscle functions, most people acquire plenty of salt naturally through their diet without adding it to their food.Adults should consume no more than about a teaspoon of salt per day. If you have a health condition, you may need to eat much less.
Avoid fast food. Not only is it high in fat, but it is also usually very high in salt.

