 Most students don't feel comfortable with teachers because, to be honest, most seem snappy. Therefore, have a calm, sweet complexion and attitude on the first few days of school. Talk about the classroom, where to get supplies, and what the rules are. Do not add a sour feeling when you speak of the rules, speak of them as if they were classwork.;
, Have a list of what to teach per day, for how long, and keep track of homework and assignments. Speaking of what to teach, start off with the main things you need to know about science. Speak, for example, about what science is, how it works, and what you will need to know in general. In science textbooks, it will usually list the standards students must master before they pass their science class. Also, when you teach, teach the students in a way that is understandable. Like, don't say something so complex that it goes through one ear and out the other, okay? Although, it is good to teach the students academic vocabulary just in case they use it on tests. Keep this in mind. Usually, those fancy vocab words are included in the textbooks.
 Treat everyone alike and also keep the balance of nature even. When someone isn't following the rules, just snap them back into attention in a quick way. Don't embarrass them, you wouldn't like it if anyone did it to you. Although, constant rule breaking seems worthy of detention or writing lines. Just make sure this saying is well known in your class: You are nice and fun, but serious when you need to be. You will take action when you desperately need to.
 If you are teaching the periodic table and everyone needs to memorize the elements, create a catchy song about it! List every element in the song and make it based on a popular tune. Use some imagination. Keep things interesting and try your best to help students become motivated and truly try to help them. This gets kids in the mood to pay attention and see you as a plus in school. This will make the info get into their minds faster.
 Like, don't give them piles of homework that go to their eyeballs! At a local bookstore or maybe online, you will find workbooks and printable science pages. Usually, homework should be something the class isn't the best in. Like, something that the class seriously doesn't get. Although, a little review on the mastered subjects isn't bad either.

