 Get out 1 1/3 cups (150 g) of shredded cheese and use your fingers to pinch together a few teaspoons of cheese. Try to form the cheese into a ball shape. You should get about 20 to 23 small cheese balls. Place these on a baking sheet and freeze them for 30 minutes.You can use Mozzarella, Colby, or Monterey Jack Cheese.
 Peel one onion and grate it against the large-hole side of a box grater. Place the grated onion in a mixing bowl along with 3/4 pound (350 g) of lean ground beef and 2/3 cup (150 g) of ground lamb. Use a wooden spoon or your fingers to gently combine the onion and the meat.If you can't find ground lamb, you can easily substitute ground pork.
 Sprinkle the meatball mixture with ½ teaspoon of salt, ½ teaspoon of ground black pepper, and ¼ teaspoon of ground cumin. Stir the seasonings into the meat until they're incorporated. Place the mixture in the refrigerator and chill it for 30 minutes.Chilling the meat mixture will help the flavors develop.
 Remove the meat mixture from the fridge and use a few spoons or a small cookie scoop to portion out meatballs. You should get between 20 and 23 meatballs. Gently flatten each meatball between the palms of your hand and put a frozen cheese ball in the center. Spread the meat over the cheese and form a round ball. Set each stuffed meatball on the baking sheet.If the meat sticks to your hand, you can dip your hands in warm water. This will make it easier to handle the meat., Pour 2 tablespoons of olive oil into a large skillet and heat it over medium-high. Once the oil shimmers, add enough meatballs to cover the skillet in a single layer. Fry the meatballs for 10 minutes and use tongs to turn them every once in a while. The meatballs should be completely golden brown on the outside. Remove the meatballs to a serving plate and fry another batch of meatballs (if you couldn't fit all of them in at once).You can garnish the stuffed meatballs with 2 tablespoons of minced fresh parsley.
Consider serving the meatballs with a dipping sauce or glaze them with a little honey and pomegranate molasses.
