 Consistency is one of the most important factors in establishing a meditation routine. Of course, if you’re struggling to find time to meditate, a consistent meditation routine may seem like a lofty goal. By planning ahead, however, you can ensure you’ll get the chance to meditate, and may find that a particular time of day works especially well.Look at your plans for the next few days. Pick a few time slots where you’re open, and plan to meditate during these time slots, even if only for a few minutes.
If you know you’ll have a few free minutes at the same time every day, commit to meditating at the same time every day. Choosing a time will help you establish a routine.
Again, don’t worry too much about the length of time you have to mediate starting out. Even a few minutes will feel great once you establish a routine!;
, As soon as you wake up tomorrow morning, get up, use the restroom, and sit down somewhere to meditate. If you use an alarm to wake up, set it ten minutes earlier than you would have otherwise. Early morning meditation is optimal for several reasons. In particular, you are less likely to be distracted, and your meditation session will help you start the day off with clarity and energy.Don’t wake anyone else up when you rise. Wake loved ones after you’ve meditated.
Avoid checking your phone as soon as you wake up. It can wait ten minutes!

, As you’re trying to establish a routine, you may find that the time slots you set aside for meditation are sometimes shortened by your day to day responsibilities. It’s perfectly alright if you have less time than expected; the important thing is to stick with it. Maintaining a regular routine should take precedence to any concerns regarding the length of your meditation sessions. Even if you’ll only be able to meditate for a few minutes, do it!
A daily five-minute meditation session is better than a 30 minute session every three days, as you’re more likely to develop a successful routine by staying consistent!

, Scheduling meditation sessions will only help if you actually keep them! To help remember your commitment to meditate at a certain day and time, create an alert in an online calendar or your phone’s alarm clock.There are even a few popular apps that will help you get in the practice of meditating everyday. Check out Headspace, The Mindfulness App, and Insight Timer., Is there something you already do every day? Meditate before or after another daily habit – such as brushing your teeth – to build associations between the activities. This will help get you in the practice of performing these activities together regularly.For instance, meditate before – or even during – your daily exercise regimen. One great option is focusing on your steps while you run (ensuring you’re on a safe route, free of vehicles or other danger).

