


If you have a 3000w amp playing three 1000w subs, but they really sound weak, then it's time to get more power.
Alternatively, play the bass as loud as you can and see if your dome lights dim or not. If they barely flicker, then your power is manageable, but if they almost go dark with each bass note, then it's time for more power.
 Capacitors are usually small cylinders that come with a digital display showing your voltage in your car. They are rated by Farad's and the higher they are, the better the cap can store and release volts.


Be warned: many capacitors are nothing more than expensive voltage meters. They are for very minor power problems and simply add a more sophisticated look to an audio system. A 1-farad capacitor could potentially cost hundreds of dollars and not solve any power problems.
The ideal voltage for a car audio system varies. For a low-end system, 13.5-13.7 is just fine. For average systems, 13.8-14 is good, but for high-end audio systems, 14.4 and above is where you want to be.
Your voltage should not drop below 12 volts, as that’s an indication of a big power problem. Anything below 9 is extremely bad and should not be used until more power is added. You may completely drain your existing car battery and render it useless.
 Although wet cells can be used, they could spill battery acid in your car if they leak. Dry cell batteries are a better choice if you can afford them. Dry cells have no battery acid and are extremely safe in a vehicle. # To install multiple batteries (or capacitors), connect the main battery in the engine bay with the another one elsewhere in the car that has a large, low gauge wire (like a 4 or 2).
, Connect the batteries in the car with a large ground wire and ground it in metal. You don’t have to run it into the engine bay; any good metal ground will do.


Be sure to put them in a sequence: first battery connected to the main in engine bay and last battery connected to the amp(s).



By getting a larger alternator that puts of more amperage, your battery will be continuously and quickly charged.
Whenever massive amounts of power is needed, it's directed from the alternator much more than the battery, giving you more power.
A good 220-amp alternator can really make a difference in sound quality and bass. You just have to find it for a good price and have it installed.

