 These are large, starchy peas left to dry on the vine before harvesting.A British food purist would say this is the only true ingredient for mushy peas, but it can be tough to find outside of the British Isles, Middle East, and Japan.Elsewhere, look for marrowfat peas in British import stores and international markets.


Marrowfat peas may be labeled with the variety name Maro or medullare.If you can't find marrowfat peas, use whole dried soup peas, or follow the recipe for fresh or frozen peas instead.;
, The night before you plan to make mushy peas, put 8 oz (225g) dried peas in a large pot. Cover with roughly three times their volume of cold water.Not all peas are sold pre-cleaned. Pour out the water and rinse if you see any dirt, rocks, or other materials., A teaspoon (5 mL) of bicarbonate of soda (baking soda) helps soften the peas and keep them green, although they may still end up on the grey side compared to the bright, artificial color found in tins and pubs. Unfortunately, the soda will also break down some of the vitamins found in peas, so skip this step if appearance isn't important to you.


Some marrowfat peas are sold with a tablet of bicarbonate of soda for this purpose.
The bicarbonate of soda also reduces the sugars that cause flatulence, but only by a small amount., Leave the peas in the refrigerator for at least 12 hours if possible, and preferably 16.If you're on a shorter schedule, you can cut corners with these faster but less reliable methods:


8 hour soak: Add 1½ tbsp (22mL) salt to help break down the peas and soak in the fridge.(The idea that salt makes legumes tougher is a myth.)
1 hour soak: bring the pot of peas to a boil. Remove from heat after 2 minutes, cover, and leave on the counter., Strain out the soaking water and rinse the peas thoroughly. Some cooks and food scientists prefer to cook in the same water for flavor and nutrients, but there's a chance this contributes to gas., Return the peas to the pot and add just enough fresh water to cover them. Cover and bring to a boil.
 Try ½ tsp (2.5 mL) each of sugar and salt, or adjust to taste. Go easy on the salt if you plan to serve it with a salty dish such as fish and chips or meat pie.
 Remove the lid and reduce heat to a simmer. Cook until the peas turn into a soft mush with some individual peas still visible, about 1½ hours.Feel free to remove the peas from heat early if you prefer a less mushy texture.


You can add small amount of water if the peas start to dry out while they're still chewy. Once finished, though, the peas should be mostly dry.
Stir occasionally to prevent the peas sticking to the bottom. Be gentle to avoid smashing the peas., In Britain, mushy peas are often served as a side next to a pub meal, or as a street fair snack with a meat pie. Eat it plain, stir in butter, or season with mint sauce.


Store leftovers in the fridge for 24 hours, or freeze indefinitely.