 Make the most of your time off by listening to podcasts and reading newspapers. Regardless of your industry, there are plenty of materials available to help refine your skills.Take advantage of your commute by listening to an industry-related podcast or audiobook written by someone at the top of your field.
Instead of using your breaks to check social media or laugh at memes, read articles about relevant advancements or new technologies.
If your family has gone out to run errands on a weekend day and you find yourself home alone, use the time to learn instead of watching television.
 In addition to educating yourself during your downtime, go to conferences, take classes, and take advantage of any professional development opportunities that come your way. Making yourself an expert in your industry will improve your performance at your current job and make you a more desirable candidate in the future.Professional conferences are also among the best networking opportunities.
 Without ignoring your primary responsibilities, find ways to work on projects that will broaden your skills and professional network. Projects outside of your focus can introduce you to contacts in related industries and other departments. You'll also learn more about how your industry at large functions.For example, if you’re a product designer and a project manager wants a designer to join their application and installation team, do your best to take advantage of the opportunity. You’ll learn about how the company interacts with clients during the acquisition and installation processes. You’ll add new skills to your resume and have a better understanding of how your designs are used.
 Delegating will become an essential skill as you grow in your career and eventually reach management levels. Start thinking about how you would assign roles to make a project’s execution more efficient and to reap the benefits of team members’ distinct skills.If you're not in a management position, imagine hypothetical ways you'd divide tasks for projects you’re working on, and pay attention to how your manager delegates. When you’re given responsibility over a team for the first time, familiarize yourself with each member’s skills and assign appropriate tasks.
 Lose the mentality that there’s only one right way to accomplish something. Trust those working under you to complete projects well even if they don’t go about it the same way you would. That way, you’ll be a more effective manager and have better control of your own time as you work your way up the ladder.