 The number of pages you want will determine how much paper you need. Six to twelve sheets of paper make a twelve to twenty-four page book (including title pages).









Knowing the purpose for your book will help you decide the appropriate number of pages.
Consider also having one sheet of special or colored paper that you can use as the book cover.
You can use more than 12 pages, but binding may become more difficult with more pages.
 Plain white printer paper works well, but depending on the purpose of the book, you may want to select another kind of paper.









This guide assumes that you will be using standard letter sized paper (8.5”x11”), but other sizes may work as well.
Paper with a heavier weight (thickness) may be more durable than printer paper.
Resume paper or paper with a colored finish provides a nice visual effect if you plan to give the book as a gift.
Avoid using lined notebook paper if possible. The lines will be vertical and the paper book will not look as nice as it would with other paper.
 Fold each page of the paper you have chosen short end to short end.








Folding each page individually will give you a cleaner crease and more even lines than trying to fold all of the pages together at once.
Be sure the edges of the page are lined up nicely before making your crease.
Sharpen your crease by running your fingernail along it, or by sliding a hard object such as a pen or pencil along the edge.
 Put the halves inside of each other. If you have more than six sheets of paper, create sets of pages with no more than six sheets each.









If you nest more than six pages together, the inner pages will start to protrude beyond the outer pages and your book will not look neat.
If you have an even number of pages, try to make even sets of book sections (for example, 2 sets of 6, 3 sets of 4, or 4 sets of 3 pages).
 For a sturdier final project, you may want to staple each book section at this point. Place at least two staples as close to the edge of each section as you can get.









Try to stagger the staple placement on the sections so that there is not a bulge from a stack of staples all together when you bind the sections together.
Depending on your binding technique, this step may not be necessary. If you will be taping, it is necessary.
 Be sure that you carefully line up the sections of your book. Place the folded edges of the book sections together.









Check all edges for neatness and uniformity. If one of the pages is sticking out, it may not have been folded neatly. You may want to replace it with a more carefully folded page.

