 The dealer distributes 13 cards to each player, so that the entire deck is used. Give players time to sort their cards by rank and suit. Aces are high in bridge, followed by kings, queens, jacks/knaves, tens, and finally spot (number) cards from 9 to 2.


The more cards in a suit you have, and the higher the value of those cards, the better luck you are likely to have with them. Keep this in mind as bidding begins.
 Teams bid numbers and suits, which represent the number of tricks they believe they can win on the deal if the suit attached to that number becomes the trump suit (the suit of cards that will be more valuable than the other 3 suits during tricks). Whoever deals will get to bid first, and bidding rotates clockwise from the dealer around the table, continuing for as many rounds as is necessary to settle on a final bid. Whichever team ends up bidding the highest number wins the right to name the trump suit. There are many rules and special terms governing the bidding phase; this guide will cover the basics required to play a friendly game.


A minimum of 7 tricks are required to win each deal. (This is because there are 13 tricks per deal, and a majority must be won to win the deal.) Bridge players therefore traditionally count bids starting from the seventh trick, referring to the first 6 tricks collectively as “the book.” If your team wants to bid 7 tricks (saying that you expect to win 7 of the 13 tricks for the current deal), you would announce a bid of 1, and so on up to a bid of 7 for winning all 13 tricks.

You can remember this easily by adding 6 to whatever number is bid to get the actual number of tricks that must be won to “make” (complete) the contract. You can't ever bid to win less than 7 tricks (a bid of 1).


Suits are important during bidding. The power of the suit you bid will determine how many other cards will be able to outbid it. The suits are ranked from most powerful to least powerful as follows: spades, then hearts (these are known as the “major” suits), then diamonds, and finally clubs (the “minor” suits).

Each new bid must be more “valuable” than the last bid before it, so if the person before you bid 1 in hearts, you must either bid 1 in spades or 2 (or more) in any other suit to beat it.
It is often advisable to bid on the most common suit in your hand, even if it is relatively weak. For example, if your hand has six cards with the diamond suit, you might lean towards bidding for diamonds to become the trump suit. Pay attention to the bids your partner makes to get an idea of what he or she is holding as well.
No trump bids: In addition to bidding for a trump suit, you can declare a bid of “no trump” (sometimes condensed as “notrump,” and abbreviated NT), which indicates you are only bidding a number, not a suit. If you win a no trump bid, tricks are played without a trump suit, meaning only the highest ranked card in each trick can win it. This is riskier than naming a trump suit, but making (completing) a no trump contract will score your team more points than a regular contract.

For bidding purposes, NT is considered the highest “suit;” therefore, the highest possible bid is 7NT.




Beware of overreaching on your bid. If your team wins a bid and is subsequently unable to make that number of tricks by the end of the deal, you must pay the opposing team a number of points from your own total, which can quickly change the balance of power.
You do not have to bid. You can pass a bid to the next person instead. If three players pass in a row, the last bid wins the contract and determines the trump suit; if all four players pass without any bids at all, the deck is reshuffled and the hands dealt out a second time.
There are special terms for each player once a contract has been awarded. The person who made the winning bid is called the “declarer,” and his partner is called the “dummy.” The other team are collectively called the “defenders.” Knowing these terms makes it easier to keep track of the flow of the game.
 Now that a trump suit (or a bid of no trump) has been established for the deal, the tricks begin. Play begins with the defender to the left of the declarer. The defender “leads” the trick by placing a card face up on the table. The suit of this card is the suit for the trick, which means that players can only win the trick with a card of that suit, or a trump suit card.


The other two suits don't count during this trick.
Once the trick has been led, the dummy spreads his or her entire hand out on the table, usually in four columns organized by suit. The dummy's hand is played by the declarer for the rest of the deal. Defenders play normally.

The dummy has an unusual role. The dummy cannot comment on the strategic decisions of the declarer, but is allowed to point out when the declarer would accidentally violate a rule of the game. Otherwise, he or she leaves the decisions to the declarer for the duration of the deal.


Lead suit cards must be played if possible. For example, if the suit of the lead card is clubs, and you have a club in your hand, you must play it rather than any other card. If you don't have any cards in the leading suit, you may “ruff” (play a trump suit card, assuming it is different from the lead suit) or “sluff” (play a card from one of the two remaining suits).

A ruff is likely to win the trick, as any card from a trump suit beats every card of every other suit.
A sluff is functionally the same as a pass, and cannot ever win the trick.
 After the opening lead, the declarer plays a card from the dummy's hand. The second defender plays a card after that, and finally the declarer plays a card. Once all four cards have been played, the most valuable card wins the trick, and whoever played that card keeps all four cards in the trick for scoring later.


Whoever wins a trick leads the next trick. There is no set leading pattern after the first trick.
 When all 13 tricks have been played, add up the number of tricks each team won. If the declaring team made the contract, they win the deal; otherwise, the defending team wins the deal. Award points based on your chosen system. Extra points should be awarded for making a no trump contract.
 Put the cards back together in a deck and deal out 13 cards to each player once more. This is the second deal. Deals continue in the pattern outlined above until one team earns enough points to win the game.


To play a relatively quick game, play until one team has won a specified number of deals (for instance, 2 out of 3) instead of counting points.

