 There are many types of cleanses. A “cleanse” can include anything from sinus cleansing (with a neti pot) to colon cleansing (with an enema). But most often, the term “cleanse” is used to describe a strict, restrictive eating plan that lasts anywhere from a few days to a few weeks.Some of the more popular genres of cleanse diets include:


The Master Cleanse – This involves drinking a “lemonade” mix, salt water, and laxative tea for 10+ days. There is no solid food in this cleanse.
Homemade Juice and Smoothie cleanses – Celebrity health gurus and internet bloggers alike provide myriad recipes and regimens for consuming only fresh squeezed juices and/or homemade smoothies for a period of a few days.
Prepackaged juice and other cleansing kits – There are numerous juice kits, vitamin kits, or powdered smoothie kits on the market. These kits make the cleanse process simple, but they are usually on the expensive side.
”Whole food” or “clean eating” cleanses – Once again, innumerable bloggers and nutritionists advocate for cleanse diets that involve following a variety of “whole food” meals plans for a period of days.;
, Although the jury is still out on the scientific benefits of doing a cleanse, there is general agreement that sticking to only whole foods or organic juice for a few days can help ease some specific symptoms.If you are feeling two or more of the following, a cleanse might be right for you.


Low energy/fatigue
Weight gain
Constipation
Foggy mind/inability to focus
Trouble sleeping
Unexplained headaches
Skin problems, such as acne or skin dullness

, Not all cleanses reduce your caloric intake. Some may include a high volume of foods that are nutritionally dense and high in fiber that make you feel full. There are also many cleanses that restrict your caloric intake, which can help you lose weight. As a result, you may regain the pounds that you shed once the cleanse is over. You will be most satisfied if you focus on the other benefits and forget about the scale for the duration of your cleanse.Other benefits include:


Better sleep
Clean skin
Less bloating
Regular bowel movements
More energy

, There are a wide variety of cleanse options—some very rigorous and some a little easier. Some are very long and some short. Especially if this cleanse will entail a huge change to your normal routine, and/or if you have never done a cleanse before, consider choosing a program shorter in length and more simple in regimen. This helps ensure that you will complete your goal and avoid binge eating pizza puffs on day 4.Consider doing a short, whole food cleanse, such as Dr. Oz’s “Two Day Wonder Cleanse.”If you’d prefer to do a liquid cleanse, consider doing a one-day juice cleanse. Jus by Julie makes a pre-packaged one-day juice cleanse.Almost Raw Vegan provides recipes for a “One-day Real Food Mini-Cleanse” where you drink smoothies during the day but eat a big green salad at night., As with any major changes to your diet or lifestyle, you should speak to your doctor prior to doing any kind of cleanse. Fasting, cleansing, or otherwise limiting your food intake in an effort to detox is a controversial practice. These diets are not scientifically proven, and can actually be dangerous to individuals with existing health conditions. Seek input from your doctor to help decide if you should try a cleanse.Explain what you’re thinking about doing.
You might say, “I am planning to do the Master Cleanse for 10 days. Have you heard of that diet?”
You might say, “This involves drinking only a lemonade mix, plus laxative tea and salt water.”
You might say, “What do you think about that diet? Do you think I am healthy enough to do that safety?”

