 Your baby should never be alone in your bed, even if they are asleep. You or your partner should always been in the bed with the baby. Even stepping away for five minutes could pose a risk for your baby.If you leave the room, your baby may roll off the bed or end up wedged between something.
 When you co-sleep with your baby, they should not be placed between two adults in the bed. This can increase the risk of overheating and suffocation. Being between the adults can also increase the likelihood that the baby will get rolled on.The baby should be placed on one side of one of the parents, with that parent facing the baby. The parent’s back should be toward the other adult in the bed.
 Co-sleeping in unsafe conditions can increase the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). To keep your baby safe, never sleep with them on a sofa or armchair.Sleeping with your baby on this furniture can cause your baby to overheat and suffocate.
Your baby may become wedged between the cushions or between your body and the furniture.
 The danger of SIDS for your baby increases if you take any substances that are considered depressants or alter your mental state. Never co-sleep with your baby if you ingest anything that makes you drowsy.For example, you should not co-sleep with your baby if you have been drinking alcohol or if you take any medication or drugs that will make you drowsy or sleepy.
These substances can alter your thought processes, which can lead to you forgetting that your baby is in the bed with you. You may also sleep too deeply and accidentally roll over onto the baby.
 The smoke on your clothes or body can lead to suffocation in your infant. You shouldn’t co-sleep if you or your partner smokes or uses e-cigarettes.Even if you don’t smoke at home or in bed, you still shouldn’t co-sleep with your baby. The smoke remnants can lead to respiratory distress.
 If possible, discourage other children, especially toddlers, from sleeping in the bed with you and your baby. They may accidentally roll on top of the baby or cover the mouth and nose. If your other child needs to sleep with you, place an adult between the baby and the other children.
If your toddler doesn’t understand that you need to focus on your baby, you can place the baby on a cot or crib near you instead of co-sleeping with them.
 Babies that were born premature should not placed in the same bed as you. Low birth weights, such as less than 5.5 lbs or 2.5 kgs, can also increase the risk of SIDS., You should never share a bed with your baby if you are too tired or exhausted. This can make it more difficult to wake or lead to you rolling on top of your baby or not hearing them if they are distressed.You should also not share a bed with your baby if you have conditions that make it difficult for you to wake up or be roused from sleep, like sleep apnea.

