 iMovie can green screen and being in green or blue is the best choice. The dens that have good spots are Princess castle den and Treehouse Den. If the small house is your only option, prepare yourself for lots of cropping and be on the grass.;
, You can use any screen recorder as long as it saves to your computer and allows you to edit it in iMovie. Using Screencastify Full Version is a good choice if you want them in an easy to reach save spot and want to record longer than 10 minutes. Using Screencastomatic is good if you want a little more of a challenge trying to access your videos.
 Dance, sit, hop, sleep, make emotes, play, and run. Do a unique intro for yourself and be creative! Make sure you turn the sound on Animal Jam off as editing out sound for music is hard. Muting your computer won't work, because once you turn the sound back on Animal Jam music will play. Make sure you're in the green or blue spot.
 On Screencastify, you can click Save to Disk and it will appear as a download.
 iMovie doesn't accept webM, so if your file is webM you can find online converters to switch it to MOV. Converting can take anywhere from 10 seconds to 1 hour, so be patient. It can take longer or shorter depending on the length of the video.
 This is the face icon on the bottom of your Mac. Open 2 windows and drag them so they are both clear to your sight.
 Click Downloads. On the other window, click your folder wherever it may be. Drag the download into your folder.
 This is the star with a camera icon at the bottom of your Mac.
 This is the plus button at the top of your iMovie screen. Click Movie, so you can drag clips and music easier.
 This makes it easier for you to edit and green screen. Choosing themes could throw off the editing and you may need to start over. Once you have No Theme, click Create.
 This is the arrow found at the top screen. After that, click your folder.
 This will appear in your clip adding station.
, Then, click Crop to Fill. Once the cropping window is up, drag the sides to resize your video and make it where you need it to green screen. Click the Check Button when you are done.
, Then, play the video to see if it worked.
 You need to minimize iMovie to see your tabs. Search for the kind of images you want. For example, if you want to be in the snowy Mountains, search snowy mountains.
 It will appear in Downloads.
 Do not convert to png, because that will ruin the image terribly. Jpg may also do this.
 Cut the Animal Jam clips real quick by hitting Command and X. Add the picture there.
 They must be on top or it will not work the right way or the way you want it to. You may need to adjust the speed again of your Animal Jam clips. Drag the picture so they match right up with the Animal Jam clips.
 You will see your animal dancing in the image.
 Download it or save it to your files.
 This way, you can crop the music to match with your video.
 Add it so it matches up with both the picture and the clips. If it doesn't match, cut it and try adding it back with a different amount of time.

