 There’s no need to measure the exact amount of baking soda you use. Just open the lid to your baking soda container and apply enough to lightly coat the area of the stovetop you wish to clean. If your stovetop is really grimy, apply a heavier layer of baking soda.Old parmesan cheese containers are ideal for sprinkling baking soda. Similar containers with holes punched through the lids are equally useful. If you have such a container, fill it with baking soda. Sprinkle the baking soda from this container over the stovetop.
To make the baking soda even more effective, some people choose to spray the baking soda with a spray bottle filled with vinegar. There’s no need to measure the volume of vinegar you spray over the area you’ve coated with baking soda. Just spray a light coat – enough to get the baking soda bubbling.;
, Place a large dishrag in hot, soapy water. The rag should be large enough to cover the entire area that you applied baking soda to., Remove the rag from the soapy water. Wring it out. It should be damp, not saturated. Lay the rag over the baking soda on the stovetop. Wait 15 minutes.If you’re trying to clean the entire surface of the stovetop, use a rag that covers the entire surface or a series of smaller rags that enable you to cover the whole surface.
 Once you’ve let the dishrag sit on the stove for 15 minutes, use it to wipe the stovetop. Move it in a wide circle that cleans the area where you applied the baking soda. Once you’ve scrubbed the ceramic stovetop thoroughly, use a damp sponge or another damp dishcloth to clean the remaining baking soda residue from the stovetop. Allow it to air-dry.You might want to wear gloves during the wiping stage.
 If you spill something on your ceramic stovetop and don’t clean it up soon, it will be harder to remove later. Leaving a spill on your ceramic stovetop for too long also risks burning whatever was spilled next time you use the stovetop. Therefore, clean your stovetop as soon as you can.If you spill something while you’re using the stovetop, wait until it has cooled before wiping it up. Otherwise, you might burn yourself.
 Cleaning with an ammonia/water mix or a cleaning product formulated with ammonia cannot effectively clean anything but light dirt and fingerprints from ceramic stovetops. Using such cleaners could lead to iridescent stains on the surface.Avoid abrasive cleaning products. Chemical cleaners like Comet and Ajax will damage your ceramic stovetop. Do not use these products.Likewise, steel wool and abrasive scouring pads will scratch the surface of your ceramic stovetop.

