 The Supplemental Nutrition Assistant Program, or SNAP, provides you with an electronic card that you can use at grocery stores to buy food.


SNAP cards are known as Electronic Benefits Transfer Card, or an EBT card. Not all grocery store purchases can be made using a EBT card. You can only use your card to purchase food or seeds to grow food to eat. Household items, alcoholic beverages, tobacco, vitamins, minerals, and hot foods cannot be purchased with an EBT card.To qualify for SNAP, you can have no more than $2, 250 in countable resources or no more than $3,250 in countable resources if at least one person in the household is over 60 or disabled. Countable resources include things like a bank account. Resources like a home or lot are not counted.The monthly income cut off to be eligible for SNAP is dependent on the size of your household. You can find a listing of income cutoffs by looking up the SNAP program on the United States Department of Food and Nutrition Service's website.In some states, farmers will match SNAP dollars at markets. For example, $1 in SNAP money will buy $2 in produce.;
, Certain government assistance programs are directed specifically towards families with children. If you have young children, you might want to consider one of these programs.


The Women, Infants, and Children Program, or WIC, provides benefits to such as food, nutrition, and education to low income pregnant, breastfeeding, and postpartum women as well as infants and children up to the age of 5 who are at nutrition risk.WIC is available in all 50 states. To qualify for WIC you must meet income guidelines, state residency requirements, and be declared at nutritional risk by a physician. Income requirements once again depend on family size and specifics can be found on the Department of Food and Nutrition Service's website.Qualifications for nutrition risk include medically-based risk, like a history of pregnancy complications or a condition like anemia, and dietary risks, such as inability to meet current dietary guidelines.The government also has a variety of child nutrition programs designed to assure children have access to food. School lunches are offered in many schools, and offered at a free or discount rate for low-income families. The Child and Adult Food Care Program offers free, healthy foods to children in daycare centers, after school programs, and emergency shelters. Other programs, such as summer food programs or free breakfast programs, are also available for qualifying households., If you are a senior, there are a variety of senior specific programs you might qualify to receive free or discount foods.


The Elderly Nutrition Program provides home delivered meals to homebound elderly patients or disabled people under the age of 60. You must be at significant physical or economic disadvantage to qualify. Check with the Department of Food and Nutrition Service's website to see if you qualify.The National Food Incentive Program (NFIP) distribute healthy foods to the elderly. Qualifications vary based on stage, age, and occupation. Check with the Department of Food and Nutrition.