 This is especially important during pregnancy. You’re more susceptible to plaque during pregnancy because your body doesn’t fight it off as well; your immunity drops, and your hormonal changes can affect your entire barrier of tooth protection. If you had good dental hygiene before pregnancy, simply maintain it. If you weren’t brushing as often as you should, try getting to brushing twice daily during pregnancy.If you find that your toothbrush is irritating your gums, try using a soft bristle toothbrush.If you're experiencing the gag reflex due to morning sickness, get a smaller toothbrush (a kid's toothbrush is great for this).;
, As you’re more susceptible to gum disease and inflammation during pregnancy don’t skimp on the flossing. Flossing is important to protect against periodontal disease and to remove plaque. If you are sensitive to strong tastes, use a flavorless floss., Not only will this promote the health of your baby, but it will also kelp you maintain healthy teeth during pregnancy. Sugary foods lead to the build up of plaque which can cause cavities and hurt your gum health. With the sensitivity of gums during pregnancy, this is particularly important., Calcium is necessary for healthy teeth and a healthy pregnancy.The daily amount of calcium you need while pregnant and breastfeeding is 1200mg. You can get this through food sources, including dairy, broccoli, spinach, and beans., This is the reason why it’s important to take good care of your teeth and gums when you are pregnant. These hormonal changes increase the risk of developing gum disease because it makes gums more sensitive, which makes it easier for gingivitis to develop, and this can affect the health of the unborn baby., You may have "pregnancy gingivitis," because you are more susceptible to gum disease during pregnancy. If you do have bleeding gums, you may need to see a dentist for treatment.You may experience a slight pain or burning in your gums, and your teeth may feel loose as a secondary effect of the increased inflammation.

