 There is a general expectation that when buying an engagement ring you should spend about three months of your salary on it. You shouldn't feel obligated to do this, as this idea came about as a result of a diamond seller's marketing campaign.In some cases, a less expensive diamond may suit you and your partner's sense of style and financial situation better.
Having a firm price range will help prevent you from being upsold when purchasing your diamond. Diamond merchants are salespeople, and will try their hardest to get you to buy the most expensive diamond.
 If you're planning on surprising your partner with a diamond ring and a proposal, this may not be feasible. Still, you can bring up the topic as a "what if" situation, or you can get your partner on the topic by asking them their opinion on the rings of married friends and relatives.


A diamond ring is a significant investment and symbolizes a lasting commitment. Some diamond sellers have a limited return policy in case your partner doesn't like the ring you've chosen, but you should be sure to ask the seller about this if the ring is a surprise., You may notice that your partner prefers jewelry or accents that are gold in color. In this case, you may want to consider a gold band for your diamond ring. Similarly, if they prefer large, ornamental pieces, you may want to select a stone or setting that is more ornamental.


If you don't have the keenest understanding of your partner's fashion sense, you might want to ask family or a trustworthy friend what kind of diamond or setting you think might be best., There are many different variations of stone and setting, and this can make your buying the perfect diamond ring difficult. Current trends usually feature whimsical, organic, and vintage designs, like celestial, floral, and scrollwork inspired motifs. You might choose diamonds or settings in the shape of:


The stars and moon
An astrological sign
The shape of a favorite animal
Elegant and sweeping architecturally inspired designs, You may want a specific kind of setting for your stone, like one made of silver or gold. Depending on the facilities of the establishment selling you your diamond ring, they may or may not be able to provide you with the kind of setting you desire.


Just because a diamond retailer can't provide you with a setting doesn't always mean you have to go with a different seller. Ask how the seller can help you get the kind of setting you want., If you have enough money saved, you may want to pay the entire cost outright, but since diamond rings can be so expensive, some sellers may offer payment options. Inquire with your diamond seller to find out if these payment options are available to you.

