 There might be agencies in your country who work together with Chinese agencies, but you can also apply directly at some agencies in China (and save the service fee).;
, Before you apply for the program please make sure you meet all the requirements to become an Au pair in China.
 Fill out the application documents and provide them with all the needed documents, e.g. copy of your valid passport, photos, dear family letter, etc.
 Mostly it will be via Skype, so if you haven't got an account yet its the perfect time to get one. In the interview you have to convince the agency that you are a suitable candidate as an Au pair in China.
 If you have passed the interview the agency will start to match you with one of the families.
 The family will write you an email and you can decide if you want to get in touch with them. You will also have to do a video-chat via Skype.
 When you and the family are a match, you have to prepare the remaining documents, e.g. health declaration, criminal background check, etc.
 To be an Au-pair in China you have to sign two contracts, one between you and the agency and one between you and your future host family.
 Your agency will provide you with all the information you need to apply for your visa in China.
 Some Chinese agencies offer free health insurance in China, but I would not recommend that, as they only cover the costs for local Chinese hospitals, whereas the international health insurance in your country also covers the costs for international hospitals with western standards.
 You can decide if you buy a one-way flight first or a return flight already. Many air ticket sites offer good deals, also it is cheaper to fly on weekdays as on the weekend.
 The agency will provide you with useful information about China and life in China, you should also read as much as possible about it before you go. You can ask your family what you should bring and what you don't have to bring.
 The family will arrange your airport pick-up after you tell them when you will arrive.
 They will help you

