 Though you may think that you'll always be easily distracted, anyone can improve his or her focus with a little motivation. All you have to do is pick a given task, and give yourself 30 minutes to work on only that task without any distractions -- without even getting up. Then, when 30 minutes passes, see if you can extend that focus time by 5, or even by 10 minutes. Keep going and see how long you can build up your focus stamina.


Though you should take a break at least every hour, learning to focus for longer will make it easier for you to complete the tasks ahead and to focus for even a shorter period of time.
 Reading tests your mind's ability to stay focused on just one task at a time and can improve your focus. If you're always flipping through the channels on your TV, constantly switching radio stations, or texting five friends at a time, you'll be slowly losing your ability to focus on just one task at a time. Set aside at least 30 minutes to an hour to read each day. You can read the newspaper, a novel, or a work of non-fiction. It doesn't matter what you read, as long as you focus on reading it well and avoiding distractions.


When you're done reading, ask yourself what you've read. What was the main idea of the passage or article? Who were the main characters? What were the main arguments made by the writer? See if you've really paid attention to what you've read.
Learning to focus on written material will help you write and to absorb written information as you study for tests or take on projects at work.
 Procrastination is the thief of time. Avoid delaying any of your activities by leaving things to be done for tomorrow, next week, or next month. Rather have them done now and move on to the next project.
 Though you may think that multi-tasking is great because it allows you to accomplish a variety of tasks at once, you're wrong. Multi-tasking actually confuses your brain and slows you down, keeping you from being fully engaged in any one task. Every time you switch back and forth between two tasks, you'll have to slightly reset your mind, which will slow you down.


This is where the to-do list comes in handy: it will make you more motivated to finish your tasks one at a time.
 Distractions are the enemies of focus. If you want to be able to focus fully, then you have to know how to avoid a variety of distractions. If you can do this, then you've won half the battle for truly being able to focus. Here are some ways to avoid distractions:


Don't get distracted online. You should aim to have as few Internet tabs open as possible. The more tabs you have open, the more you'll be multi-tasking and the more likely you'll be to get distracted. You can give yourself five minutes every hour or two to check your email, Facebook, or any other social networking sites that you can't live without. Then you can slowly wean yourself off of these sites during the day.
Avoid texting or g-chatting for non-work related matters while you're doing work. This is a huge time suck and a big distraction.
Don't get distracted by other people. Don't let other people throw you off task, whether it's people in your study group, your colleague, or your friend who is always asking for favors. Put the personal stuff off until after you get your work done, and you'll get your work done faster and will be able to enjoy personal engagements more.
Don't get distracted by your surroundings. If you're in a loud environment, listen to calming music or invest in some noise-cancelling headphones. Though you may be tempted to look around and see what everyone else is up to, allow yourself to only look up every 10 minutes or so to stay focused.
 Though one cup of coffee or one cup of tea a day can help you feel a bit more energized and ready to start your work day, if you have too much caffeine, it can make you too hyped up to focus, or even jittery or shaky after a few hours. It's better to stay hydrated and drink just one cup of tea a day than to fill your system with so much caffeine that you feel too jumpy to get anything done.

