 This will help you earn more AC and get better weapons and armor easier. Initially you will be pitted against other beginners and 'lieutenants' until you reach level 10 in any of the class. So make sure you level up to 10 for all three classes at about the same time. As you progress through the game you can begin concentrating on the class you find suitable and find your unique playstyle.;
, Also refrain from aborting matches as match completion streak will help you gain additional AC, up to 20 percent of the AC gained. If you are not planning on buying GC, be sure to save them and earn more from monthly challenges.
 Make sure to inert armor upgrades in the slots to make your armor more effective. A well balanced armor should have a boosted max health, health regeneration and damage mitigation.
 The Blitz and ADS for the Assault, the Cloak and Scan for Recon, the APS and Blackout for Support. Before a match starts make sure your team has a balanced mixture of each class and the abilities they have. Choose your ability depending on your team composition. Take your time in learning how each device of the three classes work. Keep in mind that your device needs energy to by used. Make sure to use you Squad Support equipment which provides passive benefits to you and your teammates.Ammo or Energy regen for Support, Armor Boost or Health regen for Assault, Motion or Bullet detector for Recon.
 Use cover whenever possible. This boosts weapon control and accuracy and provides protection. Rush forward only when you have your teammates to cover you. Move from cover to cover to minimise exposure to enemy fire. Go into prone or crouch stance when there is nothing ahead to take cover, to improve accuracy and control as well as to make it hard for your enemy to spot you.
 You are not 'Rambo'. Move with your team. Flank your enemies when your teammates provide suppressing fire. Use voice commands and team chat to share enemy positions. Remember team work is rewarded in the game and is encouraged. Use devices like the ADS and APS when you have your team to assist you.
 Learn the maps to find alternate routes, possible flanking options. Play every game mode to familiarize with the mechanics. Try out different weapons and customize them depending on your playstyle.

