 Find a charity organization that you agree with and donate money. Most charities will either take a one time donation or a monthly contribution. Many charities rely on volunteers, but most couldn’t do anything to help without contributors.


Start small by rounding up a dollar at certain retailer who takes donations.
It is easier to give money opposed to lending a physical hand, but even by donating can increase your happiness., Research local charities in your community and choose one that you agree with. Go to their website and contact their volunteer coordinator. Ask about volunteering opportunities. If you look at your schedule you’ll notice some spaces here and there.


Giving can be one of the most rewarding experiences. There are so many who struggle everyday. Many of these people rely on the help from caring volunteers.
A study found that regular volunteering increases the participant's happiness, satisfaction with life, self-esteem, and sense of control on life., There is a large shift for canned food drives. If you are in charge of a firm or event coordination, choose to hold a food drive. Some local communities are even accepting canned food as payment for parking violations.


Always bring canned food if there is an option.
Even if you aren’t in coordination with some type of event, there are plenty of opportunities for donating food year-round.
 You don’t need to go too out of your way to assist others. Hold the door open and let them in before you. It might not be a tremendous gesture, but it could make someone’s day. Simple acts of kindness can even provide mental and physical benefits for yourself.Help someone pick up a dropped item. You’ve seen somebody drop dozens of papers on a busy street before. People drop things all the time. Be a minute late and help someone out.
Allow someone to go in front of you at the grocery store. Offer someone with less items to check out in front of you.
Treat others with compassion. Don’t treat those working behind a register as being lower than yourself. Try avoid the robotic responses that are easier to say to those in the customer service industry. Be kind to everyone you interact with.

