 Drawing on your relationship with the recipient, create a message that includes everything you think would be relevant to them. Communicate personal messages, explain thought processes, include numbers and data on how the donation will be used, and/or share images of those being helped. Which methods do you think will be most meaningful and effective to you recipient?


Aim for including one emotional appeal (e.g., personal story or image) and one logical appeal (e.g., numbers/data or explanation of thought process.);
, In order to communicate the message of your gift, you will want to give them a nice card. Inside this card, you will include your personalized message. Be sure to include some sort of receipt or verification of the donation you made.


Use a neat and legible handwriting.
Print out a receipt of the donation and tape it inside.
Don’t forget to sign the card!

, Rather than buying a card at the store, you can up the ante on your gift by creating a hand-made card. This further highlights the personal and thoughtful nature of your gift.


Take a piece of paper (printer paper, construction paper, or looseleaf notebook paper) and fold in half from top to bottom.
Next, fold it from left to right. Here is the base for your card.
Decorate the front with images from magazines, or draw something with markers.
Include your personalized message and proof of donation inside.
Once again, don’t forget to sign the card!

, Many charities offer Christmas ornaments, stickers, or other small tokens that signify the donation. Wrap up this token and present it to them. This will give them a small physical gift to open, as well as something they can display to feel good about themselves. Include the card that you purchased or made.
 Make sure this digital “thanks” makes its way to your recipient. Include their email address so that the e-card goes directly to them, or forward it to them from your address.


Do this in addition to a physical card and/or token, not instead.
If they are a very public person, many charities allow you to give using a social media platform (like Facebook) and post a “badge” directly on the recipients wall.