 The most common way to test a hypothesis is to create an experiment. A typical experiment uses test subjects or creates conditions where you can see if your hypothesis seems to be true, though it can vary widely across disciplines.For instance, with the cat hypothesis, you could test your hypothesis by offering several different kinds of fish to a certain number of cats to see which they ate first. Make sure the conditions are as close to the same each time as you can make them, such as the distance the fish are apart from each other.
Depending on the hypothesis, you may also need a control group. For example, if you're testing how effective a drug is, you need to have a group on a placebo.
You can also change up the parameters after testing a large group to see if it changes your results. For instance, after testing 50 cats, you might switch the order of the fish around to see if that makes a difference.
 Sometimes, you'll test your hypothesis by observing a natural phenomenon more closely. For instance, maybe you hypothesized that wild bobcats only eat a certain kind of bird. In that case, you would need to observe them in their natural habitat to see if you notice them eating other things., While it can be tempting to only accept data that supports your hypothesis, that's is not scientific or ethical. You must accept all the data and watch for whatever patterns appear, even if it proves your hypothesis to be likely false., If the data doesn't support what you thought was true, then you can make a new hypothesis based on what you know now. For instance, if after observing cats, you find that they actually seem to prefer tuna over salmon, you could make a new hypothesis: "Cats prefer tuna over other fish.", Once you've tested, revised, and tested some more, you can draw a conclusion about your hypothesis. If most cats eat the tuna, then that doesn't absolutely prove your hypothesis true. However, it does lend credibility to it, and eventually, with other support, your hypothesis may become a theory, which has more scientific weight.