 Practice delegation, diplomacy and negotiation.;
, The way you talk to your 10-year-old is different than the way you talk to your 2-year-old. Remember this at work. Different people require different methods of communication depending on their personality and maturity.


Listen attentively and show people they are being heard. This is similar to how you make your children feel like you understand their complaints and feelings.
Provide helpful feedback. When your teenager has a problem, you listen and give advice. Do the same thing with colleagues and/or clients.
 Manage the crises that require immediate attention, but leave time and resources for ongoing projects.
 If you can manage funds for grocery shopping, sports and recreation activities, tuition and the other expenses that come with children, your work expense reports should not be complicated.
 Solutions are essential when it comes to dealing with problems as a parent. Approach work problems with the same creativity, motivation and flexibility.
 As a parent, you know that the world is larger than your office or your company. Be humble and empathetic to others.


Promote work and life balance at your company, especially if you supervise other employees who are parents. Permit them to leave early or come in late when there are school functions or child care issues that need their attention.
 Set a good example for your colleagues, the same way you do for your children. Arrive at work on time, work hard, treat others well and always meet your deadlines and fulfill your responsibilities.


Mentor other parents in your office, especially if they are new to parenting or to the company. Help them to recognize the skills they learned as a parent, and put them to use at work.
 When things get stressful at work, think about how you handle a preschooler who refuses to get dressed or a child who will not eat vegetables.


Use positive reinforcement, consequences and other methods of behavior modification that you learned as a parent.
