 She is nice to everyone, however recently she has developed a bit of backbone. Emily is now very friendly to everyone except those people that have done wrong to her or her loved ones.;
, To be like Emily find a sport that you love and are passionate about! Find a hobby or a sport you love and get to the top of your game. Emily's swimming also helps her to keep fit and healthy. Try finding an active hobby you love in order to help you stay fit and look great!

, She is definitely a 'daddy's girl,' even though he is away from home a lot. Make time for your family. If you live away from home or don't often sit down with your family for a meal, make sure you do at least once a week. Family and friends are everything to Emily.
 When she does eventually admit it to herself and to other people, she feels a lot better. She feels free. The moral is, you should be yourself and let people see the real you. Don't try to hide who you really are.
 However, we all know that she is because she looks absolutely flawless in every episode. I would just suggest going for very neutral and natural shades of makeup. However, my number one tip is to just do what works for you. Everyone is different and what looks great on Emily (Shay Mitchell) may not look great on you.Just try a foundation or bb cream,some concealer to any imperfection and set it with powder. Then line your eyes with a black liner or eye kohl, curl your lashes and apply two coats of mascara(you can try a clear mascara)Apply a peachy pink blush and then use a tinted lipbalm or lipgloss.
 Use curlers if you want to add a little more body and life to your hair, but don't over-do it. Use larger sections of your hair in order to create bigger, fuller and more natural looking curls. Lately, Emily got caramel ombre tips and she has been curling her hair from about halfway down with a straight, sleek, and silky top. Finish off with a little spritz of hairspray.
 I am absolutely in love with her transformation and hope her style continues to get even more edgy. Emily has kept a couple aspects of her wardrobe the same though. Comfort is key. The thing is, she has been looking more fashionable lately while still being comfy. Look for cute cutouts, soft fabrics, layers, etc. Emily has been adding cute patters to the pants she wears as well, whether they are metallic leggings or Aztec printed jeans. Another thing about Emily is her new favourite colour: black! Now I'm not saying you need to wear all black but definitely include it somewhere. An example could be when she wore a black tank with bright blue jeans. Add some colour to brighten up your outfit! For accessories; Emily loves bigger bags, think a hobo or cross body bag. Also, add mostly delicate accessories however some bigger, edgy, rings would be acceptable.
)Maybe just don't do crazy nail art or extra bright shades of polish!You can try a french manicure though.
 In the television series, Emily's room is always clean and tidy. She has a large desk in her room which holds souvenirs and keep-sakes from friends, including the snow-globe Alison gave her. Her bedroom is painted with light colors, yellows and whites. If you have spare money and time, you could try to imitate her bedroom. There are stills from the show on the official Pretty Little Liars website.

