 A key way of always looking feminine and chic is by wearing classic pieces that can help you create the perfect outfit. Here are a few essential wardrobe pieces for you to consider adding to your closet:


Have several pairs of jeans in a variety of styles to flawlessly bring you through the week. Be sure to have a great fitting pair of straight-leg and flare jeans to mix-up your style.
Invest in basic T-shirts, cozy sweaters, simple cardigans, and several blouses that you can wear for any occasion. These are simple pieces that can be mixed-and-matched to create many different outfits.
Be careful with with most fashion trends. It may be better to resist the urge to buy something that is "in" style for the moment because you probably won't be wearing that piece come next year.;
, A good rule to remember is to remove one piece of jewelry before you leave the house. This will keep you from look tacky and distracting from the rest of your outfit. Stick with diamond stud earrings, simple silver or gold chains with pendants, and delicate tennis bracelets.


Statement jewelry is a great way to dress up a basic outfit. Just be sure that if you do wear a larger necklace, big earnings, or bold bracelet, that it is the only piece of jewelry you wear.
 All girls know that wearing the "little black dress" is as close to flawless as a girl can get. However, not just any black dress will do, you have to find one that is special. Keep these tips in mind as you are picking out your perfect black dress:


Look for a dress that hits you around the knee, and one that has unique embellishments. The longer cut will allow you to wear it to any occasion for years to come, and the embellishments will set it a part. Detailing around the sleeve or waist are typically fabulous looks for everyone., While you can not realistically achieve perfection, wearing tights with dresses and skirts can help your legs look near perfect. They help legs look slimmer, and they help mask any veins or blemishes that may be on your legs. During the winter time, opt for a thicker knit tight that will keep your legs warm., Every girl trying to achieve perfection should have classic shoes for every season. When looking for shoes, try to find simple styles and colors that you can wear with any outfit. Here is some footwear you should consider for your closet:


Find several pairs of ballet flats that are comfy to wear. You should have a black and nude pair, along with a couple pairs in fun colors.
For the fall and winter, have a black and brown pair of boots.

