 You want a fresher, younger look without looking like you raided your granddaughter's closet. Trying to dress as a teenager ages a woman rather than making her look younger.
 Mature women should opt for hemlines that flatter the body, and that typically means fewer plunging necklines and tiny mini-skirts. In general, however, adhere to the same rules typically followed by women in their 30’s or 40’s--shorts and skirts should be long enough to cover mid-thigh and necklines not exposing too much cleavage.

However, if you have great legs, show them off, and if your bosom is fabulous, wear V-necks!
Make sure what you wear fits. Too tight or too baggy is typically not good looking.


Shop at women’s stores--not teen or juniors sections. Even though you are a young, hip grandma, you are no longer 20 years-old. Luckily today’s women’s fashions include young styles and colors. Skip swapping clothes with your 15 year old granddaughter and shop in the women’s section. Instead of selecting old fashioned dresses and pant suits, go for younger looking tops, jeans and shorts.
Mix and match fun, bright colors and patterns. Just because you are a grandmother doesn’t mean you have to abandon fashion fun and color. Go with trending colors or patterns to express your love of life.
 No hip grandma would leave the house with grey in her hair or with the same look she wore in the 1980’s. Stay with the trends, but continue with the same mature approach. Use actress Helen Mirren or Goldie Hawn as an inspiration for hair and make up (also fashion).


Grey hair. It happens to most of us with age. You have the choice of coloring your hair, or embracing the grey. There is not one simple answer.
Is coloring the way to go? The best choice route is to visit a professional colorist, who can guide you on the best colors and options for you. However, home dyeing kits often yield very good results.
Visit a professional stylist for a fresh youthful cut. If you haven’t had your style updated in the last few decades now is the time to enter the new millennium. Request a style that is not only hip but goes with your unique personality, face shape and lifestyle.
Check out some of the latest makeup techniques and applications. You want to be hip, but not 14 years old so infuse some of the latest colors and techniques into your repertoire but make them age appropriate.
 Being a hip grandma means that you go with the flow, try to connect and understand the younger generation without judgment or lamenting about how times were “better” when you were a girl.


Lend a trustworthy, listening ear to your children and grandchildren. Leave any judgment in the past and be the kind of grandmother that can be your child or grandchild’s sounding board.
Try new endeavors with your family. If your grandchildren really think you might love zip lining (and you are in relatively good shape), offer to spring for a session and go for it with the kids.
Understand that times have changed since you were young--and that’s o.k. So your grandson wants to live with his girlfriend instead of getting married right away or has a few piercings--be that grandma who tries to understand where he’s coming from and be supportive.
Embrace new technology. Instead of seeing new gadgets and conveniences as a burden or refuse to learn how to send a text message, run toward it and learn more about why people love it. Take a class at the local Apple store or ask your grandchildren to teach you about how to maximize your smart phone usage.
 A cool grandma loves to laugh and continue to find humor in nearly any situation--even if it is relatively immature.


Laugh at yourself. A confident woman can definitely laugh at herself and find humor in her mistakes. She also knows that no matter her age, she is a work in progress, which can make for some pretty humorous material.
Find humor in the little things in life. So your cake turned out lopsided or you were watching “Americas Home Videos” and can’t get enough of watching a dad take the baseball bat to the family jewels; finding humor and silly laughs with your kids and grand kids will certainly make you a favorite, hip gal.
 Just because you are a mature woman doesn’t mean that learning experiences have to stop. Life is a never ending journey of learning and living--continue to embrace learning opportunities and be a role model to your family of how to get the most from life.


Pursue an additional college degree (or pursue a degree). If you always wanted to learn how to be a creative writer, take a class or pursue a degree in creative writing. Perhaps as a kid you earned a degree in something you felt would be more marketable, however now in your golden years the world is your oyster to explore.
Learn a new skill through classes or self exploration. Perhaps you simply want to learn more about a new hobby or have always wanted to learn how to paint with oils; you could either take a class or buy the materials and go for it on your own (or invite the kids, grand kids and friends).
Take up a sport. You may have wondered what this Lacrosse craze is all about--see for yourself by joining a senior league. You may fall in love with the sport.
 The only way you’ll be able to keep up with the family later in life is to maintain your health and prevent disease.


Follow up with all routine tests. If your physician orders a battery of tests, don’t ignore the order; do them. Early detection can add years to your life so be not only hip but smart.
Take medication as prescribed. Want to keep up with younger people? Then follow physician’s orders. You may feel older having to take blood pressure or cholesterol medication but you’ll feel worse if you don’t.
Explore different ways of healthy eating. Stave off illness and disease by adopting a healthy lifestyle. You’ll have more energy and feel happier if you eat healthy, don’t smoke and limit alcohol intake.
Continue (or start) to exercise every day. Think of fitness guru Jack LaLa land, who exercised and lived until he was 97. Clean living and exercise allowed Jack to do more push ups and pull ups than a person half his age. LaLanne once said, "I know so many people in their 80s who have Alzheimer's or are in a wheelchair or whatever. And I say to myself 'I don't want to live like that. I don't want to be a burden on my family. I need to live life. And I'd hate dying; it would ruin my image.'" Jack was a very hip grandpa.

