 Forget standard radio. Browse all kinds of stations--international, rap, hip hop, electronica, alternative, blues, soundtracks, jazz, and so on. Let them play in the background while you browse the Web, answer e-mails, etc. If you hear a song you like, write down the title, album, and artist, if possible. Some good sites include: pandora.com, accuradio.com jango.com, last.fm and deezer.com, but there are plenty of other great ones.;
, Type in the name of a band or song that struck you and listen to samples of all their albums and songs. Check out related artists (often mentioned in editorial reviews and the recommendation section) too. Find out what music genre the song or musician(s) you're interested in fall into, and shop by genre.
 You know that guy on the bus who wears a trench coat, eyeliner, and fingerless gloves? Yeah, he may have some interesting turns playing. Look at the kid with the lip ring and the bag of art supplies. Next time you see him bobbing his head to his iPod, ask him what he's listening to. Either he'll think you're rude, or, more likely, he'll be delighted at the chance to share his musical taste with someone who's actually curious. Instead of asking people how they're enjoying (or not) the weather, ask them questions like:


What's the first CD you bought?






What's the last CD you bought?






If you had to choose one song to summarize your life, what would it be?






Has a song ever made you cry?






If you were to make a soundtrack to your life, what would be on it?







, Often, an artist or group puts out one or two singles that engage popular appeal but are uncharacteristic of their work. And quite commonly, the jewels of music are buried in albums, far away from radio play. So, if a catchy single drew you in, don't be surprised and throw the CD away if the rest of the songs aren't just like it.
 It's best to listen to an album three times before you make your judgment, especially if it's a genre you don't normally listen to. For example, if you're listening to your first heavy metal CD, you'll probably spend the first run furrowing your eyebrows as your ears adjust. By the second run, you might start to feel your toes tap, and a little bit of headbanging coming on. And by the third time around, you could very well be singing along and listening carefully to the lyrics. You don't necessarily have to listen to an album three times in a row--just make sure you've given it the full benefit of the doubt before you toss it.
 Find out who the local bands are and where they play. Visit venues that feature independent artists. If you live near a major city, find out where you can listen to great music live and go there. Even if it's a group or performer you've never heard of, and/or a type of music you don't normally like, sometimes listening to music live can make a believer out of you and change your listening perspective.
 You can better appreciate music by understanding how it works. Music has many layers, which are difficult to recognize and enjoy without knowing what the difference is between music and noise. In other words, listening to music without understanding music theory is like being into cars without having any idea what's under the hood.
 What better way to further your appreciation for musical artists and the work they create than by learning to create it yourself? Cover your favorite songs. If you're drawn to certain songs and genres because of the emotion it stirs in you, chances are, that emotion will be amplified if you genuinely try to play that music yourself. And who knows? You might discover your inner musician and start creating music of your own.
 The library is a wonderful repository of wealth. Think of it like this: what's theirs is yours!. Besides all the books there, libraries also stock music--all kinds of music: rap, country and western (both the modern and the old), blues, classical, opera, world music, reggae, techno, minimalism, trance, disco, etc.). Whatever your library doesn't have, they can order from other libraries.
 Then, explore some of the music they listen to that doesn't fit the niche you've carved for yourself. Give it a chance even if it takes you out of your musical comfort zone a bit (see previous note on listening to an album more than once). When you listen with an open mind as opposed to with your prejudgment, you'll often be surprised at what you actually do enjoy! Ask your friend for recommendations they think you'd enjoy but that you normally wouldn't listen to.
 Identify a few artists you consistently enjoy, and find their collaborations. Next, check out compilation albums that have included the artist, and listen for other artists on the compilation album you might enjoy. Similarly, find soundtracks which feature their music- both approaches, you're likely to discover artists with musical styles similar to your "always-in-your-CD-player" artist.

