 People are unable to pay their child support obligations for a variety of reasons. You should get documentation that will show a judge your reason why you can’t pay. Begin by identifying the reason you don’t have a job or why you don’t make enough to pay child support:


medical illness
disability
layoff
imprisonment
other reason;
, If you have been sick or have become disabled, you need proof. You should get all relevant medical records from your doctor.If you have applied for disability, then find a copy of your application. You can submit these documents to the judge.
 People who have been laid off should find the copy of their termination notice. You can submit this to the judge as proof that you have lost your job. If you’ve only had a reduction in hours, then you should get a copy of whatever notice you received, whether it is a letter, bulletin, email, etc.


If you don’t have paper documentation, then you might be able to get an affidavit from your employer explaining that your hours have been cut. An affidavit is a written statement someone signs in front of a notary public., If you’ve been imprisoned, then find copies of the judgement against you. You should contact your lawyer, if necessary. Because you are in prison, you will probably need the help of family and friends or your lawyer to get the necessary paperwork.
 You need to prove to the judge a significant change in circumstances.You must meet this legal standard in order to modify your child support. Whatever your reasons for needing a modification, you should find documents that you can show the judge.


The worst thing is to go into court with nothing but your own testimony. Judges have seen a lot of people come through their courtrooms with a hard luck story trying to get a reduction in child support. You will appear more believable if you have paper documentation.
 If you lost your job but can still work (e.g., you aren’t disabled), then you should be actively seeking a new job.Keep detailed notes of all the jobs you have applied to, including the dates, and whether you have received an interview.


Hold onto any rejection letters or other communications from the employers you have contacted.
 Many states have a formula they use to determine whether a change is sufficiently substantial to warrant a child support modification. For example, in Florida, the change must result in a $50 change to the child support award or a 15% change, whichever is greater.For example, if you pay $200 a week in child support, then you can only seek modification if you could lower your child support to $150 a week.
You should use your state’s child support calculator to determine whether the change in your income is sufficient.If you need help analyzing your situation, then you should contact a qualified family law attorney for a consultation.
 You have to continue to make child support payments until the judge agrees to modify your child support. Only the judge can change the amount.If you stop paying, then your back payments will be called “arrears,” and you may accrue interest on the unpaid amount.


Try to borrow money from friends or family, if you have to.
However, you probably shouldn’t put the payments on a credit card unless you have a very low interest rate. The interest rate for unpaid child support in most states is 10% or less.Most credit cards charge more in annual interest.
 You can always reach an agreement to modify your child support on your own. You should call up the other parent and explain your situation. This might not be easy—especially if you think the other parent won’t agree to the change. Nevertheless, you should ask.If the other parent agrees, you can write up a stipulation and submit it to the judge for approval. You should explain what the new payment amount will be and how long it will last. Your court should have a printed form you can use.For example, if you are in jail for a year, then you can agree to reduce or suspend payments for a year but then start again as soon as you get released.
 The other parent might not agree to a modification. In that situation, you’ll need to draft a different motion and ask the judge to reduce your child support payments. The court may have a printed, fillable form you can use. Stop in and ask the court clerk.
 In order to ask for a modification, you typically must complete the same detailed financial forms that you completed before the judge set your original child support order. You should ask the court clerk to make sure you have everything. In order to complete this form, you will probably need the following information:gross income from all sources
itemized deductions from your gross income
other deductions from salary or wages
weekly expenses, such as rent, utilities, food, insurance, and transportation costs
lawyer fees (if any)
value of your real estate
value of your motor vehicles
value of any insurance policies, such as life insurance
amount in your savings, checking accounts, and money market accounts
debts

, Once you’ve finished the motion and related forms, you should make several copies. Take the copies and the original to the court which issued the original child support order.Ask the court clerk to file. The clerk can stamp your copies with the filing date.


You may have to pay a filing fee. If you can’t afford the fee, then ask the clerk for a fee waiver form., You need to send the other parent a copy of your motion, along with a “summons,” which you can get from the court clerk. Since you can’t serve notice yourself, be sure to have someone arrange service on the parent.


For example, you can have someone 18 or older who isn’t part of the lawsuit hand deliver the motion on the other parent.
In some states you can have the sheriff or constable make delivery., You also need to get a hearing date from the court clerk.Each court handles this process a little differently. In some courts, you will schedule the hearing when you file your motion. You will also have to tell the other parent of the day and time.


However, in other courts, the court clerk will schedule a hearing at a later date and notify everyone.
 You want to look clean and neat. Make sure your clothes are freshly laundered and pressed. However, you should avoid looking too good. You want to convince the judge that you don’t have a lot of money to pay your child support.


You should avoid wearing jewelry, for example, since a judge might wonder why you didn’t pawn your jewelry to make your payments.
 As the person bringing the motion, you will go first. Remember that you need to convince the judge that there has been a substantial change in your circumstances.It’s probably not enough that you find paying child support burdensome. You should prepare by doing the following:


Provide a short summary of what has changed in your life. Keep it to a few sentences. You won’t have a lot of time to talk to the judge.
Write out your strongest three arguments for why child support should be modified.
Organize your documentation. For example, if you have become disabled, then put your medical records first, then any proof of qualifying for disability payments second. This is a logical, chronological order.
 On your hearing date, the clerk will call your name and you and the other parent will move to the front of the court room. Be sure to speak clearly and slowly so that the judge can hear you.
 The judge might ask you questions. You shouldn’t interrupt the judge but let them speak. When answering, remember to get to the point and try to answer the judge’s question directly.


Always remember to call the judge “Your Honor.”, The other parent also gets to argue why the child support should not be modified. You must stand quietly and listen. Don’t interrupt and don’t raise your hand as if asking to speak. You will have a chance to respond.When the other parent stops talking, ask the judge, “Your Honor, can I respond to that?”

, At the end of the hearing, the judge should make a decision on your motion. If you win, then the judge should enter a new order stating what your new child support obligation will be.

