 Allow other drivers to pass you or get over into your lane if needed. Being courteous puts everyone in a more stable state of mind.
 Talking or texting while driving is a terrible distraction that often causes accidents. Road rage can be triggered if an angry driver spots you using your phone in the car.Cell phone usage causes more than 25% of auto accidents in the US.
13 US states and D.C. have laws prohibiting hand-held phone use while driving: California, Connecticut, Delaware, Hawaii, Illinois, Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New York, Oregon, Vermont, Washington, and West Virginia.
Talking on a hand-held phone is also illegal in Puerto Rico, Guam, and the US Virgin Islands.
37 states and D.C. ban phone use while driving for novice drivers (drivers under a specified age – anywhere from 16 to 20, depending on the state).
Texting while driving is even more dangerous than talking on the phone. If you're driving 55 mph and take your eyes off the road for 5 seconds to read a text, that's the equivalent of driving the entire length of a football field, while blindfolded.
 Any time you plan to make a turn or change lanes, use your turn signal. It can be extremely frightening when someone suddenly cuts into the lane ahead of you, without warning you first. This is a major road rage trigger for some people., Twice. When changing lanes, especially at interstate highway speeds, be sure to look behind you and check any blind spots to make sure you aren't going to accidentally cut somebody off. Slotting into a lane carelessly and forcing the driver in that lane to slam on the brakes can easily spark road rage., Excessive honking is a road rage trigger for many people, and it's just generally a rude thing to do. Your horn should only be used in rare situations when you need to alert another driver of your presence.Use your horn if another driver doesn't seem to see you while backing out of a parking space.
Use your horn to alert another driver that your lane is occupied, if it looks like they are about to swerve into you.
Do not use your horn because you're tired of sitting still in a traffic jam. Everyone else is equally annoyed, and using your horn will only make people angry. It won't alleviate the traffic.
Do not use your horn to punish the driver in front of you if they don't immediately move when the light turns green. (If they continue to sit still, you can honk. Just try not to be obnoxious about it.)

, When it's dark out and you're using your high beams for increased visibility, always remember to switch over to regular beams when you spot an oncoming car. Being blinded by an inconsiderate person's high beams on a dark, deserted road is a recipe for road rage., When the car behind you is following too closely, don't slam on the brakes to “wake them up.” This often leads to a rear-end collision. Even tapping your brakes lightly, hoping the other driver will take the hint, can lead to a crash. Using your 4-way hazards when someone's narrowing the distance behind you, or if you see traffic slowing ahead is safer than using your brakes right away, as you are alerting everyone behind you. When you are being tailgated (followed too closely for safety), move to a different lane if possible.
If you can't change lanes, slow down gradually and allow the driver behind to pass you.

