 Start by soaking the metal in bleach to kill the mildew and remove discoloration. Make a solution of water and bleach in a 3:1 ratio. Let the metal soak in the solution for approximately 20 minutes. Rinse your metal with plain water after you've finished. If the metal is new or free from any mildew, you can proceed without soaking the object in bleach., Rough up the surface with a wire brush. You can also use an electric sander with coarse sandpaper, a power drill, or a rotary tool to remove all debris. Choose a grit between 36 and 100 to remove rust and smooth flaws.Wear eye protection and a dust mask to avoid getting metal fragments in your eyes or lungs. Use a pair of work gloves to avoid injuries.
For large objects, you can remove rust, debris, and old paint with a liquid commercial rust remover.
 Mineral spirits are a type of turpentine-free paint thinner. Wipe the metal down with a rag dampened with mineral spirits. Remove any dust and debris that may be left behind from sanding. Make sure the surface is completely clean and dry so that the primer will stick to the object.


Keep in mind that mineral spirits will strip any existing fresh paint.
Also remember that mineral spirits will only strip away paint that is still fresh. If you want to remove existing paint that won't come off with mineral spirits, try cleaning your metal with turpentine instead., Spray the primer on the surface in a smooth, even layer. You should coat the metal with primer as soon as the surface has been prepared to avoid dirt or rust accumulating on the surface again.Choose a primer specifically recommended for the type of metal you are painting.


Choose a spray primer in the same color as the finish when possible.
Try to purchase a primer in the same brand as the paint you will buy, as colors are more likely to be better matched and chemically compatible.
Purchase primer that is rust resistant.
Priming with a paint brush is very difficult to do without leaving streaks. Use a spray primer for best results.
Read the directions on the product to determine the necessary time for the primer to dry.
 Be sure to shake the can first. Hold down the nozzle and coat the desired areas. Use masking tape or painter's tape to cover any areas you want to avoid painting. Hold the can approximately a foot away from the object. Start spraying off to the side of the object and move the can with a continuous motion across the metal object without pausing. Allow paint to dry.


Control your environment. If you are painting a smaller object, you can place it in a cardboard box and apply your paint.
If you pause while spraying, you may notice a splotch appear. Use a cloth to wipe away the wet paint immediately before it can dry. Allow the remaining paint to dry before starting again.
Galvanized metals have a thin layer of zinc chromate. The biggest reason for paint chipping or not adhering to galvanized metal is that the paint bonds to the zinc coating, or the residue collected on the surface, rather than the metal itself.If you have a piece of galvanized metal, look for a paint that doesn't contain any alkyds,as these oil-based binders can react with the zinc coating.
 Once the first coat of paint has dried, you will want to apply a second coat of paint to the surface. Adding a second coat of paint will increase the life of your paint job. Allow the paint to dry.


To get the best results, always wait 24 hours between applying coats of paint.