 The shock of being given a terminal diagnosis can make it difficult for you to focus on the information that comes next. Rely on someone else whom you trust to remain relatively composed to provide a second set of ears to gather the information and advice you need going forward.If your terminal diagnosis comes without warning and you are all alone at the appointment, ask if you can return within a few days along with your chosen support person. Make sure important information about your condition and your options is put in writing for your later reference. Take the opportunity to draw up questions to ask the doctor.;
, There is no single “right way” to die; it’s an individual art, not a science. Some people will want to talk to everyone, while others will want to keep to themselves. However, even the most reticent people with terminal illnesses are best served by having people they trust to serve as comforting listeners.If you are most comfortable talking openly with a loved one, by all means do so. However, in some cases it may be difficult to speak candidly if that person is dealing with stress or depression due to your condition. If so, or if you are more comfortable talking about your fears and concerns with a stranger, seek out a professional counselor.Whomever you choose as your “sounding board,” make sure it is a person who is an active listener — someone who is content to focus on what you need to say.
 As is the case with people dealing with rare illnesses, the internet can be an extremely valuable resource for someone experiencing a sense of isolation due to a terminal diagnosis. Often, only other people facing the end of their lives can truly understand how you are feeling.Talk to your medical team and palliative care providers about available support communities for your terminal illness. When looking online, start with established organizations that specialize in end-of-life networking, such as the Marie Curie Society in the UK.You have the right to control all aspects of your end-of-life period, including how often and how much you choose to share with a terminal illness community. Whether it involves physical group meetings or virtual chat rooms and social media connections, use such networking to help you cope in the way that is right for you.
 In the past few decades, hospice (or palliative) care has become a standard component of end-of-life medical care. Its cost is often covered by insurance or government programs — by Medicare in the U.S., for instance. Talk to your medical team and people with experience with hospice for advice and information.


Shop around to find the right hospice “fit” for you. Do some research and conduct interviews. Check out How to Choose a Hospice Care Program for a range of useful information about hospice care and how to find the right provider for your needs.
 Some people with a terminal illness prefer to spread the word far and wide and provide ample details. Others prefer to keep the news private for as long as possible. Determine who you want to have “in the loop” about your diagnosis, and clearly state if, how, and to whom you want the news shared further.Your closest family members, like a spouse or children, are the only people to whom you might conceivably (but not necessarily) “owe” the truth about your condition. Don’t worry about whether other people might be upset if you don’t tell them. If there is ever a time to focus on your needs and your preferences, this is it.
The same holds true when it comes to how you choose to (or not to) say your “goodbyes.” Make the choices that are right for you., Even when your life’s end is coming soon, it is important to take care of yourself physically so that you can: A) fight your illness and hold on as long as possible; or B) be more free to enjoy your remaining days by doing what you want. This doesn’t mean it is a bad idea to indulge yourself, though. Prioritize activities and people that bring you comfort, pleasure, peace, and joy.For instance, if massages or aromatherapy sessions help you relax, utilize them.
Consider drawing up a “wish list” (sometimes also called a “bucket list”) of things you want to do in your remaining time. Ask friends and loved ones to help you achieve as many of them as possible. Depending on your condition and age (and especially if you are a child), you may be able to find an organization that will help to make your final dreams come true., Don’t leave people guessing about how you want to live out the remainder of your days, or how you want the period surrounding your actual death to transpire. Ask for support and guidance in determining the course that is right for you, but always remember that you are the one in charge of your life, including its final stage.People may — with good intentions — sometimes ignore your wishes because they are trying to help. Show appreciation for their concern and support, but insist that your preferences be accepted.
For instance, people providing care for you — perhaps by changing your soiled clothing or bathing you — may lose sight of your desire for privacy and conduct this care in front of other people. If this bothers you, speak up. You have every right to protect your dignity as you see fit right up to the end of your life., Nearly everyone facing a terminal diagnosis will experience some amount of depression. Just because you don’t have long to live, however, does not mean you should leave your depression untreated, especially if it is holding you back from making the most of your remaining time.If you feel like there is a dark cloud hovering over you at all times and it prevents you from living out the rest of your life as you wish, talk to your doctor about possible depression treatment options. These may include therapy and/or medication.
 Depending upon where you live, some combination of government benefits and insurance coverage may be available to help you deal with the expenses and practical matters associated with an end-of-life situation. Do your homework — or have a trusted friend or loved one do it for you — so that you can be sure to receive all the support to which you are entitled. Your medical team, counselors, and caregivers may also be able to provide guidance.


To name but a few examples, the United States,United Kingdom,and Australiangovernments all provide some amount of financial and other support for hospice care and other end-of-life concerns.
 When given a terminal diagnosis, some people immediately begin trying to settle their finances and related matters, while others can’t bring themselves to contemplate such things. No matter your inclination, ask for help in putting your affairs in order when needed and accept good help when it is offered.Again, however, this is a part of the dying process that should be dictated by your personal preferences and wishes. Don’t worry too much about whether you will be creating a burden of paperwork for your loved ones if you don’t act, or alternatively obsess so much about getting every little thing taken care of that you miss out on enjoying your last days. Prioritize which matters need to be addressed now, and those that can be dealt with now or later.
Seek out the assistance of a trusted attorney or financial advisor as needed.
 When word spreads that you have a terminal illness, many people will naturally (and hopefully, genuinely) offer to “do whatever they can to help.” Often, however, they have no idea how they can help. To maximize the benefits both to yourself and for the person offering assistance, be specific regarding what you need.Making small, practical requests of assistance to people can make them feel helpful to you in a time of need, and can also make your life that little bit easier. If you need someone to get groceries, clean up around your house, or watch your kids for a bit, let the people you trust know this specifically.
Don’t feel obligated to accept a specific offer of assistance — taking you to get a haircut, for instance — if you are not interested or in need of it. Instead, kindly ask if the person can help in another specific way that you do need.

