 Remove the top from a pint-sized whipped cream dispenser and pour in the whipping cream. Then add in the 2 tablespoons (29.5 ml) of pure maple syrup.Chill the canister for at least a few hours before you use it.
You can buy whipped cream canisters and chargers at kitchen specialty stores. They are typically made of stainless steel because the material chills easily.
Making whipped cream in a canister is mess-free, makes the whipped cream easier to dispense, and also helps the whipped cream last longer.
 After you pour in the whipping cream and maple syrup, screw the head back on the dispenser and shake it for about ten seconds to mix up the contents.Make completely sure that you have screwed the head on properly, or else you could have a mess on your hands!
Also be sure that the rubber gasket is in place between the top and the body of the canister, or else it won’t seal properly and gas will escape.
 After you have sealed the canister, unscrew the rod-like unit at the top of the container that holds the charger. Take one nitrous oxide charger and put it inside the unit that you unscrewed., After you put the nitrous oxide charger into the rod-like holder, screw the rod back onto the canister until you hear a popping noise.The popping noise occurs when the nitrous oxide charger is pierced by a pin, letting the nitrous oxide fill the canister. The nitrous oxide helps preserve the whipped cream inside the canister, and also creates pressure so that the cream can be properly dispensed through the nozzle.
 Hold the whipped cream canister in your dominant hand and turn it upside-down. Give the canister a few vigorous shakes to mix up everything inside., After shaking your whipped cream, aim the nozzle over your baked goods or whatever treats you are garnishing, then press the lever. After a second or so, the whipped cream will dispense out of the nozzle!If the whipped cream is too runny, shake the dispenser for a few seconds, then try again.
Store the whipped cream for up to two weeks in the refrigerator. Shake the container for 15-30 seconds before dispensing each time you use it.

