 The gut relies on a population of bacteria to aid digestion. If your dog has had a poor diet and soft stools for a while, then the bowel can get an overgrowth of "unhelpful" bacteria, and an imbalance in the natural and desirable bacterial balance in the gut. Supplementing with "helpful" bacteria can help correct this imbalance, improve digestion, and firm up a soft stool. The bacteria needed is called Enterococcus faecium and this is contained in non-prescription probiotic powders called Fortiflora. This is a dog-specific probiotic. It comes in sachets and typically you mix one sachet a day into the dog's food, for about five days.Dogs do not have the same bowel fauna as people, so feeding them human probiotics at best is thought not to be helpful, and at worst, the lactose in the human products could trigger diarrhea.Fortiflora can be purchased without a prescription online or from your veterinarian
In general, you should give larger dog breeds at least one small bottle per day for five days, or half a bottle for five days for small breeds.
 Some dogs with soft stools benefit from increased fiber in their diet. Fiber helps soak up fluid like a sponge and can help normalize the feces, drying up diarrhea and firming up a soft stool. It also is thought to reduce the risk of colon cancer, and is a bulking agent which helps the dog feel fuller for longer and decrease their calorie intake if overweight.However, you can have too much of a good thing, so on food packaging look for a crude fiber content at or around 10%.You can add fiber to their diet by mixing in oat or wheat bran. Start with around 1 teaspoon per 10 kg of your dog's body weight.
Also consider giving raw fruit and vegetables; however, avoid canned vegetables, as they often have high salt levels.
 Dogs with soft stools lose extra water because of the raised fluid content, so it is important for them to have free access to clean drinking water to replace this lost fluid. Wash and clean your dog’s water bowl at least every other day and make sure that he or she always has fresh, clean water.
 If taking a bath is stressful to your dog, try to delay it for a few days and observe if the stool firms up. In some dogs there is a strong link between stress and digestive disturbances. If this is the case, you need to reduce the stress in order to firm the stool.


Stress causes the physiology of the intestines to become more basic (acidic intestines favor the good bacteria), making it harder for your dog to process foods.In these circumstances give the bowel less work to do by putting the dog onto a bland, easy to digest diet such as chicken and white rice.
 While a lot of cases of soft stool can be cleared up simply through changes to diet, it can be a sign of other health problems. If your dog continues to pass soft stools, even after you have tried changing their diet, take them to a vet to get checked out.

