 Take your children with you during shopping trips and allow some autonomy in choosing clothing, lunch bags, or backpacks. You can also make a day of it and take them to a favorite place for lunch, and then go with them to a park or playground afterwards. This will help to create a tradition that they will look forward to every year.


Even if your child wears a school uniform, they can get pumped up about a new school year with fun and colorful notebooks, pencils, and other school supplies.;
, Whether your child is attending a new school this year or is a little nervous about returning to a familiar school, attending an orientation session can help ease their fears. Orientation gives your child – and you – an idea of what to expect during the upcoming school year. It’s also a good chance to meet your child’s teacher.If your child’s school doesn’t offer any orientation sessions, visit the school with your child before school starts and look around. Building familiarity with the school will help your child feel more comfortable on their first day. You can even practice their route with them from the car to their classroom or from class to class to help ease their nerves.
 It’s important for your child to connect with their teacher as early as possible. This is especially true if your child is young and hasn’t spent much time away from parents before. If your child knows and likes their teacher, they will be less likely to feel separation anxiety on the first day of school.If your child’s school does not offer an orientation program, ask if you can stop by briefly before classes start so your child can meet their teacher. Most teachers will be happy to oblige. With your child present, tell the teacher a little bit about your child to facilitate the building of a relationship. Hopefully the teacher will reciprocate and tell you and your child a little about him or herself.
 If your child is worried about certain things happening at school, like being bullied or not knowing anyone in their class, help them manage their fears by role-playing these situations. If your child is having a hard time verbalizing their fears, then try to think of anything traumatic in their past that may be contributing to their concerns.


Give your child examples of things he or she might do or say if these events occurred. By practicing coping strategies in a safe environment, your child will feel less fearful about these scenarios playing out in real life.For example, your child may want to practice introducing him/herself to a new class. Let him or her practice in front of you in order to ease the butterflies that may come on the first day.
You may also want to teach your child some stress-relieving exercises that they can do to help them if hey do become stressed, such as deep breathing, progressive muscle relaxation, or meditation.
 Going back to school can feel a little scary for young children and teens alike. A positive mindset can make a big difference in the way your child processes their stress and handles the first few days of school. Talk to your child about the exciting parts of going back to school, and remind them of all the things they’ll enjoy, such as seeing their friends again.It may also help to help your child create positive affirmations to repeat for going back to school. These may be “This year will be great!” or “I will learn many new and interesting things this year.”
Encourage your child to join you in reminiscing about their favorite parts of school the previous year. Ask them about specific things they enjoyed to get them focusing on all the little the details that they like about school.
 Whether it’s band, theater, or soccer, starting a new extracurricular activity is exciting. Extracurricular activities are a great way for kids to make new friends and develop their skills throughout the school year.


Having a fun new activity to look forward to may help take your child’s mind off their back-to-school nervousness, too., Another way to get your children pumped up about returning to school is to go ahead and start scheduling playdates. Kids may feel anxiety about starting a new school year when they feel out of touch with friends or don't have any friends at their school at all. Reconnecting with their old pals before the start of school, or meeting potential new friends, may help lessen some of the anxiety.


Plan a small back-to-school party or sleepover and invite kids in your child's grade. This is a great way to re-establish old connections, form new ones, and meet other parents., It can be hard for kids to get back into a routine of reading and studying if they haven’t cracked a book open all summer. Help your kids ease back into the academic demands of the school year by encouraging them to maintain a reading habit even when classes aren’t in session.


Aside from priming your child for a new school year, regular reading keeps kids’ minds sharp, making school assignments seem like less of a chore.You can incentivize reading by allowing them to exchange reading time for other things they want to do over the summer, such as taking a trip to the beach, visiting an amusement park, or attending an event.
 Good habits like eating nutritious foods, exercising, and getting enough rest will help your child adapt to the change of going back to school.


Kids who have healthy habits are less likely to feel stressed out during big transitions like returning to the classroom. Getting enough exercise and sleep can also help kids focus better when it’s time to do homework or pay attention in class.Make sure to require that your kids a certain amount of time outside every day. If your children are older, then you can allow them to select their favorite type of exercise and you can help them stick with it. You can also include them in preparing meals to help keep them active.
 After a summer of long, unstructured days, returning to a schedule full of responsibilities can be a jarring change for many kids – and parents, too. Help your child adjust by adding some structure to their routine in the days or weeks leading up to the start of school. Assign your child some chores or reading time every day, and use a planner or a calendar to keep track of upcoming appointments as your schedule starts to fill up again.If your kids have gotten into the habit of staying up late, now is the time to help them ease back into a more school-friendly sleep schedule. Every day, wake your kids up 10 to 15 minutes earlier than the day before, and shift their bedtime by the same amount of time.If your children are older, then you may want to encourage them to hold a part-time job during the summer. This may help them to make the transition to college and/or working later on.
 Completing homework assignments is an essential part of doing well in school. Help your kids get into a good homework routine by setting up a quiet, non-distracting place for them to study. Make sure that pencils, paper, and other materials they’ll need are easily accessible.You will likely need to help them a lot at first, but them gradually dial back your involvement as they get used to having homework.


If your child gets stuck on an assignment or needs help finding resources, assist them in looking things up online or finding materials at the library.Some parents do their children’s homework for them. Do not do this – it doesn’t help your child, and it may hurt their understanding later on. Instead, help your child think about the assignment and come up with their own answers.
 It’s a good idea to make a back-to-school checkup a yearly tradition. A quick visit to the pediatrician can confirm that your child is healthy and ready to start a new year of school. A back-to-school doctor’s visit is also a good opportunity to make sure your child has all the immunizations they need.Some schools require children to have immunizations by a certain age. Check with your local school board to find out their specific requirements.
 If your child has medical issues, food allergies, a learning disability—or any other special circumstances that might require extra attention from the teacher or other school officials—make sure they have this information at the start of the school year. The teacher will appreciate having this knowledge up front. Plus, this allows your child the opportunity to enjoy an optimal learning experience from day one., A new school year brings with it a lot of new responsibilities and things to keep track of. Adopt an organizational system early on to manage all the new information that comes your way. Use a calendar or planner to keep important dates and meetings in one place, and get a special folder or binder to save important papers for reference later.Establish clear communication with your child about their schedule so you don’t end up in a last-minute panic over a meeting or appointment you didn’t know about. Choose a time each week to check in with them about any upcoming projects or events.
Keep in mind that your child’s school may have an online system where you can check on their grades, homework assignments, and upcoming tests. If so, this will make keeping track of what they have going on much easier on you.
 You don’t have to figure out the best way to help your child transition back to school on your own. A wealth of resources exists for parents who want to help their kids get a smooth start to the school year. A good place to start is Edutopia’s back-to-school resource list for parents. This list has advice on a multitude of topics, including health and safety, communicating with teachers, and instilling good study habits.Be aware that study habits are often not taught in school, so you will likely have to take charge of teaching your child how to do this yourself.

