 Mix liquid detergent and a few drops of ammonia into a bowl of hot water. Immerse your silver and scrub away any dirt, oil, or residue that may be on the item. Use a soft bristle brush, such as a toothbrush, to work in the cleaning solution.If you don’t have ammonia, you can still wash your item with just liquid detergent., Add two cups (.5 liters) of water to a large bowl or container. Add ¼ teaspoon (1.25 milliliters) of patina gel to the water. Stir until the mixture is a pale yellow.


A darker yellow solution will work faster, but a quick finish will not be as strong. It’s better to allow your piece to treat for longer in a weaker solution.You can purchase liver sulfur patina gel at craft supply stores or through online retailers.
 Don’t immerse your item. Instead, dip the piece into the solution then pull it out after a few seconds. The patina gel will work quickly. After you dip, check the color to see if it is your preferred finish.Wear rubber gloves while you dip the silver to protect your skin.
 You may need to dip the piece several times to reach your preferred shade, but don’t be tempted to rush the process by immersing it because a rushed process can result in an uneven or damaged finish. Only leave it in the solution for a few seconds at a time.Additionally, allowing the item to oxidize for too long can cause pitting., Your neutralizing bath should contain water and a small amount of baking soda. Sprinkle a few pinches of baking soda over the water, and then stir it. You don’t need much baking soda to create your solution., You need to neutralize the patina gel or it will continue to darken your item even after you have removed it from the solution. The baking soda in your neutralizing bath will deactivate the sulfur, stopping the oxidation process. Dip the piece for a few seconds, then remove it to check the finish.Don’t allow your items to soak, as this could remove the finish you just added.
 If you want your piece to look natural, remove the finish from the high spots. Rub a small amount of baking soda onto the raised areas of your piece to restore the polish to those areas. This will make your antique finish look more natural.If you want a more consistent color or are happy with the look of your piece, you can skip this step.

