 A programmable thermostat can monitor your house temperature, keeping it warmer or cooler when you’re not there. For example, if you’re away during the day at work, a programmable thermostat can keep the inside temperature warmer than you’d usually keep it, and trigger the A/C only when you get home. Using one properly can save you up to $180 a year.Do some research before investing in a programmable thermostat. If yours isn’t easy to use, it might not end up saving you money or energy., Your old appliances, such as water heaters, refrigerators, and stoves, could be wasting a lot of energy. Replacing them with Energy Star-qualified products will ensure that your home uses less energy.There are often tax credits for replacing old, energy-inefficient products with new eco-friendly ones. The US Department of Energy has a full list of these credits here.If you can’t afford to replace your water heater, buy a specially designed insulating blanket and wrap it around the water heater. These blankets are available at most home improvement stores and take only a few minutes to install. This will help reduce wasted energy., Traditional toilets can use up to 7 gallons of water per flush. These water-guzzlers create a lot of waste. Look for “low flow” toilets to be eco-friendly.Look for toilets with the WaterSense label. These toilets use about 20% less water per flush than standard toilets., Showers account for about 17% of the average American’s indoor water usage. Swapping your old showerhead for a "low flow" or water-saving showerhead can reduce your water consumption by up to 2,900 gallons a year.Look for showerheads with the WaterSense label. These showerheads have been approved according to Environmental Protection Agency standards.
 A lot of energy can seep out through your attic and basement. Insulating these areas can reduce your home’s energy consumption. It can also cut your heating and cooling bills by making it easier to maintain a consistent temperature inside.GreenFiber cellulose insulation is an eco-friendly alternative to traditional insulation. GreenFiber is made of shredded recycled newspapers. It can be blown through small holes into walls, so it is easy to use when you’re remodeling. You can find a dealer at their website., Rather than buying new furniture, consider hitting up thrift shops and websites such as Craigslist and Freecycle. Recycling an old treasure rather than buying a new piece can save trees and your wallet., Traditional paints contain damaging volatile organic compounds (VOCs) that can continue being emitted into your home’s atmosphere for 5 years after painting. Look for paints that are plant-based and water-borne.If you can’t find plant-based paints, try to find paints that are labeled “VOC-free.” Many large paint manufacturers, such as Benjamin Moore, produce VOC-free paint., If your budget won’t allow for replacing older, inefficient windows, insulating them can be a good option to make your home more energy efficient. It’s easy to insulate your windows and keep your home cozy year-round.Use caulking and weatherstripping around windows to stop air from seeping in (or out). This can cut heat loss in the winter and keep you cool in the summer.
Thermal or light-blocking window treatments can also help reduce energy waste by blocking sunlight. This is particularly helpful in hot climates.Make sure to use draught-stoppers at the bottom of doors, too. You can buy these at many retailers, or make your own.
 Motion-sensing lights are quite common outdoors, such as near garages or walkways. However, you can also install inexpensive motion sensors indoors. These will turn the lights on when you enter, and off when you leave a room. This could be very helpful if you have a hard time remembering to switch off the lights when you leave., You can buy a variety of solar-powered outdoor lights, from high-powered driveway floodlights to small walkway lamps. If you live in an area that gets a lot of sun during the day, these are a great way to cut your energy consumption and still have the lights on.Most home improvement stores will have a variety of solar lights, but you can also find them at many online retailers.
 Solar energy is clean and renewable. With many panels, surplus energy can be transferred to a battery and stored for later use. Installing solar panels can reduce your home’s carbon footprint, on average, by 35,180 pounds. That’s equivalent to the carbon dioxide absorbed by 88 trees. Investing in solar power will require some upfront cash, but it will pay off in the long run, for you and the planet.In some locations, you can even sell surplus solar energy to the local power grid.
Solar panels need to be wired into your home’s existing electrical grid. It is best to leave installation to professionals.
Many U.S. states and countries offer tax incentives if you install solar panels.

