 Regular communication is crucial to developing any relationship, whether business or personal. But how do you know when to follow-up by phone, email, or in person? And how often? A customer relationship management (CRM) program can show you at a glance how long it has been since your last interaction with a client. That way, you’ll know if it’s time to reach out to them again. Proactive communication tells the customer that you are genuinely interested in his or her business; it also shows that you are on top of your game., Keeping notes on each interaction you have with your customers pays off in spades. Knowing what you last discussed, what they recently ordered, or their general preferences (before each new phone call, email, or meeting) lets you wow your customer with how well-informed you are. Customers will notice and appreciate your professionalism.


Attention to detail can also be expressed in hand-made details, like careful product packaging or personally-crafted instructions, for example.
Providing excellent attention to detail is one way to create reciprocity in your interactions with customers. Customers will see the care that went into your communication or product and feel obligated to leave a good review or tell their friends about it., Another way to make customers feel important is to reference things they’ve said or requested in the past. Periodically reviewing your correspondence will remind you of specific details that they’ve mentioned (whether business-related or not). The more you personalize the business you do with each client, the more loyal clients will become. It could be something as simple as their love of mocha frappuccinos, their birthday, or another personal detail that you remember that makes you outshine your competition.


Even the smallest personal touch, like offering mints to restaurant customers at the end of a meal, can make a huge difference in customer satisfaction., Everyone loves to hear “thank you,” so why not have a customer appreciation event to make your company stand out. Invite your best customers over for coffee and pastries, or throw a big BBQ. Doing so gives you a chance to show your appreciation, and will further cement your relationship with your customers.