 While freezing is the quickest, most effective method for removing warts, it rarely destroys the wart completely on the first try. Freezing can remove the bulk of the wart, making patches, salicylic acid, or other methods more effective. Using a combination of freezing and the following home remedies to best fight the verruca.
 You can make your wart treatments much more effective if you take the time to physically weaken it. Before treating the wart, use a pumice stone or a file to gently sand down the wart, removing the top layer of skin so that the medicine is more effective. You should also soak your foot in warm water before applying gels and creams, softening the skin and making it more receptive.


Make sure you dry your foot and wipe away any dead skin before applying any treatments., Salicylic acid is the main ingredient in most over-the-counter wart treatments. You can find it in gels and patches, making it a convenient, effective way to treat your verrucas over time. Generally treatment occurs slowly, often taking 12 weeks or longer to completely destroy the verrucas. Because of the amount of time it takes, many people use salicylic acid in conjunction with freezing or other removal methods.


Salicylic acid damages healthy skin as well as unhealthy, but you can protect the skin around your verrucas with a light coating of petroleum jelly.
Keep the wart covered after applying the salicylic acid so that the medicine stays close to the skin., While there is little hard evidence about the effectiveness of duct tape treatment, many people swear by its effectiveness. Apply a piece of duct tape tightly over the verruca and left there for six days.When the six days come to an end, remove the tape and soak the verruca for 5 minutes in warm water. Duct tape supposedly works by containing the virus near the skin, aggravating it while causing your immune system to focus on the wart and destroy it.


If the tape falls apply a fresh piece of tape immediately.
This may need to be repeated, or used in conjunction with other methods, so don't be alarmed if you still have a wart, or if it returns, when treatment is finished.
 This method simply speeds up your natural immune response to the wart, bringing white blood cells to the area that was cut. While this method is not strictly recommended, as it can be incredibly painful, it does have its merits. It is completely natural, costs nothing, and helps your body fight the infection on its own. If you decide to pierce it:


Sterilize the needle ahead of time by holding it over an open flame for 5-10 seconds.
Clean the wart with soap and water. Soak it for 5 minutes in warm water to loosen the skin.
Piece the wart with a quick, shallow movement. You only need to break the skin. This will be painful.
Clean the wart, cover with anti-bacterial ointment, and bandage it up for 1-2 weeks., All verrucas will clear up by themselves with a year or two, so if the verruca is not causing you any pain, you should consider letting it run its course. This is the easiest, best way to get rid of your warts, as your immune system does all the work.


However, verrucas will rarely clear up on their own in people with weakened immune systems (such as people with HIV), so it is recommended that they seek treatment.
Avoid high-heeled shoes, or anything that puts a lot of your weight onto the verruca, to ease the pain. Thicker socks and comfortable shoes will all help.
You can buy moleskin and craft a donut-shaped pad, leaving the verruca in the middle. This padding can prevent you from painfully stepping on the wart.

