 Yet, when you say “No,” you teach your child boundaries and how to handle disappointment. Your child may wonder why they are being denied, so give a brief explanation.Say, “I know you want fast food, but I said no. We are not getting fast food today. We had it yesterday so we are not eating it today.”
Be firm. If your preschooler keeps whining, say, “Whining doesn’t work on me. I said no.”

, If you’ve talked about requests versus demands, and you’ve asked your child to make a request, ignore the demand. Say, “I can’t understand you when you talk to me that way,” or do not say anything at all. Enforce that making demands is not a way to get what they want and it no longer works. However, you are willing to respond to requests.Validate your child’s feelings yet remain firm by saying, “I know you want that, and not having it makes you feel really angry and upset.”Say, “I’m not answering you when you speak like that. I can listen to you if you ask nicely.”

, Give your full attention when your preschooler makes a request. Reinforcing their polite requests will help them behave more positively and be less demanding. Praise their request and answer accordingly, even if the answer is no.Say, “You did a nice job asking for what you want. Thank you. Yes, I will help you tie your shoes.”
You can also say, “Thank you for asking so politely. However, right now we are not going to play, we are going to put away the toys.”

, If the child is making demands in front of others, talk about how this is inappropriate. This can include other adults or the child’s friends. Make a rule that any demands made in front of others will receive an automatic “No.”, Your child may act especially demanding or difficult in certain situations, like at the grocery store or in restaurants. Plan ahead by having a talk with your child about your expectations, and by bringing things to help keep them busy and distracted.For example, if your child becomes demanding on shopping trips, let them know ahead of time that you will not be buying anything extra. Make it clear that you are going to the store for certain items, and you are not buying toys or other items for the child.
If you know your child will be bored, bring along some crayons and a coloring book, a favorite toy, and some healthy snacks.
 If you’re making new changes to your preschooler’s behavior, expect some hiccups before their behavior improves. A child may try to test if you plan to actually enforce your rules. This can result in tantrums or bad behavior at home or in public. Show your child that you are in control and will enforce rules and consequences.Be firm if your child has a tantrum. Say, “You are not getting what you want, no matter how much you scream and yell and kick.”
Stay calm during a tantrum. Getting upset and yelling at your child will not help the situation. If you are in a public place, remove the child to a private area (like your car) if possible, and wait quietly with them until they calm down.
 If you are in a two-parent household, or there are other adults who are helping to parent your child, it is important that you are all consistent in enforcing consequences. If the other parent gives in to the child's demands, this not only allows the behavior to continue, but undermines your parenting. Communicate privately with your partner about how you will handle demands and problem behaviors and be sure to pass this information on to anyone else who might be watching your child.Think about who interacts with the preschooler regularly (such as family members and daycare providers) and clue them in to the changes. Say, “We’ve made some changes to how we respond to their demands. Please do the same.”

, If you’re having a hard time managing your child’s behaviors, talk to a pediatrician or other child care specialist. They may have practical advice to offer, or they may be able to refer you to a child therapist or parent management training specialist who can work with you and your child to foster better behaviors.