 This will form the base for your mask. Simply wash the berries, remove the stems, place them in a small bowl, and mash them with a fork. Mix until they form a smooth paste that does not have big chunks.Consider using organic strawberries so that you aren’t applying chemicals or pesticides to your skin. You could even get your strawberries from a local farmer’s market.
Strawberries alone are enough to make a skin-softening mask, but you can also add combinations of optional ingredients to adjust the mask.;
, Yogurt contains lactic acid that will smooth and moisturize your skin.Mix the yogurt and berries together with a spoon until they are completely blended.You could even use a blender to make a smoothie that you can enjoy while wearing your mask! For a smoothie, blend a cup of berries with a cup yogurt until smooth. You can drink it and wear it!Replace yogurt with full fat cream to nourish your skin. Cream will lubricate your skin and gently moisturize it. If you aren’t sure whether you prefer yogurt or cream in your mask, try them both!, Honey is a great addition to your mask because it both moisturizes and exfoliates, not to mention its antibacterial properties. Simply combine with your other ingredients and mix until they are fully combined. You can combine honey with strawberries alone or with yogurt or cream as well.Consider using raw honey to avoid irritating your skin and to gain maximum antibacterial properties.
 Lemon juice will help to deeply clean your skin, removing any buildup of oil or sebum. Because of its astringent properties, you might want to avoid it if you have especially sensitive skin. It is a great addition to a mask for acne-prone skin because it kills acne-causing germs. Lemon juice works great as an addition to the strawberry base, rather than mixing with other optional ingredients.Be careful with lemon juice. It will sting if it gets in your eyes.
 Once you’ve added all your ingredients together, mix well with a spoon until you have a well-blended mixture. The ingredients should form a uniform paste without chunks.


If you want your mask to be extra-smooth, use a blender. Simply place the ingredients in your blender and blend on a low setting for about 15 seconds.

