 It might sound silly, but the first part of this exercise is to stand in place and pay attention to how you feel. Notice the shifting of your weight, what you feel in your legs and feet, what your clothes feel like.This step makes you more aware of all the thing your body has to do in order to stand and move.
 You might be used to speed walking from your car to the office or sprinting to the bus stop with your kids, but you’ll need to adopt a slower, more comfortable pace.You don’t have to move in slow motion, but think about how you would walk without a specific destination in mind.
This is a good exercise for people who have trouble sitting still or may feel restless when using other meditation techniques.
 Now that you’ve started walking, think about what your feet are feeling. Pay attention to your heel touching the ground, the ball of your foot as you lift off.You’ll also start to notice how your socks and shoes feel against your feet.
 Direct the focus to different parts of your body—such as your legs, calves, ankles, hips, and spine—and think about how these parts feel when you’re walking.As you think about each body part, try overemphasizing its movement to highlight what it does. For example, try swinging your hips more.
Think about how your different body parts connect, and what feels like in these places.
 After you’ve paid attention to your body parts, you can turn to your feelings and thoughts. Without fixating on a specific thought, just make an observation about what you are thinking or feeling., The goal here is to be simultaneously aware of how your body and mind are feeling. Try to achieve a state of balance so that you aren’t focusing more on one aspect than the other., Just like you started this exercise with standing, you will finish it the same way. You don’t have to jerk to a stop, but just slow your pace and stand still.Again, focus on what it feels like to be standing instead of moving.
 You can personalize the exercise to maximize the benefits. Here a few suggestions to get you started.Try using this exercise with any physical activity, such as running, riding a bike, or skating.
Think about a positive affirmation, a compelling quote, or a Buddhist principle, while you perform the exercise.
Devote as much or as little time as you can. One of the great things about this exercise is that you can easily find time to do it during your day. Try it while you walk the dog, push a stroller, or commute to work. If you’re doing it for the first time, give yourself about 20 minutes, and pick a restful quiet place like a park or garden.

