 Depending on where you live, there may be a whole host of newly legal things for you to try to explore as a freshly-minted adult. Whether you're planning a party for someone who's about to turn 18 or planning your own get-together, it's common for it to include some kind of thing you couldn't do when you were 17.


In some countries, 18 is the legal drinking age. If you're going to have a few drinks to celebrate, make sure you drink safely and don't test your limits. You've got a whole lifetime of legal drinking ahead of you. No need to cram it in all at once.
Lottery tickets, tattoos, tobacco products, marriage licenses, military enlistment, and voter registration are all things that 18-year-olds suddenly have at their disposal in most areas. Learn what's available in yours and plan to celebrate like an adult.
In many areas, turning 18 means you have to get a new driver's license or ID card. In some states and provinces, it's a different color, with different designations. While it might not be a fun way to celebrate, it's a good idea to get your new ID as soon as possible.
 One of the first things lots of 18 year-olds do is buy up a lottery ticket or two. It can be a fast and fun way to do something with your new ID and your new adulthood. Buy up a scratch-off or a power ball card and have some harmless fun. Who knows, you might even win a little folding money to help fund your party.
 18-year-olds don't need parental consent to get a tattoo legally. While it's not necessarily recommended that you get a tattoo just because you can, if you've been settled on a design for a long time and are really serious about getting one, it's a common way of celebrating your birthday. Research a good artist in your area, have a meet up to talk about your design, and schedule an appointment for your 18th.
 Yeah, yeah, it's not the stuff of parties, but spending the pre-party portion of your day doing newly adult things might be an exciting and fun way to celebrate. Exercise your rights by registering to vote in your area, so you'll be ready by the time the next election comes along.

