 The location of this race is in the main hub world, inside a Wizpig head poking out of the side of a mountain. This head will appear brown when the game first starts, but once you've collected all of the pieces of the Wizpig Amulet by beating the first four bosses, the head will be lighter in color and its mouth will be open for you to enter.
 You will be racing in a car, and Wizpig will be running. Wizpig is also very fast. Because of those things, it is best for you to choose a character with well balanced stats, such as Diddy Kong or Timber the tiger., This can be done by using your stylus on the touch screen and spinning the wheel at least up to the red zone. This should give you at least somewhat of a boost right off the bat., If you don't, then you will likely wind up falling into water and having to restart the race. Let go of the A button right before you hit each zipper for a speed boost, which will help you stay ahead of Wizpig., If he steps on you, then you will be squished, and you will lose any ground you had on catching him, or you will lose the lead that you had, and you'll likely have to start over., It'll show all of the characters having a party on the island because you beat Wizpig for good. However, Wizpig will show up and crash the party. You will then know that you still have one more world left to do, and one last battle with Wizpig left., This race is located in Future Fun Land, which is the last world in the game. To get there, first make sure that you've beaten all of the trophy races. Then, go over to the signpost located near Sherbet Island. Run into it with any vehicle, and a cutscene should start up. The lighthouse will then turn into a rocket, and you will be transported to Future Fun Land., For this race, you'll be in a plane, so keep that in mind. However, safe bets are usually once again characters with evenly balanced stats, such as Diddy Kong or Timber the Tiger., In order to do this race, you must have beaten all the tracks in Future Fun Land, thus having every ballon in the game. You also must have all of the T.T Amulet pieces, which can be obtained by beating T.T in each of the four Wish Races in the first four worlds. Once you know you've met all the requirements, enter the giant T.T door in Future Fun Land, followed by the giant Wizpig Door., Although you may want to get one because you'll get a head start against Wizpig, you'll wind up crashing into his rocket, which will set you back significantly, and you'll likely need to restart the race altogether., In this race, although there aren't really any zippers that you need to hit, balloons will be your friend. Use at least the second level of missiles when trying to shoot down Wizpig, as they will likely slow him down enough for you to gain some ground. Also, use at least second level blue balloons, as they will help you either keep enough of a lead on him, or catch up to him quickly., It'll show Wizpig crash landing onto a distant planet, and it'll then be followed by a party in the main hub world with all of the inhabitants of Timbers' Island. Next to one of the groups, there'll be a sign that says "The End". This will mean that you have officially beaten all of Diddy Kong Racing DS!