 Wear comfortable pants or stretchy leggings, not shorts. Wear a comfortable shirt or t-shirt. Make sure you wear a helmet. Your instructor can likely provide one for you during your lessons.Avoid wearing pants that bunch up too much at the knee, and avoid wearing a shirt that is too loose or large and might risk getting caught on something.
If it’s summer time, you might be tempted to wear shorts, but don’t do this! Pants protect your legs from rubbing against the saddle and being uncomfortable while riding.
Leave your cell phone and other electronic devices at home. In the event that your phone falls out of your pocket, it might be likely to break or be damaged. Also, sudden noises like notifications or ringtones could spook the horses or disturb other riders.;
, Any time you aren’t sure about an instruction, speak up and ask questions. Your instructor is there to help you learn, and you should treat him or her like any other teacher and ask for clarification when you need it.If your instructor seems impatient with you, or even becomes irritable or rude, you may have chosen the wrong instructor. You want to be sure you are comfortable with speaking up and asking questions. Make sure you are getting the most out of your lessons. If you feel like the instructor you chose is not the one for you, you can always choose a different one.
 Since this is your first lesson, you might spend a good amount of time on the ground rather than on the horse. You instructor will likely focus on teaching the basics for safety and handling, so it is absolutely important that you listen and abide by what your instructor says.Your instructor will likely start by showing you how to approach the horse, how to tack up, and how to mount. Through the first few lessons, your instructor might keep your horse on a lunge, or long lead, for your safety.
 If you don’t get everything on the first try, don’t be discouraged! Just like any other sport or skill, horseback riding will take practice and time to learn. Even if certain things might seem difficult at first, you will get better at them if you keep working at it.


Trust your instructor’s judgement if they decide to keep you on the ground for the entire first lesson. Safety and handling are important aspects of horseback riding, and your instructor will want you to feel prepared and confident when you get on the horse.
 Avoid coming towards a horse from behind, as you might spook him. Approach from the front, and off to the left side a bit, making sure you are in his line of sight. He will see you coming and not be startled as you come up.If you must approach from behind, make sure to let the horse know you’re there by talking to him softly, and gently running your hand over his hind quarters. Run your hand gently along his body as you move towards his head.
 Don’t make any sudden or jerking movements. Since this is likely your first time around this horse, you need to give him some time to get used to you being around, and learn to trust you.Taking some time to pet the horse and letting him get to know your voice and your scent can be helpful when first meeting him and getting acquainted with him. Take your time getting comfortable; if you’re nervous, the horse is more likely to be nervous as well.
Stick to petting the horse’s neck, under his jaw, and behind his ears. Be careful not to get your hands too close to his eyes or mouth, especially when he is still unfamiliar with you.
 He or she may let you assist, and teach you the steps for saddling and getting the horse ready to ride. Make sure you listen to your instructor’s directions, and pay careful attention to what they are teaching you, as they might have you do it on your own after a few lessons.


Your instructor might also allow you to groom the horse prior to tacking up. Grooming before riding might include brushing the horse out and combing out his mane and tail. After a few lessons, your instructor may also teach you how to pick a horse’s hooves. Always do these things with caution, and stay alert around the horse., If you are brand new to horseback riding and want to take lessons for the very first time, or even if you may have tried riding years ago and would like to get back into it, knowing what your goals and expectations are when taking lessons is an important first step.Some instructors might cater towards children rather than adults, so if you are looking for an instructor for your child, or you are an adult wanting to take on or return to the sport, this will factor into your choice.
Understanding your own goals and objectives for lessons before beginning them will also help you better communicate these things to your instructor when you start, and help them be better able to get you to those goals.
 You will want to determine how far you’re willing to travel to take lessons, so you can determine which instructors are within that distance. You can do an internet search, or try looking in the yellow pages of a phone book.


If you live close to a few stables or boarding facilities, you can stop by and ask them if they offer lessons, or know anyone that does and that they might recommend. You can also stop by your local tack shop and see if anyone has posted fliers there for lessons, or if any of the employees know of any good instructors.
 This will help you narrow down your list of potential instructors once you find out what their rates are, and how often they offer lessons.Some established instructors might offer packages that lower the overall cost for lessons. Find out what kind of packages the instructors on your list offer, and compare prices.
Make sure you know how long each lesson will be before you commit to anything. If one instructor charges the same price as another, but for a shorter lesson, you won’t be getting as much instruction for your money.
 Find out how long each potential instructor has been giving lessons, and whether they specialize in certain aspects of riding, like dressage or jumping. Make sure their level of experience is satisfactory for you.


Organizations like The American Riding Instructors Association provide databases of instructors certified through their test and evaluation processes. You can try using these to find qualified and experienced instructors.Look for instructors that have insurance. Horseback riding is a physical, hands-on sport, so you want to make sure your instructor is covered in the event of an accident or injury. Ask instructors the name of their insurance company and check that their policy is up to date and active., In order to pick the best instructor, you will want to meet with them and visit the riding facility itself. Make sure the barn is a safe place, and that all instructors and riders are behaving in a safe manner.Taking the time to meet with potential instructors can help you decide how well you work with each one. You want an instructor that is friendly, professional, and informative. You want them to feel trustworthy, and like someone you could learn from.
The stable or riding facility should be clean and well-kept. The horses should appear to be in good condition, and all equipment and stalls should appear to be well-maintained and taken care of.
 The students any instructor already has will be a great source of feedback on that particular instructor. Sit in on a lesson and see if the student(s) seem to be enjoying themselves, and evaluate how the instructor interacts with his or her students.Some instructors may have reviews through the Better Business Bureau, so you can check their website and search for that instructor. Alternatively, there may be online reviews for the instructor elsewhere on the web. Take any online reviews with a grain of salt, though; the best way to make a good judgement is to see for yourself through a visit and watching a lesson.
 You will likely need to provide your own riding clothes, helmet, and boots. Don’t invest in tack such as saddles or bridles, especially if you don’t actually own a horse yourself. Your instructor and/or the riding facility should provide all tack.


Don’t invest too much money into your riding clothes until you are certain that you will want to keep up with taking lessons. Buy one outfit to start with, and wash it between lessons. After a few weeks, if you still want to keep taking lessons, you can feel secure in buying more riding clothes.
 It might seem like most people who ride horses in the movies just wear cowboy hats or nothing at all on their heads, but safety is very important when pursuing horseback riding. Make sure you purchase a helmet, or borrow one from your instructor until you are ready to purchase one.Be sure your helmet fits properly. The strap should be snug under your chin, but still comfortable. Don’t use a bicycle helmet for horseback riding, as these helmets are designed to protect from different kinds of injuries than a proper horseback riding helmet.
 Do a quick online search to find one near to you, or ask your instructor where they recommend you go. Tack shops aren’t as common as run-of-the-mill sporting goods stores, as they are technically considered specialty shops.


TackShops.us is a great source for tack shops in your state. Just pick your state from the list, and scroll through to find one near you. Call the shop before you go to make sure they have what you need, and that they are open.
 The internet is a great source for horseback riding equipment. You may be able to find many things at a lower price online than in a store. There are a number of reputable online outlets and catalogues that you can purchase your equipment from.


StateLineTack.com is a well-known online outlet for all things related to horseback riding, from tack to clothing and boots. A quick internet search will likely yield a great number of other options as well.

