 There are 15 types of Pokémon in the first generation : Water, Fire, Grass, Poison, Fighting, Flying, Dragon, Ice, Ghost, Psychic, Normal, Electric, Rock, Ground, and Bug. Each has its strength and weaknesses, and some have only one type while some Pokémon possess two types. For example, Poliwrath has a unique Water/Fighting type, Onyx has a Rock/Ground type, Gengar has a Ghost/Poison type, while Ninetales is a pure Fire type, Machamp is a pure Fighting Type, and Tangela is a pure Grass type. Having multiple types gives a Pokémon versatility and vulnerability, i.e. they will have the strength and weaknesses of both types. Type-Advantages are simple enough to find on the Internet, and I don't need to address that now.;
, If your party can be versatile enough to combat and command strength against all the types then your party should rarely fail if the levels between the two parties are not grossly skewed.


Battles that include Legendary Pokémon versus Battles that exclude Legendary Pokémon. Legendary Pokémon have Legendary stats: stats that are considerably higher than more common Pokémon because there are only one of them in existence. Mewtwo, Zapdos, Articuno, and Moltres are only 4 Legendary Pokémon in the First Generation. Some include Mew in this category, but technically, his stats are not Legendary, he just boast insane special stats and the ability to learn any TM or HM. Some competitors will allow the use of Legendary Pokémon, while other venues will not. So in order to fit the occasion, it is recommended to assemble a Team for each case.
Ideal Assembly of Types: The types that will need to be assembled to combat all 15 types with 6 Pokémon are as follows:

Psychic Type: strong vs- Poison, Fighting, and any resulting hybrids. Weak vs- other Psychics. No adv against others
Water/Ice Hybrid: Strong vs- Fire, Grass, Dragon, Rock, Ground, Flying. Weak vs- Grass, Electric. No adv against others.
Electric Type: Strong vs- Water, Flying. Weak vs- Ground, Grass, other electrics.
Dragon Type: Has no Strengths against anything other than Dragon, but damage reduction from Electric Types (+) but only has one real vulnerability: Ice (-).
Fire Type: Strong vs- Grass, Bug, Ice. Weak vs- Rock, Ground, Water. Normal effect against anything else but other Fire types.
Normal, Fighting or other type: Be creative and add some diversity to your team.


Legendary Inclusive Assembly:

Mewtwo- Psychic Type- Psychic, Recover, Swift, Synthesis.
Lapras- Water/Ice Type- Sing, Blizzard/Icebeam, Surf, Slam.
Zapdos- Flying/Electric Type- Thunder, Thunder Wave, Drill Peck, Fly.
Arcanine- Fire Type- FireBlast/Flamethrower, Body Slam, Hyper Beam, Dig
Dragonite- Dragon/Flying Type- Fire Blast, Thunderbolt, Hyper Beam, Surf
Tauros- Normal Type- Earthquake, Fissure, Take Down, Hyper Beam


Legendary Exclusive Assembly:

Alakazam- Psychic Type- Psychic, Recover, Swift, Psybeam
Cloyster- Water/Ice Type- Icebeam/Blizzard, Surf, Explosion, Hyper Beam
Jolteon- Electric Type- Pin Missile, Thunder, Double-Kick, Body Slam
Ninetales- Fire Type- Confuse Ray, Fire Blast, Dig, Hyper Beam
Dragonite- Dragon/Flying- Fire Blast, Thunderbolt, Hyper Beam, Surf
Tauros- Normal- Earthquake, Fissure, Hyper Beam,



, No one can argue that Mewtwo is supreme in Generation 1, however Alakazam is not to be scoffed at. With great speed, versatility in TM usage, and BA Special Stats, Alakazam is rather imposing. For example, Cloyster, Jolteon, and Ninetales respectively replace Lapras, Zapdos, and Arcanine. This is done to make a point about the different philosophies on strength/versatility versus defense and speed. Lapras has an incredible amount of HP while Cloyster boasts the best defense. While there skill maybe comparable, Lapras will be able to weather more light hit and Cloyster will be able to endure through more powerful hits. Although Zapdos was replaced due to Legendary status, Jolteon would have been added in its place anyhow. Jolteon boasts unparalleled speed and does not share in the vulnerability to Ice Types. Also Jolteon has a vast array of attack making him particularly effective against Psychic and Normal Types, while Zapdos' Flying Type attacks give it an advantage over grass, bug, and Fighting, but also incurs the vulnerability. Lastly Ninetales makes an appearance over Arcanine. This is a heated debate at which one is more practical and deadly. Arcanine boasts superior stats, while Ninetales possesses better speed and the crippling Confuse Ray technique. It is a matter of preference, BUT when it comes down to clutch hits, Ninetales will be able to deliver more quickly albeit with less of a punch. Dragonite and Tauros do not change in my parties simply because they are the best of their types and deserve their roles. Dragonite only has one weakness even though it is a devastating one. And Tauros is a reliable damage producer that can learn almost any TM, not to mention pretty impressive stats. In my opinion, you cannot put a price on speed or defense, especially when they are coupled with more than adequate firepower to get similar results.
 I have made my case for the two scenarios and my choices for Pokémon, which do indeed hold advantages over all 15 Types. But above all else, be creative! Observe partiality for your favorite Pokémon, within reason of course. And go out and prove that you are a Pokémon Master. Thanks for reading, Ciao.

