 The reason there is so much trash around is because not enough people recognize that it's a problem. Start with yourself, and make sure you're not generating litter, intentionally or otherwise.


Be on the lookout for trash bins, and be willing to carry your trash for a little while.
Keep a bag or container for trash in your car, if you drive.
When on the road, make sure items in your vehicle are secure and nothing can blow out. Keep your truck bed clean and free of loose litter. Be especially aware of plastic sheeting and bags.
Close the lid to any outdoor trash can or dumpster you maintain. If necessary, secure them against animals or weather.
Check around for loose items when you bring your trash can in after collection.
If you own a business, keep your parking lot and the area around your dumpsters clean. Have trash containers available for customers. Keep them emptied so trash will not blow out of the containers.
Encourage local businesses in your area to keep their facilities clean, too. Whether or not they are concerned about the environment, most business owners and managers will recognize that litter detracts from their appearance and the impression they give to prospective customers.;
, With a little care, it's possible to produce a whole lot less trash than most people do.


Buy food with less packaging, and eat less processed or manufactured food.
Buy in larger packages and avoid single-serving items.

Pack your own lunch in containers that can be reused.
Drink water and other beverages from your own reusable container. If you have a coffee habit, ask your coffee shop if they'll refill a reusable container instead of giving you disposable items.
Choose fresh fruits and vegetables over packaged snacks and desserts.

Carry reusable bags when you go shopping.
Dine in at restaurants; skip the takeout and fast food.
Refuse excess items. If you do order takeout, decline the bag, the heap of plastic forks, the stack of napkins, the straws, the condiment packets, and so on.

Don't buy what you don't need. Choose durable items to last a long time. Try renting or borrowing things you need only briefly or occasionally.
Resell, donate, or give away usable items you no longer need.
Clean with reusable supplies, too. Use a broom or vacuum cleaner rather than Swiffer. Use washable fabric rags or towels rather than paper towels.
Take yourself off junk mail lists.
Recycle all you can of what remains.
If you need to dispose of special items (hazardous wastes, large items, electronic waste, unused medications, etc.), find out how to do so properly where you live.



Don't hand out flyers because those could become litter themselves.
Create awareness by writing letters to the editors of newspapers.
On social media, post updates on your anti-litter efforts and pass along articles you find. Recruit community members to help.
Talk "Trash" and emphasize how litter not only mars the beauty of the cities and countryside, but also pollutes and threatens wildlife.
Encourage citizens to work together and clean up the environment.
If you live near a river or coast, learn about plastic pollution in our oceans, and spread the word. A lot of the plastic in our oceans comes from coastal communities, and it's deadly to birds and marine wildlife. , This can be done solo, with friends or in an organized group. Once you get started, you will not want to quit. Getting started is the hardest part. Don't be embarrassed to do it alone; feel good about doing the environment a good turn.


Pick up litter while walking for exercise or transportation.
Clean up your bus or transit stop if you have a few minutes to wait.
Bring a plastic bag with you on trips, outings and walks.
You can pick up litter on the way to work or school if you don't drive. You may feel embarrassed if this is uncommon in your area. But you will eventually inspire others. You could occasionally take different routes for variety and to see if your actions have taken root with others.
Pick up three things. If you can't carry much or don't have time for a detailed cleanup of an area, just pick up three things. If you pick up three things each day, or each trip out, it can really add up. This is a good thing to suggest to get others involved, too.
 You can make a big difference by yourself, but you'll make a far bigger difference with more people.


Gather up a group of friends or neighbors for an informal litter pickup party. Have participants meet somewhere afterward for a meal or have all bring food for a potluck afterward at your home.
Recruit a group you belong to, or find out if there are groups already active in your area. An area cleanup is a worthwhile community service activity, and can be a good thing to do with a scout troop, service club, or neighborhood association.
Participate in a regional cleanup day. Organize one group and know that there are many others all out making a difference. In 2015, Coastal Cleanup Day volunteers picked up over 1 million pounds of garbage throughout California. .
A litter cleanup can also be a way to get like-minded neighbors together and thinking about opportunities for vacant or underutilized land. Could it be reclaimed as a park, community garden, or open space? Reclaiming or "activating" a space for a public use also discourages litter and blight.
Pick an area near a restroom if possible. Keep the area of the project small or the time frame within an hour. Otherwise people may become soured about how much time or work it took.
Have a contest to see who can pick up the the largest number of pieces or the most pounds of trash. Or the most unusual trash. The winner gets a free beverage, cloth bag, or other small prize. (See if a local merchant will donate a prize.)
Don't forget to take photos and thank the volunteers. You can also use the photos to bring attention to the problem and promote subsequent events.
 Many cities support litter cleanup volunteers. If yours doesn't yet, maybe your efforts and requests will convince them to help you and your group. Here are some of the things cities and counties can do to help:


Supply tools and equipment to litter cleanup volunteers. Some cities offer litter sticks, bags, gloves, buckets, safety vests, and other equipment to people who are willing to help clean up litter.
Offer pickup. Ask your city what they can do about larger amounts of trash you collect. The occasional empty cup is easy to deal with, but if your team collects a dozen large bags of trash, you will have difficulty carrying them and disposing of them yourself.
Recognize volunteers who clean up litter. You might get your group's name on a sign for an area you've adopted, or you might get invited to shake hands with the mayor at a city council meeting or other event. Either way, it's good publicity for your group, and it will help to remind everyone that litter is a problem. Official recognition is also a great way to put an end to the negative attitudes that may trouble litter cleanup volunteers.
Install public trash cans in public spaces and maintain them. It's easiest to avoid littering and to clean up occasional litter when there is a trash can close by. It should cost less to empty trash cans than to pick up loose trash from the roadside.
Encourage businesses to clean and maintain their properties.
Sweep the streets, improve the street sweeping schedule, or restrict parking on street sweeping days.
Direct workers to help maintain "hot spots," or certain busy places where litter accumulates too quickly for volunteers to keep up.
Organize, publicize, and support community cleanup days through official or public channels.
Respond to illegal dumping or litter problems beyond the ability or reach of volunteers. If you find a freeway in need of cleanup or an entire sofa that's been dumped down the ravine into the creek, call it in and ask for assistance.
Respond to other maintenance problems you may notice while cleaning up litter, such as graffiti, a leaking fire hydrant, or an abandoned vehicle. Some regions now have apps to allow citizens to report maintenance requests using the GPS and camera on their phones.
Review local trash collection policies and practices to ensure that they do not inadvertently encourage illegal dumping. Is trash getting collected as frequently as it should be? Do residents know when collection day is? Is it costly or difficult to dispose of a large item or excess quantity of trash correctly? If so, are residents or businesses dumping their trash, instead?
Put vacant lots to use as parks or community gardens, or encourage landowners to improve them. Maintain existing parks, schoolyards, and other public spaces and facilities.
Consider an ordinance to reduce single-use plastic shopping bags. Many cities in California passed local bag ordinances, starting with San Francisco in 2007. The state legislature subsequently passed a state law. Plastic bags are a particularly difficult kind of litter because they can fly away even when disposed of correctly. Once in water, they tend to break down into smaller and smaller pieces, without decomposing, which results in micro-plastic pollution. They are also difficult to recycle and produced and distributed in very high volumes. Install trash capture devices in storm drains and creeks to reduce the amount of trash flowing into waterways and oceans.

