 You should know the layout of the program, including who will be speaking before and after you. You may want to find out more about what those individuals will be talking about in their speeches. This will help you make sure you are not accidentally repeating the same message as the person who comes before or after you. For example, if he/she is talking about overcoming adversity, you may want to choose another theme.


It is often important that you thank certain individuals in your speech. This may mean the dean and special faculty, for example, so ask about how to address these individuals, including how to say their names.;
, Although this speech will be written from your experience and knowledge, it is important to write for your audience. Remember to write your speech that might appeal to the different groups of people who will be listening to your speech. This includes, the dean and faculty, parents, family members and friends as well as the students who are in the class.


For example, David Foster Wallace's speech he chose to talk about not getting involved in the rat race but deciding to ignore the pressure of the world that tells you you must make lots of money and buy lots of things. Even though this speech is for the students, anyone can relate to the rat race and high expectations from the world to succeed to make lots of money just to spend it all.
Write down a list of the different groups of students you might want to consider: honors students, athletes, students who know what they are doing after graduation, students who do not know what they are doing, etc. Make sure in your speech that you aren't assuming that all the students in attendance are attending college, if that is note the case.
You don’t have to make your speech generic or overly general because you are writing for to a wide audience. Pick a universal theme, and you can consider adding parts to your speech that will speak to the different groups, if you like. If your theme is broad enough, like overcoming adversity through perseverance, you don't need to worry about making it appeal to different audiences. Everyone can relate to overcoming hard times.
Make sure that your vocabulary is varied and diverse. Try not to alienate anyone in your audience. For example, if you use the word ¨benevolent" to describe your teacher, as in ¨Mr. Garcia was such a benevolent teacher¨, you can follow it up with a description that will show the meaning of the word, ¨he was always so good to us, he let us play card games in his classroom at lunch¨. , Most graduation speeches run about ten to fifteen minutes. According to reports, twelve minutes is the optimum amount of time for a graduation speech.If your speech is for a smaller audience or for a less formal affair, you may want to ask about how long the past graduation speeches have gone. Perhaps the speech should be shorter, around five minutes or less.
Remember, too, that your speech may feel a lot longer or shorter than it actually is. If you want communicate effectively, try slowing down your speech. This might mean you will have less time to say what you want to say.
 As a rule, do not curse in your speech, and be careful about the anecdotes you decide to tell. For example, you may have a great story about how your class bonded during senior ditch day but this may be an inappropriate context to share that story, unless you have specific permission.


Some schools may ask you to send your graduation speech to someone who will read it first to make sure it is well developed and/or appropriate for the graduation ceremony. Additionally, you may have to practice your speech with one of the staff before the ceremony.
 Finding out about what was considered to be a great speech may give you some insight into what the audience wants to hear. For example, if the graduates loved hearing a speech that referenced some shared experiences the class had together, find out about their milestones as a class.


For example, perhaps they dedicated a lot of time and effort as a class when they decorated a float that won a prize in a parade. You could consider incorporating that piece of information into your speech, like ¨It took me a lot of persistence and grit to get through that final term paper. However, it wasn't nearly as much work, or as much fun, as decorating that float with this class the night before the parade.¨
Do not feel compelled to replicate that speech. You can, however, use that information to help you decide what you should write about based on your own life, values and experiences.
 You will be much more successful at giving a good speech if you take the time you need to develop your speech and practice it.


Start working at least two to three weeks before you have to give your speech.
Rehearse your speech in the place where you plan on giving it, if possible. Being familiar with the surroundings should dampen any unease or nerves.

