 Skipping the drive to the gym is a good way to make your workout environmentally friendly and get some more exercise in the process. Leave your car at home and head outside for a walk or run.If you can, consider ditching your gym workout (at least a few days a week) in favor of outdoor cardio activities.
Without needing to drive anywhere, even if it is a short distance, you will be saving the fuel you would use to drive and reducing the amount of fumes released from your car.
Try going for a walk or run around your neighborhood or local park. You can head out before your go to work, or go for a quick jog when you get home.
If you feel uncomfortable walking or running alone or going when it's dark, consider taking a friend or family member with you.;
, Similar to walking or running, another great idea to reduce your environmental footprint is by staying home and doing an exercise DVD or other home-based workout.


Again, if you can skip the gym you won't have to drive to the gym and waste gas and fuel.
Using an exercise DVD, video or doing a workout at home is a great alternative. It's also a good way to work out if it's raining, too cold or hot, or if you don’t have a safe place to work out outside.
Purchase a few exercise DVDs, look for online exercise videos or make up your own exercise routine to do at home.
 Another way to help the environment is to make your commute to work your workout for the day. Skip driving or taking the train and walk, bike or run to work.Skipping the gym in favor of a home workout is a great start to having a more green and environmentally friendly exercise routine. However, if you get right back in the car to head to work, you're still using excess gas and fuel.
If you can, try making your usual work commute your exercise for the day. Try walking, biking or evening running to work if you're able.
This will not only cut down on the gas spent going to the gym, but also cut down on the gas used to get you to work.
If you don't want to run, walk or bike to work daily, just pick a few days out of the week. Or if you work too far away, consider walking or biking to the grocery store, pharmacy or other local places.
 If you enjoy playing sports - like soccer or basketball - you may want to consider doing a team sport. Playing a team sport does not consume as much energy as using an exercise machine, and it is also a great social way to stay active.One of the best aspects about team sports, is the use of shared equipment. You probably won't have to go out and buy brand new gear. Much of the gear is shared between the whole team.
If you can, consider carpooling to practices and games. This way, you don't have 10 cars on the road, you'll only have one or two instead. This cuts down on the gas use.
In addition, team sports are a great way to stay accountable. You can't skip practices or games often, otherwise you'd be letting the team down.
 A very easy way to make your workout greener, is by using a reusable water bottle. Since over 50 billion plastic water bottles are used yearly, much of that excess plastic ends up in landfills.If you typically grab a bottle of water or a sports drink when you work out, consider ditching those plastic bottles in favor of a reusable bottle.
Many reusable bottles are made out of stainless steel or BPA-free plastic. They come in a variety of sizes to fit your needs.
Make sure to fill up your water bottle before you hit the gym or before you work out at home. That way, you'll have ice cold water ready to go when you need it.
 Many types of exercises require the use of either a yoga or fitness mat. To keep your workout green, look to purchase a mat that's eco-friendly and green.


More traditional yoga mats, those that aren't considered eco-friendly, are typically made with PVC plastic which could contain heavy metals and phthalates.Instead, consider purchasing an all-natural rubber yoga mat. These are made from an all-natural source - the rubber tree - and it's considered a renewable resource and it's biodegradable.
You can also consider purchasing a plant fiber mat, such as Barefoot Yoga’s Natural Jute and Per Eco Friendly Yoga Mat.These mats are made from either jute, hemp, cotton or a combination and are also considered renewable and biodegradable.
 Another important aspect to consider is your exercise clothing. Not all clothing is considered green, so be careful with what you buy and try choose more sustainable clothing companies.Many brands of exercise clothing are very specialized. They're designed to wick sweat away from your body, be more breathable or be more durable.
You can also try to find clothing that is made from eco-friendly fabric, such as bamboo, organic cotton, hemp, or recycled polyester.Check the labels on the clothing you buy to check for these eco-friendly materials.
Review different companies websites and manufacturing processes so you feel comfortable with what you're buying.
 Similar to specific clothing and fitness mats, try to choose an environmentally friendly pair of shoes. There are a host of options to fit your athletic needs.


Look for shoes that are made from organic cotton or upcycled materials, such as brands like the People’s Movement, Veja, and Bourgeois Bohème.If you really want to get a pair of super eco-friendly shoes, consider purchasing a pair of barefoot running shoes. These minimalist shoes only use a little material so they're naturally more eco-friendly.
You can also donate your old sneakers when you are ready for a new pair. There are organizations that will give gently used shoes to people in need, grind up well-worn shoes into playground material, or even remake old shoes into a new pair of shoes.Check out organizations such as Soles4Souls, Nike Reuse-a-Shoe, Share Your Soles, Shoes4Africa, and Give Your Sole., If you do go to the gym, there are still ways to be a little more environmentally friendly. Start with those towels you pick up.


Most gyms offer their clients free hand towels to use during their workouts. Instead of grabbing two or more towels, just grab one.
Remember, the gym needs to wash and clean all of these towels. If everyone is grabbing two or more towels, they'll need to spend more water and energy to clean all of those towels.
Try to stick to only one towel per day or per gym trip instead of multiple towels. Or, consider bringing your own towel instead.
 Did you know you can actually harness all that energy you spend on fitness equipment at home? Consider using that energy to help power up your home.If you want to get a little crafty at home, you can actually attach a generator or battery to some common cardio machines - like a stationary bike.
As you bike, the energy generated by the bike will get saved into the battery. You can then use this energy later to power up simple household appliances.
You can use this energy to power up: an iPod, computer, the toaster or even a TV.
Some gyms have machines that generate energy while you use them.Look for a gym that offers these types of machines or ask the manager at your gym if this is something they might consider.
 If you have gym equipment at home or are using equipment at the gym, there are still ways to save energy and make your workout green.


For example, instead of watching the TV while you run or use the elliptical at the gym, keep the TV turned off to minimize how much energy you use. Also, turn off the TVs on treadmills or ellipticals that aren't being used.
Setting your treadmill to a higher incline level also helps cut down on the energy needed to power the machine.
Also, if you do happen to grab a bottle of water or a sports drink, make sure to avoid throwing it away in the regular trash. Recycle all plastic bottles you use.
 If you want to spend more time at home working out so you can save gas and energy, consider using some household items for your workouts.


Purchasing brand new gym equipment so you can workout at home can be expensive. Instead, try using some common household items that you can use for your workouts.
For example, you can use canned soup or gallon water jugs for weights. Instead of buying a new yoga mat, consider doing floor exercises on carpet. You can even use a crate or chair to help increase your elevation for certain exercises.

