 You must have a Google account to make a personalized map. Log into your account using the "Sign in" button in the upper-right corner of the Google home page.;
, To begin creating your map, go to the Google Maps home page. Below the Google Maps logo, click the "My places" link. From the options that appear, click the "Create New Map" button. Give your map a title and a brief description using the available text boxes, and then choose to make your map public or private.


Making a map public allows all Google users to search for and view your map; other users will not be able to edit it, however. Choosing the "unlisted" option allows only you to view and edit the map.
 The button showing a blue teardrop shape is the placemark tool. To use it, zoom your map in until you can clearly see the location you want to indicate. Click the placemark tool button, and then click on the location. A window will appear allowing you to give your placemark a title and a description. You can always delete placemarks later by clicking on them and choosing "Delete" from the window.
 The button showing a bent blue line has 3 options: it can used for drawing lines, shapes, or routes (which are lines that automatically snap to road locations). Click on the button and select the "Draw a line along roads" option from the drop-down menu. To start drawing a route, click once on a road. Drag your mouse along the route, clicking at each turn to lock the route into place. Double-click at the end point of the route to complete it. You will be asked to give your route a name and description.


Selecting the "Draw a line" option will allow you to draw lines that don't snap to the road locations.
 Select the "Draw a shape" option from the line tool button. Click somewhere on the map to begin drawing your shape. Continue moving your mouse and clicking to define the edges of the shape; connect it to its start point to finish it. Shapes can be given titles and descriptions as well. You might want to use a shape to indicate the neighborhood you live in or your favorite stretch of beach, for instance.
 In the description box of each placemark, route, line, or shape, you can embed media of your choice. Inserting an image is done by clicking the "Image" button above the description box and typing the URL of the image. Embedding video can be done for YouTube videos by simply typing in the video's URL. Adding media will allow you to show your own photographs from a vacation or outing, for example.
 When you are done editing your map, click the "Done" button in the left panel. You can always edit it later by returning to it through the "My places" menu.

