 Due to the sensitive nature of the operation, your vet will likely recommend that the cat be confined following the surgery. In mild cases, the vet may suggest confinement to a single room in your house. However, if the vet is concerned that the hip may dislocate again, they may request that you confine your cat to a single large cage or kennel.In most cases, your vet will request that you bring the cat in for a follow-up inspection a month or two after the surgery.
 It’s important that, while the cat recovers from its hip dislocation surgery, it be confined in a large cage or pet kennel. Although the cat will doubtlessly protest its restricted movement, it’s for the cat’s own good. If the cat is allowed into too large of an area, it may run or jump, and re-dislocate the hip that was just operated upon.In cases where the vet suggests milder confinement, keep the cat shut in a room, such as your bedroom, laundry room, or small basement.
If possible, remove from the room low pieces of furniture (desks, chairs, dressers, etc.) that the cat could jump up onto, so it doesn’t injure itself in the process.
 Since your cat will be confined for three to four weeks, you’ll need to work out a system for feeding it within its large cage. If you visit your local pet store, you’ll find various models of food and water bowls which attach directly to the wire mesh of the kennel door. Using a door-mounted type of bowl, provide your cat with frequent access to food and constant access to water.

Attaching food and water bowls to the door itself will keep the floor of the kennel cleaner, since your cat won’t be able to knock its food and water down onto the bottom of the kennel (and whatever blankets and pads it may have).
 Whether your cat is confined to a large kennel or to a single room, it will need to have frequent access to a litter box. If you cat is on cage rest, release the animal into a small room (such as a bathroom) which contains the litter box. Let the cat do its business, and then return it to the cage.

This will be easier to provide if your cat is confined to a single room. Simply lay down a sheet of plastic on the ground, and then place the litter box on top of that.

