 Timing is key to starting a great conversation. No one likes to be interrupted if they are busy or preoccupied. When you are trying to start a conversation, keep in mind that timing is key. If you need to have an important conversation with your boss, for example, try scheduling time in advance to talk. This will ensure that you both have the time to devote to having a productive conversation.Timing is also important for impromptu conversations. Maybe you have been looking for a way to meet your new neighbor. You probably don't want to strike up a conversation if they are entering the building soaked with rain, looking exhausted, and carrying a bag of take-out food. At this point, a simple, "Hi, how are you?" will suffice. You can save getting to know one another for a better time.
If someone is making eye contact with you, it might be a good time to strike up a conversation. For instance, if you are browsing in a bookstore and the person next to you glances over frequently to see which book you are considering, try talking to her. You could say, "This one looks interesting. Do you like biographies?"
If you want to talk to your husband about adopting a new puppy, make sure to approach him at a good time. If you know he's not a morning person, don't bring up the subject before he has had his coffee and a chance to wake up.;
, Having spur of the moment conversations is an excellent way to improve your skills as a conversationalist. Take some time each day to try to start a conversation with someone you encounter in your everyday life. For example, you could try talking to the person in line behind you at your local coffee shop. Make a comment or ask a question about your surroundings. This will seem natural and is a great way to start talking.Try saying, "I love the coffee here. What's your favorite roast?". This shows that you are interested in talking and you are beginning the conversation in a completely natural way.
Strike a positive tone. Offering a cheerful comment is usually more effective than saying something negative. You could say something like, "Isn't this weather great? I love when it's cool enough to wear sweaters."

, Many of us encounter a very large number of people each day. Whether you work for a large company, or simply see a lot of people in your neighborhood or at your child's school, it can be difficult to put the right face with the right name. However, research shows that making a point to not only remember people's names, but to call them by name can help increase the personal connection between you.When you first learn someone's name, repeat it in conversation. When someone says, "Hi, I'm Emily", you should say, "It's nice to meet you, Emily." The immediate repetition will help you imprint the name in your memory.
 Saying something nice is a great ice-breaker. Most people respond positively when you offer them a compliment. Try to choose something specific to comment on, and make sure that you are being sincere. Your tone of voice and facial expressions often convey your thoughts, so make sure you are being honest in the compliment.Try saying something encouraging to a co-worker whom you would like to know better. You could offer a statement such as, "I really admire the way you delivered that presentation. Could you give me some tips on how to organize an effective pitch?"
This type of statement not only starts the conversation on a positive note, but you are opening the door for follow-up.

