 All contact lenses are considered medical devices. For this reason, it’s important to get your decorative lenses from your eye doctor. Your ophthalmologist or optometrist can find the best fitting decorative lenses for you that will minimize the risk of harming your eyes’ health.Be aware that some businesses such as salons, drug stores, or gas stations sell decorative lenses. These are illegal and can cause serious harm to your eyes. Remember that even decorative lenses require a prescription.;
, With any product you use, it’s important to read the packing instructions for any tips and warnings. When you get your lenses, make sure to thoroughly read the instructions. If you have any questions, call the manufacturer or your eye doctor. Consider skipping decorative lenses that don’t come with any instructions, which can signal they are illegal. This can increase your risk of serious eye damage., Any time you touch your eyes, thoroughly wash your hands. This can prevent any bacteria on your hands or fingers from contacting your eyes. In turn, washing your hands can minimize your risk of eye infections or other injuries.Wet your hands with warm water. Lather up with any type of soap for at least 20 seconds and then rinse off the soap thoroughly. Dry your hands with a clean towel.Disinfect your hands with at least 60% alcohol hand sanitizer if you are in a pinch.
 Decorative lenses do not usually come in daily disposable form. This means that you probably store your lenses in solution when you’re not wearing them. Taking your lenses out of the case and rinsing them before insertion can remove any lingering bacteria on the lenses as well as provide a bit extra moisture to your eyes.Take out one of your decorative lenses and place it in your clean palm. Rub it gently with one finger and some saline or disinfecting solution.
Avoid using water or saliva to rinse off your lenses, which can cause an infection or other serious injury to your eyes.
Throw away any leftover solution in your case so that you can refill it when you remove your contacts again.
 If you have prescription decorative lenses, never share them with another person. Even if the person appears healthy, this can expose your eyes to allergens, bacteria, and viruses that cause eye infections and injuries including vision loss.Respond politely if someone asks to wear your decorative lenses. For example, “I’m really sorry Suki, but I got these from my doctor. They are specially fitted to my eyes.”
Avoid borrowing contacts from other people, which can also cause infection and injury.
 Your eyes are very delicate. Wearing decorative contacts can make you more susceptible to infections. Seek immediate medical attention if you have any signs of eye infection including:Redness
Eye pain that doesn’t go away
Decrease in vision

, Remember that you should treat decorative lenses just like regular contacts.If you have any pain or discomfort when inserting or wearing your decorative lenses, take them out immediately. It might ruin your look, but removal is preferable to discomfort and possible injury or infection., It’s important to have clean hands when you insert your lenses, as well as when you take them out. This can minimize your risk of an eye infection or other injury.Remember to use warm water and soap to wash your hands. Dry them with a clean towel.
 Your contact lens case needs saline disinfecting solution in order to properly store your contacts overnight. Refill the case with your preferred solution to just below the lip. This can ensure that your lenses are properly disinfected and don’t dry out overnight, which can also cause injury to your eyes., Most eye doctors will give you instructions for cleaning and disinfecting your lenses. This includes what types of cleaning and disinfecting solutions you should use and well as how best to use the products. If your doctor suggested a specific brand, you can also follow the packaging instructions. Many cleaning and disinfecting instructions include:


Rinsing off the contact
Rubbing it gently with a finger
Allowing it to sit in a solution for a specified time

, Even if you are tired, never sleep in your decorative lenses. This can increase your risk of an eye infection or other injury.Ask your doctor if your specific type of decorative contacts come in extended wear. These may allow you to wear them longer and while you’re asleep.
 Every pair of contacts has an expiration date. Ask your eye doctor how often you should replace your decorative contact lenses. The required time may be every day or once a year. Not replacing your lenses as often as necessary can increase your risk of eye infections and injuries.Consider replacing your decorative lenses if you’ve worn them and had an eye infection. They can minimize your risk of contracting another infection.
Replace your lens case at least once every three months.
 In rare cases, you may have sudden loss of vision, persistent blurred vision, eye pain, redness, or swelling when wearing decorative lenses. If this happens, get immediate medical attention. This can minimize and treat any damage to your eyes as a result of your decorative lenses.