 Spray or pour the 1/4 cup (60 ml) of water onto the paper towels. Squeeze them gently to remove any excess water.


The towels need to be damp, but they do not need to be dripping wet.
 Lay the damp paper towels out on the counter so the end of one overlaps with the end of the next, and so on, forming a connected line.


Ideally, if your paper towels came from a single roll, they will still be connected to one another. If you are using paper napkins or paper towels that have already been separated, though, they need to overlap by 1 inch (2.5 cm) or so. Otherwise, you will not be able to roll them up smoothly later.
 Place the prepared asparagus at one end of the long paper towel sheet, keeping them in an even cluster. Sprinkle with salt, if desired.


The cluster of spears should lie parallel to the short end of the paper towel sheet. Try to keep the asparagus spears in the center of the sheet width-wise, and do not let the tops or bottoms of the spears peek out or extend over the edge of the towels.
 Carefully wrap the paper towel around the asparagus bundle. Continue wrapping until you reach the end of the paper towel line.


You should be left with a tightly packed bundle when done, and the spears should be neatly tucked inside.
If you have extra room on either end of the roll, fold the paper towel under toward the open seam side of the roll to seal off the ends. If you do not have extra room, however, you do not need to worry about this.
 Cook the wrapped asparagus on full power until the spears just barely become crisp tender.Place the bundle in your microwave with the open seam-side facing down. This secures the seam in place, thereby preventing the paper towels from unraveling as the asparagus cooks.
This process essentially microwave-steams the asparagus. The damp paper towels heat up, sending steam inward to the spears. By steaming the asparagus, you preserve more crunch and more nutrients.
 Unroll the bundle and remove the paper towel with tongs. Serve the asparagus immediately.


Be careful as you unroll the paper towels. Since steam was created, you can expect a large amount of steam to come off the spears as you unveil them. Using tongs can protect your hands, but you should also keep your face back to avoid burning your face, as well.
Add a dollop of butter or garlic butter to the asparagus before serving, if desired.

