 If you have been at the company for a while, it is normal to want a raise or an increase in responsibility. If it is not an automatic benefit that is outlined in your job, you might have to formally ask.


Ask after you have earned the right to a raise. Do not ask within your first 90 days or before you have really shown your asset and growth within the company. It is unprofessional to inquire about a pay raise or promotion you do not deserve.
 Every company has a different policy. If it is a formal letter, then continue with the next steps.


If it is to ask face-to-face, reference How to Ask for a Pay Raise.
 Sometimes it is your direct manager, but it could be the human resources department or even the CEO of the company if it is a smaller establishment. Discuss what it is you want with your manager and figure out the proper channels to go about inquiring about it.


There are times when you might have to send the letter to multiple people like your direct manager or supervisor as well as the human resources department. Be aware of this so that you fulfill all requirements for your request.
If you talk to your manager and they do not think you are ready for the raise or promotion, listen to them. Ask for constructive criticism and work on their suggestions. Inquire again in a few months when you believe you are more prepared.
 This should include your name and company contact information on the left hand side of the letter, and the name and contact information of whoever you are addressing beneath it by one line break.
 This will show how you have been beneficial for the efficiency for the company. This is also the place to allude to what you are asking for. This is to show that you have done your job and been an asset, and the raise is well-deserved.


Maintain your professionalism throughout the letter. It would be easy to become too familiar since you work with this company everyday. Remember that you are addressing your superior.
If you believe your length of time working at this company warrants a raise or promotion, say that as well. An example is if you worked five years and have never gotten a pay increase or promotion. It is best to tell them all the reasons you believe you deserve what you are asking for.
 If you implemented a new program or made a suggestion that positively benefitted the business, this is where to highlight that. Be sure to talk about the results of your innovative work. If it made a department run smoother or resulted in an increase of revenue, say that. Be specific.
 If you successfully complete your job requirements in a timely and efficient manner, highlight this point. You were hired in to do a job, and you do just that. This further proves your value to the company. It shows you are an integral part of their success.


Highlight any times you have gone beyond your job duties. For instance, maybe you work overtime to make sure projects are completed in a timely manner or you offer your free time to other departments that could use your assistance. If you are going beyond your job description, tell them that.
Show pride in your company and that you work there. If you believe in what the company does and that positively influences your attitude toward the job, make that known so that they believe you are a true team player that is there for the long-haul. If you are not as driven in this area, do your best to show any positivity you have for the company.
Talk about personal characteristics you have that benefit the company. If your professionalism and go-getter attitude works towards things getting done, say that. This is the time to really show how you have shined during your time there.
 You have outlined why you deserve it, now it is time to tell them exactly what you want. If it is a particular amount of money you are looking to make, let them know this. Also, let them know what you will do if you do not get this raise or promotion, such as if you have another job offer that you are considering.


Be open to negotiation. The company might not believe you deserve all of what you are asking for or not be able to afford it; however, they could be willing to give out a smaller amount. Tell them the highest amount you want, but be open to what they are willing to give.
 Thank them for their time and let them know within what timeframe you will be following up. Do not let it go for more than a week. This gives them time to think over your request, but also make sure that it is considered and reviewed. Include a professional closing salutation and your personal signature.
 Decide whether to use traditional mail or your company’s mail system. It also might be acceptable to hand the letter to your manager personally. Ask around to see what is the best protocol and follow-through.

