 This will dictate whether you need electric guitar strings, acoustic steel strings, or nylon strings.;
, The most common gauge is 10-46. See Ernie Ball Regular Slinky or D'Addario EXL110. These are the most popular electric sets and provide a great starting point.
 Your guitar is built for one or the other. String gauge. If you want a thicker tone, choose a heavier (thicker) string gauge. If you want easier string to play, choose a lighter gauge.
 You will stay with them if you decide to play classical guitar.
 They are a little heavier than regular nylon and take vigorous strumming.
 They have a much sharper and louder tone than nylon. thickness varies according to the type of set purchased; medium-light gauge is recommended for beginners. Do not use them on classical or electric guitars!

, They are much easier on the fingers than the regular metal strings. Do not use them on electric guitars because they will not pick up electricity.
 They provide brilliance in sound. Select light gauge for finger-style playing, heavy gauge for strumming.
 They are usually more brittle than bronze.
 They are easier on your fingers than standard metal strings. These strings come for both acoustic and electric guitar.
 They are comfortable to the left hand and give a smooth tone when amplified. This string is preferred by many jazz guitarists. Flat-wound strings will provide a more mellow tone than a similar round-wound string, however will be harder to grip with your fingers during bends and fretting due to the smoother surface of the flat wrap wire., Acoustic steel strings( phosphor bronze, 80/20, etc...) have too high a string tension for a classical guitar and can damage it. Nylon strings won't vibrate the top of a steel string guitar enough to produce much sound. Electric guitar strings have a different composition than acoustic guitar strings to help the pickups function properly; specifically they have steel wrapping instead of bronze.
 For example a lot of metal bands use drop D/C/B/A tunings or D/C#/B standard tunings. For very low tunings choose a heavy set of guitar strings such as a 11. or 12. gauge set. Similarly if you play slide guitar in drop G tuning you would be better off choosing a set of strings which will have a high enough tension for you to play comfortably using a slide.

