 Vegetables add fiber, nutrients, and flavor without all the fat and calories. By including more vegetables in your meals, you will feel fuller. If the vegetables are replacing higher calorie options like, bread, pasta, and rice, then you will be cutting calories as well.Make sure to include at least two servings of non-starchy vegetables with every meal. Half your plate should be made up of vegetables.
You can also try replacing certain foods in a recipe with vegetables. For example, to cut calories at dinner you could use zucchini noodles in place of spaghetti, or you could use cauliflower rice instead of white rice in a stir fry.
 If you are looking to sweeten up your cereal, yogurt, cereal, or pancakes, then adding fruit is a great way to go. Your meal will have fewer calories as well as some added fiber and nutrients.


Try topping your pancakes with fresh berries, slice a banana onto your cereal, or dice up an apple and stir it into your yogurt.
If you are craving something sweet, then reach for a piece of fruit first and see if it conquers your craving. For example, instead of having a candy bar, have an apple or a couple of tangerines.
 Just because you are trying to lose weight doesn’t mean you have to cut out all the treats in your diet. You can lighten up recipes for muffins, cookies, and cakes by swapping the butter or oil for a lower fat and lower calorie option.For example, you can replace butter or oil in recipes with applesauce or Greek yogurt in baked goods. Use the same amount that the recipe calls for, such as ½ cup of applesauce if the recipe calls for ½ cup of oil.
 There is so much variety in the products available in supermarkets that you can probably find lower calorie versions of many of the foods you enjoy. For example, you can find diet sodas, baked potato chips, reduced fat cookies, and low fat cheeses. Start buying the lower calorie options of your favorite foods for an easy way to cut calories and lose weight., Fiber helps you to feel full for longer, so it’s important to include fiber in your diet if you are trying to lose weight. One easy way to get more fiber into your diet is to choose whole grain options of the foods you normally eat.For example, instead of a serving of white rice, have a serving of brown rice. Instead of making a sandwich with white bread, choose whole wheat bread. Instead of eating a bowl of sugary cereal, go for a bowl of whole grain cereal or oatmeal.

