 If you plan ahead and decide what you want to wear the night before school you'll more easily be able to plan a good outfit. Rushing to put together your outfit in the morning can leave you looking like a mess. , You don’t need to go for the stylish name brands – just try to find something that you think you look good in. If you feel good in the clothes, you probably look good too! Everyone has his or her favorites and you should stick to yours. That being said, try to avoid looking sloppy. Holes can be trendy if they’re in fashionable areas like your knees or thighs, but don’t wear clothes with tons of stains on them. That isn’t attractive.


Remember to try to match. Some fashion experts say that you shouldn’t wear an outfit with more than three colors. A lot of schools have uniforms, but you can find your own style within this uniform. For example, maybe you can wear corduroys and a flannel shirt if you're a boy to satisfy the uniform and still wear a particular style.
 Obviously you want to look good if you're hanging around people you're own age the whole day. Makeup can really help with that. Prime your skin with a primer, some good ones are smashbox photofinish, Korres organic primer, mac prep and prime, or you could just use your moisturizer. Primer keeps your makeup on longer and can make pores and fine lines go away.


Use a light to medium coverage. Foundation adds a flawless base for your skin and makes your skin look a lot more even. If you need to, conceal dark areas and pimples with a creamy concealer. Put it all around your neck so you don't look like you have white underneath and tan on top, it's good to use a little tanner color.
Try using a bronzer and a blush. Try to buy ones that don't have much glitter or shimmer in them and keep your face pretty matte.
Use a loose powder to set your foundation in the morning and a pressed one for touchups. This will give you a good flawless finish. Make sure that you put some all around your neck and behind like the foundation so it's not noticeable but so it looks well.
 If you prefer not to wear clothes that you feel comfortable in or you want to find a new style, try to find the latest fashion trend that you think would suit you. Maybe that’s wearing a certain style of shirt, maybe it’s stylish summer dresses or sleek skintight pants. Use the internet to look up the latest fashion trends and find one that works for you. You also can find someone who you think dresses really well at school and emulate what they do. If other people think that person is hot, you could do worse than following their lead.
 There are many perfumes to try, choose one that you feel defines you. Don’t put too much of it on – if you can smell it on yourself while you’re walking around then that is probably a bad sign. Just put enough on so that you have your signature scent.
 Wear tasteful earrings, necklaces, or rings if jewelry suits you. However, if you don't want to deal with having jewelry on you all day at school and in class, try getting a cute bag.

