 Before you apply any product to your eyes, you want to put on a great primer. Makeup primer basically acts as a foundation for makeup, giving it a smooth base to stick to. It will help make sure your eyeshadow lasts all day. Plus, it will prevent smudging, which can make droopy eyes look even droopier., Just like with many makeup looks, you will want to choose three shadow colors in light, medium, and dark shades. You will apply the lightest over your entire lid as your base color. Begin in the middle, carefully blending it out across your entire lid and up to the crease. From the crease, sweep the product up to your brow bone, not adding more product, but simply blending it upwards., This might sound tricky, but it’s not. If you have fair skin, grab a pink or rose gold color. If you have medium skin, use a white or white gold shimmer. For darker skin, try a bronze shadow. Simply place a bit of your highlight color in the inner corner of your eye and along your brow bone. Then, brush the remaining product on the center of your lid. These highlights will make your eyes look bright and open, and therefore less droopy! , Use a fluffy brush to sweep the product along your eyelid crease, but do not extend it past the outer corner of your eye. Imagine a line connecting your bottom last line to the tail of your eyebrow. Don’t put dark shadow past that line. Instead, when you get to the end of your crease, gently sweep the product upwards. It shouldn’t be dark or highly pigmented, but it can add a bit of lift to your eye., Again, imagine a line extending upwards from your lower lash line. If you need to, hold a straight edge or an eyeliner pencil against the bottom of your eye so that it extends up from the outer corner towards your eyebrow. The darkest color should not go past this line. Instead, brush the color into just the corner of your lid and sweep it upwards. By brushing the color upwards, rather than outwards, it will lift your eye up., Use a concealer brush to carefully brush concealer under your eye. Then, bring it upwards so that it follows the upward line you created with your eyeshadow. Use the concealer to make the border of the eyeshadow darker and crisper. Then, simply dust your lightest eyeshadow over the concealer.