 The best way to get your crush’s name on Snapchat is to be direct. Whether in person or over direct message on another app, you can start the conversation casually or just say, “Hey, what’s your Snapchat name? I want to add you.”

If you don’t know the person, check their other profiles (such as Facebook or Instagram) for a link to their Snapchat ID, or just ask a mutual friend what their name is.
If you’re connected to your crush on social media, you may be able to add them with Quick Add. Open Snapchat and swipe left to the Stories screen. Tap the magnifying glass, then swipe left on the contact list. If you see your crush, tap +Add next to their name.;
, If you want your crush to swoon over your stories, they’ll need to be following you on Snapchat. If they don’t follow you back on their own, ask them by sending an intriguing Snap that says, “Follow me back!” If you think there’s a chance the person may not know who you are by your username, make sure the Snap includes your name or a photo., A good way to break the ice is to send a Snap that’s relevant to you both. Whether it’s an inside joke between the two of you, their favorite pet, or a song they love, incorporate it into your Snaps whenever possible.

Does your crush love dogs or cats? Send a cute photo of one. Or, even better, send a selfie with a pet that’s extra cute.
If you know your crush’s favorite song, create a video Snap with the song playing in the background. Use a flirty caption like “This song makes me think of you.”

, Sending a selfie to your crush tells them that you want to look good for them. Use these tips to strengthen your selfie game:Point your chin down while holding the camera a little higher than your face.
Try whispering the word “prune” as you snap your photo. This purses your lips slightly, accentuating your cheekbones. This look is flattering for any gender.
Don’t show too much! Flirting is about showing just enough to pique someone’s interest. Focus on your best facial features or great outfits rather than other body parts.
Avoid cliché selfie locations like bathroom mirrors and gym shots.
The best lighting for a selfie is natural sunlight just before the sun sets. Avoid fluorescent lights if possible. If you’re outside or in a dark room, hold a white napkin close to your face (but out of the photo frame) to neutralize the flash.
 Even if your photo shows off your sexy, smoldering eyes, keep your caption lighthearted and flirty. Being coy keeps conversation flowing and creates an air of mystery. Otherwise, you could come on too strong and make your crush nervous.Use captions to start conversations. Ask casual questions, like “What are you up to right now?” or “What’s up this weekend?” so your crush has something to respond to.
For a great flirty conversation starter, try “Looking for trouble.”

, People are attracted to confidence, so send Snaps that show you being confident in your talents.

If you have serious culinary skills, share artistic photos of meals you’ve made. Sometimes the way to a person’s heart is truly through the stomach. For an extra flirty kick, caption your food photo with, “Want some?”
Sing a flirty song that flatters your voice.
Show off your best (or silliest) dance moves to your crush’s favorite song.
 Sending a unique Snap to your crush will make them feel chosen. If they see the same Snap in your story, it will feel less personal, thus less special., While you may know your Snaps are flirty, your crush might still be wondering if you’re interested. Respond to their Snaps and stories with quick, flirtatious lines like “I like that!” or “You don’t look so bad (winky face)” to be obvious without being overwhelming., In a chat, ask to see something in your crush’s life. This could be anything from their beautiful eyes to their new kitten. Even if your crush just sends you a photo of their morning bus ride, remember that they did it just for you!, Snapchat messages disappear after 24 hours so they should be brief. Once your messages venture into 2 or 3 sentence territory, get your crush’s phone number or ID on a text messaging platform to keep the conversation going.