 Black, oily olives may be dry-cured using salt. Manzanillo, mission, and kalamata olives are commonly cured this way. Make sure the olives are completely ripe and dark in color. Inspect the olives to make sure that they are as unbruised as possible. Look for holes left by insects or birds., If the olives were treated with chemicals, rinse them off before you begin the brining process. Lay them out to dry completely.
 Use a kitchen scale to figure out exactly how much they weigh. You'll need a pound of pickling salt (1 1/2 cups) for every two pounds of olives.
 You may use a wooden fruit crate about six inches deep with two slats on each side. Line the entire crate with burlap, including the sides, and staple or nail it to the top. Prepare a second crate identical to this one.


Alternately, you can line the crate with cheesecloth, old sheets or cloth napkins as long as there is enough fabric to keep the salt contained and to absorb any liquids which may drip from the crate.
 Mix 1 1/2 cups of pickling or Kosher salt for every two pounds of olives in a large bowl. Make sure to mix thoroughly, so that every olive gets covered in salt.


Do not use iodized table salt; this will affect the flavor of the olives. You need pickling salt or Kosher salt.
Don't skimp on the salt, since it prevents mold from growing.
 Pour all of the olives and salt into one crate, then cover it with a layer of pickling salt. Cover the crate with cheesecloth to keep bugs out of the mixture.
 You may want to lay out a tarp, since the juices from the olives will seep out and stain the surface. Rather than setting the crate directly on the ground, raise it up on blocks to promote air circulation., Dump the contents of the crate into the second, clean crate. Shake the crate well to mix the olives, then carefully pour them back into the original box. This ensures every olive gets an even coating of salt and allows you to see any damaged or rotten olives. Remove these, they'll not be good to eat later.


Any olives with white circular patches (probably a fungus) should be removed. The fungus often starts at the stem end of the olive.
Check the olives to make sure that they are beginning to cure evenly. If an olive has shriveled areas and plump areas, you may want to dampen the olive prior to repacking in salt; this will encourage the plump area to start shriveling.
 After this time, taste an olive to determine if you like the flavor. If the olive is still quite bitter, continue the dry-curing process for another couple of weeks. The olives should take about a month to six weeks to become cured depending on the size of the olive. When cured, they will be shriveled and soft.
 Either sift out the salt by pouring the olives over a screen, or pick the olives out of the salt and shake them out one by one.
 Spread them out on paper towels or cloth napkins to thoroughly dry.
 Store them in the refrigerator for several months or more.


You can also mix the olives with extra-virgin olive oil and spice to taste.

