 One of the first medications to try if you're feeling constipated is a stool softener. These are easy to find over-the-counter and can help get you back on track.The way that stool softeners work is that they draw water into your stool from your intestines. This makes your stool softer and easier to pass.
Note that stool softeners do not necessarily give you the urge to go. They only make it easier to go.
Take a stool softener one to two times per day or as directed by your surgeon or the directions on the box.
If a stool softener does not work, or doesn't provide you the urge to go, you may need to add in an additional medication.;
, To pair with a stool softener, you may want to consider adding in a laxative. These are the medications that will give you the urge to go.There are two main types of laxatives: stimulants and osmotics. Try using an osmotic laxative first. Stimulants can cause diarrhea and stomach cramping.
Osmotic laxatives work by drawing in fluid into your intestines and helping to move stool through your colon.
Many times, a combination of a stool softener and an osmotic laxative is a great choice when it comes to relieving constipation.
 A less well known way to relieve post-surgical constipation is by adding in a lubricant. This is another option that you can find easily over-the-counter.


Lubricants are similar to stool softeners in the sense that they make it easier for your stool to be passed; however, they work by lubricating your colon instead of drawing fluid into your stool.Oil based products, like mineral or cod oil, are common lubricants. They aren't the best tasting, but do help relieve constipation without stomach cramping or diarrhea.
 If more gentle methods of relieving constipation are not working, you may need to change your methods. Using a suppository or enema are other ways to relieve more severe constipation.


Suppositories are generally made with glycerin. When inserted, the glycerin is absorbed by your rectal muscles causing them to gently contract. This helps make it easier to go and provides you with the urge to go.Prior to using a suppository, you may want to consider using a stool softener as well. It might be somewhat painful to pass stool that's been compacted for a while.
Another option to try is an enema. Although not pleasant, these usually relieve constipation immediately. Check with your surgeon to make sure this is ok, as you should not use them after certain types of operations, particularly on the lower colon and rectum.
Purchase an enema over-the-counter and read the instructions thoroughly. Only use an enema once. If no stool is produced, call your physician., There are a variety of medications that you can take to relieve your postoperative constipation; however, there are other medications you should manage to make sure they don't continue to cause constipation.


One of the main reasons patients become constipated after surgery is that they're on prescription pain medications. Although these medications are obviously very necessary, they do slow your bowels down.If you've been prescribed prescription pain medications, only take as much as you need and follow your doctor's instructions for use.
Assess your pain level every day. If it's decreasing, ease up on your pain medications. The sooner you can cut back or stop pain medications, the quicker your bowels will get back to normal.
Also, if you only have minimal pain, ask your physician if you can take a mild, over-the-counter pain medication instead, which is less likely to contribute to the constipation.
 Regardless of what medication you want to take, if you're feeling constipated and need medications to assist you, talk to your doctor first.


Most of the gentle over-the-counter constipation medications are safe and appropriate to use.
However, some medications may interfere with prescriptions provided to you after your surgery or are not safe due to the type of surgery you've had.
If you're feeling constipated and are unsure of what you're allowed to take, call your doctor or the physician on call. Ask exactly what you can and cannot take, how often to take it and when to call back.

