 Older children, from ages 6 to ten, are more agile and coordinated than younger children. They can enter and exit the water by themselves and can learn fundamental strokes, such as the backstroke or breaststroke.Though children in this age group aren't ready to be professional swimmers, it is healthy to increase expectations for behavior, reception of technical instruction, and stamina. Lessons can be more focused, longer, have more detail, and introduce higher expectations.
 These are the basic building blocks for moving through the water. Basic strokes include the backstroke, the butterfly stroke, and the breaststroke.Each of these strokes require coordinated movement across the body, meaning that teaching these strokes can take up large amounts of time. Often, instructors will break each stroke down into several parts, teach the parts individually, then combine them into a whole. One can follow this method to introduce basic movements to young children.


Instructors can break strokes down into "cues" that can illustrate a complex stroke. Children can easily memorize cues--which may indicate certain body postures or movements--and use them to build a stroke.
 The backstroke is an easy stroke that can be taught through specific skills. Begin with students floating on their back and stroking the water using only one arm--25 strokes with the left arm, then 25 with the right. Once the movement is perfected, the arms can be alternated. After the student can keep a steady rhythm with alternating arms, they can be taught a flutter kick. Once the student can alternate arms, flutter kick, and stay afloat on their back, they can use these together in rhythm in order to perform a backstroke., Once the student is able to move in the water with the backstroke, introduce challenges or drills that require them to apply the technique. Swimming a certain number of laps in a lap pool, or around the edge of a pool without laps, can be a good challenge, as can be races against other students. Randomized challenges, such as swimming to pick up randomly dropped pool weights, can develop reaction and decision-making skills.


Try to have your students reduce their time spent completing each drill or challenge. Consider recording their times in order to encourage development.
 This is similar to teaching strokes by breaking them down into cues. Skill progressions introduce students to small tasks or movements that, once mastered, are then combined or extended into larger ones. A skill progression will establish foundational skills that are predictable, then lead students to more complex skills that are less predictable and indicative of mastery.Using a skill progression in teaching swimming might mean playing a game that develops a simple skill, then moving on to more technical-based lessons that build upon that skill.


Skill progressions can be used in the open (that is, you can provide a chart or graph that tracks the skills attained) or can be used in an unacknowledged way.
 As students get older and more experienced, their need for structure may be reduced, as they are able to make their own decisions and rely on their own intuition about their skills. Students might need to be weaned off structure in order to develop this independence. Consider challenging your students more, or introducing the risk of failure; putting students outside their comfort zone can often lead to the largest jumps in competence and skill acquisition.


At the same time, remain generous, gentle, and responsible with your students' self-esteem. Never make them internalize failure, feel lasting shame, or have deep doubts about themselves.
 As children gain mastery, they may need more support than you can give in order for their skills to develop. Talk to your students' parents about their progress, weaknesses, improvements, and opportunities for activity outside your lessons. Parents do not have your expertise or time with their children and may miss information about their child's development.


Continue to remind parents about swimming safety. Many parents assume that once a child has taken swimming lessons, they can swim alone. This is not the case; all children should be supervised while swimming.
 Arrive early, stay on schedule, keep your equipment and props neatly organized and maintained, and avoid talking about personal issues. The higher expectation you fulfill for yourself, the higher expectations you can expect from your students.

