 First of all, if you’re getting a call from an unknown number that you suspect may be an automated message, don’t answer it. Though these calls are dispatched via computer, there are often attendants on the other end checking to see whether the calls went through. If they know that the calls are being answered, it will just make them more persistent.You can usually tell a robocall from a normal unknown number by looking for lengthy or unfamiliar extensions.;
, Assuming that you’re receiving the calls on your mobile device, go into the blocked caller list in the Settings menu of your smartphone and enter the number that the robocalls are originating from. Once they’ve been blocked, the company or individual will no longer be able to place calls to your number.


This can usually be done by accessing your phone’s Settings menu then going to “Phone” or “Messages” and copying the number into the list.On newer iPhones, you can also tap the “i” icon next to the name of the caller and scroll down until you find the option that says “block this caller.”

, Blocking numbers individually may work if you only receive an automated call here and there, but if it’s a frequent occurrence, you may need to take more drastic measures. By setting your phone’s “Do Not Disturb” feature to “manual,” you can choose to only allow calls by the people who are on your contacts list. This way, you can ensure that you’ll never be pestered by computer-based phone spammers again.While this method is instantly effective, one major downside is that you’ll no longer be able to receive calls from people you know if you haven’t saved their numbers in your contacts.
Be sure to put as many personal numbers as you think you may need in your contacts list before blocking numbers with the “Do Not Disturb” option.
 Thanks to the wonders of technology, there are now programs available for smartphones and tablets that turn away unsolicited robocalls automatically. When you install one of these apps, it will monitor your incoming calls, looking for signs that a call is coming from an automated source. The call will then be declined swiftly and unobtrusively, with no irritating notifications or interruptions.Apps like PrivacyStar and Robonomo are highly rated for their ability to intercept and dispense with frustrating computer calls.These programs are a great way to put a stop to spam messages without the need to block each number individually, while also letting calls from unknown personal numbers through.

