 You will need two test tubes, a test tube holder, four iron nails, wool cotton (cotton balls), Calcium Chloride crystals, and water.Clear plastic cups could be used as a substitute for test tubes. However, you would need to use larger pieces of wool cotton, like chunks of the cotton batting used in furniture cushioning.
Calcium Chloride crystals are also known as rock salt or ice melt. You can find them at any home goods store near the snow removal items.
Calcium Chloride crystals can also be found in moisture absorbers which are often located in home improvement stores with the dehumidifiers.
The size of the nails do not matter. Just be sure that two nails will fit inside of each test tube.
Most nails are made of iron but some of them are coated. Be sure to use iron nails that are not galvanized or covered in another coating.;
, Write “Tube A” and “Tube B” on the test tubes. Tube “A” will be your control group and tube “B” will be your experimental group. Place both test tubes in the test tube holder.
 Keep these notes so that you can record your observations of each test tube over the course of the next couple of days. This can be done on a chart or in a lab notebook. The goal is not to mix up the different test tubes.
 In the bottom of test tube “A” place two dry nails. Then, layer wool cotton, Calcium Chloride crystals, and more wool cotton on top of the nails., Simply place two moistened nails in the bottom of the test tube that you have labeled “B”.Be sure to place your test tubes next to each other in the same room. They need to be exposed to the same air.
Do not cover your wet nails with cotton or Calcium Chloride crystals. You want these nails to be exposed to air.
 Over the next week observe your experiment and record your observations. The nails in tube “A” should remain rust-free while the nails in tube “B” should begin to rust.You are likely to start seeing results within 24 hours.Record your observations daily.
 Rust forms when iron is exposed to moisture and oxygen. When oxygen from the air comes in contact with iron, the iron loses electrons to the oxygen atom. This process is known as oxidation. In order for the iron to oxidize, it must also come in contact with water. Even the smallest amount of water, or moisture, is sufficient for oxidation to occur., The nails in test tube “A” did not rust because they were dry. Not only did these nails go into the test tube dry, but you also added Calcium Chloride crystals to the test tube, which absorbed any moisture which may have come into contact with the nails below the wool cotton., The nails in test tube “B” did start to rust. This is because they came into contact with both moisture and oxygen from the air that entered the test tube. The contact with the moist air speeds up the rate of oxidation, which causes rust to form.


Even in a dry environment, rust will form as long as oxygen is present. Moist air just provides a more favorable setting for the oxidation process to occur faster.
You can repeat the experiment with a humidifier in the room. You should see your results intensify.

