 Once your dog starts responding to your commands as you want it to, be sure to reward your dog with something positive. Positive reinforcement reaffirms your dog’s behavior and makes it more likely that your dog will continue to listen to you in the future.You should begin the positive reinforcement with treats as you are training your dog, but eventually you should move to just praising your dog and petting it when it listens to you correctly.
 This kind of behavior modification relies on creating a relationship of fear and submission between you and your dog. You don’t want your dog to obey you simply because it is afraid of you and how you might react.


Behaviors to avoid include yelling, hitting, inflicting physical pain in any way, or punishing after the fact when the dog doesn’t know what it is being punished for.
 New dogs need to learn a lot of things before they can coexist with you in your home. This includes learning what kinds of things you want them to chew on and what types of things you don’t want them to chew on. Chewing is a normal activity for dogs, so be sure to provide them with plenty of bones and chew toys that you make clear they are allowed to chew.You should also try to doggie-proof your house by putting valuable items out of reach of the dog until you are sure it can control its chewing behavior.
Try to monitor your dog as much as possible so that you can help it learn what things you don’t want it to chew.
If all else fails, you can try spraying chew deterrents on things you don’t want your dog to chew on.
 If your new dog is having trouble with house training, try creating a smaller space for the dog inside. Dogs like to keep their personal areas clean, so they usually won’t have an accident if they are in a smaller space or a crate.You should try to keep your dog away from carpeted areas and rugs. Dogs are less likely to go to the bathroom on a hard surface.
Additionally, you should clean the area thoroughly if your dog has an accident in the house because they might smell their previous accident and think that this is now a place to use the bathroom. Cleaning the spot will make it less likely that your dog will go there again.

