 It might look gorgeous in the short term, but in the long term this is seriously damaging to your hair, and potentially even your health. Many products used in chemical blowouts contain formaldehyde, which has been connected to bad skin reactions and even cancer.If you absolutely must get a blowout, do it very sparingly.
 You might love trying out different colors, but this can wreak havoc on your hair. This is especially true if you have dark hair that you're always trying to dye a shade or more lighter, since your hair has to be stripped of color before it can be dyed. That being said, there are ways you can subtly change your color that are actually restorative for damaged hair:


Henna dyeing is a great way to enhance your natural color by making it look richer and deeper.
Tea rinses are easy to do and can help blond shades get a little darker.
Honey and cinnamon are both effective hair lighters that aren't damaging to hair.
 No matter how healthy it is to begin with, your hair will suffer if you bleach it.Even if you get it professionally bleached at a salon, the process of stripping color from your hair is going to be very damaging. If you decide to bleach, proceed with caution and make sure not to leave the bleaching product in for too long, or you could burn off your hair.
 Most hair weaves, even those put in by a professional, have the potential to cause breakage and even bald spots. Heavy pull on the roots of your hair causing it to fall out. The hair can also break in the places where the weaves are sewn or glued in. Instead of getting weaves put in, consider clipping a weft to your hair using a clip that can be easily removed without pulling. If you do decide to get weaves, always go to a professional who knows what she's doing.
 When then ends of your hair start to split, there's no going back. Getting a trim every few months is a good way to keep your hair shaft strong and healthy, so it doesn't start to fray. Ask your stylist not to use harsh tools, products and techniques on your hair, especially if your hair is very dry, curly, wavy or coarse.


Hair thinners are particularly bad for curly and dry hair.
Stylists tend to yank the brush through your hair while it's wet. If you're concerned about breakage, ask the stylist to use a wide tooth comb.
If you don't want products containing sulfates and silicones to be used on your hair, you can shampoo and condition your hair before going to the salon. That way, the stylist can just re-wet it instead of washing it.

