 Catalysis of chemical reactions refers to a process in which an external chemical agent is used in order to speed up a chemical process which is typically a chemical transformation or a chemical reaction. Catalysts that are known in the chemical literature are of several types. All of them have the same role and purpose which is the acceleration of chemical processes. Chemical catalysts usually enhance the rate of chemical reactions by lowering its energy barrier or activation energy of the chemical reaction.;
, Normally chemical reactions at the laboratory level take time to proceed to completion. Often this can take hours or even days. This is usually not a favorable situation since faster reactions are sometimes required to save time and money. Also, some other desired chemical processes can never proceed in the desired direction. Into this comes the function of using the catalyst, which can facilitate the progress of the reaction that otherwise does not want to proceed any faster. Also some other catalysts not only help reactions to proceed to completion but also can induce selectivity in the products of the reaction by favoring one product over the other.
 Catalysts of this type usually have special chiral structure that can exert its effect by binding to the reacting compounds in a specific orientation that depends on its chirality. This type of catalysts are usually used in asymmetric catalytic processes that are chemical processes that are characterized by the production of certain specific product of a given reaction through the use of chemically selective compounds as catalysts that are usually chiral catalysts.
 Most catalysts that were in use in previous time are insoluble solid catalysts that have conferred to the reaction a heterogeneous character. These types of catalysts were designed after research was done on their surface properties. The search for suitable heterogeneous catalysts for the purpose of catalyzing chemical reactions relied on the science of surface chemistry and solid state physics. Research in surface chemistry and especially adsorption of compounds on surfaces of special solid material was done to evaluate the potential of that compound to behave as a catalyst.


One example of such a catalyst is the catalysis of hydrogen molecule addition to organic double bonds using palladium metals in the solid state. This process is a typical heterogeneous catalytic process. Heterogeneous catalysis proved to be not efficient process enough due to the existence of more than one phase in the reaction medium. For this reason the search for new more catalysts was very active.
 A relatively new type of catalysts that are still used nowadays are the homogeneous catalysts. This group of catalysts is called homogeneous because they are soluble in the reaction medium. Typical group of catalysts of this type is the organometallic reagents that are based on transition metal complexes of organic compounds. This type of catalysts is very useful in performing organic reaction that usually does not proceed without the presence of the catalyst.


Many organic reactions have been catalyzed by this type of reagents. Examples of such processes include the production of methanol from CO and H2 under the catalysis of an organometallic reagent. Also many other industrial processes rely on this type of catalysis. Homogeneous catalysis by organometallic reagents is currently a hot topic in organic and inorganic chemistries.
The idea of chemical catalysis that we see nowadays was taken from the observation of similar catalytic processes that take place inside the living tissue. A natural catalyst in the body is called an enzyme. This type of catalysis in the body is very efficient and important for the proper function of the body. The catalysis of biochemical reactions in the body have completely different mechanism than that observed in the chemistry laboratory. Enzymatic catalysis is a much more efficient process that is very selective and specific in its progress.
 Due to its selective and specificity enzymes are sometimes used by chemists to perform organic reactions that have high enantioselectivity by virtue of the use of the enzyme to catalyze the reaction. Enzymes catalysis cannot be mimicked on a laboratory scale due to the complicated mechanism in which enzymatic catalysis usually proceed. Therefore as alternatives are used to induce selectivity of chemical reactions such as the use of chiral catalysts that can induce selectivity of the product by binding in a selective way to the reacting molecule. This type of chiral catalysis is especially applicable to organic reactions where the products of the reactions are usually more than one product under noncatalytic conditions.

