 Heat protectant usually comes in a liquid spray form, so generously spray heat protectant all over your dry hair.Be sure to lift up sections of your hair to coat the inner and bottoms layers of your hair with the heat protectant.









Heat protectant will add a protective barrier between your hair and the heat from your hair tools, so your hair is less likely to burn.
 Depending on the length of your hair, you may need to section your hair in 2-3 times to make 2-3 different sections.Start your first section by placing your thumb nails at the top of your ears on the sides of your face, and draw a horizontal line through your hair, meeting at the back of your head. Take all the hair that you’ve collected in your hands, and pin it up on your head so it’s out of the way. The bottom portion of your hair should be hanging down now. Once you have your section, split it in the middle, half on the right side, half on the left side.









Keep in mind that you’ll be working on each section on both the left and right side of your head. For example, If you only section your hair in two sections, it will really be like working on four sections of hair.
It’s most helpful to start waving on the bottom portion of your hair (the bottom 1/3 of your head), and work your way up to the top of your head to your roots and bangs.
 Grab a 1-inch section of hair from the back area of your head (starting on either the left or right side of your head), and clamp on the hair straightener about an inch down from the root of your hair. Rotate and bend the hair straighter downward (toward your face) about 90° and hold it for one second. Then slide the straightener down a little bit (perhaps an inch), and bend the straightener away from your face, 180° the opposite way.Keep doing this back and forth bending motion slowly sliding the straightener down your hair, until you come to the last inch or half inch of hair.









Don’t wave all the way to the last strands of your hair; it will make your waves look less natural.
Once you have finished waving a section of hair, move it behind your shoulder so you know that section of hair is complete.
 Use a small, thin elastic hair tie to loosely tie back the section of your hair that’s completely waved. This way, you can keep your completed and uncompleted sections of hair separate, as you section off the next section of hair you’ll be working with.








Do not tie your hair back too tightly. The elastic should be just tight enough that it keeps your hair section together, without leaving an indentation in your hair.
 With your waved hair tied back, unclip the rest of your hair from your head and let it hang. Then place your thumb nails on the sides of your face near your temples, and draw a horizontal line back to your head until your thumbs meet.Twist together the collected hair, and pin it up on the top of your head so it’s out of the way. You should now have your middle section of hair.









Split this section of hair down the middle of the back of your head, so you have half of your hair on the left side of your head, and half of your hair on the right side.
 Just how you waved your first section of hair, wave your second section of hair using the same bending motion of the straightener. Start with about a 1-inch portion of hair at the back of your head, clamp the straightener on the hair about an inch down from the roots, and rotate the straightener to turn it approximately 90°downward, away from your face. Slide the straightener down your hair about an inch, then rotate the straightener 180° upward, toward your face. Slide the straightener a little more down your hair, keeping it in its upward turned position, then rotate the straightener 180° downward again.









Continue this until you get to the last inch or inch and a half of hair, then release the straightener.
Once you straighten all of the hair in the second section, you can add this section into the elastic holding together the hair that has been waved. Then you can move onto waving your third, and final, section of hair.
 Depending on how you part your hair, your third section of hair may be separated unevenly between the left and right sides of your head. If you part your hair down the middle of your head, the left and right sides will be even. Separate your hair how you naturally wear your part, and start waving 1-inch pieces of your hair starting with hair at the back of your head, and moving forward, toward your face.









Once you are finished waving all sections of your hair, lightly run your fingers through your hair to blend the waves together and give it a more natural look.
Then lightly spray your hair with some hairspray to set the waves in place.

