 If you want to flirt with someone, you need to talk to them! Come up with an opening line to make this approach easier.


The opening line, though, should not be something too corny or cliché or the crush might respond with a laugh! If they do, laugh it off yourself! You could offer the person gum or a Tic-Tac.
The best opening lines refer to natural points of common interest. For example, you could make a comment or ask a question about a homework assignment or a movie everyone is talking about. Say something like, "Hey, what did you think about that math test? I thought it was hard." Or: "Did you see X movie? I'm trying to decide whether to go check it out."The key is to break the ice and strike up a conversation.;
, Flirting should be positive, and make the other person feel better about himself or herself.You could say, "Hey, I like your T-shirt! Where'd you get it?" Or: "How do you always do so well on tests? Tell me your secrets!"


People will want to be around you more if you build them up with positive, but sincere, compliments. So pick something that you really like about the person, and let them know! Don’t do this too much or in an over-the-top fashion or it could sound phony.
A compliment can also work as an opening line. A compliment is also basically a reaching out to the other person, and it’s likely to make him or her open up to you more.
 Try not to make the other person do all of the conversation heavy lifting. Conversation can be very flirtatious if done right.


Don’t let the conversation sink into long silences because that can be awkward and uncomfortable for everyone. Ask questions if all else fails. "How do you think the football team is going to do tonight?" Or: "Did you hear that new song that X artist put out?"
When talking, try to focus on common interests. Maybe you both like the same music group or have common groups of friends. Stay positive and don’t badmouth other people! Ask a question about something they like or are involved in.
 Do this nicely. Mean teasing that hurts someone’s feelings isn’t going to make him or her feel closer to you.


Lighthearted teasing, though, is a way to communicate interest. You could say something like, “You tried out for football? You’re so good I’m surprised you even needed a tryout!”
Be funny. Humor is attractive to most people if it’s done in a way that doesn’t seem cruel and doesn’t poke fun at people’s differences. Be very careful about teasing or complimenting a teenager about his or her body size or appearance because what you think they will like, might not work. Teenagers can be very sensitive. , Although a cliché, this requirement is essential when flirting. Being phony or fake isn't attractive.


Think about it: if this whole flirt thing gets to bf/gf status anytime soon, the other person is going to realize you're not the same person if you put on airs and graces and pretended to be different from your true self in some attempt to win the other person over.
If this person isn't attracted by who you really are, then they're not worth your time and effort.
 Body language is a big part of flirting, and a big part of that is eye contact. Eye contact conveys intimacy and interest.


You will seem uninterested or even snobby if you make no eye contact at all. Or you will seem extremely shy. Glance at his lips and then look away.Don’t stare endlessly. That can be creepy. Make periodic eye contact. Meet your crush’s gaze briefly, smile coyly, and then glance away. Then, repeat.
 A key part of flirting is smiling. Smiling communicates to people that you feel positively and warm about them.


Don’t smile too much or it could seem phony, as with eye contact. It’s important to smile at natural moments.People like to be around people who seem happy and make them feel good about the world and themselves. Confidence is infectious, and a key way to project confidence is to smile.
 Body language experts say there is closed body language and open body language. To flirt, you will want to communicate with open body language.


Open body language means such things as palms up, arms and legs uncrossed, moving slightly into the other person’s space (say by leaning forward), and smiling.Closed body language means feet turned away, hands turned down, arms crossed over the chest, a non-smile, and leaning away. In addition to communicating open body language to him or her, you can assess whether he or she likes you or is receptive to flirting by studying his or her body language.
 Awkward alert, for sure. However, if you’ve chatted before and get along well so far, try making light contact with the person by playfully poking or wiping an imaginary eyelash off their cheek.


Tap your crush on the elbow when you say something about them, or gently fix a flyaway hair.
See how the other person reacts. If they step away (putting physical distance between you), cross their arms (putting symbolic distance between you), finds an excuse to start texting, etc., stop flirting (or stop flirting so hard – it’s possible you’re coming on too strong).
 The best flirting is subtle. It means that you’re communicating interest in the other person without doing it overtly. There’s an art to it.


That means that overt activities such as sexting are not good ideas. For one, it can be illegal and against school rules. For another, it is highly unlikely to gain you the type of interest you want.A much better way to flirt is simply to talk to the other person with actual interest about things you’re both involved in. Avoid sexual talk. Even if you weren’t young, it’s not a good way to go about it!

, This doesn’t mean that you send dirty texts or sext. Don’t do those things. They are not attractive and could get you in big trouble.


Flirting by text (or other social media) simply means you indicate interest and offer positive feedback. You could text them a comment about a homework assignment for example. Be casual. Stay only very positive on social media, posting statuses that focus on activities you are doing. This will make him or her want to be part of your exciting life!
You could click like on one of their photos on Facebook, retweet one of their Tweets, or add them on Snapchat. This is the Internet equivalent of going up to the in person to say hi. You could use emojis to indicate interest., People like to talk about themselves. Let’s face it. You will draw his or her interest by being a good listener sometimes and a support system.


Ask questions when he or she is talking in order to indicate that you are really listening and offer positive feedback.
Lean a little closer or touch the person’s shoulder if they are going through a hard time to indicate warmth and caring. Don’t only talk about yourself!

, Research has shown that people, especially boys, are naturally drawn to red, sometimes without even realizing it.Similarly, if you’re female, you could wear lip gloss, which some people find attractive, or dangling earrings to highlight a long neck. Spritz perfume or cologne on the back of your neck.
Avoid dark colors that seem drab and depressing. Wear vibrant and fun colors and softer pastels that indicate romance (like pink, light blue, etc.)

, If your flirting session is going really well, you might not want it to end (especially if you like the person), but this puts the flirting session at risk of getting boring.


Avoid the friend zone. Being friendly with someone sometimes puts you at risk for coming across as too much of a, well, friend, and nothing says unsexy like being thought of as a BFF by your crush.
Avoid being too available, giving too much (time, energy, attention), or trying too hard. If you and your crush usually bump into each other at the same time every day by the lockers or in the lunch line, for example, make a point of not being there every once in a while so that they have a chance to miss you.

