 Talk about using humor. Instead of trying to force it directly into your current marketing, let the department know that you would like to add humorous ideas to your pitches in the future. Make sure your marketers know what areas are off limits, such as sarcasm, which is hard to communicate in print, and any jokes aimed at race, gender or disability.;
, Think of creative, funny ways to illustrate that message. With a good message, you can create serious and funny ads alike for different advertising outlets.
 For example, if you sell furniture, don't try to create a funny message about the comfort of your furniture. Instead, consider humor about an upcoming sporting event that is often watched in a living room.


Think like a comedian. Think of everyday situations, and look for humorous aspects. This type of humor works for hundreds of comedians because it is so relatable.
 Large marketers have started to release humorous ads on their Facebook page, on YouTube, with infographics, or on local radio ads instead of using the ads on TV or in large print campaigns. In the blogosphere, humorous videos and images can go viral when people share them with their friends. You don't always have to focus on placing an ad in front of a huge TV audience.
 Sarcasm is very hard to express in print, so never assume your audience will understand it. Consider satire, banter, or wordplay instead of sarcasm at someone else's expense.
 Pick a trusted employee in the marketing department who knows the limits within which you want to use humor. To be safe, you might ask a manager to review daily tweets before they go out.
 Most marketing campaigns need to communicate essential information in the first 10 or 20 seconds. Make sure your humor keeps people's attention and doesn't delay the message.
 Well drawn, humorous cartoons can complement well written text and enhance your company's image.
 Ask them to tell jokes or funny stories that are inspired by your funny advertising campaign.
 These guidelines can be shared internally and outline what employees should and shouldn't do on social media while advertising their connection to your company or brand. Social media guidelines can point out types of humor you don't want associated with your company.

