 You can’t take everything with you when packing for a year abroad. Your packing needs limits. Three suitcases is too many, and one suitcase is not enough. The “Goldilocks number” of suitcases? Two. This will give you enough space for clothes and a few personal belongings., No matter where in the world you’re going, you’ll probably need to wear clothes. There are many types of clothes you could bring. The clothes you bring should depend partially on personal choice and partially on the climate.If you’re headed for year in the Tropics, you can probably leave your parka and mittens at home. If you’re taking a year in Siberia, on the other hand, you’ll not have much use for shorts and flip-flops.
Learn more about the climate and season weather patterns of the place you’re headed and pack your wardrobe accordingly.Other clothing items really come down to personal choice. You might want to bring a favorite set of pajamas, or that t-shirt from your favorite band.
Bring at least one formal outfit in case you have the opportunity to attend a formal event.
Don’t forget essentials. You should pack two weeks’ worth of underwear and socks to keep laundry costs down. Include a pair of sturdy and comfortable walking shoes.Be versatile when packing. Look for outfits that would be appropriate in both casual and professional situations. Choose clothing items that match well with many other items.
 When you’re abroad, you’ll likely want to continue checking your email and social media, check the news, read wikiHow and do all the other wonderful things that computers empower you to do. Your best bet is to invest in a padded laptop case and bring your laptop along with your other carry-on luggage., You may or may not be able to use your phone when you arrive in your host country. But while en route, you can use your phone to contact the people waiting for you at your final destination if your flight is delayed. Plus you’ll be able to use it pass the time during a layover by checking the news, connecting with friends and family on social media, and playing games.Don’t forget your phone charger.
If you can’t use your phone when you arrive in your host country, ask your boss or student coordinator to connect you with a new phone.
 If you’re not a big audiophile, you might find that your phone is adequate to cover your audio needs. But if you’re really into podcasts, audiobooks, and music, you’ll probably want more hard drive space than your phone allows. Pack your portable music device for your year abroad., If you’re satisfied with your phone’s camera, you could forego bringing a digital camera. But if you want higher-quality images, you should think about bringing along a digital camera.Don’t forget the memory card and charger when you pack your camera.
Avoid bringing a bulky long-lens camera. Their size makes them hard items to carry on your flight, and their fragility means you should not trust them to baggage handlers.
 Foreign electrical outlets are probably different than the ones you have in your country. Instead of two prongs they might have three, or vice versa. In order to use you phone, laptop, and other gadgets, you’ll need to invest in an adapter set.Electrical adapter sets are usually sold as part of a package that contains adapters all international electrical outlet standards. In other words, you won’t need to buy a set for Japan, another for Nigeria, and another for Scotland. Instead, the set will contain interchangeable pieces that you can use as needed in each country.
They are readily available online and in many hardware stores.

