 If a government agency intends to take your property for a public use, you will receive a notice describing that use.The government's power of eminent domain gives agencies the ability to take private property, but only if fair compensation is provided to the property owner.When you receive a notice, it will describe the use for which the government needs your property and how much of your property will be needed. In some cases, the agency simply needs a portion of your land, and you may continue to live there. However, in other cases your house must be demolished, for example if the government plans to build a highway there.
 Because the law surrounding eminent domain is extremely complicated, an experienced attorney can help you best defend your property rights.An experienced attorney will work to protect your legal rights with respect to your property and ensure that you're getting the best possible value for your property with the least intrusion from the government.See if your local bar association has a referral program you can use to find a qualified and experienced property attorney. You might also ask any real estate agents or attorneys you know if there is anyone they would recommend to help you.
 Although many landowners believe they are protecting their property rights by making things difficult for the government appraiser, your cooperation will ensure the appraiser gets an accurate picture of your land's value.If the government delays appraisal while at the same time taking actions that serve to devalue your property, you may be able to defend your property rights by challenging the timing of the appraisal. Real property values change over time depending on many different factors, but if the land's value has decreased due to governmental actions you can argue that an earlier appraisal should be used., The purchase offer will include the appraiser's report and cannot be below the appraiser's assessed value for your property.After the government appraisal is conducted, the agency will send you a purchase offer. If you deny the offer, the case most likely will go to court.You also have the opportunity to negotiate the value of your property, for example by responding to the government's offer with a counter-offer.
 If you disagree with the government appraiser's assessment of your property, you can hire your own appraiser and offer a competing valuation.


The value of your property depends on many factors, some of which may not have been evaluated by the government's appraiser.Keep in mind that your property may have intrinsic value to you that is of no interest to the government agency. Value for the purposes of an eminent domain proceeding refers to the market value of the property, not your ties to it or its sentimental value to you or your family.If you decide to get your own appraisal, the government agency must offer to reimburse you the reasonable costs of an independent appraisal of the property. Typically this appraisal must be conducted by an appraiser who is licensed in your state., If you want to defend your property rights, you must attend all hearings and object to the government agency's exercise of eminent domain.


You may challenge the forced sale of your property by questioning the use listed by the government. However, this type of challenge typically does not succeed as long as the government's use is considered proper.You also can contest the amount of your property the government agency has proposed to take, and suggest that the government's use can be satisfied by taking less of your property.Depending on the type of use, this challenge may be more successful.

