 The piece of ground you choose should have sun exposure to the south. Pick a piece of ground that is at least 8 feet (2.43 meters) long. In addition, verify that the piece of ground you pick runs perpendicular to the prevailing winds in your area., Dig two holes 2 feet (.6 meters) deep and 2 feet (.6 meters) apart on each side of the 8 foot (2.43 meter) section you choose. The holes should measure at least 2 inches (5 centimeters) by 4 inches (10 centimeters). The 4-inch (10 centimeters) section will be parallel to the other side of the 8-foot (2.43 meters) section of ground. Go to the other side of the 8-foot (2.43 meters) section and dig another two holes the same way.If you want, you can dig larger holes and substitute 2x4s for more substantial cuts of wood.
 Position the 2x4s into the hole so they are sticking straight up. The planks should line up with each other very closely. This is important, as you may want to nail 2x4s across the planks to tie them together.

Remember to make sure the longer part of the 2x4 faces across to the other set of holes.
You can substitute a stake or any other piece of wood for the 2x4 planks., Once your planks are in and line up with each other, fill in the holes. You can choose to refill them in with dirt, or you can refill them with rocks, clay, or even concrete. Whatever method you choose, the planks must line up with each other and be firmly in the ground.


Your rack should be able to store 1 full cord of wood. Typically, this is measured as 4 feet by 4 feet by 8 feet. (1.2 meters by 1.2 meters by 2.43 meters)., If you want, you can take 2x4s (or even smaller pieces of wood) and use them to tie your main posts together. Simply take them and nail them between the posts on either end of your 8-foot section of ground., Before placing your wood down on the ground, you’ll want to remove any leaf matter and other debris from the ground. This is important, as undergrowth and debris will retain moisture, which could lead to your wood rotting.

If you want, you can place a couple pieces of wood on the ground and cover them with pressure-treated 2x4s so most of your wood will be elevated. This will help keep your wood dry and reduce rot., Begin by placing your firewood bark side up against the 2x4s on one side of the rack. Since the average piece of firewood is 16 inches long (40 centimeters), you should be able to create three rows. Continue placing your wood in rows until you reach the far side of the rack.

By placing your wood bark side up, you’ll help it dry and stop it from leaching moisture down into the stack., When placing each piece of wood down, fit them together like a puzzle. If you have a wedge shape, try to fit it into a proper space. Fit square or rectangular pieces into square or rectangular holes., While you want to stack your wood together like a puzzle so that you fit a lot of wood on your rack, you need to make sure there is some space between your pieces. This will provide air flow so that your wood stays dry and does not rot.You may need to purposefully place some pieces so they don’t fit like a puzzle. Do this when appropriate.
 Continue stacking your wood – like a puzzle, but making sure there is air flow – until your pile has reached 4 feet high (1.22 meters). Don't go above 4 feet (1.22 meters), as your stack could topple., If you notice your stack leaning to one side, you can use poles or branches to prop up the stack. Simply place them at a 45-degree angle to the stack and press them into the ground a little bit., Create a pile for plywood, a pile for 2x4s, and a pile for irregular wood pieces. Like pieces should be placed together. This way, you’ll have an easier time stacking everything.
 Take your plywood and lean it against the poles you placed in the ground. The plywood should lean slightly onto the poles. Put the tallest/largest pieces of plywood against the polls and then place shorter/smaller pieces as you move inward on the rack.

Placing your plywood this way will make it easier for you to access it., Begin to stack your remaining wood on the other side of the rack. Place larger pieces on the bottom and slowly build up and place smaller pieces toward the top. If you have 2x4s or other long pieces that are longer than the area you have available, let them hang out the side of the rack.