 Censers come in wide variety of shapes, sizes and styles. They can be made of metals, like brass or steel, or other non-flammable materials like ceramic. The material and style you choose is personal preference, and won’t affect the censer’s performance.


If you don’t want to buy a censer, you can use various items around the house for burning myrrh. You just need to make sure it’s non-flammable and can hold the charcoal. A simple ceramic plate or bowl can do just fine.;
, These round pieces of charcoal typically have a recessed circle on top. This is to stack incense, whether it’s powdered or in chunks. These charcoal tablets are found wherever you can buy incense, such as health stores. You can also buy them online., You can get this substance in either of these forms from any store that sells incense. You can also buy myrrh from online health stores., You’ll want this layer to fill no more than 2-3 inches (5-7.6cm) of the censer. It will help disperse heat from the charcoal so your censer doesn’t get too hot. It will also make the myrrh burn longer.


If you don’t have sand, you can use cat litter or fine gravel in your censer., The censer can get quite hot, and the last thing you want is burn marks on your nice wooden table. If you have pets or children, make sure to place the censer somewhere they can’t reach it, since the incense will burn for about 30 to 45 minutes.
 Turn on your stove and use tongs to place the charcoal tablet on the stovetop. You’ll want to use the tongs to flip the charcoal once it starts turning red and sparking. Leave it on the stovetop until the bottom is completely red and flames start to rise from it.


Don’t do this if you have a glass or ceramic stovetop. You might burn black marks onto it or worse, shatter the glass and risk injury.
Alternatively, you can use a match or lighter to light the charcoal. Be warned that it’ll take a bit longer to light it this way., Once the charcoal is lit and flames start to come up from under it, use tongs to transfer it to the censer. If your charcoal has a small recessed “dish”, make sure it’s pointed upwards., Place the myrrh on top of the charcoal, whether you’re using dust or gum. You shouldn’t add any more myrrh until it’s completely burnt up, and no more than a quarter teaspoon at a time.


If you want the myrrh to burn for longer, you can fill the charcoal tablet with salt before putting the myrrh on top.