 Most of the time, when you're asking for donations, it helps if the donor already knows you in some capacity. In other words, if you make a personal plea to someone, that person is much more likely to donate to your cause than someone random who you don't know. Therefore, using your network to solicit donations is a smart move.For instance, try setting up a meeting with someone you know through business connections. Drop them an email to give them a head's up about what you need and request a meeting with them
When asking close friends and family for money, it can be tricky. Make sure you acknowledge what they're doing by pitching it as if they're the hero in the scenario. In other words, let them know how much of a difference they're going to make. For example, you could say, "I know you how hard you work to make the money you do. I promise you, though, this money is really going to make a difference in the lives of the people we serve. Your donation will mean so much to them." Also, make sure you don't push too hard, as that can damage close relationships.
 Networking is all about meeting people and building relationships. You can only do that if you get out in the community. For instance, go to other charity events. Go to community-building events. Visit local business events and fairs. You have to be visible.To figure out the best events to network at, consider your organization. For instance, if your charity is family-oriented, try starting at family-oriented events like local church carnivals and other events for kids.
You might also be asked to serve on a panel or have a table presentation at these types of events. In that case, it's a good idea to have materials on hand to give out, such as a flyer with more information about your cause. If you're giving a table presentation, be sure to prepare some kind of visual about your organization if you don't already have them on hand. Visuals that describe the kind of work you do, provide numbers, and add a touch of personal story work best.
Make a point of being outgoing when you're networking with the community. You can't just go to these events; you also have to go up and talk to people. Start with a smile, "Hello!," and your name. Get the conversation going with a question., As you meet people, try to start bonding with people over both work and outside interests. One way to figure out what you have in common is to get people talking. Ask them about themselves, what they do in their spare time, if they have a family. People like to talk about themselves, so if you can get them talking, you can start to find common interests.Jot down commonalities. When you make connections, jot down a few thoughts on the back of that person's business card when the conversation ends. That way, you'll have something to jog your memory later.Things like "has cats," "enjoys opera," and "has a wife and three kids" can help you out.
 You don't want to dive straight into asking for money. Instead, start by chatting with the person, or if you're on stage, by warming up with a bit of small talk and humor. Basically, you want the person or persons to be feeling friendly towards you before you start trying to squeeze money out of them.For example, if you're just talking to one person, ask how they are, how their job is going, and what their kids are up to. Doing so helps the person feel more comfortable and receptive to a donation.In a crowd, try cracking a joke or getting the crowd to participate by having a kind of call and response at the beginning. Anything that engages the crowd is a good thing.
Smiling goes a long way.
 Once you've warmed up your prospective donor, you have to get to the meat of the meeting or speech. That means you need a short transition to what you're talking about. You can start out by giving information about the organization if your audience doesn't know about it, or if they do, you can use that as your transition point. Basically, you have to get down to the asking part.As an example, if your audience knows nothing about your organization, you could say, "Well, I guess I need to tell you a little bit about why I'm here. I'm representing the Sunshine Organization. This organization offers housing to families in need. Let me tell you about one family who it helped recently..."
If your audience is already aware of who you represent, you could try, "Jess, you're aware that I represent the Sunshine Organization and that's why I'm here today."

, Finally, you have to move the asking part. State explicitly what your organization needs and how the person's donation will help. As your asking, try to make a connection to the audience in some way, which helps tie them to you or your organization.For instance, you could say, "I'm here today to ask for your help. The Sunshine Organization is badly in need of some new beds. Our beds are rotting and falling apart. They've served well for many years, but they're about to die a quick death. You know I've been a part of this business community for years, and I wouldn't ask for something unless it was absolutely necessary. We need to raise $20,000 for new beds, and your donation can help us get there."

, Your organization needs all kinds of support. Solid volunteers are just as helpful as monetary donations. Don't forget to ask for that support as well as money.For instance, you could bring up specific ways the group could offer their time to your organizations. That means you need to know what volunteers you need, as well as a have a system in place to coordinate volunteers.
You could also use other resources that people and businesses have to offer. For instance, a company that sells mattresses may be able to donate mattresses instead of money. Another company may be able to donate food for fundraising party. Know what your needs are and be willing to accept goods and services in place of money.
 if you've met with a prospective donor, encourage their donation by sending a letter their way that follows up on what you had to say. Ask in explicit terms for a donation, and make it clear how they can donate, whether it's online or in a return envelope..


It can also help to take a more casual approach. When you meet someone who seems interested in your organization, try emailing them a few days later to say you enjoyed the conversation. Include something from your conversation to jog their memory.For example, you could write, "Hi Rob, I enjoyed meeting you at the Uptown Meeting the other day. I loved finding someone who enjoys opera as much as I do. I hope to run into you again soon. Best, Jerry."

