 The baby's digestive system remains immature for the first 6 months of life and milk is perfect for it.;
, These experiences and existing family allergies serve as an excellent indicator of foods that should be treated with great care with respect to your child; seek advice from your health professional as to appropriate times to introduce such foods.
 There are some key foods that can precipitate allergic reactions if introduced too early in a child's life. Consider holding off on the following foods for at least the first year of your baby's life (and possibly longer if there are known family allergies):Dairy products - the protein in cow's milk is hard for a baby's digestive system to break down
Wheat - this includes products made using wheat flour
Honey - honey can contain botulism spores; when we are older, our digestive system can cope with these but babies' systems cannot, and it can be life-threatening.Soy - dairy-sensitive babies are often soy-sensitive also and the jury is still out on the safety of heavy soy usage for babies
Egg whites - leave cooked egg whites until later and be very wary of raw egg whites at all ages; egg yolks are fine
Peanuts and peanut butter - only introduce later. If there is a family history of peanut allergy, seek professional advice; you may need to delay introduction for years.
Shellfish - can trigger allergies for lifetime if developed early; family history is a good indicatorTree nuts - this includes pecans, hazelnuts, almonds, pistachios, macadamia nuts, pine nuts, cashew nuts and walnuts; nuts can also get caught in a baby and young child's airways, so are best left until your child understands to chew thoroughly
Citrus fruits - these can cause rashes. This is especially likely with a family history.Strawberries and berries - strawberries contain a protein that is difficult for babies to digestChocolate - the caffeine and dairy content are not appropriate for baby's digestive system; it can also cause headaches and a babe with a sore head is very unhappy indeed
Yeast - a common allergen

, Preferring organic foods lowers the potential for introducing pesticide traces into your baby's diet. Although not always possible, there are some foods that are better organically grown or raised than using conventional methods.
 Seek medical advice as soon as possible. Common symptoms of a bad reaction include vomiting, rashes, diarrhea, coughing, wheezing, excess wind, hives, constipation, runny eyes, swollen mouth, or a painful stomach. Sometimes it can be hard to pinpoint the exact problem and if your child is in daycare or with other carers, you may need to quiz the carers as to what your child is eating. Avoid the temptation to believe that your baby will "grow out of it"; at this early age, it is more likely to develop a permanent inability to cope with the food and reintroducing it later in life is much better than to persist now.
 While it is crucial to ban certain food from your child's diet where it is life-threatening or produces pain and illness, it is also important to weigh the consequences of preventing your child eating certain things; for example, if a rash forms after eating citrus fruit but it is not bothering your child and is merely temporary, it may be better to let the child eat oranges and gain the nutrients than to ban yet another food and have your child watching others eat it. Seek advice from your health professional in reaching your decision.

