 Pour ¼ to ⅓ cup (50–66g) white granulated sugar into a 1 pint (500mL) sterilized bottle. In this recipe, we'll use sugar and yeast to carbonate our own soda.


There is a chance of explosion from any home brewing. A plastic bottle is less sturdy (especially the bottle cap), but less dangerous if it does explode. A glass bottle from a brewing supply store is less likely to explode, but more dangerous.
This is a very small batch compared to most brewing projects, which is good for a first timer who doesn't want to waste ingredients on mishaps. If you've already done some home brewing, you can increase this to a larger batch.
 Pour ½–1 tbsp (7.5–15mL) vanilla extract into the bottle, depending on how strong a flavor you're going for. Vanilla is the main flavor in most cream sodas.
 Heat the water until it reaches a temperature between 95 and 105ºF (35–40ºC).Cold water will not activate the yeast, and hot water will kill it.
 Combine a small pinch of yeast (about 1/16 teaspoon / 0.3mL)) with a little warm water and 2 tsp (30mL) sugar.Cover the mixture and wait about 6–10 minutes, or until you notice foam and a distinct yeast scent. Pour the mixture into the bottle, using a funnel.


You can use baker's yeast in a pinch, but this is not recommended. You may end up with unpredictable amounts of carbonation, or a less pleasant flavor.
You can skip the activation, but the soda will take longer to carbonate.
 Fill the bottle with warm water, leaving 1–2 inches (2.5–5cm) of space at the top. Secure the cap, and shake it until the ingredients have dissolved.
 Leave the bottle in a warm, draft-free location, preferably at 68–77ºF (20–25ºC).Check on it once or twice daily. The soda is ready when the bottle feels hard when squeezed, anywhere from 12–72 hours. If you didn't activate the yeast, this usually takes at least 48 hours.


Leaving it at room temperature too long can generate enough pressure to explode the bottle! This is especially true at high temperature or if using old yeast.
 Place bottle in refrigerator (below 40ºF/5ºC) for 24-48 hours to stop fermentation and let the yeast settle. Try to put it in a part of the refrigerator that isn't subject to temperature fluctuations (towards the back, away from the door). Try not to agitate the bottle at all.
 Pick up the bottle slowly, to avoid disturbing the sediment at the bottom. Pour into a new bottle or a glass, leaving the last bit of sediment-filled liquid at the bottom of the bottle. Mixing that portion into your drink can lead to an overpowering yeasty taste.
 You can drink your cream soda plain, or mix it with ice cream for dessert.

