 Low blood pressure commonly causes fainting, lightheadedness, and dizziness. Knowing when you may faint can help you deal with the symptoms before you faint. When you start to feel light-headed, sit down and place your head between your knees.You can also lie down when you feel faint.
 Standing up too fast can cause your blood pressure to drop, which can lead to dizziness, lightheadedness, or fainting. If you know you have low blood pressure, you should make sure to always stand up slowly.When you are lying, sitting, or standing for too long, your blood pressure can drop. Move very slowly when you are transitioning from any of these positions.
Make sure to stand up slowly when you first wake up in the morning. You can sit on the end of the bed and rotate your ankles and move your feet. Do the same with your wrists and hands before you stand up.
 The blood circulating through the legs helps keep your blood pressure at a normal level. Your doctor may recommend that you use compression socks or stockings. These items apply pressure to your lower legs, which helps blood circulate through your body.You should also avoid crossing your legs when you are sitting down. This can cut off the circulation in your legs, which can lower your blood pressure.
 If you have a medical condition that keeps you lying for long periods of time, your blood pressure may drop when you sit up or stand. Try to slowly increase the amount of time that you sit upright and stand to get used to it., Being too hot can make your blood pressure drop. Stay cool and out of the heat. Place fans around your room and keep the thermostat at a cool temperature. Avoid direct sunlight if possible.Don’t take hot baths or showers. The hot water can cause your blood pressure to drop. Instead, take lukewarm baths.
 Staying physical and exercising helps your circulation by getting your blood to flow and strengthening your heart. Cardio workouts help exercise your heart. Yoga poses and routines help improve your circulation.Make sure to talk to your doctor before starting a new exercise plan if you have blood pressure problems.

