 If you're playing close defense (long-pole) covering an attack man and the ball is in the offensive end of the field, keep your stick on the attack man to prevent the goalie or defender from the opposing team from "cheapening it", or launching the ball down field to your defensive in hopes that one of the three attack men will gain possession. Also, if an opponent is dodging against you, keeping your stick on him will prevent him from bringing the stick in front of his body, forcing him to roll dodge.;
, SOUND TOUGH! Talking about slides and the current situation makes it easier for the defense to react to what the offense is doing. Remember that if your guys are facing their man, they need to know what's going on behind them. Yelling out to your teammates not only makes defense easier, but a loud defense can intimidate an offense. If you watch ANY lacrosse game, the team that communicates louder on both sides of the ball wins the game. In practice, we call bad communication, "keeping it a secret". If you're "keeping a secret" by not talking on the field, your team-mates will not know how to react or how to help you.
 In the early goings of a game, it is pretty easy to see what hand is dominant for each opposing player. Naturally, take the opponent who is dodging against you to his weak hand. If he appears to be a right-hander, deliberately stand on the right side of his body, which will force him to take the ball in his left hand, unless he wants to run right at you and get the ball taken away. As the man takes the ball down in his left hand, push him on his hip and force him to keep going down the alley in his left. If he rolls back, you can drop a solid slap-check on his bottom hand which will hopefully jar the ball loose.
 the area in front of the goal between these two imaginary lines is an ideal spot to shoot from) If an attack man or middle tries to dodge from the wing and go top side, push him back down underneath toward the goal, because help will be on its way from crease and it will be an easier slide for your fellow defenders to help you if you get beat.
 Try to picture the goal line drawn inside the net extended all the way to the sidelines. Your objective as a defender at X is to keep the opposing player behind this line and force him to throw a pass, take a weak shot, or dodge right into an incoming defender on his way to help you. Best case scenario, the opposing player will dodge and you will take the ball away, give it to your goalie, and start the Clear.
