;
, Make sure to use fresh chicken breasts within two days of placing them in the refrigerator.


If using frozen chicken, thaw it in the microwave or in a pot of cold water.
Frozen chicken can be stored up to nine months.
 This helps remove bacteria and odors that may have been produced while the chicken was inside its packaging.
 This will prevent the chicken from steaming in the oven, rather than baking.


Throw away the paper towels immediately, and wash your hands with warm, soapy water before proceeding. All surfaces that touch raw chicken will need to be disinfected after you have finished your preparation.
 Because boneless, skinless chicken is low in fat, it can dry out very easily in the oven.


You may use a substitute for olive oil, such as canola oil, grapeseed oil, or another cooking oil.
 Turn them over and sprinkle the opposite side as well. A light seasoning will add a lot of flavor to your chicken.


For a spicier dish, sprinkle the pieces with cumin, chili powder, cayenne pepper, or a combination of the three.
Experiment with other spices and flavorings of your choosing.
 Spread some olive oil over the surface of the pan to keep the chicken from sticking. You may also use a roasting pan, placing the chicken on a wire or metal section and allowing the fat and juice to drip down onto the pan below.
 Place the chicken pieces in the pan. Place the pan on the middle rack of the pre-heated oven.
 If you are baking only one or two chicken breasts or thighs, the cooking time will be less. If you are cooking 6 breasts or more, the baking time will be longer.
 The best way to check if chicken is done is to insert a meat thermometer into the thickest part of the breast or thigh. Chicken is done when it reaches a temperature of 160 degrees Fahrenheit (71 degrees Celsius).


If you do not have a meat thermometer, lift the chicken breast to ensure that its juices are clear rather than pink.
To make absolutely sure that the chicken is done, insert a knife in the thickest part of the meat and check to be sure it is white and opaque. If it's still pink, it needs to cook longer.
 Place the chicken breasts or thighs on a plate. Allow them to rest for five minutes to lock in the moisture.


Cutting the meat open immediately will let the moisture run out onto your plate instead of keeping the meat juicy.

