 If you'd like, you can also line two baking sheets with parchment paper. While not completely necessary, this will allow for easier clean up at the end.
 Put 2 teaspoons of chili powder, ½ teaspoon of ground cumin, and ¼ to ½ teaspoon of cayenne pepper or ground red pepper into a small bowl. Add a dash of salt, then mix briskly together with a fork. Set the bowl aside. If these seasonings do not appeal to you, here are two other alternate seasonings you can try:


Fiesta-Lime:3 tablespoons lime juice
1 teaspoon ground cumin
1 teaspoon chili powder
1 teaspoon salt


Garlic and Onion:2 teaspoons chili powder
⅓ teaspoon onion powder
⅓ teaspoon garlic powder
⅓ teaspoon salt
⅓ teaspoon ground black pepper
¼ teaspoon cayenne pepper



, If you'd like to make smaller strips, cut the tortillas into quarters now using a sharp knife or a pizza cutter. At this time, you can also stack the remaining tortillas so that they will be all ready for you.
 These narrow strips will make perfect garnishes for soups, salads, beans, and other dishes. If you'd like to make more chip-like strips that you can scoop up salsa with, cut them into 1-inch (2.54 centimeters) wide strips instead.
 Pour the oil into a bowl, and dump the strips in. Gently toss the strips until they are all evenly coated with oil. You can do this using your hands or a pair of salad tongs., Keep tossing until the strips are evenly coated with seasoning., Make sure that the strips are spread evenly and that they are not clumped together. If any of the strips are covered, they won't bake evenly.
 You can bake the sheets in the oven one at a time, or you can bake them at the same time. If you are baking both sheets at the same time, rotate them halfway through the baking process. This will ensure that the strips get baked the same amount.
 You can toss them over a salad or soup, or serve them alongside some black beans. If you made the wider, chip-like strips, you can serve them with some salsa, guacamole, or your favorite dip.
