 Whatever else is going on, keep your love at the forefront. She will appreciate the support and sense your loving care at all stages.;
, When a person has a heart attack and they're lucky enough to survive what is one of the scariest things a person can experience, the first tip is to not deny or act like the heart attack was not a big deal. Don’t treat this like a common cold.
 Heart attacks leave a person weak and vulnerable and for an active person this can be a nightmare. Think about how it must feel when a person is not able to lift more than 10 pounds for a very long time or finds walking on an incline or up a flight of stairs takes every bit of energy left. Help out around the house to lighten to work load––the last thing a person in recovery needs is a dirty home on top of health issues.
 After the heart attack, your wife will have to make dietary changes. In order for this transition to go smoothly, it helps if you support her food choices and, much like dieting, do not bring unhealthy food into the home. You may not be the one who had the attack but be sensitive to her needs and heat the junk food up at work.
 Educate yourself as much as possible to all the medical research and treatment you can get your hands on, this information is readily available and free. Knowing your wife's medical history, medications and medical treatment plan will help to keep you included and could even save their life one day. Education + application = prevention!

, If the heart attack was major and your wife requires more care than you are ready to handle, then consider getting outside help, with the caveat that you at no point make her feel like she’s been abandoned or neglected by her spouse. It's alright to seek help and support, it’s not okay to pass the buck!

, When your wife is finally on the mend, find activities and restaurants that will allow you both to enjoy your time together while still keeping her heart happy. Never forget that she just wants your love, and if you give her that, her heart will heal.

