 Limit the strain on your digestive tract as much as possible when you have diarrhea. Stick to a clear liquid diet to stay hydrated and keep your electrolytes in balance without stressing your stomach. Have 5-6 small “meals” throughout the day, or just sip on these fluids every few minutes as you can tolerate it.The clear liquid diet includes:Water (carbonated and flavored waters are okay)
Fruit juice with no pulp, fruit punch, and lemonade
Bubbly drinks, including soda (though it’s important to choose sugar- and caffeine-free options)
Gelatin
Coffee and tea (decaffeinated, without dairy)
Strained tomato or vegetable juice
Sports drinks (drink these in addition to other items, not just by themselves – they contain too much sugar to be helpful alone)
Clear broth (not creamy soup)
Honey and sugar, and hard candy like lemon drops and peppermints
Ice pops (no fruit or dairy)

, By the second day you may be able to add some dry, semi-solid foods to your diet. Eat these in small amounts. If you do not tolerate it, go back to the clear liquid diet and try again later. Choose foods that are bland and low in fat and fiber.Try the BRAT diet, containing bland foods like bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast. Other good options are crackers, noodles, and mashed potatoes.
Stay away from highly-seasoned foods. Some salt is okay, but don’t eat anything spicy.
 Foods high in fiber are likely to produce gas and worsen diarrhea. Skip fresh vegetables and fruits (other than bananas) until you feel better. Whole wheats and brans are also high in fiber.Note, however, that fiber can help regulate your bowels in the long run. If you have frequent problems with diarrhea, consider consuming more fiber in your diet to help regulate your system.
 Foods high in fat are likely to worsen diarrhea and stomach pain. Until you’re 100% well, avoid red meat, butter, margarine, whole dairy products, fried food, and processed, prepackaged, and fast food.Limit fat to <15 grams per day., One possible cause of diarrhea, gas, and bloating is lactose intolerance. If you notice that your diarrhea occurs often or is worse when you drink milk or eat dairy products, consider whether you’re lactose intolerant. However, avoid dairy while you have diarrhea no matter what., Caffeine can cause stomach pain and gas, and may make you more dehydrated. It’s okay to drink coffee, tea, and soda if it’s caffeine-free.This includes caffeinated drinks like coffee, tea, and some sports drinks, as well as foods high in caffeine, like chocolate.
 Alcohol will likely worsen your symptoms. It can also interfere with any medication you’re taking to control symptoms. Alcohol also makes you urinate more, and can contribute to dehydration. Stay away from alcohol while you’re ill., A chemical compound in fake sweeteners is known to cause or worsen diarrhea. Avoid food additives in general, but especially until your digestive system is back on track.There are many brands that contain artificial sweeteners, such as:


Sunett and Sweet One
Equal, NutraSweet, and Neotame
Sweet’N Low
Splenda

, Probiotics are a type of live bacteria that help maintain the digestive tract. You can find them in products like yogurt with live cultures, and as pills or capsules at your local drug store or pharmacy. Probiotics might be helpful for diarrhea caused by antibiotics and some viruses because they can restore the balance of “good” bacteria in the gut.Eating plain yogurt with live cultures is an exception to the no-dairy rule when you have diarrhea.

