 Talk with the person whose hair you're cutting and decide how long the top and sides should be. This information can help you decide which clipper blades to purchase (see Step 3).


Do they want it thicker around the sides, or do they want skin showing around the head?
How much hair do they want to leave on top?;
, Three major brands are Oster, Wahl, and Andis.
 Blades come with specific length settings. For example, the Oster "000" blade cuts hair to 1/4 inch. In general, 1/4- to 3/8-inch attachments are good choices for standard flat tops.


For flat tops with very close sides where the skin shows, select the smallest-length blade (e.g., an Oster 0000 for very close, 1/8-inch sides).
Although clippers come with detachable plastic length guards, these are not as effective at producing smooth, even results in one go as the steel blades., Work in small sections, making your way towards the back of the head.


Use a blade-on-skin technique to cut vertical sections around the sides and back. To perform this technique, comb a small section of the hair downwards, rest the clipper attachment against the skin starting at the bottom of your section (the blade part should point upwards), and move up in a vertical line.When cutting the sides, be sure you follow an imaginary vertical line up to the sky - do not follow the curve of the head. When the head starts to curve towards the crown, just continue moving your clippers upwards into the air., Although the flat top is a square haircut, the back needs to be slightly blended into the top for a balanced effect.


"Round off" means instead of working in an absolutely vertical line all the way to the top (as you would at the sides), move your clippers to follow the curve of the head just slightly at the beginning of the crown.
 Use the same technique on the left side as you did on the right, i.e., moving straight upwards in a vertical line.



Start at the back of the crown and, holding your comb parallel to the floor, lift a small section of hair upwards to the desired length.
Use clippers to raze away excess hair sticking out of the comb. Hold the clippers so they are parallel to the comb.
Work your way, section by section, to the forehead. Use small sections to avoid clipper lines.
Make sure every section is as long as the previous one.
Comb the hair back from the forehead and repeat the top-cutting process for a clean, even finish., Cut off all long hairs or areas that need touching up with scissors.



Hold the t-trimmer with the blade against the skin, and then pull the clipper away at the same angle.
Start at the bottom and work upwards gradually - working downwards may cause irritation., Apply a little product and comb the top upwards with a brush or comb.


Blowdrying the hair upwards can also help add volume and shape.Dab the forehead afterwards with a towel to make sure there's no product left over on the skin.
 The long hair on top is likely to grow out quickly, requiring regular maintenance to keep it looking fresh.

