 To determine how large you can make your platform, you will need to measure the area that you intend to put it. Decide if you want your back seats up or down to fit the platform, and measure the length and width of your configuration.Remember that vertical height will be important, too. Generally speaking, you should plan on your platform being eight to ten inches above the base on which it sits.
 The base of your platform should be sheets of ¾ inch (2 cm) or one inch plywood, while the legs will be constructed from two by fours. You will also need wood screws, a drill, a covering such as carpet, and staples. All of these materials can be found at a hardware or home improvement store.Have the plywood sheet cut to fit the dimensions you measured. Cut the large sheet in half widthwise so that your platform can be stored in stackable sections.
Have the two by fours cut up so that you end up with 12 pieces. Eight of them should be the height of your intended platform (8 to 10 inches or 20 to 26 cm), while four of them should be about four inches shorter than the width of your plywood sheet.
 You will need four legs, two for each platform. Make the legs by aligning a short section of two by four to either end of a long two by four piece. Make sure the legs are level with the support, then use 4 or 5 inch (10 to 13 cm) wood screws to secure the legs directly to the support.Opt to use at least two screws for each individual foot.
Repeat this process until you have four sets of legs completed.
 Once your legs are completed, make your platform by screwing the plywood sheets onto the legs. Each sheet should have two legs, one toward the top and one toward the bottom.Consider the positioning of the legs before you install them. They may need to get around wheels, indents, or other features in your car’s interior.
Screw the platform down with at least one screw over each foot, as well as one in the middle of each support.
 Use carpet, fabric, a tarp, or whatever covering you think is appropriate to cover your platform. Staple your cover down along the edges of your platform using carpet tacks or industrial staples.Try to staple the cover to the outer edges of the platform for maximum comfort.
 The platform can be stored in two separate pieces whenever you are not using it. To assemble it, simply unstack the two pieces and set them up so that one sits directly in front of the other in the back of your car.


To help the platform hold together a bit, consider adding a velcro edge where the two pieces of platform attach.
 Once you have your two platforms ready and in position, decide how you want to outfit your bed. You may want to use sleeping pads, an air mattress, blankets, or another form of cushioning to keep you off the hard surface. Prepare yourself with any pillows, sheets, and blankets you might want, as well.The sleeping platform can be outfit however you want. Choose a setup that is comfortable for you when your sleeping, and easy to store when you have the platform packed away.

