 As your pregnancy progresses, you should avoid heels. Thanks to swollen and aching feet, you will want extra support throughout the day. Find a pair or two of comfortable flats.You want shoes that are easy to put on without having to bend over. Try to get a pair half a size up to help with swelling. Some ideas include:


Ballet flats with embellishments like rhinestones or bows
Gold or silver sandals
Leather clogs
Fleece-lined boots;
, Oversized sweaters are fashionable when you have a small baby bump, and they will continue to fit you as your tummy grows. Try to look for sweaters that have a long length and an open front.Avoid denim or other rigid fabrics. You may gain weight in your arms, which will make these jackets tight and constricting. Some good options include:


Roomy knit sweaters
Soft, flowy cardigans
Kimono jackets
Shawls

, There are many benefits to wearing stockings during pregnancy. They can help prevent varicose veins and reduce swelling. In addition, they keep your legs warm in the winter. While you can wear nude tights, try mixing things up with some brightly colored designs. Tights also come in a wide array of patterns, such as floral or animal prints., Maternity clothing can be limited in terms of style and fit. If you are worried about a drab wardrobe, you can try adding something new to your look. Hats are a great way to accessorize in funky ways, and—unlike the rest of your body—your hat size is unlikely to change during pregnancy. Best of all, hats can be purchased for relatively cheap, giving you an easy way to mix things up. Some fun hat styles include:


Floppy straw hats
Feminine cowboy hats
Fisherman caps
Trilbys or Fedoras

, You may not want to wear the same styles over and over again during the next nine months. Try to find accessories that can be worn in multiple ways. These will help you keep your outfits fresh and interesting.


You can clip broaches and pins onto your jacket, purse, scarf, or hat.
Scarves can be worn around your neck, in your hair, or on your handbag.
If you're not wearing your cardigan, you can tie its sleeves loosely around your neck so that it drapes down your back.

