 Parkinson's effects and treatment can be complex. Learn as much as you can from the patient's doctor, Parkinson's support groups, or books, and share what you learn with your loved one as well.

The National Parkinson's Foundation, American Parkinson's Disease Association, and The Michael J. Fox Foundation are excellent resources for Parkinson's patients and their families.;
, Some people with Parkinson's keep their diagnosis a secret for a while, while others are more open. Do your part by communicating openly. Don't treat the diagnosis like a secret or an embarrassment. Instead, embrace it as the key to getting the information you and your loved one need to cope.Encourage your loved one to express their emotions. Encouraging positivity doesn't mean burying the more painful feelings. If they say "I'm frightened," you can say "I hear you" instead of "Everything will be fine!"
The better the relationship between the person with Parkinson's and their primary caregiver, the better the outlook in terms of depression and physical health. If you are loving, caring, and concerned, you are helping.
This doesn't mean you should neglect yourself! Be open about how you are feeling, and make sure you get the care you need.
 Depression is a clinical symptom of Parkinson's, and the sufferer should report it to their doctor. If you notice that someone with Parkinson's has grown withdrawn, moody, or sad, let them know. Tell anyone else involved in their care what you have observed.Parkinson's causes a deficiency in dopamine, so any mood shifts are a possible sign of a change in that department.
The doctor will likely want to treat the depression with medication if it is diagnosed.
Offer to go with the doctor with them if they will let you.
 There are support groups for those with Parkinson's and for their caregivers, to attend either separately or together. These can be of great benefit for you both. Parkinson's can lead to feelings of isolation, and caring for someone with Parkinson's can be mentally depleting and socially isolating as well. Try going together or separately. Ask your doctor about local groups.Online forums can also be helpful—search for one that you like.

