 Your goal may be to share information, create an online fitness community, gain new clients and/or sell a product. Pinpointing your objective at the outset will help you to set the proper blog tone and format.;
, A fitness blog may focus specifically on toning abdominal muscles or cover a wide variety of fitness topics, including muscular development, stretching techniques, cardiovascular exercise, dieting and nutrition. Decide which topics you will cover.
 Think of blogging as talking to people, only in written form. Determine if your readers will be your yoga students, people interested in weight training, the elderly in your local community or people of all ages across the globe.
 Assess existing weblog tools to determine the best option for your needs in regards to user-friendliness, template design customization, text formatting, and graphics and video capability.
 Take your target audience into consideration when naming your blog. A title that is a literal description of your blog contents may be useful in leading readers to you in an Internet search. Witty, metaphorical and other forms of creative titles may be appropriate if you will not rely solely on search engine traffic.
 Introduce yourself to readers by writing about your background, either on an "About Me" page, at the bottom of each blog post or as your initial blog post. Include information about your fitness background, degrees, work experience and other information that highlights your experience with the specific blog topic.
 Longer entries are difficult to read on a computer screen.
 Write an attractive title that is a clear depiction of what readers can expect from reading your post.
 Draw your readers in by capturing their interest from the beginning. Pose a question that they might want answered. Explain what you will share in the form of advice, suggestions or personal experiences.
 Share information in an easy-to-understand format.


Utilize photos or videos. For example, if explaining an innovative and safer way of strengthening the abdominal muscles, incorporate visual images like photos or videos for clarity.
Use subheadings and bullets. When sharing large amounts of information or lists of steps or items, use bullets and subheadings to guide the readers' attention.
 Bring your post to a close by summarizing your main point(s) in 2 or 3 sentences. Invite readers to post comments or to contact you if they have questions.
 Creating a fitness blog community will require effort and interaction on your part. To generate continued interest in your blog, answer questions from readers and acknowledge their comments and contributions.

