

Stay fit and increase your flexibility by regularly practicing the craft of Pilates.



 


Work to meet the professional standards of the industry by becoming certified in the various subcategories of Pilates.






Take a CPR course and receive certification.






Gain experience in dance and other physical exercise applications.






Increase your patience and ability to kindly guide your students.





;
,


Join a studio or gym and become friendly with the instructors. Explain to them your desire to become a successful freelance Pilates instructor and offer your talents as a substitute if they ever need one. This can give you an "in" with the gym and increase your chances of being able to run your own classes.



Offer to teach an instructive elective course at a local community college. You might not make any money, but you can create clientele and sharpen your teaching style and abilities. The exposure of your name and business will produce positive results.



Apply to various fitness outlets that may or may not be hiring new instructors. Ask for one shift a week if they tell you they don't have any openings. If you can pack a class and showcase your talents, they might give you more shifts.



Post flyers in your classroom and ask your students to recruit friends for a free trial in your class.



Open up your services to clients who wish to have personal, in-home instruction. This might involve commuting longer distances, but house calls usually mean higher pay rates.






Boost your instructor-student relationship and create lasting bonds. Having a good relationship with your clients will make them more likely to recommend you to their friends and family.


Splurge on a nice-looking website. Having a web presence should never be underestimated. If your name is on flyers and community college course rosters, it's crucial to be able to be searched for online by those who are interested in your services.






Post professional photographs of you and your classes to provide a firsthand look into what you offer and how you are distinct from other instructors.



Hand your cards out before class and place them at various fitness outlets in your area. You don't have to work at a studio or specific gym to place your advertisements in their window or front desk. Just ask the owner first.


Practice modesty when you are first starting out. Being ostentatious might only lead you to bankrupting your business before you even begin. Require your students to bring their own mats and Pilates equipment to reduce your startup costs.






Charge the bare minimum to build a loyal client base. Once you move up and have a better reputation, you can raise your prices and begin to offer more luxury services.







