 For this most simple of Barbecue pit options, you need little few tools. But before you start be sure to have gathered up a shovel, some bricks or cinderblocks (optional mortar), a grill, a spirit level, and something that you can use to cover the pit when you are not using it. You can also use some gravel, sand, paving slabs or excess bricks.
 The first step to making a basic Barbecue pit is digging a hole (not larger than you can cover with your grill) at an appropriate and safe place in your backyard. A basic pit could be the depth of one brick or cinderblock (whichever you are using) turned vertically. You can make it bigger or smaller depending on you requirements, and you can use it as a smoker too.








A rectangle or square is the easiest shape to use.
 Once you have the hole, knock in the bricks around the edges to give it a solid structure. It’s best to use some mortar to fix it in place and be sure that the bricks will not become dislodged and fall into the hole. You can look at some pictures online to see how it ought to look.









You could even make a pit without putting bricks along the sides, but this is good idea to make it more secure and lasting.
 Lay a spirit level over the top of the pit to check that it is level. If it is too large for your spirit level, you can place a longer plank of wood over it the hole and put the spirit level on top of that. Try laying your grill over the top of the pit to check that it sits on it nicely and does not slide off to one side.
 You can place some slabs around the edges of the pit on the grass to give you an area to place your grill and clearly demarcate the area where the Barbecue is. This is an excellent way to make it more of a feature, and you can be creative with how you lay out it. The fire shouldn’t come in contact with any grass (a wildfire is the last thing you want when having a barbecue).









If you don’t do this you should clear away the grass from the edges of the pit for safety reasons.
You can spread some gravel, or masonry sand in base of the pit to so you are not burning wood directly on the soil., The gridiron is now ready to be added to your project. Now that you have your formation set up, you can lay your grill across the hole. You can add some bricks or cinder blocks around the edges to hold it in place more securely.








