 Put the stone in front of your mouth and fog it like you would a mirror. If it stays fogged for a couple seconds, it’s probably a fake — a real diamond disperses the heat from your breath instantaneously and won't fog up easily. Even if you wait in between fogging it up and looking at it, it will still clear much faster than a fake.


It can help to use a stone you know is real next to the suspect stone and fog both. You can watch how the real one stays clear while the fake one fogs over; if you breathe on fake diamonds repeatedly, you will see condensation start to build up. With each puff, the fake stone will fog up more and more, while the real one will still be clean and clear.;
, A real diamond is not likely to be set in a cheap metal. Stamps inside the setting indicating real gold or platinum (10K, 14K, 18K, 585, 750, 900, 950, PT, Plat) are a good sign, while a "C.Z." stamp will give away that the center stone is not a real diamond.C.Z. stands for Cubic Zirconia, which is a kind of synthetic diamond.
 You can usually borrow one from the jewelry store. Mined diamonds usually have small naturally occurring imperfections, which are called "inclusions," that can be seen with a loupe. Look for small flecks of minerals, or very slight color changes. These are both signs that you're dealing with a real, albeit imperfect, diamond.


Cubic zirconium (which should pass all of the other tests) usually doesn't have imperfections. That's because they are grown in sterile environments instead of produced by chance in the Earth's laboratory. A gem that is too perfect is more often than not a fake.
It is possible, however, that a real diamond will be flawless. Don't use imperfections as the determining factor in whether your diamond is real or not. Rule out fakes using other tests first.
Note that lab-grown diamonds will also normally have no imperfections because they are also produced in carefully controlled environments. Gem-quality diamonds grown in a lab can be chemically, physically and optically identical (and sometimes superior) to naturally occurring ones. This ability to surpass the quality of "natural" diamonds has caused considerable concern among those in the mined diamond business who have lobbied heavily to have lab-grown diamonds distinguished from "natural diamonds". Lab-grown diamonds are "real" but they are not "natural".

