 As soon as the seasonal flu vaccine is made available, you should visit your doctor and get vaccinated. By being vaccinated, you’ll protect yourself from being infected. As a result, your chance of infecting your infant will be much lower. Without a flu vaccine, you and your family will be much more vulnerable.Everyone who lives in your home should be vaccinated.
Anyone who encounters your infant, such as extended family, should be vaccinated.;
, Typically, infants 6 months or older can get a flu vaccine. Getting the flu vaccine may dramatically lower their risk of catching the flu. However, infants younger than 6 months cannot get a vaccine.

Talk to your doctor about whether a vaccine is appropriate for your child., Breastfeeding helps transfer a mother’s immunities to her baby. As a result, breastfeeding can potentially bolster your infant’s immune system so they can better resist or fight off the flu.If you can’t breastfeed, talk to your child’s pediatrician about steps you can take to build your child’s immunity to things like the flu virus.
 While you should always provide your baby with proper nutrition, it is even more important during flu season. Good nutrition will bolster your infant’s immune system. In the end, they’ll be able to resist or fight off the flu a lot more effectively., Hand sanitizer is one of the most effective weapons in killing germs before they cause sickness. As a result, you should carry and use alcohol-based hand sanitizer everywhere you go during flu season. This is important, as flu germs could live for hours on inanimate objects. By sanitizing your hands and objects you use often – like your phone or car keys – you’ll help protect your baby from the flu., As a rule, most babies should stay out of the public for their first two months of life. This should be extended when it comes to flu season. During flu season, the more your baby is at home, the lower their chance of catching the flu.

Stay away from places with lots of people like the mall, grocery stores, or entertainment venues.Keep your child home from daycare if a lot of children in your area have the flu.
Only take your child into public if necessary.
 Regardless of who it is, you should forbid sick from coming into contact with your infant. By establishing a “no sick” policy, you’ll help protect your infant from catching the flu. Ultimately, while you might alienate a few people, you’ll safeguard your baby’s health.Stay 6 feet (1.8 m) away from people who are sick or displaying flu symptoms

, By using a sling or confining your baby to a carrier, you’ll shield and protect them from germs and from people who may try to touch them. This is important, as many people like to touch the hands, face, and feet of infants. If your baby confined, they won’t be able to get close enough to do so., The second you know that someone in your home has the flu, you should contact your pediatrician and let them know. Your pediatrician will be able to give you great information about how you can limit the chance of your little one catching the flu from someone at home., If you catch the flu, you should ask your doctor immediately about prescribing you antiviral medication. Antiviral medication can decrease the severity and longevity of the flu virus. The less time you’re sick, the lower the chance your infant may catch the flu from you.Antivirals work best if taken within 2 days of getting sick.
Anyone in your home who catches the flu should ask their doctor about using antiviral medication.
 While sterilizing your baby’s bottles is a good policy normally, it’s extremely important during flu season. This especially important if you travel outside the home with your infant, as flu germs could live on objects for several hours at a time. By sterilizing your baby’s bottles, you’ll limit the chance of them catching the flu., Whether you are or aren’t sick, you should take extra care to wash your hands during flu season. When washing your hands, use warm water and soap. Washing your hands will help protect you from getting sick and from bringing flu germs into contact with your infant., Whether you have the flu or not, you should make it a habit to cover yourself when you cough or sneeze. The best way to do this is with a clean tissue. Afterwards, you should discard the tissue and wash your hands.