 This will save you a lot of money, especially if you're leaving for a long vacation. Unplug a phone charger from the power supply to save energy soon after it finishes charging.
 If you're house is cold, get in the habit of wearing more layers. If it's warm in your home, then open the windows and let in a cool breeze instead of spending money on air conditioning.
 Instead of spending a ton of money on new furniture, you can save money by going on craigslist and picking up old furniture that's still in good condition. You can also spend some time at garage sales to check out reasonably priced furniture.


If you have chairs that are starting to wear, reupholster them instead of buying new ones.
If you're trying to get rid of old furniture that's still in good condition, don't just leave it on the curb. Put up on add on craigslist and you'll quickly find someone who will take it off your hands.
 Just been in the bath? Empty the water into buckets and pour it in the toilet when you need to flush it. This is an extreme move, but it will save you money if you pay for your water use.
 You don't have to go out to fancy bars or restaurants to have a good time. You can save a lot of money if you make a habit of spending more time at home instead of paying for everything out of the house.


The next time your friends ask you to come out to a bar, invite them over to your place for a few drinks instead.
Try to eat at home as often as possible. Make a goal of ordering takeout just once or twice a week if you can. If your friend proposes a dinner date, invite her over for a delicious meal or ask if she wants to cook together instead.
Do you really have to see every new movie the second it comes out? If you have the patience to wait for it to come out on DVD, you can have a cozy movie night at home and save money not only on the tickets, but on snacks.
Skip your $4 morning latte and make a habit of making coffee at home. You can save a lot of money every week just by doing this.

