 This is a vital question to ask. This lets you know the church design architect is up to date on the insurance and have completed a required course of knowledge to get their certification.;
, When you've an individual who doesn't do a good job, they'll hide their inferior work in the hope that they can drum up business. Be sure you check into the individual's previous work and reputation to determine if they're a good match.
 Is it likely that the designer will take it into consideration with the design of the building? For some religions, there are special design structures that are needed. In some cases, altar placement will be essential. It is important that the church design architect knows your religious practices to ensure they meet your needs.
 Giving the church design architect company the information they need is vital. They may need to know specifications and sizes to ensure that your minimum needs are met. Providing them this info helps you to avoid future problems.
 Ask them how they intend to keep these goals and budget constraints. While you might have someone willing to do the job, they might not be willing to honor your budget. Only you know what your church wants to accomplish and the funds that you have. Keep this in mind and make sure the church design architect understands this.
 Some architects want payments up front, while others look for them to be spread over the course of time. Make sure you have the money they need for the process during the expected payment times. Never simply give them money up front and wait for them to return work.
 Some of these individuals will provide a few minor changes for free other church design architect companies will charge a nominal fee. Be sure you understand the fee structure before you go in. This way you can gauge the cost based on how clearly you define your needs.
 This can prove to be essential. A good church design architect will have no problem giving you contact information for references that had a good experience with them.
 Sometimes you need to work in smaller portions. You might begin with the altar and move to the kitchen. If this is the case, check with the church design architect to see if they will do this, to keep you in budget.
 Because you have never dealt with this process before, you should check to see what phases you can expect during this process. On top of that, you should ask them how long each step will take to keep them on schedule as you are planning your workers and other tasks that needs to be done.

