 Honey can be used to treat not only acne scars but also acne itself. It is gentle on your skin and reduces redness and irritation. Honey contains antibacterial properties which help to fade acne scarring and dark marks. It is moisturizing and makes your skin soft. Dab a little honey directly onto the scars at night, and wash off in the morning.;
, Rosehip oil is loaded with vitamins and antioxidants which help to keep skin looking smooth and healthy. While the use of rosehip oil on fresh acne spots is still being evaluated, its use has been proven effective in repairing acne scars as well as other forms of scars and skin blemishes. Through regular use, marks and scars will fade and become less prominent over time. Simply massage the oil gently into the affected area once or twice a day., Due to the lauric, caprylic and capric acid found in coconut oil, it makes an excellent cream to help diminish acne scars. Coconut oil also helps to prevent new acne scars from forming. To fade acne scars, massage coconut oil into the affected area at least once a day, but 2-4 times daily is best. It may be too rich, so use carefully. Coconut Oil can also be used as a cleanser. , Aloe Vera is known in the cosmetic field for its healing properties, and it can be used to gently, yet effectively heal acne scars over time. Although you can buy many aloe-based gels commercially, the best thing to do is purchase an aloe plant.


To use the aloe from an aloe vera plant, break off a leaf and rub the gel-like contents directly onto the skin. Let it dry, then leave it on for 30 minutes. Wash off with a mild cleanser. Try to do this every day.
 This treatment works best for new, or inflamed scars as the ice will reduce swelling and shrink blood vessels. Over time, ice will also help to reduce the appearance of minor scars and discoloration.Wrap an ice cube in a piece of tissue or cloth and rub it over the inflamed areas for 10-15 minutes a day.
 Aspirin possesses effective anti-inflammatory properties and it contains a form of salicylic acid, which is used in many acne treatments. An aspirin mask can be used to soften your skin and reduce discoloration.


To make the mask, crush 4-5 aspirin tablets into a powder, then mix the powder into natural yogurt or pure aloe gel. Apply the mask to your face and let it sit for 15 minutes.
Wash off with lukewarm water, pat your face dry, and moisturize.
 Known as the oil cleansing method(OCM), olive oil is an alternative cleansing method for removing dirt and sebum from ones face. Massage gently and remove with a soft cloth.
 Vitamin E oil has incredible moisturizing properties and is an effective treatment for acne scars. Apply pure vitamin E oil to your skin 2-3 times daily, and you should see results in about 2 weeks.

