 In order to make the best music you can, it is important to have it in the proper position. You should always use a shoulder strap to hold the bass so that when you are playing your hands can focus on make the sounds you want to hear.


You can sit or stand up, but make sure that you have good posture in either position. Also, make sure that the shoulder strap holds your bass at the same level regardless of whether you are sitting or standing.
The bass should be held somewhere between your hips and collarbones. Most people tend to play with it held near their bellybutton, but it’s all personal preference.
The guitar should be held at about a 30 degree angle, so as to prevent the need to uncomfortably angle your wrists so much., The standard tuning on a 4-string bass guitar is E-A-D-G, with E being the low string and G being the high string. You can learn how to tune your guitar by ear, which is often inexact, or plug your bass into an electric tuner, which is more exact. To make a string go up or go down in pitch, turn the tuning heads, also called tuning machines.
 The bass guitar, unlike other guitars, is only ever plucked rather than strummed. It is important to maintain good plucking practices though, to create the best sounding music. The bass can be picked like a guitar as well, which is a matter of musical preferences.


Always keep your nails trimmed short. Your nails will change the sound of the guitar if used against the strings.
Pluck using two fingers to increase efficiency. Alternate plucking between your index and middle finger. It doesn’t matter which you start with, as long as you keep the speed and rhythm between them consistent.
Pluck the strings closer to the neck for a flat, warm tone. If you pluck nearer to the bridge at the bottom, the strings will give a more percussive sound. When you practice, keep your plucking isolated to a small area without a lot of movement up and down the strings.
Pluck the strings by rolling over them with your fingertips. Don’t actually pull on the strings, as they won’t create as nice of a sound. If you want to increase the volume, turn up your amplifier, not your plucking strength.
 In order to give a clear sound and avoid muffling the notes you play, it is necessary to mute the strings by resting a finger on them.


Keep your thumb as close to the E string as you are able, so that whenever you are not playing it your thumb can rest on it to do the muting.
If you have to skip strings to play multiple notes, try using multiple fingers to help with muting.
You can choose to move your thumb off the E string to mute other strings if you are playing higher strings.
Don’t push down hard on the strings, but gently rest your finger or thumb on them to block the vibrations that cause sound., Roots are the main note that a chord is based off of. A chord is playing multiple strings at once, and the root is the note for which the chord is named. Typically, you will start playing the base simply by focusing on playing the roots to chords.
 All music is made up of 12 notes, which can be played in higher or lower versions. The higher or lower version of a single note is called an octave.


To play a higher-pitched octave than the note you are currently playing, move two strings up and two frets up.
To play a lower-pitched octave than the note you are currently playing, move two strings down and two frets down.
You can play a lower octave with your index finger and the corresponding higher octave with your ring finger. Use your other fingers to help mute the strings that are not being played., Once you understand roots, learn how to play fifths as well. A fifth is the note you play five scale tones away from the root. Typically these are played together, to accompany another player on the guitar or piano. Fortunately, finding your fifths is pretty simple.


To play a fifth above, move two frets higher on the next string.
To play a fifth below, stay on the same fret and move to one string lower., The most important job of a good bass player is to keep the rhythm of their music. The bass definitely adds great sound to any piece of music, but the vital task is keeping a good beat. Once you get better at plucking and playing the correct notes, spend time working on keeping rhythm.


Listen to the bass performances in some of your favorite songs to hear the ways that they keep rhythm.
Buy a metronome to help you practice. Metronomes are small tools that emit a clicking noise at a certain rate, helping you to match the rhythm. You can adjust their speed to practice at a fast or slow pace., The best advice for anyone learning a new instrument is to practice regularly. Putting in only a few minutes of work each week will make excelling difficult. Giving yourself at least 10-20 minutes of practice a day will not only help your hands to feel comfortable with the bass, but make your music sound clearer and better over time.

