 Hot water can dry out your skin, so if you spend a long time in hot showers, you run the risk of harming your skin. Stick to warm water only, and limit the amount of time you're in the shower., The sun can damage your skin over time, making it age faster. To protect your skin, use a daily sunscreen. Avoid the sun, particularly at the hottest part of the day, and wear clothing that covers your skin, including a hat, sunglasses, pants, and a long-sleeved shirt.Choose a sunscreen with an SPF of at least 30 that is broad spectrum.
 Drinking water is essential for your body to function well, and that includes your skin. If your dehydrated, your skin will also dry out. Drink enough water so that you don't feel thirsty, which is usually enough to keep your skin hydrated.Women should aim to drink at least 2.2 liters or nine cups of water a day.Guys should aim to drink at least three liters (13 cups) of water a day.
 When your skin is dry, it needs a good moisturizer, such as a body lotion. When choosing one, look for one that matches your skin type, such as a lotion meant for oily or dry skin. You can pick one with an SPF to accomplish two things at once., Your skin needs good fats to stay healthy and keep that natural glow. Foods high in omega-3 fatty acids are particularly good for nourishment. Add foods like salmon, mackerel, soybean oil, walnuts, flaxseed, sardines, albacore tuna, and tofu to your diet to improve your skin., You probably know the some physical ailments are worsened by stress, anxiety, and depression. Skin ailments are no different, and they may be helped by working on your internal problems. If you have issues with anxiety or depression, medication or therapy may be helpful. Talk to your doctor about what's right for you., Stress can cause you to break out more often. To decrease your stress levels, try yoga, exercise, or meditation. You can also try cutting back on things that cause you stress. For instance, if you get stressed out by the news, try limiting your intake to 30 minutes a day.One quick trick is taking a moment each day for deep breathing. Close your eyes, and focus solely on your breathing. Breathe in to the count of four, and hold it for four counts. Breathe out to the count of four. Keep focusing on your breathing for a few minutes to help let go of your stress.

