 Ticks are very small and cannot easily be seen. Immature ticks (nymphs) are the size of poppy seeds while mature adult ticks are the size of sesame seeds.Ticks are small, almost impossible to see until they get on your skin. To avoid contact with them, avoid areas where they live. Ticks are found in the same kind of environments no matter what part of the world they are in. They love shady, damp wooded areas with a lot of brush and leafy plants. Rotting leaves, tall grasses, piles of wood, and rock walls provide safe, covered environments where ticks like to live.


Ticks will wait in these areas until they can make direct contact with an animal or person.
Ticks are not only found in the woods. There are plenty of places in your backyard, especially if there is any tall grass, brush, bushes, or other shaded places for them to hide.;
, It is very important to know peak tick seasons, the times of year when infected ticks proliferate. Infected ticks are most prevalent in the spring and summer (May through September in the northern hemisphere). Knowing this should help you to be prepared.For example, if you plan camping trips or garden parties during peak tick season, you can take extra precautions to prevent tick bites.
 When you and your children leave the house and you know that you might be in areas where ticks live, you and your children should wear long pants when walking in grassy and wooded areas. If possible, the bottom of the pants should be tucked inside the socks. Most ticks are picked up on the lower leg area.You and your children should also wear long-sleeved shirts, gloves and hats.This helps to ensure that all body surfaces are covered and that ticks cannot gain access to the skin. AGAIN, tucking pants into socks prevents ticks from being able to crawl up your children's legs.
Wear light-colored clothing. It is easier to see ticks on light-colored clothing.
 Children should wear insect repellent on the skin when they are in an area that is, or could be, infested with ticks. The repellent should have a minimum of 20% DEET, which is the active chemical ingredient that repels ticks and other insects.Apply insect repellent on your children's skin, taking care to avoid eyes, mouth, and hands. Reapply every 2-5 hours, depending on the product.You don't want to repellent to be ingested BECAUSE it has a toxic chemical. Make sure you follow the directions on the container of repellent carefully.
Products containing permethrin can be applied to clothing. It is also possible to buy clothes that have been pretreated with permethrin. Permethrin is a chemical repellent that is available in local drugstores. It kills ticks and insects that come into contact with it. This chemical is only registered to be used on clothing and not on skin. Follow directions for use on the packaging carefully. If unsure, contact your doctor for proper usage.If you prefer a natural repellent, oil of lemon eucalyptus (OLE) is a natural tick repellent derived from eucalyptus trees. OLE has a distinctive odor and repel ticks as effectively as a low-concentration (10%) DEET product. This natural repellent can also repels mosquitoes and other insects. You can usually find OLE at your local drugstore.Other essential oils, such as citronella, cedar, soybean, or eucalyptus, are not shown to be very effective against ticks., To avoid Lyme disease, avoid tick bites all together. Encourage your children to stay on the trails and avoid walking in areas that are bushy or have long grass, BECAUSE, AGAIN, these are areas where ticks are most prominent., Clear your yard to keep it tick-free. Clean your backyard at least once a year to keep it free of ticks. This includes clearing leaves and bushes because, AGAIN, ticks love these environments. Keep grass trimmed and short, clear away loose, dead, and decaying leaves, and keep all wood piles elevated off the ground so ticks cannot hide in them.For an extra layer of protection if you live near the woods, build a three-foot-wide mulch, gravel, or wood chip barrier between your lawn and surrounding forest to help prevent tick invasion.
You can buy special chemicals that are used for tick control in the yard to keep ticks away.Bifen IT, Onslaught, and Permethrin Pro are professional grade chemicals that kill ticks and other insects in your yard.Be sure to use these only in the way specified on the container, especially since they are harsh chemicals that can be harmful to you, your family, and your pets if the directions are not followed.
Pesticides called “acaricides” can keep ticks out of your yard. You will need to hire a licensed applicator, who will usually apply pesticide to the area twice a year. This is not something you should attempt to do on your own., Deer are the main source of food for adult deer ticks. If you keep deer away, the chances of getting Lyme disease are reduced because the deer ticks will not hang around your yard. Do this by removing plants (clovers and peas) that attract deer.You can build a physical barrier against deer, such as a fence.
 When your children return home from an activity where they may have come into contact with ticks, you need to perform an inspection as soon as possible. A tick inspection is an examination of the entire body to search for any ticks that may be on your children's skin. Make sure to check extra carefully in the areas most frequented by ticks -- under the arms, in the ears, inside the belly button, behind the knees, between the legs, in and around all hair, and all around the waist.You can use a handheld mirror to inspect areas that would otherwise be difficult to check., When your children get home and after a tick inspection is done, you should instruct them to shower immediately. Ticks usually remain on the skin for some time before they attach themselves more firmly. This makes it possible to wash them away before they become attached and bite, which can prevent the transmission of Lyme disease.Ticks may also attach themselves to pets, so if you walk your dog through any long grass or bushes, you should give them a wash with warm water as soon as possible after getting home.
In general, deer ticks will not survive longer than 24 hours without feeding, although ticks on damp clothing can survive up to 2-3 days., After arriving home from a walk or camping trip, wash your family's clothes to remove any ticks that may have attached to them. Make sure to wash the clothes with plenty of hot water and laundry detergent.This will ensure that the tick detaches from the clothes and dies during the wash., Even if you have followed the necessary precautions, ticks are small and might be missed in the first inspection. The ticks can become attached to the skin if they are left on the skin long enough and if they do not wash off in the shower. Because they are easy to miss, it's a good idea to conduct another thorough visual exam to check your children for ticks., The possibility of Lyme disease from a tick bite increases the longer the tick remains attached to your child. Any ticks that have attached to your child's skin should be removed immediately. If you remove the tick within 24 hours of its original attachment, the chance of getting Lyme disease is decreased., Use rubbing alcohol to disinfect your child’s skin around the area where the tick is attached.You should also sterilize the tweezers by wiping them with rubbing alcohol.
 Using a clean pair of tweezers, gently grasp the tick as close to the skin as possible. This will help ensure that you remove the tick’s head and mouth as well. Pull the tick upward and away from the skin steadily and carefully. Do not twist or yank it. Pulling it quickly could rip the body away and leave the mouth parts of the tick behind.Avoid crushing or squeezing the tick. This helps to prevent the possibly toxic fluid in the belly of the tick from entering your child's bloodstream.
Avoid using a lit match or petroleum jelly to remove a tick or to try to kill it.These methods will only cause the tick to burrow deeper into the skin and release its saliva, which increases the chance of Lyme disease. They are not effective tick-removal methods.
If you find that some of the tick still remains in the skin after removal, don't worry. It's not possible for the tick to survive with just part of its body embedded. The rest of the tick will eventually come out in much the same way as a splinter., Do not dispose of the tick. Instead, once the tick has been removed, kept in a sealed container. You need to give it to your doctor so she can test it to see if it is a Lyme disease carrier.Although helpful, this is not necessary, so don't worry if you can't keep the tick. This is not as high a priority as taking care of your children when they are bitten. If you have to destroy the tick to get it off of your child, do it. Removing it is the top priority.
 In order to remove any residual toxin released by the tick, you need to clean your child's skin. It is best if you use antiseptic or any other antibacterial cleaning agent. Wet a cloth or cotton ball with antiseptic and gently wipe the affected area.If the area becomes irritated where the tick bit your child, swab the area with antibacterial ointment such as Neosporin to ensure it doesn't get infected.
Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water after you have cleansed your child’s skin.
 If your child gets bitten by a tick, you should take him to the doctor. If he is infected, confirming the presence of Lyme disease will allow him to receive the necessary treatment as quickly as possible.


Even if you couldn't keep the tick, your doctor will still be able to diagnose your child either way.
 There is a certain time frame during which Lyme disease symptoms will appear. When your child is bitten by an infected deer tick, signs of Lyme disease can appear anytime within a time range of three days to a month. The first signs of Lyme disease will usually manifest between 3-30 days after the bite at the site of the wound.After your child gets bitten, watch his skin around the initial tick bite closely for 3-30 days for any warning signs., The first symptom to appear will likely be the characteristic skin rash known as Erythema migrans (EM). EM appears like a reddish spot with a circular or oval shape at the site of the bite. This rash tends to expand over time, causing the spot to resemble a bull’s eye because it forms a reddish pink circle that surrounds a patch of clear skin area with another reddish center.This characteristic rash shows up at the bite site in the early stages of the disease, usually after about a week.However, with the gradual spread of the infection within the blood stream, it can show up at various locations over the body., In addition to the rash, the skin around the tick bite may start to have feelings of pain or itchiness. The EM rash shows up in about 70-80% of all Lyme disease cases. The rash may feel warm, but pain, burning or itchy sensations are also symptoms, although they are rarer.In more serious cases, the rash doesn't appear at all. This is dangerous because the infection continues to spread within the bloodstream without any visible signs. This serious type affects other vital organs without the victim being aware that anything is wrong.
Lyme disease can also affect the joints, the heart, or the nervous system.If you notice the EM rash, take your child to the doctor immediately., In addition to the EM at the early stages of Lyme disease, patients can develop some flu-like symptoms, such as headache, fever, general fatigue, enlargement of the lymph nodes, and chills.If you notice the EM accompanied by flu-like symptoms, take your child to the doctor immediately for treatment.
 If your child has been bitten by a tick, you need to watch his behavior carefully. He may not be able to describe what he is actually feeling, so watch him for the warning signs.Common behavioral signs include:lack of concentration
difficulties sleeping at night,
inability to focus on studies
dizzy or confused feelings
joint pain
recurrent fevers
increased sensitivity to light or noise

, There are some symptoms of Lyme disease that do not appear until the late stage of the disease. When Lyme disease is in its later stages, the bacteria is spread to other body locations, which can result in serious problems with many vital organs. These later stages can cause severe problems with the heart, joints, and nervous system.


Affected joints can develop arthritis, which manifests itself by inflammation accompanied by a degree of stiffness, pain, swelling, and narrowing of range of motion.
If the heart is affected, your child can develop myocarditis, which is the inflammation of the heart muscles.
If the nervous system is affected, the child can develop neuropathic pain, which manifests as fatigue, muscle weakness, tingling and burning sensations in the peripheral nerves.When left untreated, Lyme disease can lead to life threatening conditions such as heart failure or meningitis., The treatment of Lyme disease requires killing the causative bacteria responsible for the infection. The treatment also has to control all the symptoms that appeared and try to prevent any complications or spread of the infection in order to protect the vital organs.Treatment starts first with administering the proper antibiotics. These are only obtainable by a physician and the proper course of the medication will be laid out by the doctor.


She will likely prescribe your child additional medications to control any symptoms.
 If you recognize the symptoms of Lyme disease, you must take your child to the doctor immediately. Your pediatrician will prescribe antibiotics to fight and kill the bacteria that causes Lyme disease.The doctor will determine the best antibiotic type depending on the patient’s age and the state of the Lyme disease.


Generally for children, oral antibiotics will be enough to stop the infection and suppress the characteristic rash. Doctors usually prescribe antibiotics for a week or two as an initial treatment period, which has been found to be enough for the majority of cases to cure the rashes. It is common for doctors to suggest your child continue using antibiotics for another two weeks to achieve complete destruction of Lyme disease.
Antibiotics chosen are usually broad spectrum like Augmentin, which is Amoxicillin and Clavulanic acid, that is available in many dosage forms to be suitable for different ages. You can also get oral suspensions that are suitable for younger children starting from the age four., If you child is showing signs of late stage Lyme disease, antibiotics through injection is preferred to give a faster response. This direct injection results in faster absorption, which helps the medicine start working and cure it faster. It also helps to prevent or to cure other serious complications such as arthritis.Available injections include brands such as Rocephin (Ceftriaxone) that can be given to children with the concentration of 0.5 mg. These can be injected directly into your child's muscle or vein as a single daily dose.The doctor will observe your child for a period to see if the antibiotics are curing the disease or if he has not responded to the medication. If this happens, the antibiotic type can be changed by the doctor.
 Non steroidal anti inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are usually prescribed by doctors for their analgesic and anti-inflammatory effects. These medications also help suppress pain or fever as well as reduce any inflammation and rash that has developed. The medicine relieves the swelling and the warmth sensation at the affected skin spots.


These are commonly prescribed by your doctor when arthritis pain is one of the complications of the child’s Lyme disease.Read the instruction on all over-the-counter medications and note any special instructions for child doses. If you are unsure, ask your doctor.
You can buy NSAIDs such as ibuprofen (Children’s Advil, Children’s Motrin), Catafast sachets, or Cataflam suppositories (Diclophenac Potassium), which are available as syrups, suppositories, or sachets. Your doctor will give the right prescribed medication according to the child’s age.
Do not give children under 18 aspirin, as it has been linked to the development of Reye’s syndrome, a rare but dangerous condition in which the liver and the brain swell., Although they will not cure Lyme disease, topical anti-itch applications such as creams or gels can be applied directly at the rash spots to prevent your child from scratching them. These ointments relieve the itching or burning sensation in the affected areas. The soothing effect can calm the whole skin area, helping to suppress the painful itchy sensation.Consult your doctor before applying any creams to your child’s skin.
You will still need to use antibiotics to cure the Lyme disease. Anti-itch ointments only relieve symptoms.

