 How to Replace a Car's Side View Mirror covers that part of the process.
 This is best done with automotive trim and panel tools. The thinner the better., Poke it in so it is standing vertical  and creating a gap between the glass and the plastic. Take another thin tool and start working around the edge gently applying pressure and getting the glass out from under the small lip of the plastic. Do not pry the glass upward as you will most likely break it.
 Once you have made enough space for one of your tools to slide in horizontally you will be able to feel some double sided foam tape. Push your tool into it to cut it. There are only two small patches of tape. Continue around the glass until you can cut the other piece of foam tape. You should be able to slide the glass out now.
 The connectors just slide off. Now you can put the glass to the side.
 There is a small screw underneath it and the the main pivot joint.


Now you can pull up gently on the backing plate and separate it from the tilt mechanism.
 Start by taking the foam gasket off. It will mostly likely be stuck on there pretty good. Use a hair dryer to heat it up a bit and carefully take it off. You will see a little channel where the main wire sits.
 The connector on the end of the main wire is too large to be fed through the hole in the base so each wire must be taken out of it. You can use a micro screw driver to press down on each pin and pull it out. Make sure to take a picture of how the wires were before doing this.
 Once these have been removed you can pull the wire through and separate the base fro the main motor housing.
 It will just pop off. The white tilt motor has 4 screws that hold it down. Remove these screws and slide the whole motor assembly out.
 The part that controls the folding function is contained in the black housing. Simply pry the clips up and start lifting it off. It may be sealed with some RTV so it may be stuck on there. The wires coming out of the top of the black housing also have some gasket maker plugging the hole. If the cap doesn't slide up just poke this stuff out.
 It is the silver cylinder. To access the gears there will be two screws that need to be removed. Once those are out you can slide the motor assembly up and rotate it out of the way., Try to clean this all out the best you can and use some synthetic grease. Don't pack a ton in there, just you a small amount.

The basic operation of this is fairly simple. You can spin the vertical screw which turns the gear which is attached to a worm gear which rotates the base. Go ahead and manually try to spin everything. If it binds there is some dirt or something in there.
The second cause for your mirrors not work is that the gears have bound up causing the vertical  screw to come off the motor. The vertical screw is key to fit onto the motor.
 Or you could probably hook it up to another power source. Put the vertical screw onto the motor and then lower it back down so it contacts the main gear. Just hold it in place and give it some power. The mounting plate should spin, unless your motor has somehow been damaged. The key thing is to make sure the vertical  screw is seated properly on the motor and is contacting the main gear., Since it was sealed with some RTV like stuff from the factory beforehand, you can do the same now.