 Hormone therapy prevents cancer cells from getting the hormones, namely testosterone, that they need to grow. Cutting off or reducing the supply of these hormones can help kill or reduce the growth of cancer. There are several different types of hormone therapy.Consider an orchiectomy. The surgical removal of your testicles is an immediate way to reduce the amount of testosterone in your body.
With the guidance of a specialist, choose between medications that stop your body from producing testosterone (luteinizing hormone-releasing hormone agonists) and those that block testosterone from reaching the cancer cells (anti-androgens).
Consider hormone therapy as an especially viable option to fight advanced prostate cancer.
In some cases, your doctor may recommend using hormone therapy before radiation therapy to make radiation more successful. This type of treatment strategy is called neoadjuvant therapy.
 Otherwise known as cryosurgery, this treatment option involves the insertion of probes into the prostate. Argon gas or liquid nitrogen are then used to freeze the prostate and kill any tumor cells therein.Talk to your doctor about the potential risks of cryotherapy. The likelihood of erectile dysfunction and urinary complications are relatively high, and this treatment method has less certain long-term outcomes.
Consider cryotherapy as a secondary option, particularly following unsuccessful radiation therapy.
Those with early-stage cancer and well-confined tumors are more likely to benefit from this method of treatment.
 This treatment option focuses high-intensity sound waves on cancer cells to burn them to death. It requires a probe to be inserted into the rectum, from which a powerful ultrasound targets the prostate cancer.Though slow to take on elsewhere, this treatment option has demonstrated success in treating European patients.
Consider this a secondary treatment option, as potential side effects include erectile dysfunction and urinary complications, and this method is much less practiced then radiation therapy and other options.
 You can choose to take part in a controlled research study on new treatment options. Clinical trials are carefully controlled, and provide a cost-free way to get state-of-the art cancer treatments. In fact, some of the newest cancer treatments are only available as part of clinical trials.


Further, clinical trials also help the medical community learn more about cancer.
If you would be willing to take part in clinical trials at any time – before, during, or after other treatments – start by speaking with your doctor and accessing other trustworthy sources of medical knowledge, including respected cancer research organizations.
The American Cancer Society offers an extremely helpful clinical trials matching service, which can be reached at 1-800-303-5691, as well as a clinical trial database.The U.S. National Institute of Health webpage provides further information on clinical research trials, as well as a helpful web-based search tool at ClinicalTrials.gov.The National Cancer Institute webpage can also help you search for and learn about specific clinical trials., Some complementary treatments used alongside regular medical care can be helpful in relieving symptoms of cancer and the side effects that can result from aggressive medical treatment strategies.However, be aware that there is no scientific evidence that these treatments are effective at treating or curing cancer.


Be wary of alternative treatments that are intended to be utilized instead of standard medical treatment.
While many nontraditional healing strategies – such as acupuncture – can be used to help you feel better, understand that most unproven cancer treatments address symptoms, and are unlikely to help you fight cancer.
Some proposed treatment options may even be dangerous.
Keep your medical doctors informed of any complementary treatment options you pursue.
Speak with an integrative medicinal practitioner for more information on combining standard medical care with complementary treatments that are known to be safe and potentially helpful.