 If you don't know exactly what it was you did wrong or how you can rebuild a feeling of trust, getting your things back can be difficult. Although it can be tough, talking with your parents about the problem can be the best way forward. After you learn what the problem is by sharing your thoughts and feelings, you can take direct steps to rebuild trust and get your things back.Don't be afraid to ask your parents why you are in trouble. Say something like "I understand that I did something wrong, but I'm not sure what exactly is wrong with it."
It's okay to share your side of things with your parents and honestly talk about how you feel.
Having an honest and civil discussion with your parents can be a great first step to show maturity and rebuild trust.
Even if your parents are mad, avoid yelling at them or speaking with any kind of sarcastic tone.
Showing an understanding of what you did wrong and how it affected trust between you and your parents can be a good idea. You could say something like "I know that sneaking out last night was wrong and dangerous. I'm sorry for doing it and I want to help make things better."

, If you don't feel like there is a clear way forward, rebuilding trust can seem impossible. Knowing exactly what you can expect from your good behavior can help you know how to act, what to do, and how you can get your stuff back. Ask your parents for some details about when and how you can have your privileges back.

Ask your parents what behavior they expect from you in the future. You might say "I want make up for what I did. What can I do to show that?"
Ask your parents when you can expect your things or privileges restored. Try asking something like "How long can I expect to wait before I get my things back?"

, It can be pretty obvious when you've done something to make your parents upset. However, this doesn't always make it easier when you're trying to do what's right. Asking your parents to let you know when your doing the right thing can help rebuild trust and demonstrate that you are trying to make things right.You could ask your parents something like "I want to do the right thing and apologize for what I did. It would be nice to hear when I do the right thing. I think this will help me focus on what to do next time."

, Restoring trust between you and your parents won't happen overnight. Anytime trust is broken, it will take some time before it is restored. Don't be in a rush to rebuild trust and get your stuff back faster. For now, focus on doing the right thing in the future and avoid doing anything that might make the situation worse.