 Blueberries are part of the Ericaceae plant family and the Vaccinium genus. There are three groups of blueberries that get the most attention.


Highbush blueberries are the type of blueberries you usually see in the grocery store. They grow 12 feet in height and are hybridized to produce larger berries for consumers.
Lowbush blueberries are commonly called wild blueberries. They produce smaller berries and are usually found growing in the wild. More species of blueberries are native to North America than any other continent, and blueberries were used by many Native American tribes. Wild blueberries are very strong in nutrients.Rabbiteye blueberries are native to the southern United States. They are sometimes cultivated and their plants grow up to 4 to 10 feet. Blueberries are found on all three continents.
 Choose blueberries that are not too mushy and that have a vibrant color with a whitish bloom.


In order to determine if the berries are moldy or damaged, shake their container to see if they move more freely. If they do, they are likely firmer.
Skip blueberries that seem watery or full in color. Water causes blueberries to decay. You don’t want to eat decayed blueberries.
Shake a frozen bag of the berries to make sure they are not clumped together, which can be an indication that they were thawed and refrozen. Blueberries are cultivated in the United States from May through October.
 To store blueberries, first remove any of the crushed or spoiled berries from the carton.


Don’t wash the berries until you’re just about to eat them because washing will make the berries’ skins degrade more quickly by removing their blooms.
Blueberries can keep in a refrigerated covered container for about three days. A typical plastic container can work well.
As with most fruits, blueberries will spoil more quickly if they are left out at room temperature.
 Wash the berries, and remove any damaged ones before you freeze the berries. Spread the berries out on a cookie sheet for freezing if you have space as this will allow for uniform texture.


Once the berries are frozen, you can put them in a plastic bag for further storage in the freezer. Thaw the berries and drain them before using. Blueberries are healthy naturally, but some researchers believe the nutritional benefits of them increase if you freeze them.
One researcher found that the antioxidant levels in frozen blueberries increased. The blueberries were frozen for one, three and five months.The science behind this is that the ice crystals from the freezing process disrupt the plant tissue’s structure, making an antioxidant more available that is called anthocyanin. Freeze the blueberries at temperatures of 0 degrees Fahrenheit or -17 degrees Celsius. Anthocyanins help to protect various systems in the body from illness. Anthocyanin is also the ingredient that gives blueberries their vibrant color!

, There are many ways you can eat blueberries. The possibilities are endless! Some are healthier than others, though.


Put frozen blueberries in a smoothie or breakfast shake. Add them to cold breakfast cereals or put them in yogurt.
Add blueberries to peach crisp, granola, quinoa cereal, or fresh peaches and other fruit. The best way to eat them, though: Raw and by themselves.
Many people add blueberries to baked goods, like muffins, pies, and pancakes, but this is a less healthy way to eat them. Pour the blueberries into a small bowl with heavy cream.

