 Do you love the taste of your caffeinated drink and the jolt of energy it can give you? Most people drink caffeine for one or both of those reasons, but too much caffeine can do serious damage to your system. If you’re constantly sipping on your caffeinated drink of choice, it’s probably time to slow down and help your body return to a more normal state. Up to 400 mg a day is ok, but any more is too much. 400 mg of caffeine is equal to the amount in 4 cups of coffee or 10 cans of soda.However, it is not safe to drink 10 cans of soda in one day. This is only an example to show how much caffeine it contains.;
, If you are drinking more than 3 caffeinated drinks per day, your health might be affected. In moderate doses caffeine is healthy, but larger amounts can cause serious problems. Some of the reasons to quit caffeine are:Increasing hypertension risks
keeps the liver busy from filtering other toxins
tooth decay
weakened bones
addiction/dependence
causes anxiety
a cycle of hyperactivity and/or inability to focus, followed by a subsequent "crash"
disrupted sleep habits
may interfere with weight loss and has been linked to hypoglycemia
financial costs to support caffeine purchases
caffeine dehydrates your body and can make you gain weight
a desire for a healthier pregnancy
decreased libido or sexual performance

, If caffeinated drinks are an essential part of your day, you might need a replacement. Drink more water -- it is the healthiest and best choice. Switch things up with green tea, fruit infused water, or sparkling water, but steer clear of sodas, many of which are caffeinated., It’s best to start small when quitting caffeine. Begin by cutting out one caffeinated drink per day. Do this for a week. If you’re missing the ritual of a morning coffee or soda, think about replacing your caffeinated beverage with its decaffeinated counterpart. Then cut out a second caffeinated beverage per day and do it for a week. Continue this pattern until you have stopped drinking all caffeine., Allocate your caffeine money in the beginning of the week, so that if you over-consume it in the beginning of the week, you will have nothing to fall back onto in the end of the week. If you allocate less and less caffeine money as you go on, you will gradually reduce your intake.
 Set aside one day - possibly a Sunday - when you are not on the go for a detox day. Make sure on the day you have chosen to detox you have no pressing commitments or tasks. Keep your calendar empty for at least the first three weeks after giving up caffeine. Give your body plenty of rest, and include a healthy intake of fresh fruits, vegetables, and consume a daily multivitamin which includes B vitamins as this will produce a similar effect to what you would otherwise gain from caffeinated products., Regular intake of water will help your internal organs to detox and will keep your body steadily hydrated. Caffeine is a diuretic which can cause people to lose fluid. The effects are mild for people who consume caffeine in moderation but for those that are addicted or for those that drink mostly energy drinks, this will lead to dehydration. Too much caffeine along with not enough water intake can easily lead to dehydration which causes numerous health issues. Try for eight 8 oz glasses of water per day., Find someone to quit with you. If you can't find that kind of support, promise to someone whom you love and respect that you will quit caffeine. Thus, consuming caffeine in any form will make you break your promise, and this will provide you with another incentive to stay on the wagon.


Even just telling a friend that you are trying to cut out caffeine can help to provide you with some support. Try sending a daily text or calling a friend daily to update them on your progress.
 For many of us, caffeine is a way to combat too little sleep and a lack of energy during the day. Make sure as you are quitting caffeine that you have made it possible to sleep as much as you need each night -- this will help your body reset and get used to your new caffeine-free system., This, along with drinking plenty of water, is especially important during the first few days as your body is adjusting. Alcohol will dehydrate you and since it's also a depressant, it will increase your cravings for the upside in caffeine the next day., Depending on how much caffeine you drank, your body might be at risk of getting a shock with the change from daily caffeine to no caffeine. The following caffeine withdrawal symptoms are possible and can last for a few days after you have stopped caffeine:Fatigue and Sleepiness
Depression
Headaches
Irritability
Work Difficulty and Impairment
Muscle Pain/Stiffness
Flu-Like Symptoms
Insomnia
Constipation
Anxiety and Nervousness

, As your body is withdrawing from caffeine, come up with ways to keep your mind off it. Think in advance when your weakest moments are likely to be (i.e. in the morning, when you're driving by your favorite cafe, etc.) and turn to your "security blanket" to get you through these times. A security blanket is anything that comforts you and helps you take your mind off of caffeine. It could be a stuffed toy, a pocket video game, calling your best friend, doing a crossword puzzle. You can have as many security blankets as you need, just make sure you always have one close at hand.
 If you can listen to music at work, why not put on some tunes that will get your heart pumping and make you want to dance? It's a surefire way to beat the mid-afternoon slump.
 Your body responds naturally to changes in light, so if it's unnaturally dark where you're working or sleeping it may make staying alert a lot harder. Conversely, if you keep on too many lights, your body won’t be able to tell when it’s truly tired -- and it will need more rest as you’re quitting caffeine. Try keeping your blinds open a bit so you'll wake up naturally in the morning or adding a few extra low lights to your workspace to keep you from feeling sleepy throughout the day., Slumping down at your desk isn't doing you any favors in the alertness category. Sitting up, in an ergonomically friendly way, can make you feel more alert and ready to work. Consider standing up while you work or bring a yoga ball to the office to sit on. Why not include a sit-in workout to increase your energy level? 