 If your rabbit stays outside, it can tolerate extremely cold temperatures by staying warm and dry in a well-ventilated, waterproof hutch.Check the inside of the hutch for any water stains and/or dampness. If there are signs of leakage coming from the roof, either repair the roof or replace it completely.


Roof sealant can be used to repair the roof and is available at your local home improvement store.Follow the label instructions when you apply it to the hutch’s wood.
You can also use a wood preservative or waterproof paint. Apply the product only to the outside of the roof to prevent your rabbit from chewing the product and possibly ingesting harmful chemicals.If the sides of the hutch look leaky, patch up the leaks in those areas as well.;
, If your rabbit’s hutch stays on the ground, you will need to elevate it to keep out snow and rain. Keeping the hutch off the ground can also provide extra protection from the sub-zero temperatures by keeping the bottom of the hutch away from direct contact with the ground’s coldness.How much you raise the hutch is up to you—placing 1 brick under each corner of the hutch would be sufficient.If you are especially crafty, you could construct legs for the hutch if it does not already have them. Visit your local home improvement store for guidance on how to add legs to the hutch.
 To protect your rabbit from cold gusts of wind, position the hutch so its front is facing away from the wind. Facing the hutch away from the wind also allows warm air to enter the hutch. In addition, try to position the hutch against the side of your home to brace it against the wind.If you are not sure from which direction the wind is coming, stand outside near your rabbit’s hutch and wait for wind to pass by.
Repositioning the hutch will also keep wind-whipped rain or snow from entering the hutch., Plenty of warm bedding is necessary to keep your rabbit warm in sub-zero temperatures. Straw and hay are good bedding choices. Straw is the best choice, though, since it provides better insulation and your rabbit is less likely to eat it.You can either fill a nest box with straw, or place the straw directly on the hutch floor if your rabbit doesn’t like nest boxes.Consider placing newspaper under the bedding for extra insulation.Even if you don’t use hay for bedding, place plenty of it in the hutch to give your rabbit something to chew on., With sub-zero temperatures, your rabbit will likely stay in the straw to keep warm, and likely urinate and defecate in it. Replace the soiled straw with clean and dry straw about every 2 days.Soiled and damp straw is not only unhygienic, but is also less effective at keeping your rabbit warm and dry when it is cold outside.Consider placing wood shavings under your rabbit’s bedding to absorb wetness.Replace the wood shavings when they become damp.
 Fortunately, you do not have to purchase expensive insulation material for your rabbit’s hutch. Thick blankets and tarp make excellent exterior insulators. Place the blankets directly over the hutch, then place the tarp over the blankets.Hutch covers are commercially available, either online or at your local pet store. If the hutch has a mesh door, you could cover it with plastic to keep out drafts., Making sure your rabbit has fresh air is very important, even with sub-zero temperatures. Whichever type of insulation you use, leave it at least partially open during the day and close it nearly all the way at night.Adequate ventilation will prevent the accumulation of ammonia, which can be toxic to your rabbit.Ammonia would accumulate because of your rabbit’s urination. Replacing the bedding regularly also helps prevent high ammonia concentrations.
 Your rabbit will be using a lot more energy to stay warm in sub-zero temperatures. Extra calories will help give your rabbit that extra energy. Corn and alfalfa hay are good sources of extra calories. However, feed them only in small amounts —too much corn can cause digestive problems, and alfalfa hay’s high protein and mineral contents can cause health problems.Talk with your veterinarian before adding corn or alfalfa hay to your rabbit’s diet.
Continue to feed your rabbit his usual diet.
 This is very important! Even with the extra calories, your rabbit needs to remain slim. Although it may be tempting to feed your rabbit a lot more when temperatures fall below zero, those extra pounds will be very difficult to lose once the weather warms up again.Weigh your rabbit periodically.


If your rabbit has gained weight, talk with your veterinarian about the best way to reverse the weight gain. You will probably need to adjust your rabbit’s diet, but not reduce the caloric intake so much that your rabbit does not have the energy to stay warm.
 Fresh water is as important when it’s cold outside as when it’s hot.Place the water in sturdy water dishes, since water bottles can freeze and crack in sub-zero temperatures. Consider having several water dishes so when the water in one dish starts to ice over, you can easily replace the dish with another one.To keep the water dish from freezing, you could warm up a small microwaveable heating pad and place the dish on top of the pad.Be aware, though, that your rabbit may be tempted to chew the heating pad. You may be better off replacing the water dishes regularly.
Water helps keep your rabbit’s digestive system working properly, which is essential to making sure your rabbit gets the maximum amount of energy from the food to stay warm., If you do not want to keep your rabbit outside when the temperature falls below zero, you can bring it inside to warmer temperatures. However, rabbits do not tolerate sudden temperature changes very well.It would be best to make the move over a few weeks.In general, you should move your rabbit to a warmer yet unheated area for about a week or two before moving it to a fully heated room.During the week in which you have moved your rabbit to this warmer area, check on it for signs of overheating, including panting, weakness, and reluctance to move.Heatstroke occurs when rabbits are in temperatures above 82 degrees Fahrenheit (27.8 degrees Celsius).An unheated shed or room will not become this warm, so it is unlikely that your rabbit will develop heatstroke. You should still check on it periodically, though, and provide it with plenty of fresh, cool water.
 Exposure to drafts is bad—and potentially fatal—for rabbits, even when they are not housed outside.As you transition your rabbit to heated indoor housing, choose an area that is free of drafts. A non-drafty outdoor shed or enclosed porch would be a good place for your rabbit’s hutch.An unheated, draft-free room of your home is another good choice.If it is not feasible to bring your rabbit's entire hutch inside, you could use a large rabbit cage or exercise pen for housing. Place his food and water bowls, along with bedding, toys, and some hay, in the area.Your garage may be draft free, but the fumes from your car are toxic to your rabbit.Do not place your rabbit’s hutch in your garage.
 After a week or two, transition your rabbit to a heated room. If you were using a large rabbit cage or exercise pen in an unheated room, you can simply move the housing into the new room. Make sure to move your rabbit’s normal ‘creature comforts’ as well: food and water bowls, favorite toys, comfortable bedding, etc.Since this new room is heated, keep a close eye on your rabbit for signs of overheating. If your rabbit is overheating, cool it down by placing cool (not cold) water on its ears, feet and fur.Give your rabbit water with ice in it and call your veterinarian for further instruction on treating the overheating., Sub-zero temperatures can make your rabbit very susceptible to hypothermia. A rabbit’s normal body temperature is 101.5 to 103 degrees Fahrenheit (38.6 to 39.4 degrees Celsius). A body temperature below 100 degrees Fahrenheit (37.8 degrees Celsius) will make your rabbit hypothermic.Take your rabbit’s temperature by inserting a flexible, well-lubricated thermometer about 1 inch into the rectum.Lubricant is available at your local pharmacy.
Signs of hypothermia include lethargy, cold and pale limbs and ears, shallow breathing, and a weak pulse. Stupor occurs with severe hypothermia.Hypothermia in rabbits is classified as either mild (temperature of 86 to 89 degrees Fahrenheit/30 to 31.7 degrees Celsius), moderate (71 to 77 degrees Fahrenheit/21.7 to 25 degrees Celsius), or severe (32 to 47 degrees Fahrenheit/0 to 8.3 degrees Celsius)., Hypothermia in rabbits must be treated promptly. Bring your rabbit into a heated room. Warm up some water bottles, wrap the bottles in towels, and position your rabbit between the towels.Continue to monitor your rabbit’s temperature until it returns to normal.You will probably need to change out the water bottles periodically as they cool down.


To warm up the water bottles, warm some water in a pot on the stove. Fill the bottles with water and place them in the warm water.
Alternatively, you could warm up some towels in the dryer, let them cool down a little, then wrap your rabbit in them.It is very important to let your rabbit warm up naturally and gradually. Rapid rewarming, particularly by vigorous rubbing, can cause your rabbit to go into shock by causing an increase in blood flow to the core and away from the extremities (e.g. ears, toes)., Hypothermia that becomes severe requires immediate veterinary care.Start warming your rabbit up naturally at your home, and get it to your veterinarian as soon as possible.Continue warming your rabbit in your car.


Do not blast the heat in your car in an effort to warm up your rabbit. The sudden temperature change could send your rabbit into shock.

