 It might get in and out of the water a few times before it’s ready to make the crossing.


Let your horse take a few minutes to drink if it chooses to. This will show the horse that water is a friend, not something to be feared.
Your horse might also left and right along the length of the river or lake before it jumps in.
Sometimes it helps to have an experienced horse go across a stream first and let your horse follow it.
 Once your horse has acclimated to the presence and feel of the water, begin crossing the stream.Give your horse a slight nudging in the side with your legs to get it moving forward. With each step your horse takes toward the water, release the pressure of your legs on the horse’s sides.This will keep it moving in the right direction.


If necessary, dismount and lead your horse through the water, standing at its side just as you would have during the tarp training.However, you must never lead your horse from the front. This is a recipe for disaster. The horse can easily crush you, if it gets anxious or alters its speed.
 Use verbal cues and half-halts to keep you and your horse safe. If your horse feels pressured or scared, he might bolt or make a big, dangerous jump straight into the water.


If your horse is being excessively hesitant, take it for a quick walk around the area. Walk it up and down the shore, or just walk it in a tight loop several times. This will help the horse burn off its nervous energy.
Your horse will indicate its readiness to walk through the water when it lowers its head, blows out through its nostrils, and gently mouths the bit., Support your horse’s head with both reins to keep him from veering off in one direction or another.


If you encounter large slabs of rock, have your horse cross them closer to their middle, not their edges. If your horse steps on a large rock slab’s edge, the rock might wobble.
Your horse will probably have a few slippages on rocky stream beds. When this happens, comfort and reassure your horse by patting its mane and saying things like, “You’re okay,” or “Easy.”

