 Your breasts consist of mostly lipids, or fat cells. Cutting down on empty calories and fat heavy foods can help to reduce the fat on your body, including the fat in your breast area.Go for healthy sources of protein like lean meats, tofu, and beans. You should also have a healthy balance of the four other major food groups in your diet, including fruit, vegetables and legumes, grains, and organic dairy. Avoid any fat heavy options and select low sugar, low fat options.
Get into the habit of reading food labels and avoid any foods that contain processed or artificial ingredients. Fresh foods are always best, especially when combined with healthy grain options like quinoa, couscous, and brown rice.;
, To stay on top of your healthy diet, you may create weekly meal plans where you choose healthy recipes to make for the week. Choose a convenient day to go grocery shopping, list in hand, for the ingredients for these recipes so you can make them easily throughout the week. You should also plan for leftovers to take for lunch at work or as healthy snacks throughout the day.


You may want to determine your daily calorie intake and plan your meals around your allotted calories per a day. Counting calories can help you control what you eat and ensure you have enough energy to do exercise and get through your day.
 Alcohol and other substances, like marijuana, amphetamines, and methadone, have been shown to cause gynecomastia. Try to limit your consumption of alcohol and uncontrolled substances so your male breasts do not become larger over time., Herbal products made of plant oils, such as tea tree or lavender, have been associated with the development of gynecomastia. This could be due to the weak estrogenic activity in herbal products. In other words, these plants contain substances that act like estrogen, one of the main female sex hormones.Plant estrogens can be found in soy beans, certain whole grains like flaxseed, rye, and millet, and some legumes (peas, beans, and lentils).Do not use shampoos, soaps, or lotions that contain estrogenic plant oils. You should also avoid applying these oils in their pure form on your upper body area.
 Many food animals are given hormones to promote growth or milk production. There is some evidence that eating hormone-enhanced meat or dairy products can affect how our bodies produce hormones.Eating organic meat and dairy products from animals that have not been given hormones may help you prevent or reduce symptoms of gynecomastia., Certain medications have been shown to cause gynecomastia or make this condition worse. You should avoid the following medications or speak to your doctor if you are already on these medications:Anti-anxiety medications, such as diazepam (Valium), as well as tricyclic antidepressants. If you are currently on anti-anxiety medications or antidepressants, talk to your doctor about reducing your dosage. Never stop taking your medication without the advice of a doctor.
Medications to treat prostate issues, such as anti-androgens (flutamide, finasteride, and spironolactone).
Medication to treat AIDS. Men who are HIV-positive can develop gynecomastia due to treatment for HIV and AIDS.
Anabolic steroids and androgens.
Certain antibiotics.
Ulcer medications, such as cimetidine (Tagamet).
Certain heart medications, such as digoxin (Lanoxin) and calcium channel blockers.
Chemotherapy as part of cancer treatment.

