 This magic circle is comprised of a series of modular pieces that, when linked together, can be inverted to form a new shape.








Fold the paper in half vertically and crease well. Unfold.
Fold in half horizontally and crease well. Unfold.
 Fold the paper along both diagonals.









Fold the upper right corner down so it reaches the lower left corner. Crease well and unfold.
Fold the upper left corner down so it reaches the lower right corner. Crease well and unfold.
 Using the pre-existing creases, push the right and left side horizontal creases inward towards one another.








Push the top of the paper downward. The paper will now resemble a triangle.
 With the tip of the triangle pointing away from you, fold the left edge down so it lays along the center crease. Crease well.









Fold the right edge down so it lays along the center crease. Crease well.
 With the tip of the triangle pointing away from you, fold the left edge down so it lays along the center crease. Crease well.









Fold the right edge down so it lays along the center crease. Crease well.
You’ll have a four-pointed shape resembling a diamond; this is your first module piece.
 Repeat each of the steps above with seven more pieces of paper.









When finished you should have eight modules total.
 To join the modules, pick up one and hold it in your left hand.









Pick up a second and hold it in your right hand.
Orient the two pieces so that the single points of each are facing away from each other.
Slide the two top tips of the right-hand piece into the two top pockets formed in the other.
Fold the two joined pieces so that their top single points rest directly on top of each other like a mirror image.
 Repeat the previous step for each of the remaining modules.









Insert the tips of each new piece into the pockets of an already joined piece and fold both pieces inward so they face each other like mirror images.
 To complete the circle, insert the tips of the first module into the pockets of the last module in the chain.









Fold the pieces inward so they face each other like mirror images.
 You can now play with inverting your magic circle by grasping the inner edges and pulling them gently outward until the circle inverts to form a new shape.









You can repeat the inversion to return to the previous shape.

