 Distract your unhappy friend by taking him to a movie, dinner, coffee, a concert, or anyplace you two hang out. The goal is to get his mind off the situation that is making him upset. When a person is sad, he may ruminate, focusing all of his attention on what’s going wrong. Distract your friend from this tendency by breaking up his routine.Your unhappy friend might initially decline the invite, but be persistent. It is easier to stay inside and be sad, than to face the world. Fresh air and activity is energizing and can promote happiness., Send a heartfelt note to a friend that you know is unhappy. It doesn’t matter what the note says, just as long as your friend knows you are thinking about him and wishing him well.A note could contain inspiring phrases like, “You’re awesome” or “Nothing can stand in your way!” Another option is to write a long letter describing how much his friendship means to you. Send these letters in the mail, so the person unexpectedly receives them. You could also leave sticky notes around his office or home.
 Do something unexpected for your friend. Have food delivered, buy him a favorite dessert, clean his apartment, send a silly video message, or decorate his desk to spread the love. An unexpected act of kindness may help your friend through a rocky period and make you feel good, too.Be extra thoughtful by personalizing each unexpected act. Consider his favorite foods, hobbies, and other things he likes. Make him a mix CD filled with music you have jammed out with together or give him a poster of his favorite comic book character.
 Spread joy by being joyful. Happiness is contagious; it is difficult to be unhappy when you are surrounded by happy people.Happiness can literally be infectious. A simple smile at a stranger has the power to lift that person’s spirit.


When you are around unhappy people, do your best not to be dragged down by their unhappiness, and instead, be as happy as you possibly can. Smile, be friendly, talk with others, and tell jokes. However, if a friend is sad, don’t be inconsiderate of their situation. Just let him now you are trying to cheer him up.