 This is essential when planning your trip. Climbing during the off-season is extremely dangerous. Mountain huts are closed, the snow is deep, the wind is very strong, and the temperatures are extremely cold. In the off-season, climbers have been blown off the mountain by strong winds. If you insist on climbing in the off season, you must register your expedition with the local government.;
, This week in August is the busiest season for climbing Mt. Fuji. The crowds are incredible, so it is best to avoid it. Climbing on a weekday is recommended.
 Mt. Fuji has several hiking trails with different starting points, altitudes, and difficulty. Trails start from the 5th station (about halfway up the mountain). Although it is possible to start at the foot of the mountain, most people do not do this.The total ascent time ranges from 4-10 hours, depending on the trail you take and the number of people. Deciding the trail is essential when it comes to making reservations.
 Mt. Fuji is an extremely popular destination among Japanese and foreigners alike. People of all ages and physical ability try to climb Mt. Fuji. Some climb slower than others.There will be many people and many tour groups. The paths are usually very narrow, and it's difficult to pass people who are moving slowly. If you are a fast climber, be prepared for a very slow climb. For fast climbers, a slow "stop-and-go" pace may be one of the most difficult things of climbing Mt. Fuji. For beginners it is useful because it gives you a chance to take a break and catch your breath. Also, the experience of tackling the mountain with several other people can be rewarding for others.
 Fuji should only be done in 2 days. Climbing the mountain in one day is extremely dangerous and should not be attempted. Local authorities strongly discourage hiking in a single day and there are signs at the the trail-heads which warn against doing so. Altitude sickness can strike anyone, regardless of your physical condition. If you get altitude sickness you will become a burden to the people who work on the mountain because they will have to help you. You will also inconvenience other climbers. Trails are narrow and if you stop, it will force everyone behind you to stop. Therefore, everyone behind you may not make it in time to see the sunrise. Avoid altitude sickness by making a reservation at a mountain hut.
 Mountain huts are small lodges which provide food and a place to sleep. They fill up very quickly so you should make reservations at least 1 month in advance. Some huts have staff who speak English. These lodges give you the opportunity to replenish your energy and acclimate to the altitude. Huts are located at the 7th and 8th station. The staff will also wake you up when it is time to resume the climb so that you can reach the summit before sunrise.
 There are many buses and trains which go toward the 5th station of Mt. Fuji leaving from Shinjuku. Reserve bus tickets (and train tickets if you want) for the bus which goes to the correct 5th station. Do this only after reserving the mountain hut. The bus you take will change depending on the trail you are hiking and the mountain hut you are staying at. You might want to reserve return trip tickets too, although you won't know the exact time that you'll return to the station. If you don't reserve return trip tickets, you can buy them at the 5th station, although you may need to wait for an available bus.
 They will provide it for you. Otherwise, continue from Step 2.
 Fuji is relatively easy, but you do need appropriate gear. Otherwise your climb could end in disaster. Recommended gear includes:


Comfortable climbing boots. No, sneakers are not acceptable. You should have boots made specifically for climbing. Waterproof ones are the best. Mountain weather changes quickly, and wet feet will freeze at the summit. If you get wet, you may not be able to see the sunrise. You should get boots which have plenty of room for your toes and do not hurt your heel. Don't settle for "good enough".
Climbing socks. Many mountain climbing goods stores sell socks for climbing. They will keep your feet warm and comfortable.
Rain wear. This does not mean "raincoat". You need a waterproof shirt and pants made for climbing or hiking. These can be kept in your backpack unless it rains. However, if it rains and you do not have waterproof wear, then you will turn into an icicle at the summit.
Layers of warm clothes. This is one of the most important things you will need. The summit is extremely cold and very windy. You will be waiting there for a long time for the sunrise. Do not underestimate it or you will have a very unpleasant experience. Pack a lot of extra warm clothes in your backpack.
A headlamp. If you want to see the sunrise then you will have to climb at night. A good headlamp is necessary to see the trail in front of you.
Waterproof gloves. Gloves are very useful. Although the trails are usually very easy, there are a couple places where you will need to use your hands to push forward. You will have to hold onto some rocks. Gloves will protect your hands.
A hat for climbing. A waterproof climbing hat will keep your head dry and the sun out of your eyes. Baseball caps cannot be used because they will be blown off your head from the wind. A hat with a string is necessary.
A waterproof climbing backpack. You need a bag which can fit your extra clothes and some water and snacks.
Stocks. Although they are not necessary, they can help you with balance and take some pressure off of you feet and legs. They are especially useful when climbing down the mountain because your legs will be tired.
1 liter (0.3 US gal) of water. Water is sold along the trail. It is expensive, but carrying it in your bag will make climbing much harder. Instead, just buy water along the trail.
A few snacks. Light snacks can keep your energy up. Stores sell snacks along the trail, but they are expensive. Do not bring too many because they will be heavy. Also, you should keep all of your trash in your bag.
A camera. You'll want to take a picture of the sunset. Taking pictures along the trail is not recommended because you will slow down everyone behind you if you stop.
Money. Buying food and drinks along the trail is expensive, but it's better than carrying a heavy load on your back. Also, using the toilets along the trail costs money. Bring several 100-yen coins.
Bandages and other first aid supplies. Better safe than sorry.
 Once there, use the bathroom, eat at a restaurant, and do some stretching. There are small stores at the other stations along the trail, but they will be more expensive. Also, bathrooms along the trail cost money.
 Pace yourself. If you are in a tour group, the group will take mandatory rests where the trail widens up so other people can pass. If you are not in a tour group, take rests whenever you feel tired. Slow and steady wins the race. Getting sick on the mountain is something no one wants to happen.
 Don't risk dehydration just to save some money.
 Mt. Fuji is a majestic sacred mountain, world heritage site, and national treasure. Do not ruin it. Bring all of your trash home. There are no garbage cans.
 Bathrooms cost money. Pay with 100-yen coins in the box outside the bathrooms. It is on a "contribution" system. However, "contribution" does not mean optional. The money goes toward keeping the mountain beautiful and supplying services to climbers.
 If they are wet, the staff will give you a towel to dry them off before entering the hut.
 The staff will tell you when it's your turn to eat dinner. Be sure to fill up so you have the energy to push for the summit.
 If you can't sleep, step outside the hut and check out the stunning night view of the city down below. If you are lucky and there are no clouds, you will be stunned by the city lights.
 You might be too excited to sleep, but it's a good idea to rest your body. You will be literally side by side other climbers, all cramped together in a big room. You will be on the floor in sleeping bags. Once it's "lights-out" it is time to sleep. Everyone needs to rest to prepare for the final push in the middle of the night. Do not talk or laugh with your friends. If you are a foreigner then you are representing your country. Behave appropriately and politely. "When in Rome, do as the Romans." In Japan, Japanese will never talk or laugh after it's "lights-out". If other climbers are talking loudly and laughing, take a stand and tell them directly that they need to stop. Your sleep and rest are important.
 The staff will wake you up so you can resume the climb and reach the summit in time to see the sunrise, even if you are a slow climber. There is no need to rush. Gather your things together and head for the top.
 You will be climbing in the middle of the night and it will be dark, cold, and probably windy. Night climbing can be a little stressful and nerve racking because you can't see far ahead.
 If you feel tired, take a break where the trail widens up The mountain hut staff will have woken you up with plenty of time to reach the summit, so even if you stop a few times, you should still make it. But if you get altitude sickness you won't. You will also inconvenience others if this happens.
, There are some small stores and a cafeteria at the summit where you can get hot milk or tea. There should also be some food. If you arrived too early, they might still be closed, but usually open around 4:00.
 There are some places around the summit which are optimal for sunrise viewing. Go sit or stand there and wait. People will be in a mad rush to get the best spots. After you find a good spot, keep it. Don't let anyone push you around or cut in front of you. You worked hard to reach the summit and find a good location. Be direct and sternly tell them that this is your spot.
 The summit is incredibly cold and windy, even in July or August. Now that you have stopped climbing, your body is producing less heat so you will feel very cold. Play word games with your friends until the sun comes up. As soon as the sun comes up it will become warm and the wind will subside.
 It will be one of the most beautiful things in the world. You might even cry. That's okay. The sun rises very fast, so don't miss it!

, If you have a good location, try to get one with the sunrise in the background.
 Fuji!" souvenirs. There are special things you can buy at the summit. Some people will even engrave your name (and your friend's names) and the date you climbed onto a charm. These will help you remember how hard you worked to get to the top.
, Do not walk down the same path by which you came. Walking down the mountain can be very tiring and hard on your legs. Use your stocks to take some pressure off your legs. Do not run too fast or you may fall.
 You will definitely be tired and your legs may be sore.
,