 Place a measuring tape or a piece of string over the top of the headband. Measure it from end to end. This will be your guideline for your crown.
 Your crown design must fit between the two lines you made. If the design extends past those lines, your crown will be too big.
 Be sure to include a thin line along the base, so that your crown will stick together. Try not to make the crown too tall, or the hot glue will flop over even after it set.
 You can use regular clear hot glue, or you can use glitter hot glue. Go over the design two to three times to make it thick and sturdy.


Be sure to draw a line across the bottom of your design. This will help hold your crown together. You will also be using this to attach the crown to the headband.
 You can fill it in with solid glue, or with squiggles, loops, and swirls. Whatever design you choose, make sure that it touches the outline of your crown, or it won't hold together.
 Most hot glue sets pretty quickly, depending on how cold it is in the room. Some glues will turn opaque once they harden, while others will remain clear.
 Place the crown back on the parchment paper and decorate it. You can paint it, cover it with glitter, or even glue some rhinestones on. To go with the ice theme, chose colors such as blue, turquoise, white, and silver. Here are some decorating ideas:


To give your crown a translucent color, use colored permanent markers to color it in. Avoid using paint pens, as those are not translucent.
To give your crown a solid color, use acrylic paints and a paintbrush. You can use regular acrylic paint, metallic acrylic paint, or even glitter paint.
Give your crown some sparkle with glitter. Paint your crown with Mod Podge or white glue, then shake some glitter onto it. Tap the excess glitter off. The best glitter for an ice crown would be super fine iridescent glitter.
Glue tiny rhinestones or pearls along the base of the crown. You can use hot glue or superglue.
Decorate the crown with rhinestones or tiny snowflake confetti/sequins. You can put a large rhinestone in the center, and use smaller ones towards the edges. You can also put some rhinestones on the points. Use hot glue or superglue for this.
 This will give the hot glue something to grip on to. Place a drop of hot glue on one end of the headband, and press the end of a ribbon into it. Wrap the ribbon around the headband, like a candy cane, overlapping the edges by a little. When you get to the other side, trim off the excess ribbon, and secure the end with more hot glue.


Choose a ribbon that is ¼ to ½ inch (0.64 to 1/27 centimeters) thick.
Try to choose a color that matches your crown.
 Flip your crown over so that the back is facing you. Draw a thin line of glue along the bottom of the crown. Press the crown to the top of the headband. Make sure that the crown is centered. When you lay the headband flat on the table, the crown should be sticking straight up.
 Even though you made the crown on a headband, you won't be wearing it like a headband. Instead, put the crown on top of your head, like a halo or tiara.

