 When first entering Site Tau, you will open a door on your first right when walking down the hallway. There will be a monster directly on the other side of this door! Turn off your flashlight and crouch when entering. Avoid looking towards the monster, and stay in the shadows while staying still if it moves close to you.;
, After getting past the monster, you will need to go down the hallway and make your way north when looking at your map. Once you meet an intersection in the hallway, make a left and go through the door with no name above it. Enter this room and close the door behind you to keep the monster out. Climb up the ladder in this room and back down at the other end. You will then come across the Dispatch.
 Once inside Dispatch, there will be a computer that you need to use to unlock locked doors in the area. Open the computer and select “Door Locks” and then click the rooms outlined in red. One door will require a password, so you back out of the login and go back into it. This will automatically input the password and open the door.
 Once inside, you will need to climb the ladder to the second level in the Infirmary to locate the last normal human on PATHOS-2. Talk with her to retrieve the ARK to be placed in the compact freight lift.
 You can find the lift at the entrance of the Infirmary. It looks like a small orange door and is activated by pressing the white button near the lift. Once the doors of the lift open, you will need to place the ARK in the lift and then return to the main area.
 Once the ARK is on its way, climb down the ladder and go to the Dive Room where the ARK is now located. Pick the ARK up and place it on the airlock titled “Place Cargo Here.” Using your Omnitool, close the airlock and leave Site Tau.
 In order to fix the malfunction, pull the black pipes with white lines on them. There will be three of these pipes located in the room. You can find two of the pipes to the left of the Omnitool and the third at the other side of the room.
 Follow the path straight ahead of you and move any debris that get in your way along the path. You will come across a mountain of debris. Data mine the dead man’s black box, and then turn around and head back until you see a creature. Walk up to his position and look right for an opening. Follow the path until you reach the end leading to Site Alpha.

