 Microwaves are also used for sterilization. The non-ionizing radiation destroys the microorganisms on the surface of the tools. The microwave stream process is performed on the tools and the heat is used to kill the organisms. It can be used quickly and reliably.


You can also use this method at home for things like baby bottles., Hydrogen peroxide use in the form of a plasma or vapor can be used to sterilize. The plasma is made into a cloud of hydrogen peroxide with help from a strong electric or magnetic field. The sterilization phase of hydrogen peroxide is made up of two phases, the diffusion phase and the plasma phase.


For the diffusion phase, put the non-sterile object into a vacuum chamber where 6 mg/L of hydrogen peroxide is injected and vaporized. For 50 minutes, hydrogen peroxide is diffused into the chamber.
In the plasma phase, 400 watts of radiofrequency is applied to the chamber, making the hydrogen peroxide a plasma that is made of hydroperoxyl and hydroxyl radicals. These help sterilize the product. The whole process takes about one hour., Ozone gas is a gas generated from oxygen and is used to sterilize medical supplies. The ozone method of sterilization is a newer method that involves a lower temperature. With help from a converter, the oxygen from a hospital source is converted into ozone. To sterilize, a 6-12% concentration of ozone gas is continually pumped through the chamber holding the supplies.


The cycle time is about 4.5 hours with a temperature of 85 degrees to 94 degrees Fahrenheit., Chemical solutions can be used to sterilize instruments by soaking in the solution for the required period of time. The chemical agents are peracetic acid, formaldehyde, and gluaraldehyde.


When using any of these chemicals, remember to use a well ventilated area with gloves, eye cover, and gowns or aprons for your own protection.
Peracetic acid should soak the products for 12 minutes in temperatures of 122 degrees to 131 degrees Fahrenheit. You can only use the solution once.
Gluaraldehyde requires 10 hours of soaking after adding an activating chemical that comes with the bottle., Formaldehyde gas is used for the products that cannot stand heat too high without warping and other damage. In this process, the initial vacuum process removes the air from the chamber. The instruments are loaded and then the steam is let into the chamber. The vacuum continues to remove the air from the chamber as it heats up. Formaldehyde gases are then mixed with steam and pulsed into the chamber. The formaldehyde is slowly released from the chamber and replaced with steam and air.


The conditions have to be ideal for this process with humidity at 75% to 100% and temperatures from 140 degrees to 176 degrees Fahrenheit.
Formaldehyde gas is not the most reliable, but it is suggested if EtO is unavailable. It is an old technique that dates back to 1820.
It is not often suggested for sterilization because of the gases, smell, and complex processes involved compared to the others available.