 If you like to choose your own lunches, or you think the school’s vegetarian options aren’t very good, you should bring vegetarian packed lunches to school. A packed lunch means you can decide what you want to eat each day, and you can vary the menu as often as you like.


Start by making a list of some vegetarian meals you like.
Determine which ones will work best as packed school lunches.
Normally you will eat your school lunch cold, so think of things like salads and sandwiches.
Look online for vegetarian packed lunch options., Once you’ve found lots of nice recipes for vegetarian lunch options, pick out some of your favourites, and those which will work well as a packed lunch. Sandwiches and salads are good options, but you can broaden your repertoire to include wraps, tacos, pizza and lots more.


Dips can be a tasty and healthy vegetarian lunch option.
Pack a pot of hummus in with some chopped carrots, tomatoes, and toasted pita slices.
Always add in a piece of fruit, such as an apple or a banana., When you are drawing up your shortlist of top vegetarian lunches, try to make sure that you are putting together a healthy a balanced lunch. You should make sure that each lunch box menu has starchy foods, protein foods, a dairy item, vegetables or a salad, and a portion of fruit.


Starchy foods are a good source of energy, and should make up around a third of the food. Bread, rice, potatoes, and pasta are examples of starchy foods. Try to get some variety, and choose wholegrain bread.
Being a vegetarian doesn’t mean you can skip the protein. Meat is a major source of protein, but you can replace it with beans, eggs, tofu, quinoa, nuts, or a host of other things.
Try to have one dairy item, such as cheese, in your sandwich. Alternatively you could opt for a yoghurt. A carton of low-fat milk is another good dairy option.
Have a salad or vegetables in each lunch, and always include a portion of fruit., Try to plan out your lunches for the week so you know what ingredients you will need. If you have a clear picture of what you will need for the next week, you can shop smartly and avoid buying excess food which won’t get eaten.



Pack a fresh lunch each day.
If you prepare the lunch the night before, make sure you leave it in the fridge overnight so it stays fresh.
If you have the facilities to heat up food, you may be able to cook a big meal at the weekend, such as a vegetable soup, and bring the leftovers in to heat up.

