 Before you begin upgrading or changing the hardware in your computer, you should know what your machine is capable of. As a general rule, PCs have much more flexibility than Macs by default, though newer models of Macs allow some hardware customization. Your best bet is to take your computer in to any Apple store or Best Buy tech department. They should be able to tell you exactly what your computer can and can't support based on its model; know this information before you proceed.


For example, while some Macs let you change or add RAM, the MacBook Air and Retina MacBook Pro are fixed--you can't upgrade the RAM on these models. , Invariably, dust will end up in your computer's inner parts. Though an extensive cleaning usually mandates professional experience with hardware, anybody can vacuum off their keyboard and the side vents to improve your computer's circulation. If you haven't ever had your computer cleaned, especially if it's a few years old, taking it to a specialist to have it scrubbed is a great way to seriously improve your computer's performance.
 Random Access Memory, or RAM, is one of the key components in processing information. Logically, the more RAM you have, the more wiggle room your system has for spikes in memory usage. Upgrading your RAM is often cheaper and more immediately effective than changing out your hard drive.


RAM is especially important to upgrade if you're using your computer for gaming or video editing.
While many PCs have up to four RAM slots for a grand total of up to 16 gigabytes of RAM possible, Macs are much more limited, with most Macs using around three gigabytes of RAM. , If you use hefty programs and files on a daily basis, you're bound to notice a fair amount of slowdown; the aforementioned tech departments will happily recommend a pertinent hard drive model. If you don't want to have a third party install the hard drive for you, this article will tell you how to install a PC hard drive.


If you're replacing your only hard drive, be sure to back up your files before swapping drives. You'll also have to reinstall your operating system upon reboot.
A cheaper option is to simply purchase an external hard drive and move your heftier files off of your computer. Cloud storage is also a viable option, though the external drive proves to be cheaper in the long run.
If you're willing to spend a fair amount of money, a Solid State Drive (SSD) will significantly speed up your data recovery rate, leading to unprecedented levels of operation speed. Most recent Macs come with an SSD installed standard, but if your model of computer doesn't have an SSD, consider installing one.

