 Read over the pamphlets that come with your cup until you feel comfortable to go ahead. Also see the wikiHow on cleaning a menstrual cup for directions on keeping it clean, and if you're on the fence about using a cup, read how to decide whether to use a menstrual cup to help you make up your mind. And if you don't have a menstrual cup already, read wikiHow's advice on buying a menstrual cup for directions on picking out the right cup for you.;
, Most users do not get the hang of it until after a couple of tries, so this will be far better than using a public bathroom. Also, although you may be tempted to do a dry run while you're not on your period, you really shouldn't because it's generally more lubricated and your cervix may be in a different position while you're menstruating. So for the first time, make sure it is during your period as well.
 The C fold shown on instruction manuals isn't the best technique for many women. When you use the C fold, the widest part of the cup is just at the beginning. Another fold (there are many to choose from) is the punch-down fold. To make this fold, place your finger on the rim of the cup, and push it down into the cup. See the video below for more folds you can try.
 The first time you use it, it should be boiled as well. Soap should never be used on a menstrual cup. It can cause yeast infections amongst other problems., This may make it painful or difficult to insert the cup. Your pelvic muscles are the ones you use to stop and start peeing. Practice loosening and tightening these muscles (aka doing kegel exercises) so you will be able to relax them during insertion. Be patient; the first time inserting it is always the hardest, so don't give up if you're having trouble at first-- but do take a break if you become overly frustrated.
 You might like to try inserting the cup while over the toilet. You can also try squatting down in the tub or shower; standing and putting one leg on the edge of the toilet or tub; putting your back against a wall and getting into a squat position; or lying down on the floor with your knees up and legs apart.
 Stick a finger inside your vagina and feel for your cervix, which feels kind of like the tip of your nose. It is a small, squishy nub with an indentation in the middle. Aiming the cup in the direction of your cervix will help. This way you won't accidentally poke your cervix with the cup, or take up space in the cup with your cervix. If you can't find your cervix, this probably means it's very high, and in that case your cervix probably won't cause any problems.


If you would rather opt not to do this, aim the cup towards the small of your back.
 Fold the cup and then hold it with one hand (stem facing downwards). Spread apart your labia and find the opening of your vagina with your other hand. Now push the cup in at a about a 45 degree angle towards your pubic bone, not straight up. The cup should pop open. Continue to push the cup in until it is comfortable. (The cup may ride low or high depending on your body, but the base of the cup should not clear your vaginal opening.)








, You may have heard or felt a "pop." This is a sign that the cup has opened. Otherwise, reach up and feel around the base of the cup. It should be round or at least oval. (The cup may not ever open up all the way, depending on your body shape.) If it's not open, you can open it manually with a hand. Also try doing a few Kegel exercises, squats, jumping jacks, or rotating the cup in a full circle by twirling the base. You can also reach up with a finger and press part of the vaginal wall out of the way, so that air can travel up and fill the cup. You may feel more comfortable with the cup closer to your cervix than pictured in the instructions. When it is in place, you can also try to pull it gently down, to make sure the vacuum has been made (that's what the little holes are for) - this is part of what holds the cup securely.
 If you have a heavy flow, you will have to empty it more often, because this is the maximum recommended time. For your first cycle with a cup, you'll have to do a bit of experimenting to find out how long you can leave your cup in before leaking. (It's a good idea to wear a back up pantyliner; cloth pantyliners are a good reusable option.)

, Bear down with your muscles so the cup will travel down farther. Continue doing this until you can reach the stem. Wiggle the cup back and forth and down. Get a better grip on the actual base, not just the stem, of the cup and continue to pull it out. Pinching the base helps to break the vacuum and makes it easier to remove the cup. When you get to the opening of your vagina make sure you take it out upright to reduce spillage. If the rim of the cup is too wide to remove comfortably, use a finger to fold the cup into a C fold or a punch-down fold before you take it out of your vagina. If you're removing the cup over a toilet, you can let the contents spill out the "back" as you remove the cup, just keep your hand out of gravity's path.
 Rinse the cup with water. To clear the suction holes of menstrual fluid, bend the cup at the suction holes under the water. You can also fill the cup with water, cover the opening with your palm, and the squeeze the cup to squirt water out the holes-- keep clear! Dry your cup if it's too slippery (although the water and slipperiness may help you out) and reinsert.
 You can boil the cup, use sterilizing tablets, swab it down with rubbing alcohol, or choose from other methods. See wikiHow's instructions on how to clean a menstrual cup for directions and choose the method that works best for you.
 Take your time. Menstrual cups have a learning curve of about three to four cycles and if eventually you find out it's not for you, that's fine. If you still want to use a reusable menstrual product, you can try cloth pads or sea sponges.

