 Scout thrift stores for used knitting needles. You'll need four to create the frame of the wings. This method will require you to go to a craft supplies store to purchase a bag of feathers and crafting wire (15-20 gauge). You'll also need the following:


Spare white t-shirts
Hot glue gun
Ribbon
Spare cardboard
Scissors
Craft glue

, You’ll need to connect two knitting needles together to make one wing’s frame. Use a hot glue gun to connect two needles a little wider than 90 degrees. Do this same process to the other pair of knitting needles to create two wings.


Allow the glue to dry and settle for about ten minutes before continuing.
Make sure the frames are symmetrical before continuing.
 Use two strands of wire to wrap around the frame. As you wrap the wire, create small loops on the frame.The loops only need to be about an inch. The wire and loops will be used to attach the cardboard frame. You should use the hot glue gun to attach the wire to the frame.


If you’re experiencing difficulties attaching the initial wire, begin gluing the wire as you wrap it. The glue and wires will eventually be covered up.
There should be roughly eight loops per each needle. This will make about sixteen loops for each wing.
 Cut out four triangles for each wing. The triangles don’t need to be the same size. It’s okay if there are spaces between the needles and the cardboard. The gaps will be covered by the t-shirt and feathers. Try to make your triangles obtuse and isosceles to add to the shape of the wings.


Be sure that the four triangles you use for one wing match the four triangles for the other wing.
 Lie out the cardboard triangles into a design you like before attaching to the wire. Use spare wire to connect the cardboard triangles to both each other and the knitting needles. They need to be attached, but it’s okay if they dangle a bit.


Eagle wings are good to base your design on. Look in particular at the eagle wings in the extended-folded position.
Another design you can use is to look up angle wings online to see all the variations of angle wings.
The cardboard pieces do not have to look perfect or even. They will ultimately be covered up!

, Use an old, spare t-shirts to create a cover for your frame. Cut off the sleeves of the t-shirt and fit one to each wing. Use the hot glue gun to make sure that your shirt highlights the frame's design.You may need to cut up your t-shirt to create a fitted look.
 Use either a hot glue gun or a strong glue stick to attach the feathers to the t-shirt. The key to attaching the feathers is to make sure the feathers are facing outwards. The feathers should also point in the same direction for a clean look.
 To wear the wings, you need to attach ribbons that fit the wearer’s arms and shoulders. Cut a strip of ribbon, about 20 inches. Test the size before attaching to a wing. Once you’ve found a proper fit, use a hot glue gun to attach the ribbons creating an arm strap.


Attach the wings near the top of the wings, close to the wearer's shoulder blades.
Repeat the exact process for the opposite wing.
You can use a small strand of ribbon to connect the two ribbons together. This will secure the wings to your back and bring them look close together., Once the glue has finished drying and cooling, the wings will be ready to wear. Wait about 20 to 30 minutes for the glue to dry.

