 Anytime you want to conduct some sort of public event, you need to have a goal in mind. Are you going to conduct a rally to gather signatures on a petition? Or a parade to raise general awareness? Or a strike in front of the state legislature to influence votes? You need to consider the possibilities and then proceed with an event that is targeted to your objective.
 If you want to do something public to gather support and attention for your anti-death penalty position, you will need to begin with a planning group of supporters. Get together and decide what kind of event you want to hold. Some ideas might be:A parade
A picket strike or rally
A fundraising concert
A lecture at a school or hall

, You may need a permit to conduct the event you want. You may need police details for crowd control. Depending on the location and duration, you may need to rent portable toilet facilities. You need to meet with your planning group and consider these sorts of details., Don’t try to do everything by yourself. Among a small group of supporters, assign different people to do different tasks. One person can be in charge of obtaining the permit, while another person can begin working on advertising and press releases. A well-organized project will keep everyone active and involved, without overworking anyone., Make sure that you are a step ahead of everything. You should know how the time is going to be filled and what will be happening during the full event. If you are having a speaker, who will make the introductions? How long will each person speak? What is your overall objective for the event, and how will you know that it has been achieved? Spend time thinking of questions and answering them, well in advance., Give the public plenty of time to hear about your event and to plan to attend. Be clear in your advertisements about the date, time and location. If the event has clear start and stop times, let people know this. On the other hand, if it is a rally that starts at a particular time and lasts as long as people are interested, you can say that.Make use of multiple outlets for advertising. You may consider posting flyers, taking out newspaper, radio or television ads, or blasting announcements on social media.
 On the day of your event, be sure to arrive at your location early. If you have guest speakers or notable attendees, be sure to have someone ready to greet them. Oversee that details are put in place, like sound equipment, staging, etc. Stick to your original plan, but try to be ready with alternate contingencies if necessary., If you were able to get contact information for the people who attended your event, you should reach out to them afterward with telephone calls, postcards, or email messages. Thank them for attending, offer to get them involved in future events or activities, or provide them with additional information that may help encourage their support to abolish the death penalty.