 A partner is someone who provides some initial purchase money for the business in exchange for an ownership share. Your partner will likely want to be involved in the business in some way, so make sure to only take on a partner that you can work well with. And being personally close with someone doesn't make them a good partner; sometimes a trusted or knowledgable co-worker or acquaintance can make a better partner than a friend or family member.


In addition, make sure to draw up a legal contract that clarifies the terms of the partnership. This agreement should list how disputes are settled, how major decisions are made, and exactly how profits are divided., A silent partner is one that contributes capital to the business, but has no say in its operations. However, many silent partners eventually want to have a say in how the business is run. Again, to ensure that this relationship works as planned, draw up a partnership agreement that specifies the terms of your partnership in detail., An angel investor is a wealthy private investor who gives start-up capital to new businesses and new business owners in exchange for equity in that business. Businesses with angel investors benefits from the angel investor's industry expertise, business contacts, and financial resources. Locating angel investors, however, can be difficult. You'll have to locate a high net worth individual who shares your passion for the business you are buying and its industry. Then, you'll have to convince them of your own management skill and your ability to give them a good return on their money.Angel Investors can be located by visiting the Angel Capital Association's website., Equity crowdfunding, which involves selling small stakes in your business to a large number of small investors, is a relative newcomer in the world of business financing. While equity crowdfunding has been around for years, operating through sites like SeedInvest, it has recently become tightly regulated by the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). Equity crowdfunding can be an effective way to raise money, but only with the proper guidance, as following SEC guidelines can be complicated.