 Longhaired dachshunds are prone to ear problems since their coat and floppy ears can trap bacteria that cause infections. If needed, use pet scissors to trim their hair on the inner flap of your dog’s ear. This helps to prevent tangles, and allows for good circulation so moisture and dirt don’t build up.You'll need to trim their ear hair whenever the hair becomes fluffy or bushy, or when it is long enough to reach into their ear canal.
 In show terms, this is called the “flag.” Longhaired dachshunds tend to accumulate debris and tangles in this area of their coat. It’s a good idea to keep this hair trimmed. Not only will it be easier to brush and keep clean, it will help your dog to get around more easily.Using grooming scissors, trim the hair so it does not reach the ground.


It is a good idea to keep this area trimmed. Owners may even want to keep the hair fairly short in this area, especially if they are not using the dog for shows.
 Using a cotton ball and a dog ear cleaner solution, which you can find at pet stores and large retailers, gently wipe the inside of your dog’s ears. According to the solution’s directions, place the correct amount into the ear and let it soak into the canal.Wait for about 10 to 15 minutes and begin wiping upwards to dislodge any wax. Check for any discharge from the ear canal.


It’s a good idea to check your dog’s ears each time you groom them. Since dachshunds are prone to ear problems, this helps you catch conditions early on., Dental health is very important in dachshunds. Regularly examine your dog’s mouth to look for any broken teeth, red or irritated gums, and brownish teeth. Dogs that are hesitant to play with chew toys, eat, or drink cold water may have a periodontal disease. Consult your veterinarian if you notice any of these problems., Using toothpaste specially designed for dogs and a soft toothbrush, brush your dog’s teeth. Gently hold back their lips so the teeth are exposed and gently brush each tooth. Ideally, you should brush their teeth each day.


Many dogs are uncomfortable with having their teeth brushed. You can get your dog used to having their teeth brushed by putting a small amount of dog toothpaste on your finger and spreading it across their teeth for a few seconds. Gradually work up to using a toothbrush when your dog becomes used to having you manipulate their mouth., Using a piece of soft cotton fabric or a cotton ball that has been dampened with warm water, wipe around the rim of their eyes. You can also use dog eye wipes, which can be found at pet stores and large retailers. You’ll need to hold the dog’s muzzle while you’re wiping to avoid accidentally poking their eye., If you exercise your dachshund on concrete or pavement, their nails will not need to be trimmed as frequently since they will naturally become worn down.Your dachshund’s nails are very small so use a small dog nail clipper, not a regular nail clipper. Clip only the very tip of the nail, avoiding the quick. The quick is a vein that runs through the nail, and will bleed if nicked.It can be difficult to see the quick, especially with black nails. If you do happen to cut the quick, have a styptic powder and some gauze or cotton balls handy. This will help the blood clot and will stop the bleeding.

