 Switch the fan on, then pull the cord controlling the fan to ensure that, even if someone flicked the switch on accident, the fan won't start turning while you work on it.


If you plan on working on the motor, or want to feel extra secure, flip the circuit breaker so that there is no power in the room you are working on. This, however, will make it difficult to test the fan.;
, Dust, dirt, and debris collecting on the top of the fans can make it off balance, as well as get into the motor or grooves and cause wiggling issues. To clean them:


Take a damp, soapy cloth and wipe down each blade to remove dust. A little dusting solution or a drop of dish soap should be enough.
Rinse out the soap and wipe up any suds with a clean, damp cloth.
Dry the blades by using a clean towel or paper wipes.
 This includes the screws holding the blades and any connections between the light and fan. Loose screws on any part of the ceiling fan allow parts to move independently, making the whole thing wobble when the blades get up to speed.


The screws should all be hand tight, but don't break your wrist trying to get them extra tight. Once they start resisting your turns, you're good to go.
 These screws keep the fan attached, and wobbling will be the least of your worries if they get too loose. Undo the screws and slide the canopy down, then hand-tighten any visible screws where the fan meets the ceiling to ensure that the fan is well attached., This small ball fits in a similarly shaped bowl like a bone in a socket. Attached to the ball is the center rod of the fan that keeps everything attached to the ceiling. Make sure the hanger ball is completely seated so the ball fits snugly in its joint and doesn't move around. Reattach the canopy when you're done.
 These small screws attach at the top of the motor, where the downrod (coming from the ceiling) meets the body of the fan. There are usually 2-3 screws that keep the fan attached, but they may be covered by a small metal piece to make the fan look more appealing. Simply unscrew or push this covering up the downrod and tighten any screws you see.
 Once you've tightened the screws in the blades, downrod, and mounting, try the fan again and see if you've made progress. If not, the problem likely comes from unbalanced or warped blades. However, keeping the screws tight only takes a few minutes and helps prevent future problems.

