 Without a solid foundation, the shed will not last.









Level the ground as much as possible. Clear any rocks or protruding roots. Fill in any potholes. Call an excavator if the build site is beyond your capacity to prepare.
The average shed can be supported by a foundation of concrete blocks or pressure-treated wood skids. Use solid concrete blocks for the foundation. Larger sheds will require a permanent concrete foundation much like a house. You will need to contact your local building department to find out the precise foundation requirements for your area.
Use pressure-treated lumber, especially in the foundation. Treated lumber will resist rotting much more than untreated.
For a solid, rigid floor use 3/4" pressure-treated Tongue and Groove plywood. The plywood locks together, and the pressure treatment prevents rot from excess moisture. You may need to install floor joints to support plywood.
If possible, build your shed several inches above the ground to allow air and water to pass underneath. This will add to the longevity of your shed.
 Start by constructing the frames for the two side walls. Afterwards, construct the front and back frame, with a space for the door in the front.









If you are putting in windows, be sure to construct the frame accordingly. The window must be supported on all sides by 2x4s.
A basic wall frame is composed of 2x4 studs evenly spaced along the frame every 16 to 24 inches (40 to 60 cm). Window holes require extra smaller studs to support it.
Attach the siding to the frame while it is lying flat. It will be much easier to attach the large piece before you raise the frames up.
Once both side walls are completed, raise them up so that they are 90° to the foundation. Hold them up for the time being with planks nailed to both the foundation and the wall frames.










Attach them to the roof and the two side walls.
Install the door in the spot made in the front wall.
Install prefabricated windows in the windows spots in your side walls.
 After the two side walls are raised, connect them by building the rafters and roof.









The rafters continue up from the studs in the wall.
Build each rafter truss (the triangle construction of the rafter) separately, using the first completed one as a template for the others.
When attached, the bottom of the rafter should be flush with the siding.
Once the rafters are all attached, cover the roof frame with decking material. Then, shingle the roof. There are multiple different patterns you can use when shingling a roof. It is recommended that you follow the manufacturer's specification for shingle placement.

