 Keep lists of needs that will require a trip, & try to accomplish multiple objectives with each. This will help to drive less, & thus fuel can be saved.;
, If your children go to the same school as the children next door, it is a good idea to take turns driving. The best way to improve your car’s efficiency is by not using it so much.
 Heat causes fuel to evaporate. Parking in a shady spot has the added benefit of keeping the car cooling, lessening the necessity of air conditioner.
 Weight is one of the biggest causes for loss of a car's kinetic energy. Get the lightest car that will serve your needs. Take the extra weight from your car. An extra weight of 100 pounds (45.35 kg) increases fuel consumption by 1-2%.
 The faster you drive, the harder the engine has to work to push through the wind. Speeding can reduce fuel efficiency by up to 33%. Always maintain the economy speed.
 Using cruise control reduces fuel consumption by maintaining the constant speed.
 Try not to accelerate or de-accelerate too quickly. This is often linked to poor gear shifting where you are either shifting the gears too often or not enough, it overworks the engine, &, in turns, wastes fuel.
 Do a manual transmission shift to higher gear, as soon as you reach your desired speed, by skipping intermediate gears.
 Brakes waste energy of the fuel (which is already burnt), & accelerating after braking consumes more fuel than driving at a constant speed.
 We can reduce the fuel efficiency up to 3% by maintaining the proper inflation of tires. It is recommended to check the tire pressure at least monthly; more preferably, weekly.
 A properly tuned engine maximizes power & can enhance fuel efficiency.
 The air filter should be cleaned; a dirty filter will reduce fuel economy or may make the engine stall when idling. Replace it as per the manufacturer's instructions.
 Idling a vehicle consumes a significant amount of fuel. The best way to warm up the engine is to drive it slowly until it reaches the proper operating temperature.
 Avoid using air conditioner in stop & go city driving. Studies show that, at highway speeds, cars get somewhat better mileage with using air conditioner.
 Drive the car by rolling up the windows. The drag caused by rolled down windows at high speed reduces fuel efficiency.
 Some cars get better mileage at specific speed (sweet speed). Find your car’s sweet speed & pick your roads accordingly.
 Fuel can be saved by using synthetic oil. Oil having less viscosity would cause a car to work less hard. The lightest oil can also be used as substitute.
 Use the proper idea to maintain the driving as per the traffic signals. Stop & go driving is wasteful.
 Narrow tire has less of a frontal area, & thus can reduce aerodynamic drag in additional with there is reduction of contact surface resulting in low frictional resistance.
 Using the clutch in running condition results in wasting the energy that already produced due to the burning of fuel. Except during changing, the gear clutch is not to be used.
 Switch off the engine if you're stopping for more than 2 minutes; it helps to reduce useless burning of fuel.
 Change the fuel filter as per the manufacturer's instructions.
 Check its condition regularly.
 Have a block heater, and save fuel by using a heater to raise the engine temperature instead of idling.