 During pregnancy, there is an increased amount of water in circulation. Some of this water escapes into the tissues, where they accumulate causing edema.


This can cause dehydration in the pregnant woman, which can aggravate gout. The woman has to compensate for the wasted amount of water by increasing her intake of fresh water.
Water helps to support the kidneys’ normal function by flushing them out and diluting the increased amount of uric acid crystals. This helps to reduce the amount of uric acid crystals being deposited in the joints, thereby improving symptoms and decreasing the frequency of gout attacks.
You should always have a bottle of water close at hand during pregnancy. Also remember you will need to drink additional water after physical activity or in hot weather.;
, Stay away from any kind of meals or snacks that contain a lot of salt. Salt contains high quantities of sodium, and high sodium levels increase your body's tendency to trap more water and fluids inside, and to gather at the end at your inflamed joints, making gout inflammation worse.


This means that you should avoid adding too much salt to your cooked meals. You should also stay away from fast food, as it contains huge amounts of salt. All kinds of salty snacks like potato chips and pretzels are not advised either.
You also have to take care to avoid hidden salt sources, such as canned food, as salt is used as a preservative substance for many canned food products.
 Complex carbohydrates, such as whole grains, fruits, and vegetables may help to reduce your gout symptoms. Steer clear of processed and refined carbohydrates, such as white flour baked goods, candy, sugary beverages, and anything that contains corn syrup.Try to include a serving or two of vegetables with every meal and eat a couple of servings of fruit per day as snacks.
Switch white flour with whole wheat flour in baking to get more whole grains into your diet.
Try swapping your normal pasta and rice with whole wheat pasta and brown rice.
 It is best to avoid high-fat dairy and other high fat proteins if you have gout. To cut back on fat, switch to low-fat dairy products, such as:low fat yogurt
1% or skim milk
low-fat cheese
low fat ice cream or frozen yogurt

,


Purines release uric acid when metabolized; therefore, reducing your intake of purine-rich foods is essential in avoiding gout attacks during pregnancy.
Foods that are high in purines include red meat, beef, bacon, lamb, venison, turkey, ham, duck, chicken, and organ meat such as brain, liver or kidneys, in addition to seafood like anchovies, sardines, crab, lobster, salmon, tuna, shellfish, oysters. Other sources of purines include lentils, asparagus, cauliflower, kidney beans, lima beans, oatmeal, peas, spinach and mushrooms,
You do not have to cut these foods from your diet entirely, but try to limit your intake to around 150 mg per day. Discuss your options with your doctor before switching to a low-purine diet.
 Berries are considered a good fruit choice for gout sufferers, as they both contain high amounts of an antioxidant substance called Anthocyanins.


These antioxidants can fight free radicals that are released as a result of cell and tissue damage caused by uric acid crystals. They have a powerful anti-inflammatory effect that can relieve inflammation in the joints affected by gout.
This means that they have the ability to reduce pain and swelling naturally. There is also some evidence to suggest that these anti-oxidants have the ability to lower uric acid concentration in the blood.
Anthocyanins are found in high levels in all berries, including blackberries, raspberries, strawberries, and cherries.
 Vitamin C also enhances the kidney's function by decreasing levels of uric acid in the blood. Both of these things help in the treatment of gout.


The recommended daily amount of vitamin C to lower uric acid concentrations is 500 mg. Another source of vitamin C is citrus fruits like orange and lemon - these are alkalizing fruits that counteract uric acid's effect inside the body and decrease crystal formation and deposits in the affected joints.
This results in a significant decrease in painful gout attacks by lowering inflammation and swelling at the affected joint.
 Avoid eating saturated fats, such as those found in processed and fast food, whole dairy products or fat residues found in red meat.


Saturated fats are harmful to your body and can trigger a gout attack as they trap uric acid inside and minimize your body’s chances of getting rid of it. This results in the increased formation of uric acid crystals. These crystals are then deposited around your joints, stimulating and triggering gout attacks and increasing the number of painful episodes.
Additionally, saturated fats can easily increase your body weight, putting you at higher risk for obesity. Obesity is another trigger factor for gout as it puts additional body weight on your affected joints, increasing the stress on the irritated joint, exacerbating the inflammation and edema, and generally worsening your condition.
Taking control of your fat intake and sticking with healthy unsaturated fats will make a big difference to your disorder and help in improving any further gout attacks.