 Prior to bringing your new dog home, you should pick up a few essential supplies. If you got a few supplies as part of the gift, you should find the rest of the stuff you need. Make sure you have all of the supplies to feed, groom and care for your new companion. You may want to purchase or otherwise obtain the following items:Dog food.
Treats.
Crate.
Dog bed.
Leash and collar.
Food and water bowls.
Grooming supplies.
Exercise pen.
 Find a place to put the crate and the dog bed, as well as a location for feeding your new dog. You should also think about any areas of your home that you don’t want accessible to your new dog and how you will establish boundaries.You may want to feed them near the kitchen or, if you live in the country, you may be able to feed them outside.
If you plan to use an exercise pen, you should make space in your house and set it up.
If you want part of the house inaccessible, you could use baby gates or another barrier.
Deal with identification.
 When you get home with your new dog, keep them on leash. Take them on a tour of your home. Walk around the house with your new dog on leash and show them all of the rooms in the house. Show them where you will be feeding them and offer them a treat at this location. Then, take them to the part of the house where you have their crate and bed. When you get there, you can let the dog off leash and let them smell their new home., You might want to ask the person who gave you the dog if they have a recommendation for a veterinarian. You could also ask for a recommendation from another dog owner such as a friend or family member, especially if they live in the same neighborhood. Using these recommendations, you should phone a few veterinarians to compare prices on key services. You may want to compare prices on the following services:Annual physical exam.
Vaccinations.
Flea and tick prevention.
Dental cleaning.
Fecal exam.
Heartworm test and prevention.
 You should look around for obedience classes and dog training. Try to find obedience classes that are convenient in time and location. Typically, classes run for six or twelve weeks and require daily homework with your dog.