 Download Skyblock Map

,,, Hold down the shift key as you move around to engage the "sneak" mode., No saplings = no more trees, so if you do not collect at least one sapling from your first tree, you will need to start over.
, This will keep the tree away from your lava and prevent loss of a tree (and apples and saplings) to a fire later.,, Craft a wooden pickaxe. Be careful to reserve two wood blocks (don't turn them into planks) to create your first charcoal later., You should have enough dirt to create a 2x2 pool, but you can use plank blocks on the side which will be furthest from your lava if necessary. This will create a never ending water supply since any bucket pulled from this pool is replenished automatically.
 One of the simplest methods is to dig a hole 4 blocks long and the second block 2 blocks deep.Now put a bucket of water on the end with the 2 deep hole and lava on the other end.


To make a basic cobble generator do it in this form:
D-W-S-S-L-D
D-S-D-D-S-D
D=Dirt, W=Water, S=air space, L=Lava
An alternate, more compact generator can be made as follows: (D=Dirt block, A= Air block, C=Cobblestone block, W= Water and L=Lava)
A-A-W-C-L-D
D-W-W-D-A-D
D-D-D-D-D-D

,


You can combine your water source and your cobblestone generator if you wish.
 Craft torches., With the fishing rod and your furnace, you can keep yourself fed while waiting for your garden to produce., Once you have a supply of cobblestone, extend your platform to the bottom of the island and collect the dirt, taking care not to mess up the cobble generator.

NOTE: If you craft cobblestone slabs, you can double the surface area you can create with the same amount of raw material. This slab method also has the advantages of preventing mobs from spawning in dimly lit areas.






NOTE: You have only a limited number of dirt blocks. One way to avoid losing dirt blocks is to create a platform or "tray" underneath your SkyBlock to catch anything that falls off the top.
You can do this by opening a one block hole in your cobblestone and placing a bucket of water into it, creating a waterfall that you can swim down through.






Drop down and place 4 blocks of cobblestone in a column/tower going down. Swim back up for air, then drop back down through the water to place a single block perpendicular to your column at the bottom of your column directly under your original hole... and swim back up.






Hop out of the water, pick up the water with the bucket.






Place a ladder and drop back down to the bottom perpendicular block you placed and build/expand a lower level or "tray" 4 blocks below your original SkyBlock.






"Tray" expanding below the main level. This can be left dark as a mob spawner or lit to prevent mobs at the players discretion.
 This will give you access to mob drops such as string, bones (bone meal for gardening), specialized tools, etc.,, Expand your house, create a more efficient mob grinder, make a large mob farm, the possibilities are endless.
