 At the start of the race, press and hold W to clench your left thigh. One leg will shoot straight forward while the other stays behind. Just let the runner fall until he's balanced on his foot in front, and his knee in back.


If you landed past 1.5 meters, break out the champagne.;
, If your front leg isn't fully extended, tap W to scoot forward another couple tenths of a meter. Once your runner stops moving, continue to the next step.


Forget that you ever knew how to stand up. Standing is a story that only children believe in.
 Don't hold it down too long, or you'll tip over backward. Just tap it to bring your back knee forward, until it's a short ways behind your butt.


If you've been playing for longer than 10 seconds, Usain Bolt would have already finished the race. Don't let it get to you.
 Now that your back leg is further forward, you have more room to scoot. You can often tap W several times, hopping on your back knee or dragging it forward slowly. Stop when your front leg is fully forward, or when more tapping doesn't cause you to move.


There are no fans in the background because they've all walked home. On their legs.
 Tapping between the two keys quickly will get you there, but you'll move faster and avoid tendonitis if you move in larger spurts. Hit Q to bring your knee forward, then hit W several times to lunge forward. Repeat until you're at the hurdle.


QWOP is too easy. We don't need those O and P keys.
 Yes, there's a hurdle at the 50 meter mark. It is possible to stay in the splits position, knock the hurdle over, and push it to the finish line. You'll move even slower than before, but stepping over it is risky. If you do want to get over it (after knocking it down), try propping yourself up on your front foot with O. Once your front calf is tilted a little forward of vertical, hit Q and W vigorously to clear the hurdle. It's very hard to do this without falling over.


If you've made it past the hurdle, you deserve a break from sarcastic comments. Congratulations, and good luck becoming a National Champion at the 100 meter mark.

