 Although there are some common triggers for migraines, you need to figure out exactly what triggers your specific migraines. A headache diary can help you determine this. It can also help you and your doctor monitor the effectiveness of treatments. Being able to review a record of things done, eaten, experienced, and felt during the 24 hours prior to the onset of a migraine can teach you a great deal about your personal triggers.


Start the diary by asking yourself these questions: When did I start having the headache? How often would I say they are now? Any specific days? Times? How can I describe the pain of the headache? Any triggers? Do I have different types of headaches? Does anyone else in the family experience headaches? Do I notice vision changes with your headaches? Do I get them around the time I have a period?
Track the date, the time from start to finish, the pain rating from 0-10, any triggers, any symptoms beforehand, medications you took for it, and the relief of the migraine.
If you have a smart-phone use one of mobile application for migraine to keep track of your migraine, triggers, aura, medication etc. You can find migraine apps for android by searching for migraine or related keyword in google play store.
 There isn't one singular trigger for migraines. It is unclear exactly what causes migraines and it varies from person to person. Migraines seem to be triggered by a wide variety of different things. It can be something you eat, smell, hear, or see. It can often be linked to your sleeping patterns or daily activities. Make sure you document all the things you do each day so you can pick out your personal triggers after some time has passed., While it will probably not be possible to avoid all migraines, it should be possible to manage them. Go through your migraine diary and try to see what patterns have developed. Look for patterns to find your triggers. Look for particular times of the day, the week, or the season that cause more problems than others.


Map out an approach to managing the prevention of your migraines once you have found the pattern. Put the plan into action, avoid triggers, and be aware of sensitivities. Record the outcomes and stick with anything that works for you to head off migraines.
Other possible changes may be taking pain medication at the start of the headache and letting others know the pain you are going through.

