 That way you have someone to email and market to. The best lead generation system is to make an irresistible offer to the locals in your community.


For example, you could offer some kind of free fat loss report, e-book, or video in exchange for their contact information (name and email address) via door hangers, postcards, or even online on Facebook. This is a great way to start building your personal trainer email list.;
, But the trick to make your marketing effective is to add value to your email and don’t sell anything to anyone in your first email. Don’t even offer any promotions are talk about getting those prospects into your personal training business yet. You first need to send really good and valuable content. Things like the top three exercises that burn the most fat, what foods to avoid, and just some general information about you and your personal training career.


What you’re trying to accomplish through these emails is getting your prospects to know you better as a person and a personal trainer so they will eventually start to like you, instead of ignoring your emails, and that will lead to trusting you because you don’t make selling to them a habit.
 The 4 to 1 ratio is great at getting prospects to like you. Basically, for every 4 emails of great content you deliver to your list, you’ve earned the right to pitch (or sell) in your 5th email. Make a great offer and gauge the response you get.
 Email marketing works well when you deliver great content on a regular basis, so to stay consistent with your emails use the 4:1 ratio and be sure to deliver at least one email per month and no more than one per week.
 One excellent way to give social proof and show your prospects how talented you are as a personal trainer is to write a case study on a client who has made amazing progress (with their permission, of course) and feature it in one of your emails. Brag about them and their transformation, the people in your community are more than likely to respond to real results.

