 When you walk outside to find a car covered in ice and snow, you should remove everything from the car before driving. This helps you see when you drive. Don’t just clean off a hole that you can see out of. This can significantly decrease your visibility.Clean off all windows and mirrors before leaving your home.
You should also clean the snow off lights so other drivers can see your headlights, blinkers, and brake lights.
Brush off your hood, trunk, doors, and roof. Snow can slide onto your windows and block your view, which won't be good when you're driving! It can also sling off and hit another car. Many states require by law that you remove all snow before getting on the road.;
, You may be stressed and running behind, but your safety comes first! No matter how long you have been driving, you should drive slowly in winter weather. Even if you have winterized your car, you may still lose control of your car. By driving slowly and paying attention, you not only keep control of your car, but can be aware of those around you who many not be as careful as you.Press the gas and brake pedals gently. Speed up and slow down slowly and take it easy as you turn. Make sure to start braking early to avoid sudden stops.
 Stopping on wintry roads is very different than dry roads. You should not try to stop the same way you do on normal roads. That may cause an accident! Leave at least eight to ten seconds to stop. Gently press the brake with the ball of your foot and avoid slamming on brakes.If possible, take your foot off the gas pedal to slow down at red lights and try to roll to it until it turns green so you don’t have to stop.
 You should double the distance you normally would between you and the vehicle in front of you. Keep scanning the vehicles in front of you and look out for brake lights. If you've kept your distance, you should be able to bring your vehicle to a stop with distance to spare instead of having to slam on your brakes and sliding into the vehicles in front of you., When you approach a hill, don’t press the gas pedal hard to try to get up the hill. This can cause you to spin. Instead, try to use inertia to get up the hill. Don’t stop on the hill because it can be difficult to get going again. If you have to press the gas pedal, do it gently and slowly., Skidding can be extremely scary! To correct for any skid, release the gas slightly and turn your wheels in the direction you want to go, very gently. Be careful not to over correct and do not press the gas until you are headed in the direction you want to go again.


If the car does not seem to turn, or turns too wide, easing off of the gas lightly might do. If that doesn't work, tap the brakes lightly and steer just slightly tighter into the corner. Simply panicking and steering sharply into the corner will only reduce control.
If the car is hydroplaning, gently ease off of the gas without lifting off of it completely. If necessary, ease off completely.
 Cruise control can be a relaxing way to drive. However, during winter weather, you shouldn’t use the cruise control on your car. This takes the acceleration and deceleration out of your control. On slippery surfaces that have snow, ice, or sand, this may cause you to slide or lose control of your car.