 Find a stock "Error 404 Costume Not Found" image online or use a word processor to type it out. If you're typing it out then use big, bold, and blocky letters so people can read it easily. If you are using an online image, make sure that it fits on the size of paper that you're using.;
, When you apply your iron on transfer to your shirt, the image is going to be flipped horizontally, as if you were looking at it in a mirror. To make your costume readable, you'll need to flip your image.To flip an image in Photoshop horizontally, go to Image>Rotate>Flip Horizontal.
To flip an image in Microsoft Paint, go to your toolbar at the top of the page or right click and click Rotate>Flip Horizontally.
 Purchase iron-on transfer paper from office supply, department stores, or online. Depending on what printer you have, you'll have to make sure that it can take gloss or iron-on paper. Go to print settings and select your paper type. Look for options that say “Special Paper,” or “Iron-On Transfer” and select it.When it's done printing, make sure that you double check that the image has been printed on the right side.
 Heat your iron to the highest temperature possible because you'll need a lot of heat for the image to transfer to your t-shirt properly. Pre-cleaning your shirt may also make the process smoother because the shirt can shrink around the heat transfer material., Because your iron will be on one of the hottest possible settings, you'll need to put something under your t-shirt to protect your flat surface. If you don't want to use a pillowcase, you can also use a cutting board or a flat piece of discarded wood.
 You should position your transfer on the area where you want it to read "Error 404: Costume Not Found." The best position is probably on the front center of your chest.
 You must press down hard with your iron for the image to successfully transfer onto your shirt. Do not iron over your shirt, instead press down firmly for 45 – 60 seconds in one spot, then move to another portion of the iron on image.Optimal pressure for a good transfer is 23 kilograms (50 pounds).
 There should be a slight bubbling of your iron-on. If there is not, then, chances are your iron is not hot enough. If the plastic is noticeably shrinking, or you've burnt your t-shirt, then your iron is too hot. Use a knife or fingernail to peel away the transfer to reveal your cynical Halloween costume. If you're having trouble peeling the transfer, try running your iron over it briefly to soften the plastic again.