 If the online ticket purchase gives you the option to print out your boarding pass, this is recommended, especially if you are not checking bags.;
, Make your bag identifiable by tying a ribbon on it or putting a tag on it, or use a colorful/unique bag.


When you pack any liquid items on your carry-on, such as lotion, shampoo, body oils, etc. Make sure they are 3 oz. or less. Keep them together in a plastic Ziploc bag. Remember the rule 3-1-1, containers must be 3.4 ounces or less, stored in a 1 quart/liter zip-top bag and only 1 zip-top bag per person.
 This is in case of delays getting to the airport, checking in, or clearing security.
 Get in line and wait until you are asked to come forward. There is usually a bin that allows you to see if your luggage is small enough to go on the plane or if you have to check it. Also, keep in mind you may only have one piece of luggage and one smaller carry-on item. Have your ID on hand.
 If your luggage to check, place it on the nook in the counter when asked to. The agent will tag it, and either will place it on the conveyor belt behind the counter, or tell you to carry it over to a scanner. If not, tell her you have nothing to check. In either case, she will then hand you your boarding pass unless you printed it online. If you do not have bags to check and checked in online, you can skip this step entirely.
 You will meet a security worker who will check your boarding pass and ID and send you forward (make sure you have a proper ID this varies depending on your state).


You will then wait in line to get to an x-ray machine and metal detector. You will put all of your bags, metallic objects and shoes on the conveyor belt to be scanned. If you have a Ziploc bag of liquids in your bag, remove it to be screened on its own. If you have any objects that would show up on the x-ray as a box, such as a laptop, tablet or video game system, remove it and send it through separately. Take off any jackets or sweatshirts, as those need to be screened as well.
Remove all metal objects, including keys, jewelry, belts, etc. Then, remove your shoes and place them on the belt. If you get confused just ask a security worker politely.
 Replace anything you may have removed from your bag, put your shoes on and leave the security checkpoint.
 Gate numbers are indicators of areas where you will board the plane. The airline agent may have told you your gate number, it might be on your boarding pass, or you can find departure monitors in the area which will have a list of flights and gate numbers. Find your gate, which will be indicated by signs with numbers on them. These are very visible so do not worry.
 Make sure you bring 2 portable chargers that are fully charged because your flight can be delayed by as much as a few hours and in larger airport's wall outlets are taken up fast.
 As you approach the Jetway, you will hand them your boarding pass. It will be scanned and returned to you. Sometimes, the gate agent may tear off and keep a portion of it.
 If you have a smaller bag you'd like to hold onto, simply slide it under the seat in front of you so the area around your feet is clear.
