 As urban development stretches into rural areas, the noise level increases. Construction sites, airports, train stations, and highways are all sources of loud noises that grate on the ears. If you know the sources of noise pollution in your area, you can do your best to avoid them or find ways to mitigate their negative effect.


When you're choosing a place to live, see if the residence is in a flight path or near a busy highway. During the day the sounds might not bother you, but at night they might prevent you from sleeping.
 Most urban communities have rules to prevent noise pollution from getting out of control. For example, there are laws dictating during which hours a construction site may actively use machinery, and when they need to stay quiet. As a community member, you can help enforce the laws if you know what they are.


Check with your state's department of energy and environmental affairs to find out which regulations are in effect in your area.You'll find information about how loud noise is allowed to get, and when machines are supposed to remain silent.
If you feel the regulations are being violated, don't hesitate to file a complaint. If it's affecting other members of your community, organize a group complaint, which will be even more effective.
 Another source of noise comes from community spaces like stadiums, concert venues and other outdoor areas with speaker systems. Even a neighborhood bar that holds concerts can produce enough noise to drive you crazy. If you live near a community space that seems to be making noise all night long, or is producing noise that seems louder than necessary, see if they're in violation of local laws and file a complaint if necessary.For example, if a new concert space opens up on your block and creates noise late into the night, you're entitled to finding out whether the place is operating according to local law. The people in charge of the space might not be aware of the laws, so don't just assume they know what they're doing. Find out more and see if you can make a difference.
 Car and motorcycle engines as well as lawnmowers and other motor-powered vehicles can really raise the noise level in any given area. If you live in the middle of the city, there won't be much you can do about it, but in a smaller community you may be able to have a say as to who gets to use motors in your area, and when.


Talk with your city council member to see what you can do to have noisy motors banned after a certain time at night.In smaller communities, you could also just get together with your neighbors and agree not to use lawnmowers and other noisy motors during certain hours, for the benefit of the whole neighborhood.
 If you live in an area with a dearth of big trees, planting more along city streets, and between residences and noisy highways, would be a good way to cut back on some of the noise pollution in your area.


See if your city has a tree-planting initiative underway. For example, Portland, Oregon's group Portland Loves Trees engages community members to plant more trees around the city. New York City's Million Trees Project has a similar goal.

