 Washing away dirt, sebum and old makeup will help your fresh makeup stay in place a lot longer. If you put fresh makeup on a dirty face, it'll tend to slip off or flake away.


Wash your face in the morning, before putting on makeup.
Don't use harsh soap on your face. It can cause irritation and dryness, which will make your makeup come off sooner.;
, Dead skin tends to accumulate on the face, especially with age, so it's important to exfoliate a few times a week to remove it. Putting makeup over dead skin will cause it to flake off during the day. Your makeup will look, feel and behave better on a smooth, exfoliated face.









You can use a facial brush to lightly brush the dead skin from your face. Rub it in circles, never pressing too hard.

A homemade sugar scrub also works well as a gentle exfoliant.
Don't forget your lips! They need to be exfoliated, too, in order for lipstick to stay in place.
 For oily skin, buy an oil free or gel moisturizer, and for dry skin buy a more nourishing one. Make sure to get a moisturizer with at least SPF 15 in it to protect you skin from the sun, or a separate SPF 45 if you live in a sunny place. If you are older, you can use a moisturizer with anti-wrinkle properties.









Don't use a rich, creamy moisturizer during the day. It could make your face too slick for your makeup., Using a good primer is the trick to having makeup that stays throughout the whole day. Some primers can get a little pricey, but you don't need to use very much for a good finish. Apply the primer throughout your face, especially over red areas or oily areas, and any blemishes that you want to cover.
 It makes your eyeshadow last longer and prevents creasing in the lid. Also, it makes colors seem more vibrant and less translucent. A liquid concealer can work for this also.









If you don't use a lot of eye makeup, an eye primer may not be necessary. However, it can really help if your eye makeup tends to smudge and end up below your eyes.
Eye primer can also help your eyeliner stay in place.

