 Smoke detectors detect smoke using one or more of the kinds of sensors described below.


Ionization alarms work by ionizing the air inside the smoke alarm with trace amounts of a radioactive element, americium 241. This sets up an electric current within the smoke detector. Smoke particles entering the ionization chamber disrupt the current, triggering the alarm. Ionization alarms are better at detecting the tinier smoke particles from fires that ignite quickly, such as paper and grease fires or fires caused by arsonists. Some ionization smoke alarms are integrated with carbon monoxide detectors.
Photoelectric alarms use a small pulsating (strobe) light; smoke particles entering the detection chamber diffract the light onto a sensor to trigger the alarm. Photoelectric alarms are better at detecting the larger smoke particles from slow, smoldering fires, such as electrical fires or those in bedding, clothing, or upholstery. They are usually more costly than ionization alarms, but they are less susceptible to being triggered accidentally.
Dual-sensor smoke alarms incorporate both ionization and photoelectric sensor components. They are the most costly but provide the best smoke detection for home use. (You can also buy both separate ionization and photoelectric smoke detectors and use them together.)
Another type of smoke detector, the air-sampling smoke detector, uses a sensor in a network of pipes through which air is circulated, to determine whether smoke from a fire is present. They are similar to ionization alarms but more sensitive and geared for business and scientific environments (warehouses and laboratories) where a higher degree of smoke sensing is called for.;
, Many smoke detectors run on 9-volt, AA, or AAA batteries, which must be replaced periodically. (Manufacturers suggest replacing the batteries once a year, when you adjust your clocks to go on or off Daylight Savings Time.) Some smoke alarms are equipped with lithium batteries designed to last for the 10-year life of the unit, while others are designed to be wired into household current and have backup batteries that kick in when the power goes out.
 You should plan to install a smoke alarm in each room of the house, including the basement and attic. Also plan to put a smoke detector in each hallway that leads to a bedroom, as well as in the bedroom itself, and at either end of a stairway. If you have a large house, consider getting a smoke alarm system where the individual smoke detectors are wired together so that when 1 detects smoke, they all sound. (These units usually have to be wired into household current and, thus, have to be professionally installed.)


Although using both ionization and photoelectric smoke alarms is recommended, you may want to use only photoelectric smoke detectors around the kitchen stove or toaster, as the more sensitive ionization detectors may be set off by cooking smoke.
 Smoke detectors that bear the "UL" in a circle logo on their housing, packaging, or user manual have been tested and certified by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. Underwriters Laboratories not only tests and certifies products before release but also conducts follow-up testing to ensure products continue to meet their standards.
 Smoke alarms should be tested on a monthly basis to make sure they're working properly. Most smoke detectors have a test button on the unit to verify that they work, but if you aren't comfortable climbing on a ladder to test the alarm, choose a smoke detector that can be tested with the infrared signal from a remote control unit.
 Smoke detectors should be vacuumed once a month to remove dirt that can block their sensors or trigger false alarms. Hinged or removable covers can make vacuuming easier. Also, some smoke alarms feature slide out battery drawers to make inserting new batteries easy.
 If you can't shut the smoke alarm off when it sounds a false alarm, you may be tempted to take out the batteries and not put them back in when you need to have the smoke alarm work.
 Some smoke detectors come with options or add-on equipment to supplement the audio alarm, such as a visual alert system for the hearing-impaired. (This option is usually available only as part of a network smoke detection system, however.)