 True Patriots fans always support them, even through the tough times. Nobody likes someone who only likes teams that win.
 When did they become a team? Who is their best player in your opinion? What is their ranking? Learn a bit about some notable members of the team too, such as QB Tom Brady, or WR Rob Gronkowski. Find out some facts/statistics about any of the players. Just go to your local library, surf the web, or ask any of your relatives who are big fans.
 Get your favorite Patriots jersey, buy a Patriots hat, sweatshirt, t-shirt, shorts, or even some Patriot socks or shoes if you can find any. Looking like a fan is key.
 If you watch or attend their games, you can not only have loads of fun and excitement, but you can also get Patriot gear. Bring along a camera to take some photos of great plays, crazy fans, or of you and your family having fun at the stadium. You can even paint your face, bellies, or do some other crazy stunt to get yourself on the big screen if you'd like.
 As with any football team, the Patriots have multiple rivals. They are a member of the AFC East. Some of the biggest rivals are:


New York Jets- Most hated rival due to being in the AFC East.
Buffalo Bills- Hated due to being in the AFC East.
Miami Dolphins- Hated due to being in the AFC East.
Pittsburgh Steelers- Hated due to winning the AFC a lot, and winning six Super Bowls.
Indianapolis Colts- Hated due to many playoff battles in the past.
Dallas Cowboys- Hated due to popularity.
Green Bay Packers- Hated for beating the Patriots in Super Bowl 31.
New York Giants- Hated for beating the Patriots in Super Bowl 42, and Super Bowl 46.
 Get tickets to go to a game! If you don't live near the Boston area, then you can always listen to the game on the teams website or watch the game on TV., If you have a friend who is a Patriots fan you should talk about them. If you see anyone wearing their logo, compliment them. You can find online Patriots fan clubs and groups, too., If you're watching from home, invite a couple of friends over, have some soda/pop or beer, and watch the game intently. You can hang out with friends while watching the Patriots play. Two great things!

, Go online and watch their highlights and news about their players, injuries, and other rumors.

