 A mechanic’s tachometer or handheld “tach-tool” looks like a multimeter or a volt gauge and can be purchased at most auto parts stores. Ensure you purchase a tachometer and not one of the other tools that look similar.Some tools may have multiple functions. Ensure the tool you purchase includes tachometer among those functions.
 Open the hood of the vehicle and connect the black lead coming out of the tachometer to the negative terminal on the battery or any bare metal on the body of the vehicle.Ensure the ground wire is connected firmly and won’t come loose while the engine starts.
Be sure the wire won’t get caught by any belts or other moving parts once the engine starts.
 The positive lead from the tachometer will be red. It must be connected to the ignition coil to read the signals it sends and translate that into RPMs. If you do not wish to splice the wire for this temporary reading, insert an unfolded paper clip into where the green wire connects to the ignition coil, then clip the lead onto the paper clip.Ensure the lead has a solid, metal on metal connection so it can read the signals coming from the ignition coil.
 Turn the dial on the tachometer to the number of cylinders in your engine. Most handheld tachometers have a knob on the front of the device you simply turn until it points at the correct setting.If you are unsure how many cylinders are in your engine, refer to the vehicle’s owner’s manual for guidance.
If your vehicle came equipped with a five, ten or twelve cylinder engine, ensure you purchase a tachometer that can support that.
 While holding the tachometer, ask a friend to get into the vehicle and turn the key in the ignition. Once the engine starts, the tachometer will begin displaying the number of RPMs the engine is running at.Some tachometers list single digits that represent thousands of RPMs, others show double digits that represent hundreds of RPMs or three digits that show tens of RPMs.
Refer to the package for your tool to know for sure which your tachometer displays.
Do not drive the vehicle using this form of tachometer. It is only effective for engine diagnostics and diagnosis.

