 The statute of limitations tells when a claim is too old to be enforced. In Florida, the statute of limitations on a judgment is 20 years. If the judgment being enforced is greater than 20 years old, you should make a claim of exemption to avoid or stop the garnishment., Make sure the total amount being withheld is correct. In Florida, a garnishment will continue to be applied until the entire debt is paid. If the amount being garnished is incorrect, you should make a claim of exemption to request the correct the amount be withheld. Compare the amount of the judgment to the amount of the garnishment.
Add any attorney fees the creditor paid for obtaining the garnishment. This should be listed on the garnishment.
Add interest that has accrued. The garnishment should tell you how much this is.
 In most cases, a consumer creditor must usually go to court and get a judgment before obtaining a garnishment. You may be able to get the entire judgment set aside if you were never notified of the case against you in which the original judgment was ordered. Consult an attorney if you believe the judgment should be set aside. The process for this will vary from case to case. There are some debts that can be executed by garnishment without needing to obtain a judgment. These include:Court-ordered child support or child support arrears
Defaulted student loans
Unpaid income taxes

, The Federal Bankruptcy Code protects a debtor in bankruptcy from any attempts at collection outside the bankruptcy process. Your bankruptcy attorney can tell you about options you may have with enlisting the assistance of the bankruptcy court in stopping the garnishment. You should also attend your hearing and make your claim for exemption in the court that issued the garnishment., Most creditors cannot garnish certain wages. The major exceptions are garnishments for child support, defaulted student loans, and unpaid taxes. The types of income that are protected from consumer credit garnishment in Florida include:Public Aid and General Assistance
Social Security and Supplemental Security Income
Unemployment compensation
Veteran’s benefits
Worker’s compensation
Disability benefits
401(k) plans and other retirement benefits
Life insurance proceeds
Pensions
College savings funds or medical savings accounts
Earned income credits from your taxes

, Most exemptions are based on the amount of your disposable income. You should, therefore, determine your disposable income before you apply the exemption. To calculate your disposable income:Begin with your gross wages
Subtract any mandatory deductions, like child support, FICA, or federal withholding taxes
Do not subtract any voluntary deductions, like 401K contributions or union dues
The final amount is your disposable income.
 Under Florida law, a creditor cannot garnish more than 25 percent of your disposable income or the amount by which your disposable income exceeds 30 times the federal minimum wage, whichever is less.


In other words, if your disposable income is less than 30 times the federal minimum wage, your wages cannot be garnished at all.As much as 50 percent of your wages can be garnished to pay child support. For up to 12 weeks, as much as 60 percent of your wages can be garnished to cover child support arrears.There are special rules for garnishments based on unpaid taxes. The amount that can be garnished will depend on your location, filing status, number of dependents, and potentially other items.
Student loan garnishments cannot be higher than 15 percent of your disposable income.
The total amount of your income garnished cannot be greater than 25 percent. Thus, if 15 percent of your wages already are being garnished when you receive a garnishment order from a creditor, your employer can only pay 10 percent of your wages to satisfy that order., Florida law exempts your wages from being garnished if you provide more than half of the support for a child or other dependent.You are only eligible for the head of household exemption if your wages are $750 per week or less.Even if your wages exceed $750 per week, you still should file an affidavit if you provide more than half of a dependent's support. The creditor will only be able to garnish the amount of your wages that exceeds $750 per week.Thus, if you make $800 per week, the creditor would only be able to garnish $50 of your wages per week.
The exemption is not automatic. Instead, you must file an affidavit with the court after receiving notification of the creditor's request to garnish your wages.If the head of household exemption applies, a creditor can only garnish your wages if you agree to the garnishment in writing.Florida uses a broad definition of dependent that includes virtually anyone for whom you are providing half of their support. This covers not just children but also other adult family members or even a former spouse to whom you are paying alimony., The paper you received notifying you of the wage garnishment includes the deadline by which you must file your claim of exemption.


The creditor is required to send you a notice within five business days of the date the writ of garnishment was issued by the court allowing the creditor to garnish your wages.Under Florida law, you must file your claim of exemption within 20 days of receiving the notice., The Florida courts make exemption forms online, or you can get paper copies at the clerk of court's office or your local legal aid office.The required form packet includes a claim form and an affidavit, both of which you must fill out and file with the court.Your form packet also may include instructions for filling out the forms. Make sure you read the instructions carefully before you start filling out your forms., The exemption forms require you to provide information about the garnishment and the reasons your wages are exempt.


Both your claim form and your affidavit must be signed in the presence of a notary public.If you don't know how to find a notary, contact the clerk of court. Courthouses typically offer notary services, and some banks provide notary services free of charge to their customers.
Once you've completed and signed your forms, make two copies of them. One will be for your own records and the other will be for the creditor. The originals you will need to file with the court., You must file your exemption forms with the clerk of the same court that issued the writ of garnishment.


You also may be able to mail these forms to the clerk rather than taking a trip down to the courthouse yourself. If you mail the forms, consider using certified mail with returned receipt requested so you know when the forms are received.However, if you're coming close to the deadline to file your claim of exemption, you may want to take them to the clerk's office yourself to make sure they are received in time.
 The creditor must have legal notice that you've filed a claim of exemption in response to the garnishment.


Typically the creditor will be represented by an attorney, which means your claim forms must be sent to the attorney's office. The attorney's name and address should be included on your notice.Although you can get the sheriff's department or a private process serving company to serve your claim forms on the creditor, the easiest way to accomplish this is to mail the copies to the creditor's attorney using certified mail with returned receipt requested., After you've filed your claim of exemption, the creditor has a specified period of time to respond to your claim.


If your claim was mailed, the creditor has 14 days to respond. If your claim was hand-delivered, the creditor has 8 days to respond.If the creditor does not respond to your claim of exemption, the court will automatically cancel the garnishment and no hearing will be required.The creditor may respond to your claim and deny under oath the facts contained in your claim and affidavit. If this happens, the court will hold a hearing., You must appear before a judge to explain why your wages are exempt from garnishment.


The only issue at the hearing will be whether you are in fact the head of your household, as you claimed in your forms. You won't have the opportunity to dispute the validity of the debt or the judgment itself.
Bring documents along with you to court that prove the statements you made in your affidavit. You will need to show these to the judge.
If the judge finds that you do qualify for a head of household exemption, the creditor cannot garnish your wages. However, this doesn't mean that the debt goes away – it simply means the creditor must pursue other methods of having the judgment enforced.