


Depending on your card, your cash advance limit may be the same as your total credit limit available or a much smaller amount.
When you take out a cash advance you are usually charged a one time fee and a very high interest rate that is higher than your interest rate on basic purchases. If at all possible, it may make more financial sense to avoid taking out cash advances.
 In fact, many times your credit card company will send them to you unsolicited, so you may not even need to request them. These will arrive in the mail and they look very similar to a personal check, with your information, including your account information, on them.


If you're sent cash advance checks without asking for them, remember that you are under no obligation to use these checks, but you should always shred or otherwise destroy them. They have your personal and account information on them and could be used to commit identity theft or fraudulent charges on your account.
When you request the cash-advance check it might arrive blank and then you will need to fill it out or the card issuer might also ask you to specify the amount of each check and who it should be made out to over the phone.
Sometimes credit card companies send cash advance checks that have a low promotional rates that have the same interest rates as your regular credit purchases. Be sure to use these if you really need to take out a cash advance and you have them available., If you want cash, simply make it payable to "cash" and sign it as usual.


Cash advance checks can also be used to pay for non-cash transactions, such as paying rent, basically anything you would use a personal check for. The only difference is that these checks are drawing money from your credit line, instead of your checking account., Give your check to the teller and, if it is approved and the money isn't held for a few days while the check clears, tell the teller what denominations you would like your cash in. The teller will give you the money and you will be all done!


Some banks may hold cash advance checks for a short time before they release the funds. If you need your cash quickly, you may want to call the bank or credit union you are planning on going to before hand to see if this will occur.

