 A "mock-up" is basically a sketch of the entire comic book, page by page. They don't have to be detailed as the bigger issues layout. Instead, figure out how many frames or lines of dialogue fit on each page, where do you want any "special pages" (like full-page frames), and will the format of each page be identical or change depending on mood? This is where you start merging the words to the pictures -- so have some fun.


If you're not artistically inclined, you don't need to worry about hiring an artist just yet. Instead, just focus on the basics. Even stick figures can get the point across and help your visualize the final book.
While this is "only" a mock-up, you still must take it seriously. This will be your blueprint for the final project, so treat it like a sketch for a painting and not some throwaway practice run.
 Other timelines will need to be made for each character, so you know what their life has been so far, where it is going, etc. These will help you keep the pages and stories straight, visualizing where each character needs to be at each portion of the book.
 Keep in mind pacing, so if your main character has just discovered the bones of a monster in her backyard, the reader gets to have a nice big picture to look at and take their time viewing.
 Remember that dialogue is actually seen in a comic book, so it literally needs to fit in each box. Try not to jam too much at once.


That said, some comic books choose to let the dialogue balloons spill into other frames, creating a somewhat looser, chaotic feel.
For longer monologues or speeches, consider connecting the speech bubbles together from frame to frame. The same person is giving the same speech, just with different action underneath.
 Many professionals will use two pages, one for the script and one for the pictures. Remember, the trick of comic books is your balance between words and visuals, and this is easiest to see side-by-side. You can tick off each caption and frame as you work.


For example, the script might go: "Spiderman is swinging down the streets and spots 2 police cars chasing a yellow sports car. caption1: Hmm it's strangely quiet today... caption 2: Uh Oh.. guess I spoke too soon!" Then on the other page would be the picture of Spiderman swinging down the street and the two blank caption spaces.
 If you've been diligent about clean professional work, you might be able to turn the mock-up itself into the book. Otherwise, get to work on the actual thing, using your mock-up as the guide. Sketching, inking, and coloring a comic book is a serious undertaking. But it is also a ton of fun.


If you're getting an outside artists, send them the script and ask for samples. This helps you see if their visual style is right for you.
Illustrating a comic book is a topic worth it's own tutorial, as it is a challenging and exiting art form.

