 For some people with paraphrenia, their delusions may be worsened by environmental factors. They may think they are hearing voices because the neighbor’s voice is floating through the walls, or they may hear their neighbors talking and believe they are talking about them. Once you are aware of the specifics of your loved one’s delusions, you can help make any modifications to their living environment that may trigger or exacerbate their delusions.For example, if your loved one believes people are living in the walls, you can remove mirrors from around the house so they cannot see their reflection.
If they hear voices, then playing music may help block their auditory delusions.
 People with paraphrenia may try drastic measures to get rid of the delusions. They may want to move to another home if the delusions are related to the neighbors. They may even avoid using their heater in the winter despite the cold. Help your loved one see that these drastic measures are unnecessary because they are only reacting to their delusions.You may need to stay with the person to help them through the psychotic episode, or your loved one may need to be admitted to the hospital.
People can suffer from command hallucinations — auditory hallucinations in which a voice tells or commands them to do something or act a certain way — that can be harmful or cloud the person's judgement. Discuss how to handle these hallucinations with the person's healthcare provider.
 One way to help your loved one if they are suffering from hallucinations is to distract them. This may help to get their mind focused on something other than their delusions. These distractions can be activities with family, other seniors, or hobbies. Try to find things your loved one is interested in so they will be more likely to participate.


You may try helping your loved one find a hobby, such as knitting, reading, or crafts.
You may want to help create an activity schedule for your loved one so they have one activity planned each day. This helps keep them active, social, and distracted. Being alone and inactive too much can encourage delusions and worsen symptoms of depression or anxiety.
 Since your loved one has paraphrenia, they will have odd and elaborate delusions. This may happen when you are with your loved one, or your loved one may tell you about a delusion when you see them the next time. Respond empathetically in a clam, kind, and controlled manner.


You should neither agree with the delusion nor directly challenge it. Instead, try to validate their feelings. For instance, if the person is hearing voices, don't say "Yes, I hear them, too," or "There's nothing there. You're hallucinating." Instead, try something like, "I don't hear those voices, but I can see that it's really upsetting you."Don’t get angry or annoyed at your loved one — remember that delusions are due to illness, not stubbornness or stupidity., Since your loved one has paraphrenia, they will more than likely have a psychotic episode while you are with them. Most psychotic episodes occur because a person stops taking their medication. When you notice the signs of a psychotic episode, you should call your loved one’s doctor immediately. The warning signs vary depending on the person’s paraphrenia, but common warning signs may include:Isolating themselves
Increased insomnia
An increase in paranoia, delusions, or hallucinations
Disinterest in personal hygiene
An increase in hostility toward you or others
Unexplained disappearances
Confusing or unintelligible speech
Lack of judgement or impulsive behavior

, You should have a plan in place for psychotic episodes so you can help your loved one if one occurs. A psychotic episode is happening when your loved on has a sudden delusion or hallucination so severe that they detach from reality. The delusion may cause your loved one to be a threat to their personal or others’ well-being.Contact your loved one’s doctor or emergency services. Your loved one may need to be hospitalized. Make sure you know which hospital your loved one needs to go to.
Eliminate any triggers, such as television, music, or anything with loud noises.
Speak to your loved one in a calm voice to help diffuse the tension.
Refrain from reasoning with them since they have broken with reality.
 Being diagnosed late in life with paraphrenia is not easy for your loved one. Your loved one may feel depressed or confused. They may also want to give up and think they would be better off dead. If your loved one feels this way, make sure they know that you love them and that you are there for them. Help them realize they are not alone.Even when in the middle of a delusion, you should treat your loved one with compassion, understanding, and love.
Help your loved one feel safe with you. Listen to what your loved one has to say and really hear what they’re saying. This will help your loved one feel like they can come to you when they need help.
Remember, since paraphrenia is diagnosed later in life, your loved one may not know how to need someone to help take care of them or how to adapt to living with a mental illness.
 Because paraphrenia occurs in older or elderly people, you may feel the urge to treat your loved one like a child or an invalid. You may want to do everything for them to make it easier on them or because you don’t think they can do it themselves. This is not healthy for your loved one. Despite the paraphrenia, they can still live a normal, healthy life. Help your loved one do things for themselves while you are together.


This causes less stress for you because you do not have to be responsible for every detail of your loved one’s life.

