 Typically in a screenplay, the master scene heading (also known as a slug line) is the series of words which broadly identify the content which follows. For instance, scene headings might read “INT. OFFICE - DAY” (interior office during the day). This helps orient the screenplay’s reader to the scene.Scene headings should, as in the aforementioned example, be in all caps, two lines down from the last line of dialogue or description in the previous scene.
 A macro is a sequence of saved commands which can be executed immediately by assigning them to a single keystroke. To prepare your macro, set your margins. Format page margins by clicking on the Layout tab, then Margins, then Custom Margins. The top, bottom and right margins should be set at 1". The left margin should be set to 1.5". Set font to Courier New, 12 point. These choices are standard in screenplays. If you’d like to work with a different layout, set your margins accordingly.


In Word 2007, prepare to record the macro by setting your margins. Format page margins by clicking on the Page Layout tab, then set the margins and font to the designations listed above. Then open the Developer tab. Display the Developer tab by opening the office button (the top left button), Word Options (at the bottom), under Popular check Show Developer tab in the Ribbon., Type a name for the macro. Since this macro is for setting up scenes, assigning the name “Scene heading” to this macro is a logical choice. Ensure you’ve selected “All documents” at the bottom of the drop-down menu reading “Store macro in.”


In Word 2007, click Record Macro. This button is located on the left side of the developer tab.Store the macro in Document 1 (instead of Normal, so that you can save it as a distinct screenplay template). Name the macro 'Scene' or 'Heading'. Click the keyboard icon to assign the macro to a keyboard shortcut. You can then press the keyboard button you wish to assign to the macro. For example, perhaps you want to bind F2 to your macro. In the “Press New Shortcut Key” box, press F2 to bind it. Click Assign, then Close.
 Then assign the macro to F2 (or whatever button you want to assign it to) using the “Press New Shortcut Key” clickable box. Click “Assign” or press Enter, then click “Close.”

, Press Enter on your keyboard twice to skip two lines. Go back into Page Layout tab (Layout tab in Word 2007)and change both indentations back to 0. Open the Home tab. Click on the bottom right corner of the Font section to open the dialog box. Then in the Effects section, check All Caps and click OK.
 Click the View tab again. Click Macros > Stop Recording. F2 (your shortcut key) will now skip two lines down the page and capitalize text, preparing you to enter a scene heading.


In Word 2007, go back to the Developer tab. Click Stop Recording. F2 (your shortcut key) will now skip two lines down and capitalize the text.

