 Mattresses range from classic firm or plush options to higher-tech mechanically-operated beds with remote controls. Do some research on these commonly available options:


Basic firm or plush mattresses. Basic mattresses are made from a variety of materials and are sold at every price range. Mattresses made with organic or natural fibers tend to be more expensive. You'll be able to choose from extra firm, firm, plush, and extra plush mattresses, depending on how soft or hard you like your bed to be.
Memory foam mattresses. These mattresses are made from a material that molds to the shape of your body when you lie down, and holds that shape while you are sleeping. These are a good option for people who don't tend to move around a lot during the night. They retain body heat, so you may not want to go with memory foam if you tend to get hot while you sleep.
Sleep number mattresses. These mattresses can be made harder or softer with the touch of a button. They are usually divided into different zones, so that your partner's side can have a different level of firmness than yours.
Look into brand names, but don't be too biased. Sometimes brand names are better, but that doesn't mean you should overlook cheaper non-brand makes. A well-known name does not imply quality, though often times there is good reason for such a reputation. The important thing is to test mattresses in person and figure out what feels best for your own body.
Understand that a high coil count doesn't necessarily translate into a higher-quality mattress. Mattresses with interlocking coils have coils that lock together. Mattresses with independent coils have a larger number of coils and are better for light sleepers, because they won't fluctuate as much with movement--especially when your partner shifts or gets out of bed.;
, Take the following elements into consideration:


Are you a side, back, or stomach sleeper? Some mattresses are designed to accommodate specific sleeping positions.
Do you have mobility issues? Some mattresses are designed to make getting in and out of bed easier.
Measure yourself and your sleeping partner. For most couples, a queen size bed will be large enough. If you are more than six feet tall, a king-size mattress may be a better choice. For a slender and tall mattress, go with the California king size.
 Some mattresses cost many thousands of dollars, and others are under $500. Knowing exactly how much you're willing to spend before going to the store can eliminate confusion and prevent you from being talked into buying a mattress that's out of your price range.


The average market price for a solid mattress and box-frame set hovers around $800, with the costs of a quality bed ranging upwards of over $1500. If you can find a deal under your maximum price, go for it.
Mattress stores sell a lot of extras, like mattress covers, pillow tops, bed frames, and other items you don't necessarily need. Know exactly what you're willing to buy before stepping into the store. Your mattress will work just as well without accessories, so don't buy them unless you want to.

