 Before the season starts, ensure that you are up to date on all transfer news and pre-season player performance. Selecting the right in-form mid-price player at the start of the season may make all the difference by the end of the season.;
, This includes transfers, injuries and which players are on form. If you know which players are playing, and playing well, you can instantly gain an advantage over other players who may be left with players in their teams who are simply warming the bench.
 This refers to both price and teams. Teams: Selecting your FPL team from a range of teams ensures you are well covered in the event that one side does particularly well or badly in any given weekend. Price: Ensure that the selection of 1-3 high price players is not at the expense of the rest of your team. It is important that not only 1-3 players are relied upon to score all of your points. If there is an injury, or if the players form drops, it can hurt your points in a big way.
 While it is important to try to cover most big teams in attack / defense, you can reap large returns if you know what games lay ahead and plan your team appropriately. It is possible to pick out teams with good chances of clean sheets or goals and bring those players in without too many points hits for transfers. This is made easier by websites that provide a statistical rating of fixture difficulty.
 The defenders and goalkeepers get points for keeping clean sheets, but it is too much of a gamble to have two players from one team (unless both are very cheap, keep regular clean sheets or you have identified a team with a particularly ‘easy’ run of fixtures). For this reason you should spread the defenders and goalkeepers across a variety of teams who keep cleans sheets, which ultimately should meet the points haul is consistent.
 While the majority of points in the defense are scored via clean sheets and great defensive contributions, attacking defenders will provide much greater returns for value. Look for defenders that play more of an attacking game. These are typically those that play right / left back and attack up the flank.
 Make sure you have one good attacking player for each big team; this means that if any team scores a large number of goals in a match you have one player who is bound to have gained you good points for goals and assists.
 It is often the case that players are played out of position on an extended basis. These players may offer excellent returns if they are played in a more attacking role than others in a similar position. A defender playing as a mid-fielder or mid-fielder playing as a forward will generally provide far greater points returns than the comparative players in that position.
 The better websites will give you a statistical analysis of player performance, form and value for money. In addition to the valuable advice they provide, the comments sections are a great opportunity to test your plans and have other experienced players evaluate your team for personalized advice.
 But it can be an indicator. If a particular player’s price is increasing it may be an indicator that they are in-form or have a great run of fixtures. To stay ahead of these trends, you can follow websites which update on a daily basis. That being said, price may be deceptive. Players with a high price tag may not necessarily give the best returns. Stay on the alert for low-mid range players that score regularly and provide the differential on other teams. In this regard it is important to maintain the research effort you put in to start with.

