 If you're visually impaired, consider having a bright, goose-neck lamp next to you while you paint your nails. The bright light can make painting your nails easier to see, making a different when you apply the nail polish. You may want to set up the lamp on a table and paint your nails there so the lamp can hold itself. , Scrub your nails with a pumice stone or soft scrubbing brush, warm water, and soap. Every week you should scrub your nails with lemon juice to keep them white and healthy. Having clean nails makes it easier to polish them.

You may want to clean your nails right before you apply the nail polish. Try washing your nails thoroughly with soap and warm water. Using an orange stick can also help clean your fingertips. , Have your nail polish color out ahead of time so you'll be prepared to apply it on your nails. If you're using multiple colors on your nails, prepare both colors and leave them in a spot where you won't lose them, until you're ready to begin applying your nails with nail polish.
 Allow the nail polish to stay cool by placing it for several hours in the fridge. Using slightly cool nail polish makes it less complicated to apply it on your nails, because you're able to feel the coolness on your fingertips. You're less likely to avoid applying the polish on your nails if you allow it to chill in the fridge for a couple hours before using. , A nail polish pen is similar to a felt pen and is a lot easier than normal nail polish brush. The pen is simple to grasp and can prevent you from accidentally brushing on your skin. You may also find a nail polish pen easier to use when adding designs and decorations on your nails, if desired. These pens come in different colors so you may wish to use it instead of a normal bottle of nail polish.
 Prepare your area with plenty of newspapers to prevent any furniture from getting stained with nail polish. Sometimes accidents do happen when you apply nail polish, so leaving a few sheets of newspaper on your surface will keep the furniture protected and safe. , File, trim, and push the cuticle down gently using cuticle cream and a manicure tool. Preparing and cleaning your nails will make them easier to brush and apply polish, as the nails are smoother and cleaner. Consider buffing your nails before applying the nail polish for a glossy look, if desired. , Ensure you hold on to the nail polish brush well. Hold the nail enamel brush with your middle finger, holding onto the handle of the brush between your thumb and index finger. Doing this technique will allow you to grasp the brush easily, allowing you to apply the nail polish on your nails with ease. , Brush the polish using smooth strokes from the base of the nail to the tip. Try to reach the corners as best as you can, but refrain from over-applying. Using a nail bed protector with an open cover will ensure you only brush your nail rather than your skin. While you apply the polish, use one hand for applying the nail polish and the other hand to feel you skin so you don't mistakenly paint the your fingers. Try only applying three large strokes onto each nail, making one stroke in the middle of the nail and the other two strokes on the left and right of the nail. , It takes usually about 5-15 minutes for nail polish to dry, but an hour for it to completely dry. You may want to read your nail polish's package instructions for the exact time. Usually if the polish does not feel sticky when lightly touched with your finger, the nail polish has dried.
 Gently run around the skin area of your nail, applying nail polish remover with a Q-tip or a cotton ball. You may also find it easy to use a nail polish corrector pen which you can find in many drug stores. 