 Notice if he has been making long phone calls at strange times of night or receiving text messages from other girls. He may also have new phone etiquette where he needs privacy or space when talking to someone, he hangs up as soon as you walk into the room or he brushes you off when you ask him who he is talking to on the phone.If you can get your hands on his cell phone bill (on paper or online), you can look at every call made for that month, which will give you a chance to check for any long conversations at odd times, or lots of calls to one particular number that you don’t recognize.You can also try to check his phone messages and voicemail, though this may be an easy way to get caught snooping around. A good time to check his phone is when he is in the shower or out for a walk and has placed it on the charger.If your boyfriend tends to misplace his phone, another thing you can do is simply take it and let him assume he lost it. This way you can see who is calling or texting him on a daily basis.
 Be wary if his computer activity becomes sneaky or secret and if he gets defensive or distant if you use his computer or ask to see what he is looking at on his screen.This may be a sign he is trying to limit your access to his computer and hiding something on his hard drive or browser history.
Try to get access to the computer when he is out and check the hard drive for hidden folders with images of other girls or partners, as well as love notes. See How to Find Hidden Files and Folders in Windows for how to do this.
 This could be his email, Facebook, Instagram, and instant messaging accounts. Many times, cheaters use the Internet to carry on their sneaky business, especially if they are worried about you checking their phone or monitoring their calls.


Some cheating partners may be using cheating websites like meet2cheat or ihookup. Search the computer’s browser history to see if he has visited any of these cheating sites.
Some cheaters may also create different Facebook profiles to then find other people online to message or meet up with and have an affair. So check if he bookmarked or viewed any Facebook profiles or pages multiple times.You can also search for your spouse’s hidden online profiles using a service like Spokeo or Rapleaf.There are websites that set out to expose “liars, cheats, and bastards” by posting stories about cheating men as warnings to others about a bad spouse., Consider where he would hide personal items or things he doesn’t want you to see.


Examine any physical evidence of cheating closely to make sure you are not misinterpreting a note or item that may have sentimental, rather than romantic value. Just because he kept his ex girlfriend’s picture or his first love’s note doesn’t necessarily mean he is cheating on you.
It’s important to get solid evidence of his cheating before you confront him, so look at any notes, gifts, or photographs with a discerning eye.