 A key component to overcoming any ailment, keeping your body hydrated is essential for overcoming a cough. Drinking plenty of water will help to thin the mucus trapped in your chest cavity and at the back of your throat, making it easier to cough up. Drink cups of water hourly in addition to other fluids such as tea and juice.
 A primary protein in dairy creates mucus in the body, which worsens a wet cough. Stay away from all dairy products including milk, cheese, yogurt, and ice cream until your cough goes away.
 This is a type of medication that breaks up mucus in the body and helps you to cough up the excess phlegm. Look for over-the-counter expectorants in your local drugstore or ask your doctor for a prescription medication to do the trick. These can be taken daily or before bed to help make breathing a bit easier and coughing more productive., As potent as raw garlic may be, it works wonders on killing the bacteria that worsens mucus and at clearing out the back of your throat. Eat 4-6 cloves of raw garlic a day, starting in the morning, and allow this natural antiseptic to work wonders on reducing the mucus and proceeding coughing your body is producing.
 This little seed works by increasing the flow of mucus at the back of your throat, making your coughs more productive. Grind up a teaspoon of the seeds and add them to a cup of hot water. Allow the brew to steep for fifteen minutes before straining and drinking. The whole cup needn’t be consumed at once; you can drink a few ounces of the mixture throughout the day for the same results.
 This herb is an antispasmodic and helps to ease the coughing reflex, while the tea works to break up the mucus clogging your throat. Mix a tablespoon of thyme with a cup of hot water and allow the mixture to steep for a few minutes. Strain out the thyme and add some honey to taste.
 Salt water isn’t necessarily the most flavorful drink of choice, but gargling with it will help break down mucus in your throat. Mix a teaspoon of salt with 4 ounces of water and gargle with the mixture. Do this once an hour daily to get rid of your wet cough fast.
 Whole black pepper kernels are one of natures best wet cough killers. Suck on a few of the kernels by themselves if you can stand the taste, or make a syrupy mixture of black pepper and honey. Add a teaspoon of black peppercorns and a tablespoon of honey to a cup of hot water. Let the tea steep for fifteen minutes before drinking. The pepper will increase circulation in your throat and clear out annoying mucus clogging your airways., Lemon juice helps to break up mucus and ease your wet cough. Suck on some lemon drop candies or lozenges, or make lemon tea with honey. Eating and drinking lemon juice throughout the day will make coughing easier and more comfortable.
 Real licorice whips or licorice supplements work as antispasmodics to lessen coughing in addition to loosening up phlegm. Eat licorice candy (made with “licorice mass,” rather than aniseed ) or take licorice supplements daily to help your wet cough to go away., Dirty air can make a cough, wet or dry, significantly worse. Stay away from smoke, pollen, dust, cleaner and chemical fumes, and any known allergens to help your cough out. If necessary, use an air purifier or keep your windows open to allow a fresh flow of air into your home at all times. If you smoke, it is also beneficial that you avoid smoking for at least the duration of your illness, if not longer., This spice works to kill bacteria that cause mucus and relax your throat from constant coughing. Make a syrup with turmeric by adding a pinch of the powder with a tablespoon of honey. Take this throughout the day to help your cough to dissipate naturally.
 Don’t mind its strong taste - ginger is one of the best natural cures for a wet or dry cough available. Eat raw ginger throughout the day if you can manage, or grate the root into a cup of hot water with a bit of honey to create a tea. You could even eat some candied ginger if you preferred.