 If your home has leaky pipes, get them fixed. Clean up spills and leaks immediately.Empty and wipe out refrigerator drip pans regularly.


If water seeps into your basement during rainstorms or if your home was damaged by a flood, consult a home inspector to help you figure out how to minimize the possibility of mold.
Check your gutters to ensure they are unobstructed, and direct the drainage flow away from your home.
If you notice liquid in the bottom of your trash can, rinse it out and let it dry before putting a new trash bag in it.;
, Invest in a commercial bleach solution to clean your tile floors. Mold can thrive in the grout between tiles, so take care to thoroughly clean between each tile.


Wet paper can quickly attract mold. Discard water-damaged books, newspapers, and documents where mold spores can take root. Get rid of excess books and documents if you doubt you’ll use or read them again.
Clothes and bedding should also be evaluated regularly for mold. Rubber foam and polyurethane foam – common on bedding – tends to develop mold. If you have bedding that incorporates these materials, cover them with plastic or consider replacing them.
 A dehumidifier reduces the level of moisture in the air, which deters mold growth. A drier environment may reduce mold allergy symptoms.


More than 50% will dramatically increase the likelihood of mold growing in your home.
Drain the dehumidifier and clean the condensation coils regularly according to manufacturer directions., A HEPA (high-efficiency particulate air) filter in your air conditioner will help catch any mold particles that other filters may allow to enter your home.Mold particles and spores can be filtered away from your ventilation system by using proper filters and changing them regularly.


Do not use a filtering device that involves heat, ions, or ozone to filter the air. Ozone, in excessive quantities, acts as a respiratory irritant and can be harmful to humans. Heated and ionic filtration have been shown to be less effective than HEPA filters within air conditioners., Turn the fan on when taking a shower, make sure the vent is clear, and reduce the amount of steam that collects in your bathroom. The more moisture your shower holds, the greater your chances of mold growing on shower tile, grout, ceilings and floors.


Even propping the door open when you shower or opening a window afterward can help significantly.
Open the windows in other rooms of your house as well. Excessively tight window and door seals could trap moisture and inhibit ventilation.
In dry or mild weather, open the door of your home if you have a screen door. The breeze will keep the air circulating and reduce the chances of mold taking root.

