 Organizing your emails means finally making a decision about all of those emails you’ve been unwilling or unable to act on. To make this process simple, give yourself only two options: file or delete. You’ll need a method of criteria to determine which emails you will save and which you’ll ultimately delete. Keeping in mind your primary goal will help with this.


If your primary goal is to have an empty inbox each evening, you’ll need to create file folders that correspond with your important emails and you’ll need to be open to deleting a lot of emails.
To develop your criteria ask yourself this: Have you already taken action on the email? Is there any important information in the email that you need to keep for your records? How old is the email? Is the email still relevant somehow?
Generally, most emails older than 30 days should be tossed.Exceptions would be emails with critical information, such as correspondence between you and a supervisor or receipts. Most emails dated within the past 30 days may be kept because you still may need to act on these newer emails; or they may contain relevant information you need to keep.;
, The process of creating a library of folders will be unique to your email provider. However, there is a general way to create folders that can easily be applied to any email provider, such as Gmail, Hotmail, Yahoo! Mail, Outlook and iCloud.


Once logged in to your email account, look along the top of your inbox or along the panel on the left side for an option to add a new folder. You may have to click a “Folders” tab to open up a dropdown menu or scroll down along the left-side panel to find this option. Once you find and click the option to add a new folder, a new window will appear allowing you to type in the name of your new folder. When you’ve named your folder, press “Enter” or click “Create” or “Add,” to finalize your new folder.
If you have years’ worth of emails, first create sweep folders to jumpstart and simplify your organizing efforts. Sweep folders allow you to “sweep away” large batches of emails at once. It makes more sense to do this by categorizing your emails by time. Create new folders and label them by year, quarter or month, whichever works best for you. You don’t need a folder for the current time period because your inbox will act as that folder.For the emails you currently receive and wish to save, create folders to arrange them into separate categories. If you’re organizing your personal email, your general categories could be: Monthly bills, Children’s school or daycare, Deals, and Important. If you’re organizing work email, some suggested folders are: Meetings, Accounts, Invoices, Customer Service, and Important. If your emails are difficult to narrow down, simply label a few files: Very Important, Important, and Not Very Important.
 You can create folders within folders. This may be necessary if you receive tons of emails that can’t be adequately organized into basic categories. For example, if your personal email has a folder labeled Receipts, you may need a sub-folder to separate school-related expenses, household expenses, and entertainment receipts. The process for creating a sub-folder should not be much different from creating a folder. Repeat the process of adding a new folder, but look for an option to place the folder within an already existing folder.
 Once your new folders have been created, they should appear in the “Folders” panel located on the left side of your inbox or under the “Folders” tab along the top of your inbox. Locate their placement, so that once you tag or file your emails, you’ll know where to find them. You can navigate between your inbox and folders by clicking “Inbox” to view items in your inbox and then clicking a folder name to access that particular folder.
 Before beginning the process of clearing out your inbox, sweep away a bulk of your “old” emails to narrow the focus of your organizational efforts to your current emails.


To isolate emails by date, you’ll need to perform an advanced search of your inbox. Look near the right edge of the search bar for a down arrow and click it.
If your email program is Outlook, you will likely have to put your cursor in the box by clicking the search box. Now look for a link that specifies “advanced search” or “search options.” Click it to select your search options.
Locate the option to search by date and fill in the date range you’d prefer. You can choose to isolate emails within a certain date range, before or after a certain date, or emails sent on a particular day.
The emails left in your inbox will be the primary focus of your organization efforts today. You will eventually tackle older emails following the same methods detailed here, but to make this a simple and quick process we’ll focus on current emails. Some older emails may get deleted or moved to a folder if they come up in search results during the clearing out process.
 This will keep many of the emails you soon delete from returning. Notifications and/or from sites like Facebook, Twitter, and Google+ are candidates for this, as well as promotions from stores you no longer visit.


To unsubscribe from an email, open the email by clicking on it. Scroll to the bottom and look for a row of links that are gray colored and underlined.
Click the “Unsubscribe” link. The link will open a new page, which will either notify you that your request has been granted or require you to take additional steps to confirm your intention to unsubscribe.
 Spam messages are essentially junk mail, unsolicited messages that people send out to coerce you to give them your personal information or get you to click on a link that may upload malware onto your computer. If some of these messages made it into your inbox, it’s important to weed them out.


If you find an email in your inbox that you think is clearly spam, click “Report spam” at the top of the page instead of trying to unsubscribe. This will move the email automatically into your spam folder. Do a quick search by typing in the sender’s email address to see if any other spam messages made it into your inbox and need to be reported.
Emails identified or reported as spam are placed in a separate folder labeled Spam or Junk. To clear out your entire spam folder select all of the messages, either by clicking the checkbox above the first email or clicking a link that says “Check all,” then click “Delete.” Depending on your email provider you may also see a link that says “Delete all messages.”

, Typically anything over 30 days that you haven’t done anything with and/or doesn’t have any important information you need can be deleted. This may be somewhat time-consuming because you’ll have to sift through your inbox slowly and get rid of the emails individually that meet this criteria. However, you can do this quickly and simply by deleting several related emails at once.


You can isolate several emails at once by typing the name of the sender in the search bar. Look near the right edge of the search bar for a drop-down button and click it. If your email program is Outlook, you will likely have to put your cursor in the box, as if you going to type something, by clicking the search box.
Click the link for “advanced search” options to specify your search method. Select the option to search by sender only. For best results, copy and paste the sender’s email address. This will isolate emails that are an exact match.
Depending on which email program you use, click the option to select all, and then click “delete.”
This isolation method will work well to delete the emails from senders you’ve unsubscribed from.
 Emails you may want to hold on to, include unread messages you’ve yet to take action on, promotional emails you enjoy receiving, records of recent purchases, or correspondence about a significant matter. Knowing where each message should go shouldn’t be difficult since you’ve already created your new folders.


The process of moving a message from your inbox to a folder is not the same for all email providers, but this same basic process can apply to most.
Select the message you’d like to move by either clicking the checkbox next to it or by clicking the message directly.
Then look along the panel on the left side of your inbox, or along the ribbon at the top of your inbox; you should see a tab for “Folders” or a tab that says “Move to.” Click it, and then select from the dropdown box the name of the folder you’d like send the message to.
 Moving emails to new folders one by one can be a daunting task. You can simplify the process by isolating several related emails to send to a folder at once.


If you’ve received several emails from the same sender, you can type the sender’s name in the search box to show only those particular emails. If you want to move all of your emailed receipts to a particular folder, do a general search for the word “receipt” to show all of the messages containing that term. Or if you want to save promotional emails from your favorite store, type the name of the store into the search box, and click search.
Once the related messages are separated from the rest of your inbox, you can click the checkbox or link to “Select all,” click the tab “Move to,” and then click on the name of the folder you’d like the messages to occupy.
If you can’t isolate related emails in a search, scroll through your inbox and select the related emails individually. Click on the checkbox of each message to select it. If there is no checkbox next to the message, click on the first message you’d like to select in order to highlight it. To select additional messages, click on them while simultaneously holding down the Control button (if you’re on a Windows computer) or the Command button (if you’re on a Mac).
 If you’ve filed away emails you’ve already handled but needed to keep, and deleted emails that were no longer important, you should be left with emails that are less than 30 days old and still deserve a response or action on your part. If your goal for organizing your inbox is to have an empty inbox, go ahead and respond or act on those emails, and then file or delete them. If you’re fine with having emails left in your inbox, let the emails sit. But make sure you respond to them in a timely manner, which should be within 30 days of their receipt.
 If you struggle to keep up with your messages from several email addresses, merging those email addresses could be the best option for you. You won’t have to update accounts with the new address or tell friends, family or clients about the change. While you’ll no longer log in to the old email address, it will still be active, and your messages will simply be routed to the address you’d prefer to use.Most email providers will allow you to add up to five separate email accounts. If you have more than five, you can have emails from your old email address forwarded to the preferred address.
This basic process for consolidating separate email addresses can be applied to most email providers. Click “Settings,” click “Accounts,” then click “Add Account.” Type in the email address you’d like to consolidate to your account, and then click “Next.”
Your email provider will process your information and then automatically fill in the remaining information it needs. Type in your password, and then click “Next” or “Add” to connect your email address.
If it’s successful, you’re all done. If not, you may be asked to try again following the instructions on the screen, or you might have to try to manually connect your email address.
Unfortunately, iCloud mail does not allow for you to consolidate 3rd party email addresses.
 Keeping your inbox orderly can easily becoming a time-consuming process if your inbox fills up quickly. Creating filters for incoming messages will automate organizing efforts, helping you to maintain an organized inbox and freeing up your time for more important tasks. The process for setting up filters or rules will differ depending on which email provider you use.
 A smaller window will appear, allowing you to enter the specific search criteria for the email you want to filter.


Let’s say you want to filter notifications from Netflix, type “Netflix” or copy and paste Netflix’s email address in the corresponding box. Then select the action(s) you want the filter to take. Do you want Gmail to automatically archive and label your messages from Netflix? If so, select “Skip the Inbox (Archive it)” and “Apply the label. Then click the “Create filter” button.
You can also filter particular emails by accessing the email directly. Continuing with Netflix emails as an example, select an old Netflix email, click “More,” and then click “Filter messages like these.” The filter criteria window will open again, allowing you to fill in the appropriate information.
 You can create rules to automatically send incoming emails to a particular folder or to perform an action, like deleting certain messages.


To create a new rule, open the Microsoft Outlook program, click the “File” tab, and then click “Manage Rules & Alerts.” A Rules Wizard window will appear to guide you in creating your new rule.
Select the conditions you want the email to meet in order for the rule to apply, or the actions you want Outlook to take towards the email, then click “Create Rule” when you’re finished.
 To create a filter in Yahoo Mail, select “Options” from the toolbar above, and then click “Mail options.” Under the “Filters” category, click the “Add” button to create a new filter.


You can label the filter by typing what you’d prefer in the box for "Filter Name," then enter the desired sender’s e-mail address under "Sender: Contains.” Do not check the "Sender match case" box, which would make Yahoo Mail generally apply the filter.
You can select (or create, if needed) the folder you want the message to be automatically sent to by selecting “Then deliver the e-mail to the following folder.” When you’re finished, click “Save.”

,


To create a new rule, select “Mail,” then “Preferences,” and then “Rules.” Click “Add Rule, and then create a name for the rule. Select whether one or all of the conditions must be met for the rule to be applied to the message. Choose the conditions you want the rule to have, then specify the actions you want iCloud to take on messages that meet those conditions.
Add additional actions by clicking “Add” or the plus sign (+). To apply rules to messages, select the message, click “Message,” and then click “Apply Rules.”

, You may have already set up systems to route emails to archive, file, or delete certain emails, but you still have to take action on archived or filed messages or messages that may not fit the filters or rules you’ve created.Determine to maintain your primary goal. If your goal was to have an empty inbox or at least see the bottom of your inbox, try to each achieve it weekly.
Pick a day each week to go through your inbox and clean it out.
Take action immediately. If an email is time-sensitive or urgent, it goes without saying that it deserves your response and attention quickly. Make it a habit to treat non-time-sensitive emails the same. Either immediately respond or take action, or plan to within the next day or two.
Quickly rid yourself of emails that don’t require action. Set a time each day to do an overview of your new messages. Delete those that are unimportant or that don’t require a response.
Choose one day a week to file away emails that need to be kept. This depends on how many emails you receive daily. If things can get out of hand within a few days, then you may want to make it a habit at the end of each day to file emails.
 There are several email apps and online tools available to help you maintain an organized inbox. If you feel you need more automated help, perform a search online for an app or tool that’s compatible with your email provider and/or smartphone.

