 These are more expensive than regular nail polishes. Brands like OPI, Essie, and Revlon make nail polishes with a matte finish.
If you can't find these, Sally Hansen offers a matte topcoat that you can use over regular polish to achieve this look.
Try shopping at a beauty store like Ulta or Sephora to find the most variety in colors and brands in matte nail polish.
 This will even out the surface and shape your nails for the best look. 








Hold the nail file at a 45 degree angle as you shape the top edge of your nails.
Mirror the shape of your cuticles for a natural curved shape to your nails.
Buff the surface of your nails to get rid of any imperfects and to even out the surface.
Any ridges or dents in your nail will show when you put matte polish on them.
 Wipe this over your entire nail.








Push this into the cuticle area and side walls of the nail.
This will remove any dirt and debris that are on the nail.
This also will remove natural oils from your nail that can serve as barrier for polish to stick.
Let your nails dry. This should only take a couple of seconds.
 Many nail polishes have a bottom coat built in. 








Check the label of your nail polish to see if this is the case.
If not, apply a thin bottom coat to each nail.
Do your dominant hand with your non-dominant hand, starting at the pinky and working towards the thumb. This allows you to paint your nails without risk of touching and smudging.
 Start by wiping off any excess polish on the brush off on the lip of the nail polish bottle.








Place the brush close to the cuticle, then push back further without touching the skin.
Paint each nail in three strokes: one in the middle, one on each side.
Leave a small gap around the edges of your nail for a professional finish.
 Dip a Q-tip into nail polish remover.








Correct any mistakes, wiping the wetted Q-tip over any messy areas.
Give your nails a last look to make sure you have cleaned up all mistakes.
Let the polish dry for at least 2 minutes.
 If you are using matte nail paint, you might not need a topcoat.








If you are using regular nail polish, try a matte top coat such as Sally Hansen.
Apply this in the same way you did the color.
Let the topcoat dry completely.
Don't blow on the nail polish or flap your hands. Allow the polish to dry with your hands flat and fingers spread out.

