 If you’ve been friends for a long time, it might be hard to see that the egomaniac isn’t really an exciting, larger than life personality. (S)he is just obsessed with themself. Egomaniacs can often be the life of the party, so many people are, at least initially, drawn to them.


If your friend isn’t interested in you, or never gives you a chance to talk, it might be time for a change.
 Let the know that their behavior is hurting you and that you’d like to make some space in the relationship for your needs and feelings. You might say, “I care about you and our friendship, but I feel like we spend a lot of time talking about your feelings. I would like to share some of my experiences with you, but I’ll need you to listen.”There is a range of egotistical personalities, some more fixable than others, so pointing out a friend’s bad behavior might fix the problem.
 You are not required to maintain friendships that are detrimental to your happiness and well being. If the relationship seems truly toxic, cut ties and try not to feel guilty.
 Narcissism in intimate relationships can be especially difficult. Egomaniacs lack empathy, so a romantic partner can feel unloved and lonely.


Think about what needs you are fulfilling by partnering with an egoist. Often, it is a lack of self-worth or co-dependency.Review your own childhood. A narcissistic parent might have trained you to deny your own needs in favor of someone else.
Take control of the situation by respecting yourself and working on your own sense of self-esteem.Do some activities that you are interested in, whether it's reading, gardening, or watching your favorite movie. Remember that you matter, too.
When your partner begins another self-centered outburst, calmly say something like, "I understand that that you are really excited about your idea, but I've been listening to you talk for a while. I'd like you listen to some things that I have to share." Or, "It makes me feel like you don't care about me when you talk over me and ignore the things that I say. I need you to listen more."
Approach your partner as an equal, not a superior.Couples counseling might be a good option.
 Some egoism amounts to selfishness or arrogance, which is annoying and obnoxious. But a small number of people are extreme in their narcissism and actually have a personality disorder (called narcissistic personality disorder, NPD).


True narcissism can be part of an overall abusive personality. It’s important to recognize this for what it is and get help., An egomaniac affects everyone around them, particularly within a household. Spouses suffer, and children grow up feeling inadequate, and often end up narcissistic themselves.


Counseling might be appropriate when an egotistical parent is wreaking havoc on the self-worth of the rest of the family. While it may be difficult to get the offender onto the therapist’s couch, other family members can get help.
Work to establish healthy boundaries for yourself and your children.
Don’t expect the egomaniac to change without professional help, so set realistic expectations.
Offer sincere positive recognition when appropriate. Focus on the characteristics that you truly admire.