 Security vans are generated as random events and will appear whenever you drive by one of the nine locations they typically spawn in. The time of day doesn’t matter, so try visiting one of the locations below:


Globe Oil Gas Station, Cypress Flats (north of the Ammu-nation), Little Seoul (near the Asian strip mall), Little Seoul (outside the Lucky Plucker), Paleto Bay Market, San Andreas Ave, the man-made canals in the center of Los Santos, El Rancho Blvd., and the Del Perro ramp.
The security vans will appear as a light blue dot on the minimap when you drive by these areas. Now, depending on whether the van’s is parked or on the move, you can either kill its guards or take down its back door, respectively.;
, If the van is parked, you’re in luck as this is the easiest way to get the money since can just rob it before the guards drive away. If it’s on the move, proceed to the next step.


Approach the two guards and gun them down (aim using the L2 button (PS3), LT button (Xbox 360), or Right click (PC); and shoot using R2 button (PS3), RT button (Xbox 360), or Left click (PC).
The guards are armed, so be sure to take them out as quickly as possible. Once you have killed the two guards, one of them will drop a briefcase and you will get a level-two wanted level.
 This method of getting money is arguably more difficult, as it involves accurate shooting while driving. If you encounter a security van while on the highway, get directly behind it. The vehicle is bulletproof and can take quite a few hits before the back doors open.


You can shoot while driving by holding down the L1 button (PS3), LB button (Xbox 360), or left click (PC). Try to aim at the back tires of the truck if you want to force the driver to pull over, or simply shoot at the doors and they will eventually swing open, causing the money to fall out.
Shooting at a moving security van will automatically yield you a wanted level of two stars, so be wary of nearby police attempting to stop you.
 After your vehicle has reached a stop, exit it and look on your minimap for the bright blue dot, which represents the location of the brief case. Walk over it to pick it up.
 Once you’ve successfully killed the van’s guards or open its back door, you’ll find a blue dot on your mini map; this is the money briefcase. Simply approach the dot and walk over the briefcase to pick it up.
 The police will be there soon, so re-enter the vehicle you were driving before and get away. Get in your vehicle (Triangle button for PS3, Y button for Xbox 360, or F key for PC) and scram. You can accelerate by holding down the R2 button (PS3), RT button (Xbox 360), or W key (PC), and steer by using the toggle stick (PS3 and Xbox 360), or directional arrow keys (PC).
 The police will register on your minimap as red and blue flashing dots. Their field of vision is displayed as a blue triangle in front of their vehicles. If you enter an officer’s field of vision while being pursued and continue to flee, another star will be added to your wanted level, making it harder to escape.
 Keep an eye on your minimap, and avoid the police at all costs. Make sure to take back roads and drive through the mountains whenever possible. Once you have successfully escaped the police, the stars in the top right-hand corner of the screen will disappear.

