 This will be the main part of the costume that you will layer the other pieces over. It’s okay if the robe has pockets, because you can cover the pockets up later with another fabric.
 If you can find a wide scarf or shawl, that will work. You could also use a long tube top or a short strapless dress. Otherwise you can purchase some dark blue fabric.


The piece should be able to wrap completely around you from front to back, and span from your bust to your thighs. Try the piece on or hold it up to you to make sure it will be long and wide enough.If the piece is loose fabric or a scarf, have someone help you pin it closed on the back when you put your costume on. Alternately, you can apply Velcro to the piece so that you can put it on yourself.
 If you’re buying fabric, make sure you have enough to wrap around your waist at least once. This should go around the smallest part of your waist. You should also ensure that you have a little bit left over so that you can use it for your hairstyle.
 Ideally, the purple scarf will be a light, sheer lavender fabric. It should be long enough to hold in the crooks of your arms like a shawl. You can buy a simple green beaded necklace or make your own.


You can make your own necklace using craft supplies and the following tutorial: https://family.disney.com/craft/mulans-jade-necklace/


, You can use a fake magnolia blossom, cherry blossom, or similar artificial flower from a craft store. Cut the stem down with wire cutters so that there is a just a few inches of stem. Stick the flower in the side of your topknot by the stem. Then wrap your extra piece of red fabric around your topknot and the stem of the flower.If you’ve cut the stem with wire cutters, you may want to bend the cut tip or file it a bit so it doesn’t poke into your head.
Secure it all in place with clips or bobby pins.
 Mulan wears round gold earrings with dangling teardrop beads. You can look for similar earrings online or at a local store that carries costume jewelry. eBay is a great place to find unique, vintage, and even clip-on earring styles., When Mulan wears her hanfu look to visit the Matchmaker, she has dark purple eyeshadow. Her cheeks have pink blush. She also wears a dark berry-colored lipstick.

