 Get some background knowledge and research. Look up princesses on the web, read other WikiHow articles on them, or read some books.;
, Search through everything that comes up, and save anything that inspires you to a file on your computer.
 Which styles did you like best? This is how you know where to start with your new style. Once you have a basic understanding of the concept, then you can start to add your own flair.
 Now that you have researched and gotten inspired, the real fun begins.
 Long is usually best. Go for big, wavy, princess-y curls... with a twist! Add in a couple tiny braids here and there, or even a streak of color. You could even make your hair a totally unique version of your favorite princess's hairstyle.
 Start with your basic foundation, concealer, powder for a base. Add a little bit of blush if you want a sweeter look. Smear on heavy black liner. You can never have too much eyeliner! Add a couple tons of lengthening mascara, and finish off with a dash of a light, pale lip balm or gloss.
 Find a style that you love and roll with it! The only rule to being an artistic princess is: NO RULES. That means no looking like a vanilla, goody-two-shoes prep. If you like polos and Lacoste, by all means, go for it- just layer it with an unraveling black cardigan, tight miniskirt, and crazy tights. Make sure you own some sweet boots, like Doc Martens, and at least one pair rockin' heels. Wear skinny jeans and skirts, a lot of dark or gray colors, and awesome jewelry. Neon is great in small doses. Always look like you don't try- like you just roll out of bed or offstage. Maybe do a grunge look everyday! Mix the princess style with your own, funky, artistic style.
 There's a rainbow of colors out there- choose one! Go wild if you're feeling daring, or if your outfit is rockin' enough, a gentle, ladylike pink is great juxtaposition. Glitter is always an option.
 Seriously! Have you ever heard of any princess with a messy room? Have different 'zones-' so that your room is like a mini-apartment:


A reading nook with a TV/stereo, bookshelf, and comfy chair is always awesome.
A beautiful, antique desk with a nice lamp is great for studying.
A dresser vanity with a mirror, along with a full-length mirror (or two). Have tons of your beauty products spilled out over your dresser top, along with your jewelry, for a cool boho effect.
And of course, a comfy bed, made up with tons of warm, fuzzy blankets and pillows.
 Now that you have all of your new duds, you need to organize them efficiently so you can actually see what pieces you have and flaunt them! Set it up like a little boutique- tank tops here, sweaters there, arrange your T-shirts by color, etc.
 A great, studded handbag in a cool print is perfect. Even a cool backpack will do for something like a concert, sleepover, or the beach!

, You want to be artistic? Go out there and do it! Paint, sketch, take photos, write stories, start a video blog, knit, make movies, embroider your clothes- whatever you love, as long as it's creative!

, Be nice to your friends, and people you're just meeting. But seriously, if you go to school with a lot of ignorant,annoying, mean people- you can be mean right back at them! Be tough, and don't care about what other people think. You're a strong, independent woman- are you going to let anyone push you around?

, Make art. Love your art. Be proud of it. Always be creative- don't lose sight of what you love to do!

