 To manage ants outside and keep them from congregating near your house, get rid of potential food sources such as ripened fruit from fruit trees or any plants infested with aphids.Ants are attracted to plants with aphids because the aphids leave behind a sweet substance called honeydew on the plants, which ants love., Ants nest and forage in plants, grass, and mulch, so keep these materials at least a foot away from the foundation of your home., Trimming trees and bushes around your house will prevent ants from dropping from overhanging branches or accessing your house as easily., Gutters that are clogged and filled with leaves, dirt, and other debris make a nice cozy home for an ant colony. Cleaning your gutters will help keep ants from establishing colonies in these locations., Certain types of ants such as carpenter ants are attracted to decaying wood, and they can cause significant structural damage if they establish a presence. Getting rid of any wood that is water damaged, rotting, or decaying is a good step to control ants outside your home.Keep firewood or other wood away from your house in the event that carpenter ants or ants attracted to decaying wood decide to make it their home. Storing the wood off the ground will also help protect it from ants.
Using pressure-treated wood will also help prevent decay and deter ants.
Don’t forget to remove stumps and fallen limbs on your property.
 To reduce the risk of an ant infestation, you should also repair any leaky pipes and roofs as soon as possible. Quickly replace wood that becomes waterlogged and rotted such as windowsills, door jambs, or decks., One of the most effective ways to control ants outside your home and prevent them from entering your house is to locate and eliminate the nest.Look for mounds or ant hills in your yard and around the perimeter of your home.
Ants also like to build nests under wood, stones, pavement, mulch, and gravel.
You can find many types of outdoor insecticides and ant bait at home-improvement stores. These are often in liquid or granule form, and you apply the product directly to the nest. Since these products are poisonous, be sure to follow the directions carefully, and do not use these methods indoors or around pets and children.
If you’re looking for a homemade option that is less toxic, try pouring soapy, boiling water on the nest.