 The symptoms can range from irritating to incredibly painful, but UTIs will often heal on their own even if left untreated. One study showed that 71% of women who didn't treat their UTIs reported improvement within just one week.Don't ignore frequent UTI, though, as they could result in a far more dangerous kidney infection if left untreated.;
, Antioxidants protect the body's cells from various types of damage. They're used to treat a wide variety of medical issues, from cancer and Alzheimer's disease to UTIs.Vegetables and fruits are naturally rich in antioxidants, but seek out specific foods, such as blueberries, raspberries, currants, blackberries, squash and bell peppers.
 Though it's uncomfortable, urinating often will help the infection heal more quickly.
 In fact, for every cell in your body, there are ten microbial organisms in your body! Your gut produces healthy, natural bacteria that help your body to perform some tasks — from digesting food and supporting your immune system to helping your brain function properly.When you don't have a healthy "gut flora," as experts call it, your body is vulnerable to a variety of health issues ranging from cancer and diabetes to UTIs.


Fermented foods can help maintain a healthy balance in your body. Eat foods such as yogurt, pickles, tempeh, miso, sauerkraut, kefir and kombucha teas.
You can also take probiotic (healthy bacteria) supplements to promote gut health. They've been shown to help prevent recurrent UTIs and are likely useful in preventing UTIs in general.Many yogurt brands now include probiotics, but you can also take probiotics in pill form. Probiotics are measured in units of either "organisms" or "colony forming units" (CFU). Shoot for 5 billion organisms/CFU per day.
 Omega-3 fats are necessary for a healthy immune system that can fight off infection.The best source of omega-3 fats you can find is fish, although you can also buy supplements in pill form at the grocery store.
 Both of these things will encourage your infection to worsen, so avoid them at all costs. Cut coffee, black teas and sodas out of your diet.
 Cranberries are a well-known treatment for UTIs that make it harder for bacteria to thrive. Cranberries both make urine more acidic and introduce a chemical from a class called proanthocyanidins, that makes it harder for bacteria to stick to the bladder and urethra's cells.Although many people use cranberries it to treat UTI, studies suggest that cranberries are better at prevention than treatment.Drink 300-600 mL of cranberry juice daily. The study in question studied Ocean Spray Cranberry Juice cocktail, specifically.Take cranberry capsules (400 mg twice per day)., Lingonberry is a berry in the same family as cranberry. One study suggests that drinking cranberry-lingonberry concentrate reduces the risk of UTIs in women and girls.The subjects in this study drank 7.5 g of cranberry, and 1.7 g of lingonberry concentrates mixed in 50 mL of water daily.
 Though uncommon in general American usage, Native American and European medicine have used it for centuries. Take 250-500 mg of powdered bearberry three times per day.


This might give your urine a greenish-brown tint, but this is not harmful.
Bearberry acts as a diuretic (rids the body of salt and water), so ask your doctor about using it if you're on other medications., In theory, brewer’s yeast “crowds out” the bacteria that causes UTIs, but as of now, there are no reliable clinical trials proving it can treat UTI. Furthermore, brewer's yeast can interact badly with certain types of medications, so talk to your doctor before considering brewer's yeast. Despite the lack of scientific studies, many people take 3g of brewer’s yeast twice per day to treat UTI.


Consult a doctor before taking brewer’s yeast if you're on other medications. It should NOT be taken with a class of medications called MAOIs.MAOIs include the drugs: Selegiline, Phenelzine, Tranylcypromine, Rasagiline, Isocarboxazid, Phenelzine Sulfate, Selegiline hydrochloride, Tranylcypromine sulfate and Rasagiline mesylate

, Take each dose with cranberry juice or water. D-mannose is a type of sugar that, unlike the sugar in sweet foods, actually treats UTIs. Experts think it interferes with how bacteria “stick to” and infect cells.Although nobody's yet studied it in the treatment of UTIs, D-mannose has proven effective at preventing recurrent UTIs.Be aware that D-mannose can cause loose stools and bloating.
 A wide variety of teas and extracts can be used for UTI treatment. The best thing about this method is that you can change up the products — if you get tired of one taste, you can switch to another product. All that matters is that you increase how much of these products you drink on a daily basis. If you buy any of these products in dry form, mix one teaspoon with a cup of hot water to make a tea.


Pipsissewa: take eight to 10 drops in a six-ounce glass of water two to three times per day.
Corn silk: take 400 mg twice per day.
Buchu: take 500 mg twice per day.
Equisetum or Horsetail:Do not take this if you have diabetes. Horsetail can reduce Vitamin B and thiamine levels, so make sure you're taking B-complex vitamins if you use it., Keeping hydrated is the easiest way to prevent a UTI, and it's also important for your overall health.Drink at least six to eight eight-ounce glasses of water every day to help “flush out” your system and prevent UTIs.
 The longer urine is in your bladder; the more bacteria can grow. Women should always wipe toilet paper from front to back, especially after a bowel movement. This prevents bacterial contamination from feces.
 Women, especially, should always urinate after sex to stop bacteria from moving into the urethra.Birth control methods that use spermicide increase the risk of UTIs. However, using non-oral contraceptives without spermicide increases the risk of unwanted pregnancy. A good compromise is to switch to oral contraceptives, intrauterine devices or contraceptive rings, if possible.
 The goal is to keep your genital area as dry as possible. Loose, preferably cotton, pants and underwear let air pass better than nylon underwear or tight jeans.
 However, high-fiber diets will decrease the chances of constipation, which is a common cause of UTIs. Many people prevent UTIs by eating diets full of beans, lentils, whole grains and root vegetables.
 The vagina's natural secretions should “wash away” any abnormal odors you might worry about. More importantly, these sprays, washes, wipes and deodorants often use harmful chemicals in their pleasant fragrances.They often cause skin reactions and hormone problems.Douching washes away normal, healthy vaginal bacteria and actually increases the risk of UTIs. Douching also affects the acid-alkaline balance of the vagina, causing dryness and irritation.Douching is also linked to increased risk of vaginal infections, sexually transmitted infections and infertility.