 Healthy hair requires nutrients, and this means eating a diet that provides your body with all the vitamins, minerals, and other nutrients it needs to maintain health.Eat fruits and vegetables of all colors every day, drink water when you’re thirsty, eat lots of whole grains, beans, and legumes, and replace fried and sugar-filled foods with freshly prepared meals that you make yourself. And pay special attention to foods that are rich in: Vitamin C, which helps your body produce the collagen that’s necessary for healthy hair. Try dark kiwis, berries, citrus fruits, and papayas.
Iron, which promotes hair growth. Iron-rich foods include dark leafy greens, dried fruit, and fortified cereals.
Biotin, a B-vitamin that helps make hair stronger and grow faster, which can be found in nuts, carrots, and onions.;
, A stomach that doesn’t have enough gastric acid can’t properly break down nutrients, which means your body won’t be able to absorb them or nourish your hair properly.You can help promote healthy levels of gastric acid by eating slowly and chewing your food thoroughly, eating fermented vegetables, and drinking a cup of water mixed with one to two teaspoons of apple cider vinegar 20 minutes before meals. Talk to your doctor or healthcare practitioner if you suspect you might have hypochlorhydria, which is low stomach acid. Symptoms include:Upset stomach after eating meat
Gassiness and bloating after eating
Frequent acid reflux after eating

, Stress has been linked to certain types of hair loss, so managing stress may help stimulate or return your hair growth to normal. Along with affecting your hair, stress is also bad for the rest of your body and your overall wellbeing, so to help you relax, practice:Laughing and staying positive
Meditating and deep breathing
Taking time for yourself every day
Self-calming techniques, which can involve warm baths, quiet music, or stretching routines

, Not only is proper fitness good for your whole body, but it will also help you relax, and it promotes circulation, which can help stimulate hair growth by bringing more nutrients to your hair follicles., Wash your hair with mild shampoo or soap every two to three days. This will keep your hair clean, free of excessive oil, and prevent oil from making your hair heavy. Apply conditioner to help protect your hair from external factors like pollutants.While many people recommend brushing your hair frequently, this won’t actually stimulate growth. In fact, brushing too often can damage your hair, so don’t over-brush.
Use a paddle brush with ball tips or a wide-toothed comb to brush your hair., Although poor circulation doesn’t lead to hair loss, increased circulation may help to promote growth.Massaging your scalp will stimulate circulation, and this will help bring more nutrients to your hair follicles.Before bed, massage oil or essential oils, such as rosemary, lavender, or jojoba,into your scalp for 10 to 20 minutes.


By extension, some people believe that daily inversion, or hanging upside down, will also stimulate hair growth by increasing blood flow to the head. Inversion poses include things like headstands and downward dog., While it’s a common misconception that trimming your hair will make it grow faster, healthy hair will look longer and fuller. Split ends and damage can make your hair look unhealthy and thin, so get a trim every eight to 12 months., Extreme heat from curling irons, straighteners, and blow dryers can damage your hair and make it look thinner. Treat your hair with an oil or heat-resistant serum before using these devices, and always hold the blow dryer six to 10 inches from your hair. Invest in devices that have heat dials that you can adjust, and lower the temperature, especially if you have thin hair., Hair loss, thinning or brittle hair, or other sudden changes to your hair can be a sign that there’s something else going on with your body. These issues can be symptoms of diabetes, psoriasis, hormone imbalances, and hypothyroidism. Talk to your doctor if you experience:Thickening dandruff
Scaly patches on your scalp
Rapidly thinning hair
Hair that suddenly becomes brittle

