 This is the first step to having a safe nursery. Hold training classes for nursery workers and hold a test at the end. Screen and interview all workers and helpers. Train workers in:


CPR
First Aid
Child Development
Child Safety
Rules and Policies
Child Behavior
Child Care (feeding, diapering, holding, sleeping, calming, toileting);
, Have parents fill out information cards when they drop there child off. Have the information include:


the child's name
the child's age
the child's allergies and medical conditions
the parent's name
the parent's location or phone number
an emergency contact
requests
sign in and out times
parent's signature

, Place a name tag on each child when they come in. Have the child's information on the name tag, too.
 This step is very important because some nurseries can't care for a newborn. You probably don't want a six year old playing with the twelve month old. Decide on an age. Normally four is the oldest age. You can decide on the youngest ages depending on  workers and the number of children that come each week.
 All toys should NOT be able to fit inside a toilet paper tube. If any toy, or parts of the toy can fit through it, do not use.
 Have the professionals come in yearly to make sure that your furniture is still safe. If the furniture is not, get rid of the piece of furniture and buy a new piece. It is best to replace all furniture every three years.
 Make sure all edges are not sharp. Make sure that it is strong and durable.
 Have an escape plan and how-to instructions on what to do in a fire posted on the wall next to the emergency numbers and fire extinguisher. Have fire drills each week. If possible, have the nursery be close to fire exits. Have windows in entrance doors. Label exits clearly.
 Cover them with child safe electric outlet covers.
 Make sure that you can still exit quickly in a fire, though.
 Don't keep blankets, pillows, toys, stuffed animals (unless the child brought one and is over 12 months). Make sure that a soda can can't pass through the space between the mattress and the crib. Have all mattresses down as low as they can go. Make sure that crib sheets are on tightly. If a child is over 35 inches (88.9 cm) tall, do not use a crib.
 Strap children in with a safety strap. Never leave a child's side.


Make sure that the child can not reach the wipes, cream, ointment, gloves, bags, or lotion. Dispose of diapers properly immediately after changing the diaper.
 Never leave a pail or container of water within a child's reach. A child could drown in the water.
 Do not let children handle them. Don't keep them within a child's reach.
 Never use any glass or breakable items with children. Other objects to keep locked up include knives, scissors, sharp objects, small items that can be choked on, plastic bags, tools, chemical cleaners, and anything else that presents a possible hazard to the children.
 Install window guards. Don't place furniture that a child can climb on, stools, or cribs by windows. Make sure that windows are easily accessible in a fire. Tie window blind cords up. Do the same to window curtains.
 Put a child proof lock on the door to the bathroom. Monitor children in the bathroom. If possible, have everything in the bathroom be child-sized. If not, keep a step stool in the bathroom but, only take it out when an adult is around. Keep hazardous objects up and put away. Make sure that stools and toilet seats are safe and durable.
 Always lay infants down on their backs. Support infants' heads if they are under six months. Do not let little children carry the infants around.
 Provide safe activities that teach to stay away from hot items, to not touch sharp items, to stay away from poisonous items (see below), to not put anything in your mouth except food, to stay in the nursery until your parents come, to follow instructions in a fire or weather related disaster. This should be done with children one and over.
 Place a sticker that stands for poisonous on any poisonous items. See the last eight items in seventeen and vitamins, medicines, cosmetics, cleaners, detergent, shoe polish, and perfume. Have poisonous items in a locked and out of reach cabinet from children.
 1 adult to 3 children under 24 months, 1 adult to 4 children 24 to 30 months, 1 adult to 5 children 31 to 35 months, 1 adult to 7 children that are three years old and over.
 Make sure that at least two more volunteers than you would normally need are trained and ready to help each week.
 This prevents choking.
 Make sure that everything is safe each week.
 Have tornado drills or other weather drills depending on your town. If you live in a high-risk tornado town, have these once a month. If you live in a town where they are only likely during certain times of the year, have them then. If you are likely to have an earthquake, have these drills monthly.
