 First, make a slipknot by looping the yarn around your index and middle finger twice Then, pull one loop through the other and tighten the loop by pulling the tail gently as yu slide the loop off your finger and onto the hook. Slide this loop onto your hook and then make a chain of four stitches.Use a slipstitch to join the first and last stitches in the chain and make a circle. To slipstitch, insert the hook into the first stitch in the chain with the last stitch you made still on the hook. Then, yarn over and pull through both loops.;
, Chain one stitch to start the petal and then do four triple crochet stitches into the center of the chain circle to form the first petal. Repeat the triple crochet stitch three more times for a total of four stitches.To triple crochet, loop the yarn around the hook twice. Then, insert the hook into the center of the circle and loop the yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the center of the circle, and the yarn over again. Pull the yarn through the first two stitches on the hook. Then, yarn over again and pull through the next two stitches on the hook. Finally, yarn over again and pull through the remaining stitches on the hook to complete a triple crochet stitch., To return to the center and give the petal a slightly curved shape, insert the hook into the center of the circle, yarn over and then pull through the first loop. Then, yarn over again and pull through both loops on the hook to complete the single crochet stitch.To single crochet, insert your hook into the center of the circle and yarn over. Pull this yarn through the loop on the hook to form a new loop. Then, loop the yarn over again and pull it through both of the loops., Start the next petal by chaining one and then make four triple crochet stitches and single crochet into the center. Keep repeating this sequence until you have made a total of five petals.After you do the last single crochet stitch into the center, you can cut the yarn a few inches from the last stitch and pull through to secure it. Tie it into a second knot and preserve the tail to weave in later.
 The easiest way to create a wide variety of crocheted flowers is to use different colors of yarn. Choose three or more colors to use for the flowers in your flower garland.


For example, you could use three different shades of pink, or three totally different colors, such as red, yellow, and blue.
 If you want to add some variety in the types of flowers in your garland, you can also try making some more advanced flowers. Some of the more advanced flowers you can try include:


Pansies
Roses
Cone shaped flowers

, Adding roses to your crocheted flower garland can also add some variety. Try using some green yarn to create small simple leaves to crochet next to and in between your flowers., Make a chain that is 24 or more links long to accommodate all of your flowers. You can space out the flowers as much or as little as you like. Make sure that the chain will be long enough for the amount of flowers you have made.


Count your flowers and decide how much space you want to go in between each of them to decide how long your chain should be. For example, if you have 10 flowers and you want to have five spaces between each of them, then make a chain of 55. This will allow you to place one flower every five stitches and still have five stitches on the end.
Try using green yarn to give the chain a vine-like effect., Begin to single crochet along your garland until you reach the first spot where you want to connect a flower. Then, insert the hook through the chain first and then through the part of the flower you want to connect to the garland, such as through the edge of one of the petals. Loop the yarn over, and then pull it through the flower and the chain to secure it.


Continue to single crochet along the garland until you reach the next spot where you want to attach a flower.
If desired, you may single crochet through two stitches in the petal to ensure that it is secure or that the flower will hang a certain way., When you have connected all of your flowers and reached the end of the garland, you can cut the yarn and secure it with a knot. Pull the last loop out and then cut it in the center. This will leave a tail that you can tie into the stitch to keep it secure.

