 The best wire to use would be jewelry-making wire, but you could use floral wire as well. Use the thinnest wire you can find.;
, You get really creative here. You can bend it to the shape of your nail. You can also bend short pieces to fit your cuticle area or tip for a twist on the French manicure.
 Flush wire cutters have a flat side and a concave side. Make sure that you are cutting with the flat side of the cutters facing your design. This will give you a nice, smooth edge.








Having a smooth edge is important. If it's not smooth, then your design can get caught on your clothing and hair., The tip of the rest of the wire will now have a jagged edge. This needs to go. Cut the tip of the wire off with your flush wire cutters. Make sure that the flat side of the wire cutters is facing the spool. Discard the stub, and bend the wire into your next desired shape.
 You can make a new shape for each nail, or you can make a shape for accent nails (ie: the ring finger). Remember to trim both ends of your wire design so that the ends of the wire are smooth.


Consider cutting and making squiggles to fill in the negative spaces in your manicure.
 Wash your hands with soap and water afterwards, then dry them off. This will give you a nice, blank canvas to work on.
 Trim, file, and buff your nails to a shape that you like. Push back your cuticles, then apply some cuticle oil or moisturizer.
 Brush it over your nails to remove any traces of oil or moisturizer. It is important that you do this, or the polish may not stick.
 This is not absolutely necessary, but it would be a great idea for those who are new to doing manicures or who don't have a steady hand. It will make clean up easier.









I you used glue, be sure to let it dry before moving on to the next step.
 This is a must, even if you plan on using clear polish for a bare effect. It will help the polish stick to your nails longer and protect your nails against stains.
 You can use a clear nail polish or a colored one. For an interesting effect, consider using matte nail polish in black or white. This will contrast against the shine of the wire and give you a nice effect.








For best results, use gel polish., Do not let this coat dry. The polish needs to be wet in order for the wires to stick. At this point, it might be a good idea to work only 1 to 2 nails at a time so that the polish doesn't dry out too quickly.
 Place them lightly over the wet nail polish. Try to get the placement right the first time. If you need to, nudge them into place with the tip of your tweezers. Once you are happy with the placement, lightly press the wires into the polish with the tweezers.
 If you used gel polish, then you will need to set it under a UV light., If you used matte nail polish, however, you might want to skip this step. Using matte top coat would only dull the wire, and using regular top coat would take the matte-ness away!








, Use a thin brush dipped in nail polish remover to clean off any excess nail polish. If you applied glue to your cuticle area earlier, peel it away. If you applied petroleum jelly, wipe it off with a q-tip. Your new manicure is ready to go!








