 Remember that your muscles may not be receiving messages from the brain, and even if they are, they may be too deteriorated to follow commands anyway. Allow your spine to sway this way and that. Keep your shoulders slouched.Keep your arms down. Discard the outdated pose of a zombie walking around with its arms held out straight in front of it. Stick to poses and movements that are unique to zombies, rather than those shared with mummies, vampires, Frankensteins, etc.Forget that you even have arms until you need to use them. Let your arms hang by your sides when not in use.;
, Avoid even steps. Also avoid creating a pattern out of your uneven steps. Make your steps awkward and erratic.


Imagine you’re learning how to walk. Watch an infant take its first steps. Notice how jerky and hesitant its movements are. Mimic that uncertainty.
 Trip yourself up. Think of the act of walking as a team sport, with your brain as the coach and each thigh, knee, calf, ankle, and foot as individual players. Now imagine that those players have no idea what their positions are, how to work together, or even how to play the game, and so they’re constantly getting in each other’s way.
 When you’re lumbering around aimlessly, think of yourself as a boat adrift in open currents and let them take you where they may; for instance, if the ground under your feet is sloping downhill, follow the easy path and let gravity take you downhill, too. If you’re trying to get from Point A to Point B, move with purpose, but also with a lack of direction, so that you have to constantly readjust your course.
 Whether you’ve been reanimated after a violent death or been attacked by humans since rising from the dead, consider how and where your body may have been damaged beyond repair. Incorporate that injury into your walk; for example, drag your shattered foot behind you with your forward leg bearing the brunt of your weight, or let your dislocated arm hang loosely by your side, weighing your shoulder down.


Be consistent. Remember which leg is limping and which arm is useless. Practice walking with each injury until you can stick to it without having to think about it.
For multiple injuries, practice each one separately until you nail it. Then combine them, one at a time, and practice them together until they feel natural.
 When you go after a human, lead with your mouth. Think of the distance that commands have to travel from your brain to your mouth, arms, and hands respectively. Respond to your brain’s command of “Eat those brains!” with your mouth first, since it’s closest. Freak your prey out with a more animal-like attack.