 If you are in survival mode, you may not have as many choices, but you can still build a pretty cool Medieval building out of your average wood and cobblestone. Common blocks for medieval buildings include:


Cobblestone
Spruce planks/ logs
Oak planks/ logs
Spruce leaves
Fences
Redstone lamps (and a redstone power source)
Carpet
Stone
Iron bars
Hay bales
Trap doors
Stairs (jungle stairs and bricks stairs are good for roofs in the Conquest Resource Pack)
Wool of any color;
, Carpet is easy to craft for survival mode, and it adds color to your house. The best colors of carpet for Medieval houses are:


Dark green
White
Red
Cyan

, Dig a hole in the ground where you want the carpet to be. Place signs in a pattern in the hole. Signs can be tilted and placed on angles, so get creative! Then place the carpet on top of the signs by sneaking and right-clicking on top of the sign. You now have a carpet with a fun design!

, Use cobblestone or similar, and darkish wood (logs) (the wood being diagonal one block out from your cobblestone rectangle unlike the current picture). Try to make the frame an irregular cuboid shape, like a large box with a smaller irregular cuboid on top.
, Remember, your avatar is 2 blocks high, so try to make most of the windows 1 blocks higher than the floor (unless you want massive feeling windows), so your avatar can see out of the windows. Windows can be made out of just about any transparent block. Stained/normal glass is common, or iron bars can be used if you want to make sure people take longer breaking in and so that you have that little bit more protection.
 Now, you should have a basic house with a few windows. Not medieval enough? Don't worry! The key parts of the medieval building are the tiny details and decorations, which we will go over in a few minutes.
 This may consist of stairs and slabs, but be careful! A wide house means a wide roof, but if you use stairs for every level of the roof, then this will result in an awkward roof. This can be fixed by having only a few levels of stairs, and then slabs.
 Start by adding doors and a walkway made of cobblestone. Start to furnish it with the following:


Stairs on the corners (upside-down stairs can be placed near the roof or anywhere else on the building)
Trapdoors placed on blank areas
A simple redstone lamp (made using fence posts)
Tiny indentations made with stairs (replace blocks in the wall with stairs facing outwards)

, Every Minecrafter needs a garden or a farm, right? Add a small farm with wheat and a few trees to give your house that "organic" feeling. Maybe even use some bone meal to grow some plants around your house. For even more of an old, medieval-like feeling of being a farmer, construct a mob farm!

, Most medieval knights have horses! Add a small fenced in area with a horse in armor and some hay bales, and maybe even a cauldron filled with water as a water source for the horse.
 Some rooms to think about are listed below. Obviously, these are all optional. You might not have built a very large house, and that's okay! Just pick a few of these rooms:


Basement (if you want to dig an extra hole)
Kitchen
Dining room
Bedroom
Living room

, Add a sink made of a cauldron filled with water, and any other kitchen furnishings.
 Search Google for "Minecraft chairs" and you can find some cool chair ideas too.
 The wall can be nicely decorated with a painting or two.
 The reason you don't want to make a bathroom is because back in the medieval days, people didn't have bathrooms, they had pots. You could put down a flower pot to try to capture that same feeling. Or you can still make a bathroom if you want., You can try using stairs to create indentations in the floor, and carpet wherever it looks best.