 Temperature is one of the environmental factors that can greatly affect the taste of your wine. If it is too cold, you can hardly taste the flavors. If it is too warm, the flavors will not taste sharp and defined.Merlot is best served at 60-65 degrees. You will likely need to take steps to ensure that you reach this temperature.
Although it might seem counter intuitive, you should chill your red wine, including Merlot. Store it at room temperature until near the time you wish to serve your wine.
To achieve the proper temperature, place the bottle in the refrigerator for about 45 minutes. Alternatively, you can place it in an ice bucket filled with half ice and half water for 10 minutes.
When the bottle is the right temperature, it should be slightly cool to the touch. Since most reds are not sold chilled, you will need to chill it at home.;
, If you are going to serve wine, you need to choose the proper glassware. Different wines require different types of glasses. Make sure you choose the right glasses to serve Merlot.When serving any wine, the glass should be plain and clear. Dyed or frosted glasses distort the color, which can be an important indicator of the age and flavor of the wine.
Make sure the glass has a large bowl. You should be able to offer a healthy pour of wine and still have enough room to swirl.
All wine glasses should have stems. This helps to keep your body temperature from affecting the temperature of the wine.
A Merlot glass should have a wide bowl with a slightly tapered mouth. The bowl should be able to easily hold 30 ml of liquid.
 Merlot is a great choice for a dinner party or an impromptu after work drink with a friend. You can easily keep several good bottles on hand. Just give yourself time to open the wine before serving.Merlot, and other wines, need to breathe before serving. This means they need to be opened and exposed to air.
Make sure to allow your Merlot to breathe for at least 20 minutes before serving. This allows the tannins time to soften.
You can let it breathe for up to an hour before serving. Letting Merlot breathe allows the flavors to develop.
 "Decanting" simply means that you are pouring your wine from the bottle into another receptacle. When you decant your Merlot, you are further allowing the wine to aerate and breathe. This can help enhance the flavor of the wine.You can find wine decanters in many shapes and sizes. Choose one that fits your taste and your budget.
Try shopping the housewares section at your favorite department store. Your decanter should be clear, plain glass.
Merlot should be decanted for approximately 2 hours. Make sure to allow yourself time for this process before serving.
 You will need your bottle of wine, the proper glassware, and a wine key. A wine key is a simple type of corkscrew. You have likely seen a server or bartender use a wine key. You can buy them at any liquor store and even most grocery stores.Stand to the right of your guest to pour wine. If you are serving from the bottle, make sure the label is facing your guest.
You can also serve your wine straight from the decanter. If you are having an informal dinner, it is perfectly fine to allow your guests to serve themselves.
Pour 4-5 ounces of wine in each glass. There should still be room to swirl the wine without it sloshing out of the bowl.

