;
, The lens cleaner selected should be compatible with the lens sealer used. Four grits of sandpaper may be used: 320, 600, 1000 and 1500. 320 is the most aggressive. Examine the lenses to determine the severity of damage. Severe damage is noticeable by pits, rough areas or blotchy discoloration as seen in Illustration A. Severe damage will require beginning with 320 to effectively remove all the corrosion. However if corrosion is easily removed by a finer grit you will shorten sanding steps. Your first sanding step is to remove all corrosion. To prevent accidental scuffing of surrounding surfaces masking tape may be applied. Start by sanding with water until all corrosion is removed. Dry lens and examine for any remaining corrosion. Corrosion may still be evident when the lens is dry, as can be seen in Illustration B outlining the corrosion in red. Continue sanding until the lens is smooth and and free of corrosion.The following sanding steps are to smooth the previous sanding scratches. For example, a severely corroded lens will require 320 followed by 600 then 1000, and finally 1500. Lens should be uniform in clarity before moving on to next step. Each step will produce a slightly clearer lens, as shown in the

,, Squeeze a small amount of lens polish onto one side of the lens. Using a soft cloth, rub that area vigorously until the lens shines. Continue until all of the lens becomes clear. Absolute clarity is not needed. Wipe off excess polish. After polishing any areas that may have not been sanded enough with the finer grit sandpaper, it will become evident. If you notice these, you will need to sand these areas with 1500 again and re-polish.
 This step is very important for the application of the lens sealant. Spray plastic cleaner onto lens including edges. Wait 10 seconds and clean lens with towel . Make sure no polish is remaining around edges. Repeat this step. Finally spray on plastic cleaner and lightly rub lens with a prep scuff pad and dry lens. Make sure all edges and surrounding areas are clean and dry.
 Take a 6x10 inch piece of application towel and fold into a flat two inch square. Wear gloves to keep hand clean of sealant. One half of the sealant amount will coat two average size lenses. Saturate one edge of the folded towel and wipe across entire top of lens. Continue wiping from one side to the other, working your way to the bottom of the lens. Keep the edge of your towel saturated as you coat the lens. Lens should be coated with generous amounts of sealant to achieve a wet glossy appearance. Coat lens quickly and avoid excessive wiping. Lines from wiping will self level.

