 Get as much as calcium and as many vitamins from your food as possible. You have to be healthy and in good shape to run. Go easy on the junk food; stick with skim or 2% milk; drink a lot of water; eat a lot of fruits and vegetables. A well balanced diet helps keep you both healthy and fit.;
, As well as running, try other ways to keep fit, such as walking, swimming and cycling. You will get stronger and build up your endurance every day that you exercise.


Participate in sports such as soccer, baseball or basketball. Anything involving a lot of aerobic exercise will help.
 Before you begin any form of exercise or running, always warm up. This will tell your brain that you're about to do some serious exercise, and stretch your muscles so they can reach peak efficiency. A good warm up begins with stretching, and stretching your legs, for running, is most effective.
 Breathe in as deeply as you can through your nose and exhale in a controlled manner through your mouth.


Use your breath to help you pace yourself. For example: Take two short breaths in and two short puffs out. Try to help pace yourself by stopping to relax.
 Your body needs water to survive, and the amount you should be drinking is approximately 8 glasses per day. Before you start your run, have at least one of those glasses, and if you have a water bottle, fill it up and bring it with you for sipping along the way.
 When you're starting your run, just jog. Find your pace, and build up until you've reached your target heart rate. Once you do, you should be able to jog 400 meters easily without getting tired. When you finally do feel winded, slow down to a jog again, until your body feels better. Have a long cool drink of water to refresh, and don't stop until you've reached your goal. Once you can jog without getting tired, then add bit of speed. Don't go too fast.
 Once you get tired, don't let it stop you. However, if at any time you feel exhausted, immediately slow to a power walk. If you feel pain, you know you are over exerting.


Focus on improving your stamina; this will help you to go further.
 It makes you want to dance, right? It's the rhythm that's going to get you running, so use it to your advantage. Find the rhythms and melodies that give you energy, copy them to your iPhone, plug in those earbuds, and get going.


Listen to music with a steady beat to keep you running at a steady pace.
Imagine you're in a film, running to save the world; tune your music to match this and you'll feel great and you'll have so much more fun!

, Tell yourself that you can do this and will accomplish this by the end.


Think about your end goal, imagine the people who you are going to make proud when you complete your target.
Break your run down. If you're running a 10K, break in down into two 5K's, once you've completed one block, think "I only have to do that again".
Remember the good runs, remember how you felt when you had completed them; use this memory to pull you to the finish.
Count down the miles. You've just done one mile? That's one less mile to run now.
 Having company can be excellent motivation and inspiration. You can cheer one another on and compare notes after each run.
 As you are winding down your run, make the last 10-15 minutes a slowdown period, gradually slowing yourself to a walk. When your jogging session is over, do some cool down stretches and exercise. This will help your body not be as fatigued as it otherwise might be.
 Don't run every day or you'll wear yourself out, both physically, and mentally. Take a day off for relaxing, or working on your abs.

