 People get cravings for different reasons and at different times. Some people crave sugar when they see a sugary drink. Others crave sugar at night. Still others get cravings for sugar when they have not eaten enough. Once you figure out the source of your craving, you will be better able to fight it off.;
, If you find that every time you open the kitchen cupboards and see chocolate, you begin to crave it, just throw it out. Removing the presence of sugary foods from your life may be enough to crush your craving., Sometimes, giving your body something it needs when it asks for something it wants is enough to make a craving go away. Every time you start to crave sugary treats, try eating a piece of fruit instead. Fruit has natural sugars that are far healthier than the sugars found in chocolate and candy. So try eating an apple, orange or strawberries instead of a candy bar., If you find that you crave sugary snacks on a nightly basis, try eating dinner a little bit later in the evening. If you are still full from your meal when a craving hits at night, you may be better able to fight it off. , Cravings can become a part of daily activities. Many people find that their craving for sugary snacks hit its peak when they are unwinding at night. If you find that watching T.V. on a nightly basis increases your craving for sugary foods, then replace your television time with a short, but brisk, workout or walk. Your body will thank you for it.Sometimes a small portion of the food you’re craving can meet your need without derailing healthy eating habits. Rather than eating a whole candy bar when you crave chocolate, try addressing your craving with 2 or 3 chocolate chips.
 When you really want something sugary to eat, try chewing a piece of gum. Make sure it is sugarless and calorie-free. This should satisfy your craving for something sweet without all the negative health side-effects associated with eating sugary snacks., To do these, simply tap on emotional acupressure points while repeating a mantra about not wanting sugar.There are many tutorials online that can help you locate the points most relevant to you. This may help shift any mental or physical attractions to those sugary snacks.