 You can draw a line with marker or chalk or make a ring out of string or ribbon. The circle can be as big as you'd like -- generally speaking, 3 - 10 feet (1 - 3.3 m) across. Note: The bigger the circle, the harder it is to win!









Use a flat surface. If it isn't flat, your marbles are going to be rolling wherever they please.
With masking tape (or chalk if outside), put two straight lines on either side of the circle. These will be the lines the players must sit behind when throwing outside of the circle. No cheating!

Have each player throw their marble to the opposite line. Whoever's marble winds up closest to the line goes first when playing the game.

;
, You can do this however you like. A plus sign is fairly standard, but you can also make a circle or just scatter them randomly. Use at least 13 marbles (an odd number to determine the winner).
 They should sit outside of the circle on the first go. With the shooter (the player's special marble) resting in the crook of their index finger, they place their knuckle on the floor (hence the term) and flick the marble out with their thumb.The aim is to hit another marble out of the circle while keeping the shooter in.









The shooter is generally a bit larger than the normal marbles. If you have a favorite shooter, it is known as your "taw." Your favorite marble, on the other hand, is known as an "alley.", And they get to take the marble they knocked out and receive a point. When the go again, they must knuckle down where the shooter landed.









Determine if you literally get to keep the marbles you knock out. If so, this is known as "keepsies." Know the term "playing for keeps?" There you go!

, If the first player didn't knock out a marble, the second player gets their turn. If they knock out the other player's shooter, they don't get a point or to keep the shooter, but the other player does have to shoot from outside the circle (which is much more difficult) on their next turn. It's sort of like an automatic "lose your turn" move.
 Whichever player knocked out the most marbles wins. Ready for another round?









If you find knuckling down to be difficult, you can roll your marble. But practice the knuckling! It's more authentic and keeps the game interesting.

