 The cell phone, PalmPilot, computer, music player and entertainment system will help you achieve that impeccable Massie Block sophistication. Massie has a Motorola phone in the earlier books and upgrades to an iPhone later on. However, it doesn't matter what kind of cell phone you have, as long as it works well and looks cool (try to get a touchscreen or iPhone).


You need a cell phone, so don't text during classes or at inconvenient times like Massie does. Otherwise. your teacher, principal, or parents will most likely take away your phone.
For computers, a laptop works best because it takes up less space than a desktop and is usually less expensive.
 You can also get a cool Mp3 player. The Palm Pilot is something worth the splurge, as popular people are very social and busy. If you are not allowed to get both a Palm Pilot and a cell phone, get a smart phone.


Add Swarovski crystals to your items for a touch of glamour.
 Massie's signature accessory is her charm bracelet - they're timeless, pretty and - depending on the charms you add - you can make it on your own. Buy a chain (Juicy Couture has great starter bracelets) and look for charms that define your personality (ex: a soccer ball if you like soccer). Your signature item can be anything you want if you don't like charm bracelets.


Massie gets her charm bracelet from Tiffany and Co., but if you can't afford it or simply dislike charm bracelets, then don't buy it.
Buy a good watch, bangles, rings, earrings, and plenty of necklaces that you know you'll still wear after your Massie phase.
 Obviously, use your favorite color if it isn't purple, but you should consider re-doing your room to add to the Massie persona. Go to Macy's or Bed Bath & Beyond to get a few of these items. Ordering off PB Teen is a good idea, too. Your room should look be a fabulous reflection of the fabulous you! If you can't get rid of your kiddy bed or can't afford a couch at the moment, smaller items like accent pillows, rugs, curtains, flowers, chairs, a clock and blankets will ice the cake in no time with minimal effort.


Massie's room is completely white with touches of purple! She has white walls, a purple duvet cover on her bed, white sheepskin rugs, a chandelier and candles for lighting, entertainment system, white desk with a bulletin board above it with pictures of her and the clique, white chaise, a sleigh bed (and a smaller one for Bean), and a shelf with horse-riding awards and trophies.
Also, don't forget a mannequin! Massie's is custom made to fit her every year, but you could just purchase one from PB teen. If you can't buy a different one every year, then don't buy one at all - firstly, it's not a necessity. Secondly, your clothes won't fit it anymore so it will just clutter up your bedroom.
 Massie has a huge collection of Glossip Girl lip glosses. She uses a different flavor of gloss every day! Since Glossip Girl doesn't really exist, you should use a nice brand like MAC, Shu Umera, etc. You can also try lip gloss from Victoria's Secret Beauty Rush. It is not very expensive and they have some great deals like 2 for $15 or 5 for $20. They have tons of flavors and usually come on sale around Christmas time. If you cannot afford those brands, try drugstore makeup brands like Maybelline and Cover Girl.


Also, a lot of the lip glosses Massie has in her collection (Red velvet cupcake, cotton candy, and a bunch of other cute stuff) are available at Bath and Body Works, the Liplicious brand. The cupcake collection isn't on the website now, but try amazon.com for red velvet cupcake lipgloss and so on. Bath and Body Works even does special Halloween brands like Treacherous Treats!

, Massie is quite skinny and does all she can to keep her frame fit and trim. If you are a bit overweight and want to drop a few pounds, try eating healthier snacks and exercising. Take up a sport (Massie rides her horse, Brownie, by the way) and eat smaller but more frequent meals. Working out in a gym or on a treadmill is a good way to lose some weight and stay healthy too. You can also go online and watch videos on how to make your body looked toned and fit. Massie does Pilates, yoga, and has multiple exercise DVDs.


When you're bored, and "think" you want a snack, chew gum, it gives your brain the illusion that you're eating something (plus it keeps your mouth fresh).
Don't lose too much weight, and don't, under any circumstances, be as obsessive about your weight as Massie's BFF, Dylan.






Go to your doctor. If he/she says you're at a decent height and weight, then you are! Whether you're trying to lose weight or just trying to maintain that adorable figure of yours, eating healthier and exercising is the best way to go.
Ask your doctor before going on a diet. If people are saying things that makes you uncomfortable about your body, ignore them and stay focused on your mission. Don't deprive yourself of the nutrients you need! This can lead to many health problems, such as anorexia or bulimia, and that is totally not good.
Try not to eat snacks with artificial flavors (Red 40, Blue 1, etc) and always check how much sodium and sugar is in whatever you buy at the grocery store.
Avoid eating those frozen meals that you microwave; they aren't healthy.
It's also a good idea to avoid tons of diet soda. It's been linked to bloating, loss of bone strength and even cancer. 12- 16 oz a week at the most.
 We all know that flawless skin won't happen overnight. You need a good skin care regimen that you stick to. It should consist of cleanser, toner (optional), and moisturizer. To find the right products for you, ask your dermatologist.


It is a good idea to look at products online so you can see the ratings people give the product. Sort the reviews from the most critical to avoid wasting time. The person can give the product only 3 stars just because of the packaging, but if a lot of people give it bad reviews for making them break out or something, then don't get it.
 It doesn't have to be a dog! Cats, rabbits, and guinea pigs are also very cute and are good pets. Pamper your pet like Massie does with Bean, it helps if you talk with your pet to get it to know your voice. Try not to leave your pet alone in a house by itself for a long time, it'll get bored and sad. If you must leave it alone, provide it with food, drink, clean bedding, a clean cage, and some toys.
 Dark circles and bags are NAWT in fashion. Aim for at least 8-9 hours.

