 There is no cure for chikungunya, so you will have to do what you can to support your body's natural healing abilities. One way to support your body's natural healing abilities is to get as much rest as possible.Sleep as much as you can and take it easy during the day.


Make yourself as comfortable as possible with pillows and blankets.
Plan to rest for about two weeks, if not longer.
 Muscle tissue is composed of 75% water.When you have low hydration levels in your body, your muscles can be more susceptible to seizing up, cramping and other discomfort.Chikungunya brings a high fever, which contributes significantly to dehydration, putting your muscles at further risk for cramping.


Drink plenty of water and other fluids to ensure you stay hydrated.
If nausea is present, take small sips at frequent intervals, drinking water, Gatorade or electrolyte mixtures. Make your own electrolyte mixture with six cups of water, one cup of sugar and two teaspoons of salt.
Be sure to monitor for dehydration. Patients with this illness are at risk of becoming dehydrated. It’s likely that the patient needs to be prompted to eat and drink due to lethargy and weakness as well as inability to care for oneself. Diarrhea and vomiting do not predominate in this illness, so these are not likely to be the main causes of dehydration.
If you are dehydrated, you may need intravenous fluids to rehydrate.
 Antipyretics, also known as fever reducers, may help you manage your fever. They can also be used to manage joint pain. Try taking some acetaminophen, ibuprofen, naproxen, or paracetamol to help reduce your fever and joint pain.Make sure that you read and follow the manufacturer's instructions for use. Do not exceed the recommended dosage of any over the counter medicine.
 Holding a heating pad on your joints and other painful areas may bring some temporary relief for your joint pain. Try holding an electric heating pad on your joints for up to 20 minutes at a time. Make sure that you remove the heating pad after 20 minutes and give your skin a break for about an hour to avoid overheating or burning your skin.


You can also use a hot water bottle if you do not have a heating pad. You can fill a plastic water bottle with hot water and wrap a paper towel or cloth around it.
You may even want to try alternating an ice pack with a heating pad. Ice can help to numb pain in your joints while heat tends to increase blood flow and soothe muscles.Make sure that you wrap the ice pack with a paper towel and do not keep an ice pack on for more than 20 minutes at a time either.
 Discuss narcotic pain medication such as Norco for severe muscle pain. Norco combines hydrocodone and acetaminophen. Many cases of chikungunya are debilitating enough to warrant this type of medication.


The recommended dosage of Norco is 325 milligrams orally every four hours.
Don’t take this medication with Tylenol or any other acetaminophen.

