 Smelling exhaust in a car is an incredibly dangerous situation because carbon monoxide is toxic for human beings. So if you smell exhaust within your car, get the car checked out by a professional immediately.


There could be a hole in anything from the muffler to the tailpipe of your car.
It’s also possible that exhaust is leaking into the car through a part of the interior that is worn. Don’t play around with this scenario. It’s extremely dangerous.;
, If you smell a sulfur or rotten eggs smell, you’re probably going to need to get your car serviced by a professional.Usually, the smell of sulfur indicates there is a problem with your catalytic converter. The converter will probably need to be replaced.
The way this is done is to cut the converter on both ends after the engine cools. Then, replace it with a new converter.
 It’s also possible that the converter is just plugged up, but most likely you are going to have to replace it.


Other causes of rotten eggs smells can include hot engines or broken fuel pressure regulators. All you might need to do for the latter is replace your fuel filter.
A rotten eggs smell is probably the result of hydrogen sulfide. Sulfur is present in gasoline, and it’s converted to sulfur dioxide, which is odorless. However, when your converter breaks down or its filtering layers are worn out, sulfur produces a strong smell of rotten eggs., Gasoline smell signals a problem with the car. However, it might be easy to fix if the car is just flooded.


If the car isn’t starting, flooding is a distinct possibility. Just wait a few minutes, and try to start the car again.
If the gas smell seems to be emanating from underneath your hood, your fuel injection system or carburetor might be leaking fuel. You can also check your fuel pump for a streak of leaking gasoline, which should be clearly visible.
 You will also want to check the fuel lines and hoses inside your hood that lead to the fuel tank. It’s possible they’re disconnected or rotted.


You might want to check under the hood again after parking the car overnight. You will want to look for stains because gasoline evaporates pretty quickly.
Make sure not to smoke cigarettes while looking for gasoline leaks. This can be very dangerous. It’s also possible that you spilled some gasoline while pumping it into your car. Maybe the gasoline you smell is that which dropped onto your hands!

