 Don't book a waxing appointment until you haven't waxed for least one to two weeks. Ideally, you should have 1/4 inch (.635 cm) of hair in the area you want to wax. Waxing will be more painless and effective if you wait long enough to wax.

The exception to this is fine hair, like women's facial hair. Fine hair can be shorter, but try to grow it out for several weeks beforehand.;
, Sensitive skin does not make for a pleasant waxing experience. The best time to wax is a week after your menstrual cycle, when your pain threshold is highest. Do not schedule an appointment during your time of the month.Also, do not schedule an appointment just before or after a day you plan to spend lots of time outside. If you get a sunburn, freshly waxed skin will be painful., Avoid scheduling an appointment right before a special event, vacation, or photoshoot. Skin reacts differently to waxing, especially the first time. Your skin may experience redness, bruising, or irritation. Try waxing for the first time weeks before a special event so you know what to expect.

If you experience skin irritation after waxing, you can prevent it in the future by applying a layer of coconut oil, baby powder, or a soothing lotion right after you wax., When you have found a professional esthetician, tell them about any allergies or skin sensitivities prior to the appointment. Your waxer can then choose a wax type appropriate for your skin type to avoid skin irritation.

If this is your first time waxing, let your esthetician know. They can tell you how to prepare for your specific treatment.Tell your esthetician about any skin creams you use as well, as this can affect your skin sensitivity.
 Because skin wax can contain chemicals irritable to the skin, ask for an allergy patch test from your doctor or dermatologist. You will want to know how your skin might react if this is your first waxing session. Let your esthetician know if you react to a certain chemical or fragrance.

Allergy tests can take up to several days to display irritation, so schedule your test well in advance., Treat any rashes or sunburns before your appointment to avoid tearing skin while being waxed.Look for any cuts or bruises as well: even small shaving cuts can develop irritation when waxed.

If you're prone to breaking out in a certain area, avoid getting it waxed. Waxing tends not to be effective on areas affected by hormonal breakouts.
Should your sunburn or rash persist, postpone your appointment until your skin has healed.
 Time spent out in the sun will make your skin sensitive. Even if you don't get a sunburn, skin is more irritability-prone right after a tan. Avoid spending extended amounts of time outside for several days before your appointment.

If you need to spend time outside, wear SPF 50+ sunscreen and re-apply every few hours., Before your appointment, exfoliate in the shower to remove dead skin and lift trapped hair. Exfoliating will reduce the likelihood of ingrown hairs after the appointment. Using a loofah or washcloth, rub an exfoliating cream in circular motions around the area you want waxed.Rub softly. Pressing too hard can irritate your skin.
Don't exfoliate your legs the same day you plan to wax them. Exfoliate several days before to prevent itching and redness.
 After you exfoliate, apply a moisturizer to your skin. This will hydrate your skin and keep it soft until the day of the appointment. Exfoliation can leave your skin dry, so always moisturize afterwards., During the day of your appointment, soak your skin in a warm bath to hydrate your skin. Dry skin is painful to wax because the hairs are harder to remove. If you don't have time for a full bath, soak the skin you plan to wax in water for five to ten minutes.

Drink plenty of water before your appointment to reduce rash development after waxing., Use a water-based, oil-free moisturizer after you've soaked your skin. Moisturizer will prevent your skin from burning during the wax. Be sure to use the moisturizer several days before your appointment and the day of for best results.

Do not use an oil lubricant (like coconut oil) before you wax, as this will prevent the wax from grabbing any hairs. You can use oil-based moisturizers after your appointment to prevent infection, as they can be an excellent disinfectant., Moles, skin tags, or lesions could rip off during a waxing appointment (which can increase the likelihood of cancer). Cover them up with a band-aid so you remember to tell your esthetician before the appointment., If you're sensitive to pain, take an ibuprofen-based pill before your appointment to reduce pain and inflammation. Take the pain relief pill an hour before your appointment so it kicks in when you need it and lasts throughout the appointment., Don't wear skinny jeans or tight fabrics to your appointment. After your skin has been waxed, you'll want soft and comfortable clothing. Wear soft, loose clothing to avoid irritating your skin after the appointment.Don't wear new clothes to your appointment. You'll want clothes you are familiar with and know you love.

