 Because there are no direct symptoms of taurine deficiency, you should take your cat for regular vet checkups. The frequency of visits depends on your cat's stage of life and general health.


Kittens should go every three to four weeks until they've had their full round of vaccinations.
Healthy adult cats (age 1 to 7-10, depending on breed) should have a checkup once a year.
Senior cats (over the age of 7-10) need a checkup one every six months.;
, Unlike most mammals, cats don't produce enough taurine to stay healthy. This is why their diets must be taurine-rich. Food formulated for dogs or other mammals doesn't contain the necessary levels of taurine. Cat foods high in grains and other carbohydrates might also be low in taurine. If you give your cat meals that you prepare, they're also likely deficient in taurine., Taurine levels can run low if your cat is in less than perfect health. A recent illness or chronic health condition, such as kidney disease, might deplete your cat's levels of taurine. Let your vet know about any health issues your cat may be experiencing., Taurine for cats usually comes in a powdered form that you can add to their food. Although you can buy it over-the counter, different some brands might not be as high-quality as others. Ask your vet for recommendations.


Let your vet know if your cat is already taking medication or other supplements. Although no drug interactions have been reported, it's always best to err on the side of safety., In most cases, your cat will need the supplement twice a day. Cats in the early stages of taurine deficiency will have to take the supplement for at least three to four months. If the deficiency was caught later, your cat will probably need supplemental taurine for the rest of their life., Taurine is generally safe for all cats. However, some cats might experience an upset stomach. If your cat doesn't seem to tolerate the supplement, notify your vet., Depending on the severity of the deficiency, your vet will schedule follow-up visits. Even after they give your cat a clean bill of health, you might have to return between regular visits as a preventive measure. Follow all instructions to the letter., Make sure the storage location is no warmer than 70ʡF (21ʡC). Keep the taurine out of direct sunlight. High temperatures and exposure to light can ruin the effectiveness of the supplement., Keep it away from all sources of water and moisture. This includes near sinks and anywhere in the bathroom. Moisture causes the taurine to break down., While taurine is generally safe for humans of all ages, any medicine intended for an animal should be kept out of the reach of children. Store the supplement in a cabinet that children can't reach. Use child-safe locks, if necessary.