 Your introduction should recite the transaction in a few brief sentences. In contracts, the introduction will usually be seen as a series of sentences starting with the word "whereas." In smaller transactions, your introduction may define all the important terms. In larger transactions, your introduction may be even smaller because the important terms will be defined elsewhere.


The introduction does not usually carry any legal effect. It is there to introduce the transaction and provide background information. However, if you want the introduction to carry legal effect, you need to clearly state this somewhere in the agreement.;
, Definitions ensure that both parties have a clear understanding of what certain terms within the agreement mean. If you fail to adequately define terms, you and the buyer may disagree over definitions and a court may end up interpreting your agreement for you. Do not define irrelevant terms. You do not want to include a lengthy definitions section that takes away from the agreement itself. In your sale agreement, the following terms should be clearly defined:

Working capital
Purchased assets
Excluded assets
Purchase price
Assumed liabilities
Knowledge
Materiality

, This section will describe the sale transaction in detail. You will have sections discussing the purchase price, adjustments, escrowed amounts, and liabilities. Here is where you will incorporate your negotiated sale price and the acquisition model you and the buyer agreed on. Make sure you take the tax status of your business (i.e., an LLC vs. a C corporation) into consideration when drafting these sections., The warranties and representations section of your agreement lists all of the statements of fact you have made to the buyer throughout the sale process. These statements are what the buyer is relying on when buying your business. In general, these warranties and representations will reflect the due diligence process. Within this section, draft language that absolves you of any responsibility for any warranties and representations listed in the sale agreement. However, the buyer will not want to take responsibility for anything that occurs prior to closing. You and the buyer will need to negotiate the best way to draft this section. The representations will usually address your:Legal status
Ability to do business
Operations
Financial statements
Taxes
Employees
Labor matters

, These conditions set out what needs to be done in order to complete the transaction. You will need to include language that you will keep the buyer up-to-date on changes in the business up until the closing date. You will usually agree to restrict your own ability to make business decisions after the sale agreement is signed (e.g., you might be prohibited from paying bonuses or raising salaries). Finally, you need to list the deliverables that need to be executed in order to finalize the sale. These deliverables will usually include:The bill of sale
Assignment agreements
Shareholder resolutions
Director and officer resignations
Leases

, Toward the end of your agreement, you need to include common language that should be included in every contract. These provisions relate to agreements in general and help courts and parties understand the agreement's structure. You typically include provisions dealing with contract interpretation, notices, amendments, parties, dispute resolution, and enforceability., Exhibits help you fill in the gaps and list exactly what is meant by certain provisions. Any exhibit you include at the end of your agreement should be referenced in the body of your contract. Common exhibits in sale agreements include:Cash
Accounts receivable
Inventory
Equipment
Contracts
Intellectual property
Permits
Financial statements
Leases

, Your sale agreement needs to contain a signatures page that includes the correct spelling of each party and their official title.The agreement will be executed when you and the buyer both sign and date the agreement in the correct spot.
 In addition to a signed sale agreement, almost every buyer will require you to sign a CNC. A CNC requires you to promise that you will not set up a business that competes with the one you just sold. Without this type of promise, no buyer is likely to purchase your business. A CNC will usually be presented to you as a part of the sale package and will include the following covenants:


First, you will need to agree not to compete with the buyer. This covenant needs to be limited in geography and time (i.e., the buyer will not be able to stop you from opening a business in another country or from opening a business 20 years in the future).
Second, you need to promise not to solicit any of your old customers for a certain period of time.
Third, you need to promise not to entice employees into leaving the business you just sold.
Fourth, you will be restricted in your ability to discuss or disseminate any confidential information about the business you just sold., If your sale will be completed with the help of a promissory note, you need to have this signed and attached to your sale agreement. The promissory note provides the specifics about how the buyer will pay you the money you are owed. It might provide for periodic payments, interest payments, and/or fluctuating payments depending on how well the sold business is doing.
 If you are accepting a promissory note for the sale of your business, you will also be entitled to ask for some security for the payment. This might include security interests in the assets being sold, stock interests in the buyer's businesses, or an executed guarantee from the buyer's principals (i.e., an entity that owns the buyers).


If you are asking for security interests in assets, you will usually have to subordinate your interest to the bank's. The bank will require you to sign a subordination agreement stating that the bank will hold a more senior interest than you., Your sale agreement is an agreement requiring you and the buyer to do things. However, the sale agreement will not achieve these acts alone. To achieve these acts, other documents will have to be executed. For example, your sale agreement will state that any personal property (e.g., chairs, tables, lights, etc.) owned by your business will be transferred to buyer. To actually transfer title to the property, however, you will need to sign and transfer title documents. In the case of personal property, the transfer document will be a bill of sale.Different types of property will require different title transfer documents. Check with your attorney to make sure title to everything your business owns is transferred to buyer properly.
 Selling your business will involve countless complex tasks. Having a lawyer will help you navigate the process successfully. A qualified lawyer will be able to negotiate the sale of your business, draft acceptable documentation, and finalize the deal. To Find a Good Attorney, contact your state bar association's lawyer referral service. After you answer a few questions, your state bar will put you in contact with a number of qualified lawyers.


If you cannot afford to hire a full-service lawyer to help you through the process, at least hire a lawyer to review the most important documents (i.e., the sale agreement, nondisclosure agreement, and covenant not to compete).
When you talk to potential lawyers, make sure they feel comfortable completing all of the required tasks. In addition, make sure you feel comfortable with the fee arrangement. While business lawyers can be expensive, you usually pay for what you get.
 Before you ever know that you want to sell your business, you should be keeping an eye on the market. Do this by creating and maintaining a database of companies you compete with. When it comes time to sell, reach out to possible buyers (i.e., businesses in your database). When you reach out to possible buyers, be sure you do so in a discreet manner. You do not want to scare investors, shareholders, or executives by tipping them off to your plans. You can reach out to possible buyers by:


Making a discreet phone call.
Requesting a joint venture.
Asking a third party to make contact for you., Once you have found one or more possible buyers, you will want them to sign an NDA before you discuss the specifics of your business. During initial sale discussions, buyers will want to know about your revenue, profitability, cash flow, growth rates, employees, products, and intellectual property. An executed NDA will help keep this information confidential.


A properly drafted NDA will state that any information stamped "confidential" will be treated as such. In addition, the NDA should state that no information can be divulged to individuals or entities that are not parties to the agreement. Finally, you should include language that requires possible buyers to return any and all information you give them upon request.
Once an NDA is executed, you can send requested information to possible buyers.Give each possible buyer enough information so they can make informed decisions about your business. Seasoned businesses will know exactly what to request. Do not feel obligated to send information you don't think is necessary. Some possible buyers will pretend to be interested so they can get confidential information from you.
 Interested buyers will look over requested summary-level documents to determine if your business is a good purchase option. If a buyer likes what they see, they will send you a letter of intent (LOI). You should request an LOI from every possible buyer. Within the LOI, the buyer will make an initial offer contingent upon certain factors (e.g., due diligence, the acquisition form, how quickly you can sell). In addition, buyers will request a period of exclusivity in which you are not supposed to negotiate with any other businesses.If you are in negotiations with multiple businesses, you should not sign an LOI requesting an exclusivity period.


However, if you think a particular buyer might be a good fit, you should consider allowing a period of exclusivity. This show of good faith will help you move forward with the sale.
 After LOIs have been sent, you will usually only be dealing with one potential buyer, at least for the stated period of exclusivity. This buyer will send you a checklist of due diligence requests. During the period of due diligence, the buyer will be checking your records to make sure the purchase is a good idea.Most buyers will ask you for the following:


An overview of your company, which will include why you are selling, any prior sale attempts, your business plans, market reviews, and the organizational structure of your business.
Employee files, which will include a list of your employees, what they are paid, who the key employees are, any employment contracts you have, whether any employees are unionized, and whether any employees have sued you.
Financial results, which include annual statements, cash flow analyses, disclosures, public filings, and any cash restrictions.
Revenues, which will include backlogs, recurring streams, available channels, and accounts receivable.
Any intellectual property your business may have.
Any fixed assets and facilities you have, how they are valued, how they are maintained, and how they are utilized.
Any liabilities you have (i.e., accounts payable, leases, debts, and collateral).
Any equity you have given out (i.e., shares).
Any legal issues your business is currently facing, which would include pending lawsuits and tax audits., In general, you and the buyer will have the ability to enter into two main types of agreements: the entity purchase and the asset purchase. With an entity purchase, the buyer will purchase a majority of your business's stock. The buyer will then step into your position and take on all of the business's debts and obligations. With an asset purchase, the buyer purchases all of your assets, both tangible and intangible. Your shell (e.g., the LLC or the corporation) will remain in place but you will not have any business to run.


Tax-wise, the asset sale usually benefits the buyer the most because they can begin depreciating the assets sooner. You should request an entity sale because your only tax liability will be on the long-term capital gains of the stock you sell.
In an asset sale, the buyer will not take responsibility for any existing debts and liabilities. Therefore, you will still be responsible for paying off loans and fighting existing lawsuits. In an entity sale, the buyer will take responsibility for any existing debts and liabilities (unless explicitly agreed otherwise)., Based on the agreed upon acquisition model and the buyer's due diligence, the buyer will usually make the first firm offer (because the LOI offer is more of an introductory, soft offer). You should analyze the offer closely, which will usually come in the form of a purchase agreement (i.e., a sale agreement from the buyer's perspective). Because the buyer controls the drafting of this document, it will usually have a buyer-friendly price. Analyze the offer carefully and negotiate back and forth until an agreement is reached. To help you reach an agreement, consider accepting the following types of payments:


A lump-sum payment, which might be difficult if the purchase price is large. Buyers will not often have huge amounts of cash on hand.
A payment allocated between various types of assets (i.e., stocks in another company, cash, bonds, annuities, etc.).
A planned payment with various amounts due to you at different times. Usually, the buyer will provide you with some of the payment upon closing the deal and other payments as agreed upon in a promissory note.