 Your life does not have to be about pleasing the people who care about you. They may not understand at first, but doing what you want should be a life investment. They have plenty of time to get used to the idea.


It may be easier at the beginning to do things other people want for you. However, what you want is a decision that must be made by you alone. And in the long run, working for your own passions will ultimately prove to be the most profitable thing you can do for you.
If you are working for what other people think of you, you will probably end up on a path that is less satisfying for you.
Consider what you have to give others. Do not confuse what other people want for you with what you want for yourself. For example, if you are choosing a major in college, do not choose the major others tell you to pursue unless it is what really excites you.;
, Be patient and persistent in doing what you want. Taking ownership means that you will have to make your actions match what you want to be both on a daily basis and year by year.
 To become what you want will require problem solving. For example, if you want to go to a college that has the program you need to pursue your dream and it is out of your reach as a freshman, go to a community college first and then transfer. A problem solver is someone who actively brainstorms ideas to solve a problem, evaluates those ideas to see how they might work out, and then executes the idea., This means following your instincts. Think about the worst thing that could happen. Risk is when you are willing to accept the worst thing that can happen. Often you will have to fail in order to achieve the things you want. Once you learn how to live with that possibility, nothing will be able to stop you.


If you are going to become successful in doing what you want, you will be your only true boss. Because you are your own guide, you should become good at following your instincts. You alone are the most knowledgeable about your own work. Profiting from your risks will take trial and error, and failing should become your close friend if you want to make following your instincts pay off for you.
 Everyone has fears and these fears sometimes guide the way we choose to live our lives. Living in reaction to your fears will not serve your dreams. You will be better off when you are aware of your fears and actively fight them. Luckily, if you are cognizant of your fears, they can have less power over the decisions you make.


When you are experiencing anxiety because of fear, write about the negative feelings and experiences. At first this may be difficult, but over time it will pay off. Journaling daily for twenty minutes is a helpful habit that will help you cope with your negative emotions, and it will refocus you on what you want. 