 It may take a few weeks to establish a new routine, so don’t worry if things don’t click immediately.


Going to bed early, while there 's still some noise outside, may help you to feel less alone. If you live alone, this technique may help you to feel more comfortable since others will still be up making noise in the apartments or streets around you. , Spend some time unwinding before going to bed. Limit television and cell phone screen time at least 20 minutes before bed to help your brain start to turn down for the night ahead.Other techniques to help calm yourself before bed include meditation, breathing exercises, visualization, and structured muscle relaxation. You can also try reading a book or magazine by low light, doing a crossword puzzle, or listening to soft music. , Trying to sleep when you’re unable to will only increase your anxiety and make it still harder to fall asleep. If you can’t fall asleep, get up and go into a different room and do a relaxing activity.In time, you’ll find that you’ve unwound and are ready to try going back to bed.
 People sleep better at night after having had sunlight exposure throughout the waking hours. Also, limit the amount of light in your bedroom while you sleep, as having lights on can make it harder to fall asleep.If you don’t have blackout curtains (curtains that literally “blackout” all incoming light), consider buying a sleep mask to cover your eyes. These are inexpensive and can be purchased at most drugstores and online.
 If you forgo your mid-day snooze, you will be more tired at night and more likely to fall asleep quickly—and therefore have less time to feel lonely or stressed while in bed., You may wish to add some form of ambient or white noise. Many people like sounds from nature like waterfalls or the rain forests.


These and other similar sounds are available from sound machines or on apps available through smart phones, tablets, and computers.
For those with loneliness while sleeping alone, a good bet may be to turn the TV on and have the volume low. The sound of voices may be calming. If possible, angle the screen away from you to help decrease your light exposure from the TV. Light in the bedroom can be problematic for sleeping.