 Having everything on hand to repair your antenna will save you time while repairing it. You will need a flat, clear space to work, and also:


A clean soda can
Sturdy scissors or shears
A pen
A book
Needle nose pliers

, You will first need to cut the top of the can free from the rest of it. Now you can begin a single cut that follows around the can at a gradual angle spiraling down to the bottom of your can. You should remove the bottom of your can after you are through cutting your spiral aluminum strip.


Take care when cutting your can; the aluminum may be sharp enough to cut you.
 Using a flat, heavy object (like a book), or even your hands, flatten your spiral strip entirely. Remove any particularly bad burrs or jagged edges from your flattened strip.Collect any shards or pieces of aluminum. These are sharp, and can result in cuts or slivers.
 Take your pen and run it along the middle of your strip to begin creasing your strip of aluminum. Bend the outside edges of your strip with your needle nose pliers or hands, drawing each side together above the crease you have made.The resulting shape of your aluminum will now be cylindrical.
 If your antenna has broken off close to the bottom, you may want to fold the outside edges of your strip around the remaining antenna nub. If your break is higher up on the antenna, wrap the outside edges around so that the antenna extends into your aluminum to stabilize the aluminum extension.


If your antenna has been torn out of its port completely, you may be able to narrow your aluminum to fit in the antenna receiver hole, but if damage has been done to the port, you made need to replace the antenna assembly completely.
 In some cases, you may be able to sheath your antenna with your now cylindrical foil. This may result in a stable junction. However, if your antenna is flimsy or you are concerned about the elements (wind should be a serious concern for car antennas), you can further support the break by wrapping it in duct tape or electrical tape.

