 If you have a strict budget, make a note of your absolute maximum. The price will vary depending on the number of musicians, travel costs, accommodation, and quality/schedule of your chosen bands.;
, Unless you are either very young, or very old, it is quite likely that your guests will have a pretty broad age-range. Buy all means target bands that play your preferred style, but be sure that they have some older tracks in their play-list to keep granny happy. If you are keen to avoid the typical wedding cheese (as so many are these days), then be aware of this through the bands play-list. Are you looking for a cool modern band, or a cheesy sing-along band? Female or Male vocals? Or both?

, How many musicians do you want? With so many variations in line-up (anything from solo performers to big bands with brass sections and all), it is important to know how many musicians you want. Usually, a 6-8 piece band can recreate all of your favorites to a standard that isn’t too far from the original. If you are more leaned towards pop then it might be worth considering a 6-piece to include at least one male and one female lead vocalists, then 4 piece rhythm section which is standard as guitar, bass, keyboards,and drums.
 As mentioned before, local bands means less travel expenses, plus local bands like to play close to their homes, so you may end up with a better quote to start with. Google search the term wedding band "your local area" and see what you find. You might get lucky!

, The standard is a 4 hour block - so 4 sets and 3 breaks. Most bands will fill the gaps with mp3 music through the PA system. If you require a band to play longer, be sure to check that their set-list has enough songs that you like to cover the extra time. As a guide, 1 hour of live music is usually roughly 14 or 15 songs.
 If so, you may have to factor in an extra 50 dollars for the band to learn it. Most bands will do it for free if it is just the one song, so are you willing to pay or are you looking for a free first dance request. Lots of bands have very good choices of 1st dance songs on their repertoires, ready to play at your request.
 Many venues are licensed for 4 or less musicians. Be sure to check license limits and sound/noise limits with the venue in advance of contacting any bands. Also, check that parking is available and there are no loading or unloading issues or time limits (e.g. Gates lock at 1am). Ask if your venue needs the band's PLI (public liability certificate) or PAT (portable appliance test certificates) and if so, make them a compulsory check point on your criteria list.
 Be sure to have roughly 50% as a deposit available. The absolute best way to hear the quality of a band (aside of going to see them) is to watch a live video clip of a show. Preferably shot by a fan (shaky hands an’ all). Remember, it's not the video quality you're looking out for, it’s the versions of the songs. Listen for likeness to the originals and watch for audience reaction. Anyone can sit in a studio for 5 days re-doing a part until it sounds ok. The live videos are pure honesty.
 You should start by checking their availability. Good bands get booked quite far in advance. You should start looking roughly 12-18 months before your event if you want the best bands.
 Depending on the season, they may just bring it down for you.
 The band booking game is ruthless, and a band can only be in one place at one time. Ask them to secure the date and send you a contract asap. Once you have read and checked the contract, scan it off and pay the deposit. That way, you can be sure that you have booked your perfect band.
 All good bands work off of contracts. Double check the contract for food riders (it is normal to feed the band) and performance times. Read through the cancellation terms and be sure you are happy with them.

