 Consider going for the larger sized pumpkin for a more dramatic effect.;
, Approach this step as you would when carving any other pumpkin.


Slice off the top using a sharp knife and remove the insides and seeds of the pumpkin.
 Pick up a store-bought pumpkin light bright kit that will allow you to illuminate the pumpkin with small colored (or clear) lights that illuminate off the candle or battery operated flashlight.

Get typical pumpkin carving tools including sharp knives in different sizes and a small shovel that you can use for scraping the insides of the pumpkin. Also, a clay loop tool (available at most craft stores) will be vital to creating the lines.
Find a sewing tape measure. The tape measure will be a very important part to making this design work so make sure you don't leave this supply out. You should also grab a pencil to trace lines on the pumpkin.
 Wrap your tape measure around the middle of the pumpkin and mark your lines.


Use the clay loop tool to gouge out the center circle around the middle of the pumpkin. Don’t cut all the way through the pumpkin skin, but make an impression around the center.
 Use your tape measure to mark lines along the pumpkin veins. You will need to create specific measurements all the way around the pumpkin.


Keep measurements in proportion to the size of the pumpkin. For example, a 77-pound pumpkin you could make a 2 ½ inch mark above and below the middle impression you just made around the pumpkin center.
 Choose a space between the veins and the upper part of the pumpkin for the laser circle/hole.


The circle should be at least an inch above the horizontal line.
Consider using a teacup bottom to trace the circle.



Place a hole in the middle of the circle with a pencil mark and then use a small knife to dig a larger hole (but not much bigger than a pen tip).
 You made pencil marks earlier to use as your guide. Use a thin clay loop tool or knife to gouge out the horizontal lines. Follow the pencil markings to keep lines symmetrical.


As you cut the lines, avoid cutting into the laser circle. You will need that circle to be surrounded with clean lines.
 Use the flat clay loop tool to go over the line, deepening and smoothing the line.
 Depending on the pumpkin size you may want to re-assess where to create this wider line. Don't make it as wide as the middle line, but wider than the rest.
 Make small vertical cuts every 2 inches (5.1 cm) around the pumpkin. Start at the top and work your way around and then downward. Make sure the vertical lines are parallel to the pumpkin veins too.


Avoid carving boxes over the laser circle.
 Again, you don’t want the box lines to be as thick as the midline but large enough to be seen from a distance.
 Use the clay loop tool as you will need to remove the pumpkin flesh to distinguish the rectangles from the rest of the pumpkin.
 If you have a round drill bit you can use that to create a smooth surface. Otherwise, carve the circle with the clay loop tool.


Hollow out the laser circle and create a smaller circle that goes all the way through the pumpkin. The center circle you created earlier will be your guide. Be careful not to make this circle too large, but large enough so light can shine through.
 These small touches will make all the difference in the world so don’t skip this step.


Pepper the exterior of the pumpkin with the pumpkin light brites. Once the candle or flashlight has been lit inside the light will illuminate the light brights so select places that you want to sparkle or shine.






Add a flashlight or candle inside the pumpkin. If you plan to leave the pumpkin unattended, opt for a battery operated flashlight or battery-powered candle for safety.
