;
, Consider, too, other multi-level marketing opportunities. However, do not hand over any money until you thoroughly understand what you're getting into. (See the Warnings section below.)

, If you're good at organizing, get paid to organize someone's home and/or office.
 Are you good at housekeeping? Try to clean one or more houses per day at $50 or more per house.
 Are you an artist? Offer to draw wall murals for children's bedrooms and/or playrooms. Research the rates for this type of project, then offer a discount and charge a rate that will beat the competition.
 Are you an excellent cook? Hold a weekly or bi-weekly breakfast fundraiser for your family, and use a portion of the proceeds to buy groceries for another struggling family. Offer to cook healthy meals for busy families.
 Are there construction workers in your area? Can you make a good cup of coffee? In the mornings sell coffee and doughnuts. In the afternoons sell homemade lemonade, cherry lemonade and ice tea.
 Do you love to bake? Host a bake sale. Everyone loves cakes, cookies and brownies.
 A lot of people are buying foreclosed properties and need help with painting, repair and debris removal. Collect a deposit for your services before you start.
 Do you love kids and have experience with them? Place an ad. Corporate executives need nannies.
 Offer dog-walking, bathing, and petsitting services.
 Are you good at event planning? Plan someone's dinner party, birthday party or wedding.
 Start your own grocery and errand-running service. This will be especially helpful to the elderly, new moms and very busy households. Offer special discounts.
 Are you good with make-up? Offer to do make-up for someone's wedding party and pictures. You can charge $25+ per person (plus tips) and have them provide their own make-up.
 If you're a good writer, help create a blog for someone who's not so good at it.
 Do you have good knowledge about electronic devices (such as cell phones or mobile computers)? Offer to repair a device for someone who lacks your skills.

