 One key to the paleo diet is to eat fresh fruits and vegetables. Most paleo advocates recommend that you eat organic if possible. Paleo is built on eating what our ancestors did, so that means fresh foods and no processed foods.This means you shouldn’t eat canned vegetables or fruit if you can avoid it. Only buy frozen vegetables if they have no additives or are organic.
 Protein in the form of meat is another staple of the paleo diet. This means you can eat any type of meat you want - as long as it is organic, grass-fed, and hormone and antibiotic free. Eat beef, chicken, turkey, pork, fish, lamb, duck, shellfish, or any other meat you want.Eggs are also an important source of protein for paleo.
You can eat meat that isn’t organic or grass-fed, but always try to go as natural as possible to eliminate chemicals, pesticides, and other harmful additives.
Whenever you are buying certain products, like bacon or sandwich meat, make sure to buy nitrate-free.
 Another key to paleo is healthy fats. This includes avocado, nuts, bone broth, and healthy oils. Coconut oil is a common paleo staple, but you can also use olive oil or avocado oil. You can use grass-fed butter or clarified butter, along with beef tallow or lard if they come from healthy, grass-fed, hormone and antibiotic-free sources.Vegetable and Canola oil are not included in the Paleo diet. Make sure you are not buying peanuts; they are legumes, not nuts.
 Paleo comes with a list of foods you cannot eat. First, you should not eat anything that is prepackaged. This includes boxes, jars, and bags. On paleo, you also cannot eat grains, dairy, salt, sugar and artificial sweeteners, or legumes, like peanuts, beans, lentils, or soybeans.Stay away from hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated oil. This includes margarine, soybean oil, corn oil, peanut oil, safflower oil, and sunflower oil.
You should do your shopping in the produce and meat sections. Some stores, like Whole Foods, do carry prepackaged paleo-friendly foods, like granola or energy bars.
Honey is okay in small doses on the paleo diet.
 Paleo is a lifestyle and a mindset. Some people use it as a weight loss tool, but just like with any “diet,” you must be careful of yo-yo dieting. If you want to do paleo, you should adjust your mindset and embrace the lifestyle. This means focusing on fueling your body with good ingredients.Many people just substitute unhealthy foods with paleo versions of the food. This isn’t true paleo. Each meal should be full of vegetables first, along with a protein.

