 A diva is not someone who is self centered and rude. A diva is confident, doesn't care for insults and knows how to stand out.;
, Look unique, however,don't be to the point of looking tacky. If you have a patterned shirt, wear a normal bottom and so on. Mix in some trendy but still classic items like skinny jeans, thin knitted headbands etc.
 4-6 people (including yourself) is best, and is even better if all of you are closely-knit. Never be in the kind of clique that is mean, snobbish, and gossips. Instead, be that the kind that is warm and inviting to everyone else.
 Even though you have a clique, at least make 5-7 friends outside the clique.
 Divas love to have fun! Be optimistic, it is much more fun that way.
 Brush it once a day, wash it at least twice a week, but don't dry it out and use good shampoo and conditioner.
 Weigh yourself once a month. Check your BMI every four months. Be sure it's for kids because adult ones are different. If you need to or just want to lose a few pounds. If your BMI says you're underweight, talk to a doctor about gaining weight. Some people are just naturally thin without any problems but some need to put on more weight. Always make sure you stay in a healthy weight that's OK for you. Eat at least three servings of fruit and three serving of vegetables a day and drink 32-48 oz of water. Exercise at least 60 minutes five days a week.
 Divas don't go around with stinky breath and gross hair. Keep your mouth clean and take a shower when needed. Brush your teeth after every meal (carry a mini toothpaste and toothbrush with you), wash your face when you wake up, before bed and after sports. Carry deodorant with you in case you get stinky.
 Always say excuse me when you need to use the restroom\burp\pass gas, and don't make fun of people who don't deserve it.
 Whatever it is, just do it! However, don't overdo it or you will be known as a show off, unless that's what you want.
 That is you and some friends, however many your parents allow over. Always make sure your parents are okay with it though. Sleepovers are great too.
 But never gossip.

