 Loosely wrap a soft tape measure around the base of your cat's neck. Keep the tape measure taut but not tight.


You should be able to slip your thumb between the tape measure and your cat's neck without choking your cat.
Take this measurement and add 1 inch (2.5 cm) to it. The result will be used for the length of the collar.;
, Obtain 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) wide suede strip material. Using scissors, cut the strip down to match your measured length.


If you are unable to find suede strip material, you can purchase any strong, flexible suede. Cut the length down to size, then trim the width down to about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm).
You could also vary the look of this collar by using nylon webbing, leather strip material, canvas strip material, or durable ribbon. Make sure that the material is strong enough to hold its form yet flexible enough to bend with ease.
 Snip 1/2-inch (1.25-cm) wide braided stretch elastic down to a length of about 2 inches (5 cm) using sharp scissors.


The elastic can be anywhere from 1/4 to 1/2 inch (0.6 to 1.25 cm) wide, but it should not be wider than the width of the suede strip. Only use elastic band material; do not use elastic cords or elastic thread.
 Using super glue, adhere one side of the elastic strip to the "wrong" side of the suede strip at one end. Glue the other side of the elastic strip to the "wrong" side at the opposite end.


Overlap the elastic and the suede by about 3/4 inch (2 cm) on each side. When finished, there should be about 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of excess elastic showing between the ends of the suede.
Allow the glue to dry completely before you handle the collar further.
 If desired, write your phone number on the side of the collar using permanent marker.


This will enable anyone who finds your cat to call you and report your cat's whereabouts should it ever go missing. Make sure that you can read the printed information on the side of the collar, then let the ink dry.
 Once the glue and marker are completely dry, stretch the collar over your cat's head and around its neck.


Check the fit. You should be able to fit two fingers in between the collar and the cat's neck once the collar is around the neck.
Note that the elastic should stretch enough to fit over your cat's head, but it should not need to stretch at all once the collar rests around your cat's neck.

