 When the offer comes in, you should have a good idea of what it's going to be. That is, you should be discussing the benefits and salary throughout your negotiations with the employer. If a certain benefit is non-negotiable for you, you should ask about it when discussing the position.You should be able to get a reasonable idea of what the company will offer. Many companies publish salary information online, as well as information about benefit packages. You can also find some information on job sites, often posted by other job seekers and employees.;
, One factor you should consider when looking at a job offer is whether the company is a quality one. If the company is not quality or is on a down swing, you may be in for multiple rounds of downsizing, which could leave you searching for a new job in a few years., Once you've done your research on the company, think about whether you can truly support their mission and products. If you can't get behind their products and ethical system, it may be that you need to turn the job down., You may want to hold out for a job that you really enjoy. However, you may not be able to if you've been without a job for an extended period of time. You have to be honest with yourself about what you can afford. On the other hand, you may need to turn down a really enjoyable job if it doesn't pay enough to sustain your lifestyle.Take a hard look at your budget to see exactly what you need to survive.
 When looking at the salary for one job, you have to look at it in comparison to any other offers or potential offers you have. You may have to estimate what you would make at other companies to make a comparison., Sometimes, you may forget to add in the costs of a position, but those are equally as important as a salary. For instance, if you need to buy new clothes or you need a well-maintained car, those are both costs. Another cost could be the cost of supplies if you are a contract worker. Make sure you consider those before you accept a position.Another major cost to consider is daycare.
If you're taking a second job, think about the ways it will benefit you in relation to the ways it will cost you. For instance, will it cost you extra daycare to take the second job? Will that outweigh the salary you're making?

, Salary is a big part of compensation, but it's not the only compensation. Healthcare is another large benefit, as are things such as 401K benefits and paid vacation and sick leave time. You may also look at other perks, such as paid gym memberships, discounts on company products, and tuition reimbursement., While being underpaid is a problem, being overpaid can actually be a problem, too, if it's not a job you love or one that will advance your career. If you take this kind of job, you can get addicted to the pay. You adjust your lifestyle to this high pay, then it can be hard to leave for a job that's more in-line with what you want to do at lower pay., When thinking about a job, it's important to think about whether it will use your skills and whether or not it will keep you engaged. Of course, you don't want a job that's too far out of your skill range, but it should offer you some room for learning, growth, and challenge.Understand that not every job will advance your career. Sometimes, you may need to take a job even if it's not the perfect one to move your career forward. However, most experience is relevant in one form or another, so keep that in mind as you consider the position.
 How many hours you are required to work is another important consideration. You know how many hours you want to work in a week, and if the job is going to demand more than you want to give, you may want to pass it up.The same can be said for the amount of work it requires of you. If it's going to be an extraordinary amount of work that wears you down quickly, it may be a job you want to pass on.
If you're taking on a second job, it's important to consider if the extra hours are worth what you're being paid. If it makes you miserable, it may not be worth it.
 You should know by now that the perfect job doesn't exist. That means that when considering any position, you must be willing to give on some things that you want. You may have an idea of exactly what you want, and if a job ticks off a good portion of those items (but not all), that's probably a good fit for you., One very important consideration when it comes to a job is who your boss will be. Of course, many jobs come with bosses that aren't ideal. However, if the person is absolutely someone you can't work under, you should probably pass on the job.It's not all about personality. It's also about management style. If you like your freedom, you may not like working under a micromanager, for instance.
 If you want to move up in your field, you need to pick a position that has opportunity for growth and advancement. If the job is dead-end, you may decide it's not right for you, as you want to move up over the course of your career., When looking at a job, you have to consider the commute, as well. A long commute will eat into your leisure time. In addition, it costs you more money for a longer commute, if you're commuting by car.This consideration is especially important if you're taking on a second job. If your second job is far from your first job, it will cost you money, plus it may make it difficult to get to your second job on time.
 The culture of the workplace also contributes to your happiness. For instance, you may prefer a more laidback culture with casual dress, or you may prefer a more professional atmosphere, where you use formal titles with your co-workers and boss. Either way, it's important to evaluate the culture of the company before accepting a position.You can gain some idea of culture from a company's website, but you should also take a look around while you're there for the interview to get a better idea.
 While culture and environment are similar, they're not the same. For example, the environment can include things like noise level, temperature, and office decorations. You may not want to base your whole decision on something like environment, but it may be a factor. For instance, if you can't work in a completely quiet environment, you may not do well in a very quiet office., Once you've considered all the logical pieces of information about the job, you may need to set that aside and listen to your gut. That is, sometimes you just know whether a job will be right for you or not, and it's important to listen to that voice when it tells you what's right.