 There are numerous healthy options for making breakfast without straying from the traditional breakfast favorites like eggs, oatmeal, and sausage.


Try peanut butter oatmeal raisin. Mix 1 cup of oatmeal, 1 Tbsp peanut butter, and 1/4 cup raisins for a quick, easy meal. Add 1 cup of orange juice for a healthy drink.
Cook two scrambled eggs with 2 Tbsp low-fat milk, using 1 tsp vegetable oil. Add two turkey sausage links, one slice whole wheat toast with 1 tsp jelly. Drink one delicious cup of freshly squeezed orange juice.
Whip up one serving of scrambled tofu. Put it in an 8” flour tortilla, with 1/4 cup black beans, and 2 Tbsp salsa. Wash it down with 1 cup of low-fat milk., Eat a light lunch with plenty of variety, mixing in veggies and other healthy choices. There are many creative ways to make delicious lunches. Here are a few great examples:


Have a green salad. Put 3 oz of tuna with 1 cup of romaine lettuce, 1/4 cup of sliced carrots, and 2 Tbsp of vinaigrette dressing. Pair it with a slice of whole-wheat bread with 1 tsp of margarine. Drink 1 cup low-fat milk.
Eat a peanut butter and banana sandwich by combining 2 Tbsp of peanut butter and one medium banana on two slices of whole-wheat bread. Add 1/2 cup celery sticks for veggies, and 1 cup of low-fat milk for the beverage.
Make a roast beef sandwich with 2 oz lean roast beef between two slices whole-wheat bread. Add two tomato slices, one leaf of romaine lettuce, and 1 Tbsp of mayo. Have 1/2 cup of carrot sticks as a side. Add 1 cup of sliced apple with a Tbsp of peanut butter for dessert., Create some simple, family-friendly recipes sure hit the health, diversity, and taste marks. A few options follow:


Try some Red Hot Fusilli Pasta. Sauté 2 garlic cloves and 1/4 cup parsley in 1 Tbsp of olive oil. Then add 4 cups of ripe, chopped tomatoes along with 1 Tbsp basil, 1 Tbsp oregano, 1/4 tsp salt, and ground red pepper. Once thickened, put it over 4 cups cooked fusilli pasta. Add 2 Tbsp shredded Parmesan cheese to taste, and cook 1/2 cup green peas (with 1/2 tsp margarine) as a side. Finish off the meal with a white roll and 1 tsp margarine.
Pan fry a 5 oz pork chop, and eat it alongside a baked potato with 2 Tbsp salsa on top. Pair it with a cabbage slaw of 1/2 cup shredded green cabbage mixed with 1 Tbsp vinaigrette dressing.
Cook 5 oz lean beef and serve it with 1 cup of mashed potatoes (add 1 Tbsp low-fat milk, 2 tsp margarine for taste). Serve 1 cup of mixed frozen vegetables with 1 tsp margarine. , When eating out, use healthy eating options provided by restaurants to make it easier. Many restaurants have entire sections dedicated to meals under a certain number of calories.If you can’t make up your mind, try a health food finder website to narrow down your list into the most healthy., You’ll need to determine how much food you eat, and the most common measurement for dieting is in ounces. For instance, a handy guide for protein could be started with the options below:A small steak or hamburger is typically 3 – 4 ounces.
Chicken breasts are about 3 ounces.
One egg equals one ounce.
1/4 cup of cooked beans, peas, or tofu is about 1 ounce.
Go easy on the peanut butter! 1 Tablespoon is equal to 1 ounce.

