 At many concerts mosh pits will not be allowed and will be dispelled as quickly as they form. If you are asked to stop moshing, then stop.;
, Starting a mosh pit is probably the most dangerous part of moshing because people can be caught off guard and/or find themselves in the mosh pit against their will. The safest time to start a mosh pit is with a small group of your own friends in the middle of the crowd. This way, all of you are aware of what is happening and not likely to trap a non-mosher in your mosh pit. Others can join when they see the fun, but they will at least know what they are getting themselves into.
 Don't start a mosh pit too close to the stage, as this will decrease the amount of room you have to dance. You still want to be in the crowd though, so that other potential moshers can find you. Look around to be sure no one nearby is likely to be trampled. A mosh pit doesn't always stay within its boundaries, so people around the edges are likely to be bumped around. Be sure none of them are overly scrawny, injured, or very small (including children). It's also wise to check that anyone wearing jewelry does not have spikes long enough to impale you, should you run into them.
 People around you will probably move away until you have enough space to dance and mosh as you please.
 If it is your first time moshing, bring a friend who is strong enough and willing to drag you out if you are injured.
 There is simply no other way to mosh properly. With that in mind, you can either observe the mosh pit for a few moments and wait for a small opening to jump in (like crossing the street, or playing a violent version of jump rope), or you can simply dive in. You are less likely to harm anyone if you enter the mosh pit backwards, seeing as your back is unlikely to cause a lot of damage. As a bonus, you are also less likely to be punched in the face. Grit your teeth as much as possible to avoid biting your tongue when getting knocked around.
 You are always welcome to yell or give a hearty battle cry when entering the mosh pit, although it is unlikely you will be heard if you are at any concert worth moshing at.
 Now, when actually moshing it is easy to get distracted by the sheer joy of it, so try to remain aware of those around you. Feel free to dance as wildly and off-beat as you see fit. Moshing moves are, needless to say, as much from the heart as possible. Don't be surprised to see flailing, kicking, or moves that look suspiciously like football tackles.
 Remember, you are dancing, not fighting. This is surprisingly easy to forget. Think of it rather as a sort of battle-dance, in the sense that your dancing may appear aggressive without actually being intended to cause harm.
 Closed toes are obviously recommended though, to prevent trampled toes. All punches should be aimed over the head, like a fist-pump, so as not to cause injury.
, To help someone out, they may need to lean on your for support, or it may be best to simply protect the injured side of them as they make their way out.
 Be careful when doing this as you will have to lower your head to a level where it could easily be kicked. Try to put most of the mosh pit behind you and bend from your knees, as you are less likely to fall over. Remember to clench your jaw, so that if you are hit in the head you won't bite your tongue.
 If you can shout loudly enough to get other people's attention, then do so. It is likely you will not be heard, but try getting at least one other person's attention to help you protect the unconscious person from getting further trampled, and if at all possible, to get the attention of a security guard.
 This is best done facing the mosh pit with the unconscious person a little behind you. Plant your feet firmly below your shoulders, and bend your knees slightly. When moshers come towards you try to absorb the hit and push them away. Take one step forward and lean into the moshers if you can, as this stance will give more space to the person on the ground behind you and also decrease the chances of you being bowled over by a direct hit.
 Obviously, you should not fall on an unconscious person. Eventually people around should notice the problem and begin clearing away. Speed up this process in whatever way you can, and send someone for help as soon as possible.
 If there is no one else to call the ambulance, then call after finding someone to control the crowd.
 You may find that exiting is difficult, as you are thrown in all directions. Try to find where the nearest edge of the pit is and walk towards it.
 It may help to shift your weight toward the brunt of the mosh pit so you are not thrown off balance when hit.
 Cover your head with your arms and make as much noise as possible, as your greatest danger is being kicked in the face because you are not seen or noticed.
 If it's safe, you can raise an arm over your head to get more attention. It is unlikely that you will be able to crawl anywhere safely, unless you are at the very edge of the mosh pit.
 Remember to continue shouting and trying to get attention until you are safely standing again.
 As your adrenaline is likely quite high, it may be hard to realize you are injured, so it is a good idea to get out and check.
 Make as much noise as possible to get someone's attention.

