 Colleges are the perfect place to recruit volunteers. They have a large population of people who are young, energetic, and generally interested in trying new things.Most campuses have student-run organizations that may align with your cause. For examples, they may have campus Republican or Democrat clubs, an environmental organization, or a social justice group.
Many college students don’t work full-time or even part-time, leaving them plenty of time for volunteering for causes they believe in.;
, Ask the club’s officers if you could come in and give a presentation to their members. Let them know what your goals are, and what you’re working on right now.Student groups often receive funding from the college. Depending on the kind of presentation you’re offering you could ask for reimbursement for your travel or for your time. You could also ask if they’d sponsor snacks and refreshments for the event to help draw a crowd.
Your presentation should address some issues that are important to you, so that the students learn about you and your current campaigns. However, make sure to explicitly include a call for volunteers at the end.
 Student newspapers are great ways to get the word out to a larger segment of the student body. You can contact the journalism department, or the organization that puts out the newspaper to see how to get included.Let the newspaper editor know about your current campaigns and see if they’d like to do an interview or story about your work.
If you’re doing a presentation on campus, ask if the newspaper would like to cover the event.
It may be possible to buy ad space in the newspaper as well, if you’re interested in that.
 College students are always looking for internships. Let the faculty in the political science department know that you’re seeking motivated college interns to help with your campaign.Ask the administration if it’s possible for students to do the internships for credit. This can be a huge motivator for students.
Clearly define what the duties of the internship will be. If the job sounds like an actual learning opportunity, students are more likely to sign on.
 You're likely only going to speak to these students once, so make sure your presentation is very persuasive. Make sure to tell them things that they didn't know, and to present concrete actions that you're going to take to address problems. Let them know exactly how they can help to create this change.


Give examples that will be meaningful to the students, for example, "Did you know that the governor is planning to raise tuition at state universities like this one?"
Offer ways they can help, such as, "We need students across the state to sign petitions and call their state congressmen to prevent these tuition hikes."

