 To get a better idea of how the course content will unfurl over the course of the term, read through the main course materials as outlined in last year’s syllabus or scheme of work. If there is a specific textbook associated with the subject that you’re teaching (e.g. mathematics), review it and take note of how much focus is allotted for different topics. Complete your scheme of work accordingly.For instance, two chapters might be devoted to polynomial functions, while differential equations might only be covered in one chapter.
 If multiple course materials are assigned for a course, decide how much time and academic focus each should be allotted. For example, if various novels or plays are assigned in an English course, give each a sufficient measure of focus. If you add or remove course content, make sure that there is an appropriate amount of reading for each week., Before planning and detailing your scheme of work, get information about the curriculum requirements in place at your institution. For instance, students might have to master a certain set of skills in an introductory course to be prepared for a more advanced course the following year. Ask the school administration, or review the previous instructor’s work and materials to get a better idea of what constraints might be in place.


In addition, look into whether the class could benefit from new course materials and updated unit plans of learning.
 Based on the course materials and grade requirements, write a list of learning objectives for each individual unit and for the course as a whole. Adjust and edit these objectives as you work out time constraints and actionable learning activities, to ensure that you add well-thought out goals to your scheme of work. Make sure that each objective follows the S.M.A.R.T. acronym:Specific
Measurable
Attainable/achievable
Realistic
Time-bound

, Schemes of work are working documents, so you can always collaborate with students or colleagues and adjust the document after the initial copy is produced. This offers the opportunity for you to confer with students about upcoming learning activities and goals, and modify them accordingly. Show students a copy of the first draft of your scheme of work and get their feedback and ideas about how learning should progress.For instance, a teacher may have initially scheduled a brief lecture and note-taking for a lesson on the Cold War, but amends the unit plan to schedule a class discussion instead to defer to the preferences of the class.

