 This is a hollow frame, with no front or back. Use 2x12 lumber (38x286mm) so the target will be deep enough to stop most arrows. The width and height are up to you, but don't go larger than a 3 x 3 ft (0.9x0.9m) shooting area if you want to keep it portable.


For a longer outdoor lifespan, use kiln dried boards, and/or treat them with weather protection.Use longer boards than necessary for the sides, extending them below the shooting area. This lets you raise the target or attach casters to make it more portable.
 Cut a large hole in the board that will form the top of the frame. After assembly, you'll stuff the target through this hole.
 Archery practice puts a lot of force on the target. Fasten the frame with wood screws at least 3½" (9cm) long.For an extra-sturdy frame, run all-thread through the left and right sides of the frame. Tighten with an oversized washer, ordinary washer, and nut in that order. tighten again after your first test shoot, as the frame can jolt out of place.
 Cover the front and back openings of the frame with chicken wire to hold the stuffing. Wrap it around the sides and staple many times to the frame.The chicken wire will bulge over time from the force of the arrows. To reduce the amount of re-packing, you can reinforce with three or four tie-wires on the interior of the chicken wire.
This can be the weakest point in the target. Some people prefer using nylon window screen material.If you'll be using shrink wrap or other stuffing that can come out the mesh reinforce the chicken wire with several layers of thick cardboard.
 You'll need a huge amount of material to stop an average arrow. Here are a few common options, which you may be able to find in bulk at some used stores and rag stores, or by asking for waste at any retail store:


Shrink wrap, foam, plastic bags, or other compressible packing material.
Old carpet, cut into strips the depth of the frame
Blankets, feed bags, burlap sack, and other spare fabric
Shredded rubber (from a landscaping store)
Clothing, after removing all buttons, zippers, metal objects, screen-printed fabric, and anything else that might chip the arrow or melt.Denim, other fabric, or double-layer material (e.g. pockets) may make the arrow stick in the target; avoid it or place it at corners where arrows are unlikely to hit., Pack the stuffing as tightly as you can as you insert it into the frame. Any time you notice a gap, push in smaller scraps of stuffing through the chicken wire or from above. Frequently compress as you stuff with a sledgehammer or other weight, or tie it down with a ratchet strap and tighten periodically., Adding the cover is the final step to a good archery target. The cover will need occasional replacement as it gets beat up, so attach it underneath easily removed 1x4 planks (19x84mm). Here are a few common options:


Weed barrier / ground cloth
Tyvek
Tarps (may be noisy and stain the arrows)