 You may need to search for usable toilets if you are disabled. Disability isn’t well-understood or accommodated in India and the residents have the benefit of using squat toilets their whole lives. This can be a particular challenge for people who have a hard time squatting, such as those pregnant, elderly, or with disabilities. As of 2016, India does not have much in the way of accommodations for these groups, so try to plan out your route before you arrive.Search the Internet for Western toilets and toilets with ramps, handrails, and Braille signs. Ask hotel concierges and city guides where to find accommodations.
Stay near public places such as railway lines. This is where the government has indicated it will improve disability access.
47 newer smart toilets that are handicap-accessible were approved in 2016 for public use in New Delhi. Seek out these once they are built.Children can use the same toilets as adults.;
, Squat toilets in India don’t use toilet paper but rather water to rinse areas that come into contact with wastes. Because toilet paper typically isn't used, a spray hose or a bucket of water is the only source. Sometimes other guests use the water before anyone notices and refills the bucket.


The bathroom should either have a spray hose for cleaning or a bucket of water with a bowl or mug. If there isn’t any water, find a different toilet.
 Hygiene standards in India are spotty at best. Indians use their left hand with water to clean away wastes. If you have to risk using your hand, you’re going to want to choose a toilet that has soap available for use afterwards.


Keep wipes, soap, or sanitizer on hand for such occasions. This reduces your need to search for an alternative bathroom in an emergency.
 This is optional, but putting a little water down before you go helps keep your shoes from sticking to the floor and makes it easier for you to wash away wastes later.


Dip the mug or bowl in the bucket or use the spray hose. Use enough to wet the floor without making the floor slippery. Leave enough water to use on yourself later.
 Beginners especially benefit from removing their lower garments. Some places will have hooks for clothes, but others have pipes and other outcroppings that allow you keep your clothes and valuables from harm.
 The safest way to avoid getting water and waste on your pants and underwear is to remove them entirely. Some bathrooms may have a hook or other place you can hang them. If not, try to find a creative way to wrap them around a pipe or other feature.You can use a squat toilet without removing your clothing. Pull them down around knee length and don’t forget to roll up your pant legs.
If you are wearing a skirt, you can bunch it up in your right hand.
 The toilet forms a u-shape with a hole in the back end. The correct position is similar to the one you would use with a Western toilet. Your back will be to the wall. Align your backside over the hole., There may be foot pads on the side of the toilets. While standing, place a foot on either side with the toilet’s hole behind you. If there are no pads, place a foot on each side of the toilet about shoulder-width apart.
 The toilet functions the same as an upright toilet but has no seat. To find comfortable positioning, bend your knees and lower yourself as if you’re balancing weights on your shoulders until you reach a semi-sitting position.You may be most comfortable with your thighs together and your arms resting on your knees.
 It helps to lower yourself as much as possible. Aim for the hole to avoid as much splashback as possible., You will need about 1 liter (0.3 US gal) of water for this task. Use the spray hose to rinse or take the dipper provided in the water bucket. With your right hand, throw the water up at the dirty areas.In India, it is common to clean with the left hand. When you use your right hand to throw the water, reach between your legs with your left hand. Cup your left hand to collect some falling water and use this to clean yourself.
 If there is toilet paper or you brought your own, don’t put it down the hole. The plumbing isn’t designed to take the paper and you will cause a clog. Some bathrooms include a trash can where you can put the used paper.


If there is no trash can and you have used paper, store it in a bag until you can find a place to dispose it. Bring along a bag for this purpose if necessary.
 If the toilet has a water tank, all you have to do is pull a side handle. Other squat toilets have hanging flush chains. Still others don’t flush at all and require you to take the spray hose or the dipper and pour the water over any waste to wash it away., If there’s a towel or tissues available, use these. Don’t put them down the toilet hole or else you’ll cause a clog. Deposit used tissues in a trash can.


It helps to carry a towel or tissues on your travels along with a bag to store used ones in until you can find a place to dispose of them.
 In some places, soap is provided. Scrub your hands using the available water. If you didn’t check for soap before you started, there’s not much you can do but search for some once you leave.

