 Products include locks for cabinets, outlet covers, corner guards, and furniture straps.;
, Store chemicals, glass, medicines, knives, forks, pots, pans, spoons, spices, and other sharp or hazardous objects away from the reach of children. Instead, put these items in locked cabinets or drawers.
 Areas include bedrooms, bathrooms, hallways, and the kitchen.
 Put knob covers on doors to rooms that are not child-proofed.
, Lock your bi-fold doors and deadbolts. Secure your sliding doors.
 This will help prevent children from falling out of the window.
, Put a childproof lock on it so your children don't take and ruin your documents.
 Put them on a high shelf away from children.
 Purse, wallet or backpack is an exciting new world to any child. The purse itself may not be harmless, but it's all the products inside that are highly dangerous to a child. Anything from loose pennies, cosmetics, pen caps or medications can cause choking or injuring your little one. Therefore, always make sure your handbag is out of reach to your child., Hand-me-down baby gear refers to any baby product that was previously used by another baby. Although it may save you money, it can still cause a safety hazard in the long run. This is because used toys may have broken or loose parts. Make sure you inspect all hand-me-down baby products and check for missing parts before you hand them over to your baby., Many children find stairs to be highly interesting and challenging, and sooner or later would be interested in playing on them. The best advice is to get trusted baby gate and with plenty of them available on the market, it is advised that you check unbiased reviews online before trusting certain brand., Keep at least one hand on your baby when not looking at him or her.

Remove tripping hazards such as cords and toys ·
Pad sharp furniture corners with cushions or foam ·
Change tables should have ends and sides raised at least 100 millimeters to prevent falls ·#* Use a safety gate at the top and bottom of stairs ·
Check for worn-out electrical appliances and cords ·
Have any heaters and fire places fixed to the wall, with fireguard screens ·
Install a fence and gate around any outdoor pool or spa ·
Put sharp tools under lock and key

,

Keep doors leading to any balconies closed at all times; install safety guards and always supervise your child when on the balcony.
Ensure balcony guard rails are at least one metre high; flat solid walls or narrow vertical bars placed no more than 10 centimetres apart are recommended.
Keep furniture, pot plants and any other objects which could be used for climbing away from the balcony edge.

Install a child-resistant handle or lock on the baby’s room.
Use plastic socket covers in any empty electrical sockets.
Avoid loose floor coverings and put anti-skid mats under rugs.
,