 Make sure the cardboard is twice as big than the paper.
Write your story on the pieces of paper. You can either come up with the story or copy a fairytale onto the paper (ex: The Princess and the Pea).
Once your story has been written out, carefully staple the pieces of paper together so that they don't get messed up.
Fold the cardboard in half so it's like a book cover. Then, staple or tape the papers into the cardboard.
Write the title of the book on the front of the cardboard.
 Such an example would be: "I'm a Little Fox" or other books in that series.
You could also try to find smaller versions of children's books, such as "Peter Rabbit".
 Use paper instead of cardboard. Print out pictures of stars onto the paper and staple the pages together.
 You could also just give your teddy bear a large, stuffed animal.
 This will be the body of the stuffed animal.
Glue a slightly smaller pom-pom on top. This will be the head. Allow it to dry.
Glue two, very small pom-poms to the top of the head. These will be the ears. Allow them to dry.
Take four small pom-poms (the size should be similar to the ears). Glue two on the sides of the body for the arms. After the arms dry, glue two on the bottom of the body for the legs. Allow the legs to dry.
Take a medium-sized pom-pom, making sure it isn't too big for the head. Glue it to the head for a snout.
Glue on googly eyes.
Using a Sharpie, draw a smile onto the head of the stuffed animal.

Wash the rock.
Glue googly eyes onto the rock and allow it to dry.

Wash the rock.
Using a Sharpie or a regular marker, draw eyes on the rock.
 You could also use one of the Boscov's necklace boxes.
 Search "cell phone" in images, keeping an eye out for a cool phone that you know your teddy bear would like (ex: iPhone).
Upon finding a picture that shows the phone you're looking for, print it out.
Carefully cut the phone out with scissors.
Glue it to the back of a piece of heavy cardboard.
Cut off any leftover cardboard.
Apply packing tape to the phone so it won't tear.

Purchase a plastic, toy cell phone.
 Place the following into the box:

Miniature pencils
Eraser
Small sharpener
Mini notebook
Mini stapler (optional)
Mini paint set (optional, found in Dollar Stores)



, Place the following into the box:

Travel lotion
Small washcloth
Empty chapstick bottle filled with your favorite creams
Sweet smelling spray



,, Apply it to the box and write "Spa Kit".

