 It's easy to see the principals of evaporation in action by performing this simple experiment. To start, all you'll need is a little ordinary table salt, some tap water, a saucepan, a little black construction paper, and a stove. Add a few cups of water to the pan and place it on a hot burner. Wait for the water to heat — it doesn't necessarily need to boil, but the hotter it gets, the more quickly it will dissolve the salt.


The reason hot water is best for dissolving salt (and other chemicals) has to do with the motion of the molecules making up the water. When the water gets hot, these molecules move faster, running into more salt molecules and pulling the salt crystals apart.;
, Continue adding small spoonfuls of salt and stirring to dissolve them. Eventually, you'll reach a point at which the salt won't dissolve any more, no matter how hot the water is. This is called the water's saturation point. Turn the stove off and let the water cool slightly.


When water reaches its saturation point, it no longer has any ability to dissolve salt at a molecular level — so much salt has dissolved that there is no longer any chemical potential for the water to pull apart new salt crystals., Using a spoon or ladle, pour a little of your salt water over a dark-colored piece of construction paper. Place this paper on a dish to avoid having it soak through to the countertop or work surface below. Now, all you need to do is wait for the water to evaporate. This process will be slightly faster if you leave the paper somewhere the sun's light can hit it.


Don't waste your leftover salt water — there are tons of things you can use it for. For instance, you can use it to poach an egg, boil potatoes, preserve spinach, and even help you peel nuts!, As the water evaporates, it should leave behind miniature salt crystals. These should look like small, shiny, white or clear flakes on the surface of the paper. Congratulations! You've just separated salt from water.


Feel free to scrape a little bit of salt from your paper to season your food — it should be perfectly safe to eat. Be careful not to get any paper shavings in your food, though!

