 If they contact you after the “date,” whether it is the next day or even a few days later, it is a good sign that it was actually a date. Saying something like “I had a great time the other night,” or asking to see you again are good signs it was a date.
 You can check their social media to help you figure out if it was a date. If they post something about the “date,” then it was probably a date. A picture of the two of you on their Instagram captioned “Had a great time last night!” means it was probably a date. If their social media is full of pictures with other girls or guys they seem interested in or they seem like they might be in a relationship, then it might not have been a date.
 If they ask you out again, it was probably a first date and they want to go on another. Even if you are pretty certain it was not a date, it might have been a precursor to a real date. They could ask you out still. They might have wanted to hang out as friends and get to know you before they asked you on a real date.
 If things didn't go as you planned, such as if you thought it was a date but walked away realizing the person clearly isn't interested in you romantically, take some time to deal with your feelings. It's okay to cry, vent in your journal, punch a pillow, eat a bowl of ice cream, and grieve for a little while. Remind yourself that most of the time, rejection doesn't actually have a lot to do with you. Though it might be hard, try not to take it personally.


Sometimes people aren't in a place where they're ready to date.
Think about other people you have loved, valued, and cared about, but have not wanted to date. Now picture that this is how the other person sees you. It doesn't mean there is something wrong with you — you can still be a wonderful, valuable, worthwhile person if this person doesn't want to date you.
Spend time with friends and people who care about you. Do something fun to distract yourself.
Let it go. If the person says they aren't interested in dating you, don't see that as a challenge to change their mind. Respect their decision and their feelings.

