 The most basic proportions are one tablespoon dried or two tablespoons fresh herbs per cup of water. However, the guidelines may vary according to the herb and your taste.Be sure to take the recommended dosages into account when deciding how much of each herb to use in your infusion. Going by weight, the amount can vary from a half gram to five grams per eight ounces of water.
You can also vary the amount according to taste, which may require some experimenting. For instance, if you have a very strong or pungent herb like cayenne pepper or cloves, you will want to use a much smaller amount than you would for other herbs.;
, Be sure to measure the water by ounces or cups to get the appropriate amount and proportion for your infusion.You can use a glass jar, ceramic teapot, or french press. The only requirements are that it is heat-resistant and has a tightly fitting lid.
 Put the lid on your container, and let it sit for 4-8 hours. You can steep it for less time if you’re in a hurry, but most herbs will achieve their maximum benefit after four.Hardier plant parts, such as bark and roots, should be steeped longer than flowers and leaves. Give them the full eight hours.
Consider preparing your infusions just before bed so that they’re ready to drink first thing in the morning.
Letting your herbs steep for much longer than you would for a tea maximizes their nutritional value. For instance, a cup of normal nettle tea provides only about 5-10mg of calcium whereas the same amount of a nettle infusion that has been steeped for four hours contains 200mg of calcium.Plant parts that require simmering instead of steeping to produce tea, such as bark, hard seeds, or mushrooms, are referred to as “decoctions,” not infusions., Use a fine mesh strainer to remove the steeped herbs and plant matter from the liquid. You should have a clear, colorful infusion that’s ready to drink throughout the day.You can reheat it if you’d like to drink it hot. Otherwise, it’s also fine to drink at room temperature or iced.
If it’s too bitter, add a sweetener like honey, stevia, or agave syrup. You can also try mixing it with milk, juice, or sparkling water for a kick.
Refrigerate any leftovers, and drink within 48 hours.

