 The type of legal issue you're facing may be one that heavily depends on state or local law. Depending on the questions you plan to ask an attorney, you may need to speak with someone who practices in your city or state.General questions about personal injury or divorce law, for example, may be possible for an attorney practicing anywhere in the country to answer. However, more specific answers will depend on the law in your state.
If you have questions about wills or estate planning, you typically will need to find an attorney licensed in your state. Different states have their own rules for property, particularly marital property.
Most of the time you won't need an attorney licensed in your state to answer basic questions about contracts. The laws regarding breach of contract are essentially the same nationwide.
If you have a question about federal law, such as employment law or intellectual property law, any attorney in the country who specializes in that area of law can answer your question.;
, Before you consult a lawyer online, assess your situation and figure out exactly how much assistance you need. Which online service will benefit you depends on the questions you have for an attorney and how much work you expect him or her to do for you.There are some websites that focus more on connecting local attorneys with potential clients. If you want an attorney to advise you throughout the course of a legal proceeding, if not represent you in court, you may want to use one of these online consultation services.
On other services, you simply post your question on a forum-like page, and anyone may answer. This may be beneficial if you'd prefer to have several different opinions on your situation at once, but keep in mind you may have to wait awhile before you get an answer.
Asking questions in a semi-public forum won't allow you to have a direct attorney-client relationship with any attorney who answers your question.
Because of the public manner of the communication and the lack of an attorney-client relationship, you follow the advice at your own risk. You'll have to speak to an attorney privately if you expect to have any ability to legally rely on the attorney's advice.
 There are many online directories of licensed attorneys that can help you find names and contact information for people who might be able to assist you. If you've determined you need an attorney licensed in your state, the state bar association often is the best place to start your search.For example, the American Bar Association has a lawyer referral service you can access from the organization's website. After answering a few questions, the service connects you to attorneys in your area who are available to help you.
Many other websites have searchable directories as well as offering online consultation services.
 Many websites offer legal consultation services, some of which are free of charge. However, you need to find out exactly what's offered by each service before you can decide if it will work for you.Think about what kinds of questions you need to ask and whether you want to ask them in a public forum.
There are several websites that offer consultations from attorneys free of charge, but you have to ask your question in a forum that is open to the public.
After you ask your question, you may get answers from several attorneys – but there's never any guarantee as to how long you'll have to wait before you get the answer, or whether the answer you get will be helpful.
If the public-forum approach won't work for you, or if you need an answer right away, you may be better off going with one of the services that allows you to chat online with an attorney directly in real-time.

