 Conflict is a part of a healthy relationship. You and your partner will not always be on the same page. The way you work through your conflicts indicates the health of your relationship.If you and your partner do not fight fair, you are more likely to have trouble down the road.Yelling, insulting the other person, criticizing the other person, and being aggressive are all destructive fighting behaviors that are not good for your relationship.

Active listening, calmly discussing the problem at hand, and being more positive throughout the argument are constructive ways to fight with your partner.
For example, if you have a disagreement about the dishes piling up, an unfair fight might include calling the other person lazy or useless and bringing up something that is not related to the dirty dishes. Instead the argument may be focused on creating some sort of cleaning schedule or finding out if one partner is feeling overwhelmed by other duties and commitments inside and outside of the home.
 Knowing that you can rely on your partner during the ups and downs of life is a good sign that the person is marriage material. You should be able to cope with your partner as life changes.How has your partner supported you through a tough time (e.g. death in the family, medical issue, work or school stress)?
Is your partner receptive to your help?
Do you know how to support and encourage your partner and vice versa?If your relationship has not been tested in this way, use your knowledge of your partner to imagine how the two of you would handle a tragedy.
 Effective communication is a vital for any successful relationship. You should feel comfortable expressing your wants, needs, and emotions to your partner. Your partner should listen to you and respect your view points. You and your partner should be able to laugh together as well as have those uncomfortable conversations.


If you are afraid or nervous to talk to your partner about certain topics, you may not have the type of open communication that is needed. No topic should be off limits.
You and your partner should not keep secrets from each other. You do not want to enter into a marriage being dishonest., Marriage is best if both individuals feel the timing is right. Both partners should feel ready and desire to get married because they have chosen to do so. Factors such as an unplanned pregnancy, family pressure, or peer pressure may make you want to hurry up and get married. However, these are not good reasons to get married.Timing is everything. You can marry the right person at the wrong time.
It is better to wait than to rush into a marriage.
 You should never be pushed or pressured into getting married before you are ready. Ask yourself why you want to marry this person. Are all of your friends married and you feel like you are behind? Have you been with your partner for a long time and feel like marriage is the next step? Do your parents and family members keep asking you when you are going to tie the knot?Write down all of the reasons that you want to get married right now. You may decide that you are ready to get married or that you do not want to get married. You may also decide that you want to marry your partner, but not right now.
You should get married because you believe that you have found the right partner, that the timing is right, you are ready to take your vows seriously, and marrying your partner is in line with your personal goals.
If you find that the majority of your reasons for getting married are due to external factors or a difficult life situation, marriage may not be the best choice for you.

