 This can mean starting online with major travel insurance companies, and then talking to an agent to see what plans are cheapest for your needs. You can use a number of cost comparison sites, as well as looking closely at plans provided by major travel insurance companies like Travelex and Medjet Assist. You'll want to see if they cover rental car protection, trip cancellation or interruption, medical expensesWhen you talk to an agent, you may want to ask, "What does this plan cover? Does it include medical coverage and emergency medical coverage?"
If you want to know about property loss coverage, ask, "How much is covered in terms of property? Do you cover all types of property loss, or are there some situations you won't cover like theft or acts of war?";
, It doesn’t cover every insurance company, so it may be in your best interest to research beyond this. To use the website, simply enter your destination, travel dates, residence (general, not specific), and citizenship. You’ll then input your age (and the age of any other travelers), and the cost of the trip. All of these factors will influence the price of the package.For instance if you are 29, traveling to Spain for a couple of weeks as a US citizen, you can find comprehensive travel insurance for as little as $108. But if you are 35, the same plan costs $123. The cost of the trip and the age of the travelers seem to affect the cost the most.
 Friends can often give us a wealth of information about their experiences with travel insurance (or the lack thereof). This is a great option if you have tons of friends who travel. If you don’t, you may have rely on the online search.Ask your friends, "So, what plans have you used in the past? What did you make sure was included? Were there any times you regretted not having certain coverage?"

, Family travel insurance may be cheaper than buying insurance for each individual. If you are over 65 years old, you could also be eligible for discount travel insurance.You may also want to consider special coverage if you are differently abled.Ask a prospective insurer, "Do you have plans that fit my special needs?" Then proceed to explain what your needs are.
If you are traveling with a wheelchair, you may need a separate plan that covers the entire cost of the chair., If you plan on traveling overseas 2 or more times a year, you may consider annual travel insurance because you may get a better deal. If you only plan on taking 1 or 2 small trips in a year, then single-trip travel insurance may be the better deal for you.If you travel quite a bit, ask your agent, "What deals are there for frequent travelers? What are the rates and perks of your annual plans?"
If you are traveling for only one or two trips in a year, you might ask, "What are differences between the annual plan and the single-trip plan, in terms of perks and rates?"

, See what hidden costs there are with the plan. Some cheaper plans may only cover accidental death or travel interruption. If you get sick abroad, you’ll be wishing you had medical insurance for your trip. Read the options of each policy carefully to make sure you have the coverage you need. Depending on your destination, the time of year, your age and health considerations, the protections you need in your travel insurance policy can vary widely.If you’re traveling with expensive possessions like high-end cameras, jewelry, or laptops, it may be wise to make sure your plan covers the replacement cost of these items.If you are traveling to a dangerous locale, you may want to make sure your insurance covers some war-risk or terrorism protection. Oftentimes, insurance companies will not provide coverage for acts of war.If you want peace of mind on your trip, it may be worth spending just a little more to get the coverage you need.

