 This craft requires a bundt pan and several ingredients, but the results are well worth it. You'll press a birdseed mixture into the bundt pan and let it set, then finish it with a festive ribbon for a pretty item that's ideal for birdwatching enthusiasts and family backyards.


Mix ¼ cup warm water with a packet of plain gelatin, such as Knox, until the gelatin dissolves. At that point, whisk in 3 tablespoons of corn syrup (like Karo) and ¾ cup of flour until you get a thick paste.
Stir in 4 cups of mixed birdseed and keep stirring until everything is worked in well together.
Spray a bundt pan with nonstick cooking spray, and then press the birdseed mixture in evenly around the ring. Let it set for 10 minutes, then shake it out onto a clean surface.

To make the wreath a little more symmetrical, you can replace it upside-down in the bundt pan and press it gently, which will smooth the back edges somewhat. Be careful not to damage the shape of the front of the wreath.


Let the wreath sit aside in a dry place for 36-48 hours. You can make more wreaths during this time if you want.
Once the wreaths are set, cut a long length of thick ribbon and tie it in a loose bow around the wreath to make a hanger.
 Start with a large glass bottle or jug. These can be found in junk and antique shops, as well as from thrift sellers and garage sales. Pick something big enough to make a decent table lamp. Next, buy a bottle lamp kit from a craft store; these vary in price from around $12 – 35. You should at least get a lightbulb assembly with a cork (to fit into the mouth of the bottle or jug) and an AC cord with a plug. Install the kit and finish with a cheap thrift-store lampshade.


Typically, to get the best-looking lamp, you'll have to drill into the glass to run the cord through. Doing this properly requires a power drill and some patience. Be careful to follow all safety instructions and work slowly to prevent shattering the glass.
You can spice these lamps up even further by decorating the interior of the jug before you fasten the lightbulb socket. Try adding pretty stones, or use thin glue and glitter to make the lamp sparkle from the inside. Using colored glass is also a great idea.
 If you can knit, you can earn. Well-made knit items like hats and scarves fly off shelves during the fall and winter months, especially if you make them with luxurious yarn. Find basic patterns and guides at any yarn store, or all over the Internet; practice until you can knit some classic items without any trouble. Be sure to use premium wool, and produce items in a wide range of colors for the best results.


Around the holidays, try knitting some cute ornaments and selling them for a few dollars each. You can use cheap, brightly colored yarn for these, and finish them with a loop of thread or a metal clamp fastener for easy hanging.
 If you've got a culinary inclination and a willingness to cook in big batches, you can make tasty food with a long shelf life and sell packages of it at public events. Bear in mind that to do this, you generally need to clear your cooking facility (your kitchen) with local health authorities first; laws may vary depending on where you live, but always do your research before you start selling food to people. Pay for any required licenses.


Homemade fudge is often a big hit. It's easy to dress up with different types of chocolate, nuts, and food coloring, and it keeps for quite a while. Wrap it in cling wrap by the quarter pound, put a jam jar sticker on it with your name and the name of the fudge, and watch it fly off the shelf at your next bazaar or craft fair.
If you're a meat eater, get in touch with your local meat market and buy a nice big piece of lean meat to turn into jerky. Cut the meat into ¼ inch strips and prepare a marinade on the stove top. Boil the marinade, and drop your meat strips in a few at a time for a minute or two to set the marinade. Remove them with tongs and place them across a clean wire rack in the oven at a very low heat (around 150 degrees Fahrenheit) for 3-4 hours. Turn the strips, then repeat for another 3-4 hours. Once you're done, use a home vacuum sealer to seal your jerky in packages that will keep for many months.

Depending on the meat and the marinade you use, your jerky can have many different possible flavors. Find a few you like and sell them. If you're not sure when you'll be able to get a particular cut of meat again, market it as a “limited time special.”
Get the leanest meat you can. Fat doesn't do well in storage.



