 If you plan on sneaking out of school, you'll need to spend some time familiarizing yourself with your surroundings. This can help you formulate an escape route that will minimize your risk of getting caught sneaking out.


Watch out for cameras. Many schools have security cameras around the school, especially near doors and exits. Be aware of where the security cameras are in your school and how to best avoid triggering them. For example, if you notice a security camera near the front exit you might be able to make use of trees and other shrubs to avoid setting the camera off.Be aware of all possible exits for your school. There may be exits in places you would not expect, such as in the locker room or basement. Try to find an exit that people rarely use. You are less likely to run into a teacher or other student if you leave through an exit that tends to get less traffic.Watch for windows. You want to know where precisely all the windows in your school are located. You do not want to successfully bypass cameras only to be seen by a teacher through the window as you make your way out of your school.;
, Timing is just as important as your escape route. Pay attention to what time might be best to sneak out.


Know when exits tend to be most crowded. If there's an exit near the gymnasium, for example, it might not be a good idea to sneak out when a PE class is finishing. However, you may be able to easily sneak out when a PE class is in session if the doors are closed and you're unlikely to be seen.If your school allows upper class-men to leave campus for lunch and you're still a freshmen or sophomore, you may be able to duck out with the older students. You will not be listed as having left school and therefore no one will look for you when lunch period ends.It may be easier to sneak out during certain class periods depending on the teacher you have. If your study hall teacher does not require hall passes and is usually not particularly attentive, you may be able to sneak out during this class period without anyone noticing., Getting outside isn’t the end of your journey. You will need to pick a route that either keeps you completely out of sight. Conversely, you can also choose a path many people use. This way, if someone sees you there, they may not recognize you or realize that you shouldn’t be there.


You might sneak out when a different part of the school has class change. This way you will be able to blend into a crowd.
You could also choose to sneak out and take a low key route until you're out of sight of the school. If your school is near a wooded area, for example, you could go through the woods., Panicking when sneaking out can cause you to forget certain details. Remain calm despite the pressure of the situation to avoid getting caught.


Learn how to slip into autopilot. If you pay too much attention to your movements when nervous, you're likely to fail. Try to multiply numbers in your head or recite song lyrics as you move your way through the school. This will help you avoid stumbling or walking in an unnatural way that might call attention to you.Breathe normally. When nervous, people often neglect breathing or take sharp, shallow breaths. This can call attention to the fact you're hiding something. Take deep breaths as you would normally. If you notice your breathing becoming labored, pause for a moment to regroup.Try to ignore panic signals or reframe how you think of them. Try to tell yourself sweaty palms and an increased heart rate are not signs of failure. There just signs that you're taking a risk and doing something fun and exciting., Once the teachers turn away, get on your way. It is better to be quick and quiet rather than sprinting loudly out of the school. Keep a faster pace than usual without running or doing anything to call attention to yourself. Be prepared to duck into an empty doorway or stairwell if you hear someone coming down the hallway. Make sure you don’t duck into a spot where there is a camera.
 Once you get outside the school, keep up your vigilance until you're out of sight of school grounds. Watch out for windows, cameras, teachers, and fellow students. Follow the escape route you planned carefully to avoid a snag in the plan.
 Once you're safely away from the school, you should not throw caution to the wind. Try to lay low for the remainder of the day. You do not want to be seen by a parent, friend of a parent, or someone associated with the school taking a break or a day off.
 If you're only sneaking out for a few hours, take precautions when re-entering the school. Try to plan a similar escape route, one involving avoiding cameras and finding less populated entrances. You do not want to get caught re-entering the school after having successfully snuck out.
 Most schools keep track of attendance. If you sneak out, your parents might be notified if your absence is not accounted for. Find a way to come up with an excuse for being gone.


Try a fake phone call. You can call the school from a pay phone or your personal cell phone and claim to be your parent or guardian. However, be careful. Your school may ask certain questions to verify and the receptionist may recognize the sound of your voice.You can also send an e-mail to the school posing as your parents. It's fairly easy to set up an e-mail address using your parents first and last name. However, this method can fail as well. The school may call your home for verification. It may be best to include something like, "I'm at work for the day, so call me at this number instead." Then, put your own cell phone number.
 You may feel inclined to boast if you successfully snuck out of school. However, it's best to avoid bragging as a teacher or school official may overhear. Even if you tell your friends outside of school grounds, they may discuss it at school when you're not around.
 No means of sneaking out of school is foolproof. Even if you take precautions, there's still a good chance you'll get caught. Know the risks of sneaking out in terms of both your school's disciplinary policy and your parents likely reaction. Make sure it's worth the risk before committing to sneaking out.

