 Wash your feet and toenails every day to help prevent odor and fungal infections. You can do this as part of your normal hygiene routine, such as while you are taking a shower or bath. Start by wetting your feet and toenails with warm water.;
, Use your regular soap or body wash to wash your feet. You might also want to use a pumice stone or loofah to scrub away dry, dead skin. A washcloth also works well.Just be careful not to scrub too hard because this can cause damage.


Apply some soap or body wash to your wet feet and then work it into a lather using your hands or a sponge or washcloth. Make sure to run the sponge or washcloth over your toes and toenails as well.
 After you have washed all surfaces of your feet and nails. Rinse away the soap completely under warm water or by immersing them in a tub of clean water., Use a clean, dry towel to pat your feet dry after you wash them. Make sure to dry your toenails and get in between your toes as well., Soaking your feet in warm water can help to loosen dirt and make it easier to clean them thoroughly. It will also soften your toenails, making them easier to clip. To soak your toenails, you can simply use lukewarm water. You can also add essential oils or a small bit of sea salt if desired. Soak your feet and toenails in the water for about 15 minutes., Once you get done soaking your toenails, exfoliate the skin around the nails. Exfoliation is the act or removing dead skin cells from a particular area of the body. This helps rid your feet of dead skin and cleans and revitalizes the area surrounding the toenails.


Use an exfoliating scrub or a nail brush to scrub your toenails.Some people use Epsom salt, sea salt, baking powder or other grainy substances to aid the exfoliation process. There are some beauty store scrubs that come with exfoliating micro beads, but such substances have received some criticism for being bad for the environment and do not necessarily work better than natural textured substances.
Gently massage your toenails and feet with your chosen substance. You might have to use some force to get the skin cells to loosen. Once you are done, rinse your feet off in cool or lukewarm water and dry them throughly., After you finish scrubbing and exfoliating your toenails and feet, dip them back into the water basin to rinse them. If the water is very soapy, then you may need to change it first. Rinse your feet until all of the soap is gone., Your nails and toes need to be dried completely after washing them. Damp feet, especially when placed in shoes and socks, can encourage the growth of fungus. Dry your feet completely with a clean, dry towel. Then, let them air dry for a few minutes before putting on shoes or socks., If you have any stains on your toenails, you may be able to remove or prevent them. Certain common household products may be effective in removing stains on toenails. If you still have stains on your nails after cleaning them, then try using one of these methods:


Hydrogen peroxide can be used to remove stains on toenails. Mix one part peroxide with three parts water. Then soak your nails for 10 minutes and then rinse.Lemon juice has also worked for some to remove stains. Dab a few drops of lemon juice on each nail, let sit for a few minutes, and then brush off with a washcloth.If you paint your toenails, applying base coat before adding polish can help prevent stains in the first place., After your feet are dry, you may also want to apply a moisturizer. It's also a good idea to moisturize your feet daily because feet dry out easily. You can use your regular moisturizer or purchase a special foot moisturizer.Make sure to apply some moisturizer to your toenails and cuticles as well.
 Trim your toenails straight across, but not too short. Cutting your toenails too short or at an angle can lead to ingrown toenails.Keeping your nails at a moderate length can also prevent the development of fungus and other kinds of damage, such as lifting the nail off the nail bed if it gets caught on something.


Always use good, quality nail clippers to trim your nails.

