 The Bible says, "Without the shedding of blood there can be no remission of sins." To require the death of animals and people to remedy disobedience to God seems sick and twisted. How can we be sure of what God's laws really are? How can we be sure that disobedience to God's laws separates us from God? How can we be sure that the shedding of blood will reunite us with God? What are the characteristics of union with God? Why would a God of love require destructive and wasteful death to restore a broken relationship with mankind?;
, In the biological arena the vast majority of organisms naturally operate based on self-preservation mechanisms but human beings have the option of choosing to deviate from this norm. Self-love is ineffably beautiful and whilst many religions promote ethical philosophies of concern for others this latter noble aspiration does not warrant tarnishing the elementary virtue of concern for one's own well being. To survive any mistake is to have the opportunity to learn from it and organisms tend to grow stronger over time because of the challenges of life. The possibility of the absence of any benefit makes its presence more valuable and love is most notably measured in time allocated to beneficial suffering. Pride can help to prevent a fall and shame can help to motivate a person to climb higher. It may be argued that the ubiquitous characteristic of balance makes existence richer and the beauty of the night sky is evidence that light and darkness can sublimely coexist.
 Why do people think that God answers prayers if so many prayers are seemingly unanswered and for the ones that are seemingly answered there may be a natural explanation for the results obtained? There is a practical, down to earth method of attaining almost everything that can be conceivably requested from a potentially intervening God with enough time and effort. It is possible to conclude from personal observation and personal experience that maybe the various aspects of the Universe which have opportunely fallen into place have done so because of a divine plan as opposed to blind chance but this does not automatically suggest the existence of a prayer-answering divine being although it does suggest the possible existence of a deity and that a noble lifestyle is inherently possible for the majority of humanity based on the intelligent configuration of the Universe.
 Most religions believe that their deity has given them free will to choose paths and actions, but also ascribe omniscient knowledge to the same deity. If a deity knows everything, that implies they already know what will happen in the future. Regardless of how you choose to act, the deity will already know what your every single thought will be throughout your entire lifetime. Those two concepts are mutually exclusive. If they deity knows everything you will think and do, there is no free will. If it doesn't, then it is not omniscient and is not a "god". If there is no free will then this means that determinism is true and that all credit and blame for all aspects of existence should be ascribed to the laws of nature or their potential divine author. Some people are of the view that even if there is no free will that a determined response trumps a random response because there are standards.
 Why do people believe that the humanly impossible takes place? Why aren't there ever clear before and after depictions to verify the occurrence of such alleged miracles such as a perception of a person before and after the spontaneous regeneration of a limb? In the absence of such the evidence for miracles is weak at best.
 Our awareness vacillates between the realm of the brain and the realm of the body but what evidence is there for any other realm of existence? When a person dies the voice is silenced and the body is stilled and what about this suggests that something continues to exist subsequent to expiration as opposed to the awareness being extinguished in a manner akin to the outage of the flame of a candle. Out-of-body experiences may require an active brain to occur if they do in fact occur as opposed to being very vivid dreams so this is inconclusive.
 What about the Bible suggests that God may have personally influenced the contents of such. It contains potentially accurate and inaccurate accounts of history, poetry, advice, vague and questionable so-called prophecies all from the Judeo-Christian culture but nothing resembling a divine signature. Do people simply believe that the Bible contains information intended by God to be in it simply because it says so and why should it be believed? Any text with some amount of useful information is worth keeping around for generations so its longevity should not be construed as proof of its divinity.
 There exists mystery but there also exists a rich nature from which to extrapolate. Whether a person believes that God or the universe is the first cause it can be reasonably advanced that life emerged from a source of dignity, rationality and creativity. Sophistication of form and function is usually the result of conscious intention as opposed to blind accidents. However, the catch-22 is that the original intender is presumed to be sophisticated in form and function hence the cause and effect are mutually dependent with unexplained sophistication. If the universe is eternal then this obviates the possibility of a divine creator. Faith in a divine source is still not rendered so fragile though because important questions are unanswered.
 The only recourse for an atheist is to assert that we are lucky to be alive whereas a deist is at liberty to credit a god with the existence of life and the universe although some people may hold the view that a non-intervening deity is a useless deity. However, it is a matter of connecting dots and the universe and life overwhelmingly appear to be the product of a rational mind and will whom deists identify as the divine creator who wound up everything and left it all to majestically unfold.

