 Many patients with fibromyalgia have other sleep disorders that are independent conditions and can be addressed accordingly.See a sleep specialist to determine whether you have restless legs syndrome or sleep apnea.
Deal with other sources of nighttime discomfort or disturbances to help cope with the fatigue associated with fibromyalgia or fibromyalgia-like symptoms.
 Almost everyone endures headaches from time to time, but those who suffer from fibromyalgia may get headaches – and even migraines – with particular regularity.Talk to a health care professional about frequent headaches. They may be able to help you identify whether you’re suffering from tension headaches or temporomandibular joint issues (commonly referred to as TMJ).
Address specific types of headaches according to the associated recommended treatments.
More than half of a patients with fibromyalgia have headaches. These headaches include tension and migraine headaches. Fibromyalgia is correlated with an increased frequency of headaches.
 Aside from those symptoms that are used to help diagnose fibromyalgia, there are other conditions that are commonly experienced by those who suffer from fibromyalgia.If any of the following occur, be sure to mention them to your doctor:


Irritable bowel syndrome, commonly referred to as IBS.
Sensitivity to temperature changes.
Inexplicable weight gain loss.
Feelings of weakness, or struggles with balance.
Hearing and vision problems.
The onset of previously absent allergic reactions, and sensitivity to chemicals.
Heart palpitations, heartburn, and low blood pressure.
Interstitial cystitis or painful bladder symptoms
Facial and jaw pain and tenderness caused by TMJ

, Although anyone can get fibromyalgia, the condition is most commonly observed in women of childbearing age. It is important to note that men, as well as the elderly and even children can suffer from fibromyalgia as well.Note that a malfunction in the central nervous system is the main determinant of fibromyalgia, and that stress and other psycho-behavioral factors are significant factors in the advent of fibromyalgia.
If coping with depression of anxiety, see a mental health professional to help you address any sources of mental, emotional, and physical discomfort.
Addressing mental health issues will potentially reduce the symptoms of fibromyalgia!

