 The board is restricted by stops, but is not locked in as it is in Method 1. Spotter or assistance is recommended for beginners.
 This will feel very much like skiing. It employs the same basic concept as the Indo and Bongo Boards. Place your feet on the board boarder-style and then shift your body weight to the raised side of the board. The board will tilt and the roller will move back and forth between the stops on the bottom of the board. This is great fun and when you bend knees and lower your body weight, it becomes even more challenging.
 Keep feet on opposite sides of roller, falls likely if both feet are on same side of roller.
,,,, Extension and flexion of calves and centering of body weight with little risk of falls.
 Make sure the 1/2 pipe stays in knock outs and test by placing one foot atop the board and pushing on the board. If it fits correctly the board and 1/2 pipe will move as one unit. You can ride this set up in-line skater/skier and boarder style. You can even do basic kick turns while riding boarder style by pivoting on one end of the board similar to skateboarding.
,, Improves lateral shifting of body weight and basic sense of balance. Place the 1/2 pipe perpendicular to the length of the board, open side facing the ground or the rounded part touching the board.
 Approach the board from the middle of the length of the board and place one foot on at a time. It will rock laterally. Try to keep the board centered or level so that neither side touches the ground. Benefits- Encourages a natural bend to knees and keeping body weight centered and lateral movement awareness.
 Place feet in the center of the board so it rocks toward your toes and heels. This has skier type feel and also helps develop a good "ready position".
,,, You can either place the board and pipe set as in method #3 on top and then step on the board or you can start riding boarder style and pivot or kickturn to basically climb on top of the 1/2 pipe. This will add challenging angles to balance on and interact with.

