 Think about what you should say to your crush before you get them talking. Have a certain topic in mind that you’d like to discuss, and be prepared to answer any question he or she might ask about you. That way, you’ll be primed and ready to make a good impression during your first interaction, and you’ll have less chance of being caught off guard.Be ready for whatever turns your first meeting may take. Your crush might be tired, busy, distracted or nervous, and these moods can affect the way he or she comes off.
 One surefire tactic for keeping someone that you’re talking to for the first time interested is focusing the conversation on them. Typically, it’s easier for people to talk about themselves because they already know what to say. Show an interest in your crush and let them talk about themselves, relating to them when you can. This will also give you a chance to get to know a little more about them.Ask questions. It’ll make your crush feel like you have a genuine interest in them, and it can also take some of the pressure of thinking of things to say about yourself.You should talk about yourself, of course, but don't steal the floor entirely. Try to keep things even, or let him or her take over and guide the conversation.
 Listen when your crush talks about his or her hobbies, interests and preferences and see where they overlap with your own. The more things you discover you have in common, the more the two of you will have to talk about. Finding common ground could even help create an opportunity for a date or more casual hangout later on.Some good topics for finding out what you have in common are what classes you’re taking, movies, music, sports, family and your plans for the weekend.
 Keep track of how long you’ve been talking to your crush to make sure you’re not holding them up, and pay attention to when they seem to be losing interest. Unless you really hit it off, your first couple of interactions might not last too long, and it’s better if you can lend yourself a sense of mystique and leave them wanting more. Excuse yourself with a phrase like “talk to you later” or “text me sometime” (you'll want to make sure they have your number first) to let your crush know that you want to talk to them again.Get a feel for natural lulls in the dialogue and look for an opportunity to make a smooth exit when things start to slow down, just as you made a smooth entrance.Don’t ramble on and on. The last thing you want to do is bore your love interest.

