 This means that the only reason your team will lose is by their own fault. They can't blame you.;
, If you see a person moving up a passage towards where you are, it is fine to slip round a corner and hide so you can get a kill on them. This is 'productive camping'. Camping is wrong when you sit in a place just hoping that someone will come. This wastes time that you could use getting more kills.
 This is especially important on The Pit. About 3 out of 4 people go to the rockets. If you get camo, you can take out at least two of them using grenades before even getting noticed.
 You should always have a BR in your hands anyway. But if you throw a grenade and then BR someone once in the head, they automatically die. So look on the radar and throw a grenade where they are going to be. If they have started shooting you, don't throw the grenade.
 They are the most powerful grenade and they can get sneaky kills in tight situations. If you just killed someone and have no shield, and someone else starts to come towards you, stick them so you get an extra kill before you die.
 You should always swap to another weapon if you are planning on going close range. When you are in aim with someone running towards you, move right and left with the left analogue. Then whenever their head passes the crosshair, have a pop. It means you are a moving target and it means that whatever your control sensitivity, you'll always move left and right at the same pace.
 Just don't. Unless you are on Sandtrap, it isn't even worth having as a second weapon.
, as they come round, blast them into Master Chief sized nibblets.
 If you have just seen someone a way away, switch to your sniper and take them. DO NOT walk around with one out because you have a low chance against anyone at close range.
 Lots of people at shield doors melee each other once and then try to shoot. It is quicker to just melee a second time.
 This will support your team as well as getting some kills.
 That is why you have a BR - to walk around the side of the big fights and BR people from the side where they aren't looking.

