 Menopause is just a time period which covers the 12 months during which a woman no longer menstruates.After that year has passed, a woman is postmenopausal. Perimenopause occurs before menopause, when the body begins to transition into infertility, and you may begin experiencing symptoms of menopause, such as hot flashes.The process of menopause can take a number of years.


In the perimenopausal time, a woman’s ovaries begin to decrease the production of the reproductive hormones, estrogen and progesterone. The average age when the last period occurs is 51 years; however, women can begin the perimenopausal time anywhere from two to 15 years prior to that.Menopause can also occur after a total hysterectomy, after some forms of cancer chemotherapy or radiation therapy, and as a result of primary ovarian insufficiency., Menopause has common symptoms; however, the list of symptoms that women experience is extensive and often very individual. Women go through a number of different changes in the perimenopausal period, and the symptoms may vary depending on a large number of factors. No matter your symptoms, you can find relief. It may be as simple as using exercise to deal with hot flashes or using lubricants to help with painful intercourse. The most common symptoms during perimenopause are:Irregular periods
Vaginal dryness
Hot flashes
Night sweats
Sleep problems
Mood changes
Weight gain and slowed metabolism
Thinning hair and dry skin
Loss of breast fullness
Many of these symptoms can indicate thyroid problems, which is one of the most underdiagnosed conditions in women. It often occurs at the same time women begin the menopausal transition. Make certain your physician does a blood test to determine if your thyroid is functioning well.
 Hot flashes generally occur in the upper part of a woman’s body. Most often they occur on the face, chest, breasts, and neck. You may feel suddenly or progressively as though you are overcome by an intense heat from your body, which may be incredibly uncomfortable. Your skin may redden and you may begin to sweat. Hot flashes generally last for a few minutes.


Hot flashes are not well understood, but are thought to be caused by changes in the body’s thermostat and that these hypothalamic changes are brought about by the hormonal fluctuations that occur during perimenopause, particularly changes in estrogen. Testosterone and other factors, including endorphins released during exercise, can play a role as well.You cannot predict or control when hot flashes strike. Easing or reducing their occurrence with exercise can help you feel you have at least some control over the situation. Strength training in particular can help build a sense of control and empowerment as you become stronger and more coordinated.

