 For this, you will need a large flashlight battery (the type used for searchlights), a glass (NOT plastic) cup,  about half a metre (roughly 20 inches) of copper wire, 1 tablespoon of salt, a piece of cardboard or stiff paper and tape.;
, Set the glass on a flat and stable surface. Put in the tablespoon of salt and 300 milliliters (10  fl oz) of water into the glass and stir until the salt is completely dissolved.
 This is the first of the semi-dangerous steps, use caution. Poke two wires through the cardboard or stiff paper then affix it to the top of the glass with 1.5cm (.6in) in the water-salt mixture. The paper should cover as little of the glass as possible to allow ventilation. Attach one of the wires to the positive and one of the wires to the negative, be sure to not cross unexposed sections of the wire and do not touch both wires yourself.
 You will notice bubbles appearing on the two nodes (wire tips) in the water. The one attached to the positive wire is oxygen with hydrogen on the negative. Hydrogen is flammable and oxygen is part of the fire triangle but in this small of a concentration, there is no risk of deflagration. As the bubbles grow and leave, more and more NaOH is formed.
 Remove the electrical assembly and remove the wires from the battery.
 NaOH is soluble in water, its dissolution is what is called an aqueous solution, meaning that the NaOH and water molecules are bonded. The mixture you have is less than 15% NaOH, meaning that what you have is heavily diluted.
 The best way to remove NaOH from water is boiling. Water boils at 100°C (212°F), while NaOH boils at 1.388°C (2.530°F), so boiling is a logical solution.


Put the solution into a stainless steel, platinum or titanium evaporating dish (NO aluminium, it will melt) and boil the water underneath a fume hood. Do NOT do this in a kitchen, outdoors or in a non-chemically designed ventilation area. As the water boils off, NaOH is left behind.
NaOH Time. This is extremely dangerous. You now have an upwards of 65% NaOH solution. You can severely burn yourself. NaOH is an extremely basic solution that will cause severe chemical burns if allowed to contact your skin. Use chemical gloves (these are not regular kitchen gloves) while handling.
 To get NaOH from your prep area to your lab, the utmost safety is key. Purchase a new chemical container rated for NaOH (rating systems vary per country) and using a chemically approved funnel while wearing your gloves AND underneath the fume hood, slowly pour the cold NaOH into the container. Discard any extra to the lab-provided waste container.
 This is the most risky step as not only is the safety of your lab and you at risk, but everyone between your start and destination. Using a trolley is recommended as it is more stable, walk slowly and crawl around corners. Safety is key. Place the NaOH container into a larger, waterproof and chemically rated container that is visibly marked with at least:


'HIGHLY BASIC'
'HIGHLY CORROSIVE'
'NaOH'
'LYE'
'CAUSTIC'
Or however is required by your nation or laboratory entitative government.

