


At this point, you're probably not shooting for something mind-blowing and original.



If you Google your topic, you're sure to get a lot of information quickly, but databases available via your library's website will have the most accurate and acceptable-to-professors/teachers information.
Make sure to list the web address of information you might use in a word document as you go along so you don't lose it (and you can turn that into your bibliography page, if you add a little more info!)
Skim sources and grab and pull quotes that you can use in your paper as you go along.



As you go to write, you can fill in sentences where you previously had an idea.
 for the style that you are using.


Be sure to check your outline or ask your teacher/professor what format you're using. Some require title pages while others need the title information on a header or in the top left/right corner.
Double-space your paper from the very beginning. If you are using a citation format that requires footnotes, if you single space everything and then double space it at the end you will have to spend A LOT of time going back and making sure the sentence you were citing is still on the same page as the citation itself!
Create a Works Cited or Bibliography page if you don't have one yet - Don't wait until later to make one, it will be time consuming and a lot harder.



Write a thesis statement in your opening paragraph.

This should include or hint at everything you plan to talk about in your paper.


Your thesis and first sentence should also be interesting and attention-grabbing. Make it so your professor wants to read your paper.
Make sure you include a lot of citations within your paper. It is usually mandatory, it will make your paper longer.

Say something about EACH and EVERY citation that you use. If your teacher doesn't know why you used a citation because you don't have an explanation for it, it will look like you were just sticking random quotes in.


For your last paragraph rewrite your first paragraph. Word it a little differently, and give it a good conclusion statement.

Did you add other things to your paragraph that weren't listed in your thesis?
Add or Subtract from your thesis to accommodate what you actually wrote!

, Here is a good website for citing papers. http://www.dianahacker.com/resdoc/

Have someone look over it for you.

