 The XP installation CD includes an Upgrade Advisor that will check the computer to make sure it has enough hard drive space and memory to accommodate Windows XP and that hardware is supported. You can also find the system requirements and other information about how to clean install Windows XP on the Microsoft website.;
, It's important to have backups of files and access to program installation CDs.
 Type in the key to enter the BIOS; this is normally a function key such as F1. Check the boot sequence, and make sure the computer is set to boot from CD before the hard drive.
 This is typed on the CD cover or included on a sticker on the computer. You will be able to bypass giving the product key during installation, but later on, you will be required to activate your windows, which needs a genuine product key.
 Turn on the computer. Wait for a message to "press any key" to start Windows installation, and hit a key on the keyboard.
 Press the requested key to agree to the license. Wait for the installation to scan for previous versions of Windows.
 If you have more than 1 partition, make sure it is the partition that contains your current Windows installation. Select "D" from the screen. Follow the prompts to verify deletion of the partition. At this point, all files and data have been deleted from the system. Then follow the prompts to create a new partition. Choose NTFS for the type of partition, unless you are dual booting to an operating system that uses FAT.



Enter the product key.
Enter a computer name and user name.
Set or verify time and language settings.
Enter network information to join a network; you can do this later if the network interface card has not been detected.
 Check to see that all hardware has been detected and is working. You may have to install drivers for audio, video, networking and system board from the computer manufacturer's CDs. Reinstall anti-virus software and previously installed programs.
 If the computer is part of a network, click network properties. Click "join a domain," and enter domain and user information. Set up static IP addresses, gateways and DNS servers if necessary.
