 Eye contact, a channel of kinesics, is the primary way that people communicate dominance. People establishing dominance will take the liberty of staring at and surveying others while making direct eye contact. They will also be the last person to break eye contact.If you're looking to assert your power, keep in mind that constant eye contact can be intimidating., A person asserting dominance will also refrain from smiling in order to communicate seriousness and may instead frown or purse his lips., Gestures can display dominance; pointing at others and using large gestures is a way to show others your status. In addition, when someone takes a wider and taller stance while also being relaxed, this is another show of dominance.Dominant individuals will also have a firm handshake. They will usually place their hand on top with their palm facing downwards; the grip will be firm and sustained in order to demonstrate control., Those with high status will generally enable more physical space to exist between themselves and lower status people. High-status individuals will also take up more physical space to show their dominance and mastery of the situation.In other words, an expansive pose signals power and achievement.Power is also displayed through standing versus sitting. Standing - and particularly in the foreground - is seen as a more powerful pose.A straight back and strong shoulders kept back, rather than hunching forward, further conveys confidence. Slouching and slumping, by contrast, convey a lack of confidence.Dominant individuals will also lead from the front and walk ahead of the group or go through the doors first. They like to be up front., People asserting their status will have more options when it comes to touch because they feel more confident in their position. Generally, in an unequal situation where one person has a higher status, he will touch the lower-status person with greater frequency.In social situations where both communicators have equal status, both people will reciprocate touch in similar ways.