 While you might think that clothing choice and hair styles are strictly superficial considerations, studies have shown that these small choices can have a big impact on your emotional state and sense of well-being.Getting a new, sassy haircut or overhauling your wardrobe can make your whole life feel refreshed and renewed, so don't dismiss the importance of personal style when trying to change your life. Even a bright new accessory can make a difference.


Consider dying your hair a fun, non-traditional color if you really want to shake up your look and the way others perceive you. The stigma of punky, bright hair has largely faded, but the bright color can still make you feel bold and unique.Start off with a demi-permanent dye if you're hesitant and you won't have to worry if you don't like it.;
, Some aspects of your daily routine are non-negotiable: just because you’re feeling bored, you can’t stop brushing your teeth, paying bills, or cleaning the house. This doesn’t mean you’re doomed to a life of drudgery, though. You can spice up your life by changing the way you do these daily tasks.


For example, try listening to music while brushing your teeth, getting ready in the morning, and sitting in traffic during your commute. This little change can make a huge difference to your day, energizing you for any challenges you might face as well as de-stressing and distracting you from the daily grind.Get yourself excited for household chores by listening to an audiobook or podcast, or arranging for an incentive like a yummy dessert or shopping trip after you’ve finished.
 You might be feeling blasé about your life because you’re not devoting enough time to recreational activities. All work and no play makes anyone a dull boy, so make sure to incorporate some time each day—even a half hour makes a difference!—to things you love. Not only will it make you feel more satisfied with life, it’s also been shown to have numerous mental and physical health benefits.Enjoyable hobbies don’t have to be expensive or difficult. Little things like reading books, going for a swim, walking around the neighborhood, watching a favorite television show, or chatting with friends can make a big difference in lightening up your day.
 Experimenting with new recipes and trying new cuisines can make you feel like you’re traveling the world and being adventurous without setting foot outside of town.Pick up a world cuisine cookbook and assign yourself a new country to ‘visit’ every week, or make a list of all the international cuisine restaurants in your area and try to check one off each week or month.


If you’re picky about restaurants and rarely find a new one you like, mix up your routine by ordering new things from your favorite place. You’ll be surprised how many things you’ve never tried on even the most familiar menu, so add some tasty variety to your life by simply changing up your order!
If you love to cook at home but don’t have access to some of the more exotic ingredients new recipes require, consider trying a subscription cooking box that sends you original recipes and ingredients every week.
 You do things every day which you enjoy and find relaxing, such as having a cup of coffee or indulging in a post-workday glass of wine, but you can amp up the impact of these routine activities by creating elaborate rituals around them. This will transform a passing pleasure into a celebrated ritual which you look forward to and cherish. Studies have even shown that daily rituals can make someone perform better at work and cope with personal problems more quickly and effectively.For example, if you enjoy your morning cup of joe, buy yourself a French press and a novelty coffee mug and wake up fifteen minutes earlier each day so you can relish the activity even more than usual.
If one of your favorite ways to relax is taking a long bath, pick up some bath time accoutrements like bath bubbles, a waterproof media player, and aromatherapy candles. What was once a simple, largely utilitarian part of your day will become a luxurious appointment devoted to “me-time.”

