 Fill a large saucepan or stockpot about 1/2 to 2/3 full with water. Heat the water on high until it reaches a boil. Add a dash of salt to the water, if desired.


Adding salt to the water will draw out more flavor from the cauliflower. You could add it before the water reaches a boil, but doing so will cause the water to take a little more time to reach its boiling point. As a result, you may find it more beneficial to add it after the water has already begun boiling.
 Cook the cauliflower, uncovered, until it becomes tender.


The cauliflower must be tender enough to pierce with a fork.
 Once the cauliflower is adequately cooked, pour the contents of the stockpot or saucepan through a colander to separate the water from the vegetable.


Throw the drained cauliflower back into the still-hot saucepan. Let it sit, removed from the heat of the stove, with the lid on for 2 to 3 minutes.
 Place the ingredients in a microwave-safe bowl and heat, uncovered, for about 1 minute on full power.If you are concerned about food splatters, lightly cover the top of the bowl with a paper towel before you microwave the coconut milk mixture. Doing so will prevent most splatters without interfering with the heating process.
Note that you could also heat these ingredients in a small saucepan on the stove for the same amount of time.
 Meanwhile, transfer the cooked cauliflower to a food processor and puree on medium to high speed until whipped and smooth.


As you process the cauliflower, you may need to scrap down the sides of the food processor with a spatula periodically to ensure even blending.
You could use a blender instead of a food processor, if necessary.
 Once the cauliflower reaches your desired consistency, add the warm coconut milk mixture to the mashed cauliflower and pulse for 10 seconds.


The coconut milk mixture will make the cauliflower creamier, but it must be evenly blended into the cauliflower.
 Mashed cauliflower is best enjoyed while still warm. Top with butter, additional pepper, or chives, as desired.

