 If you brought your battery home and kept it on a trickle charger, all you have to do is put it back in and reconnect the terminals.


If not, depending on how long it's been, your battery might be very dead, or even unusable.
If the battery was left connected to the car, look for signs of corrosion.
Clean up any corrosion as needed, paying attention to the terminals and cables as well.
Pull the battery all the way out and make sure it did not leak acid and disintegrate the metal underneath it.
Once your battery and battery housing have been revitalized or replaced, go ahead and connect your battery charger.
 While you are still under the hood, check the oil, keeping in mind that a cold read (before the car's engine has heated the oil) will show the oil level as being a little low.


For now, just make sure there is some oil left in the engine.
Unless you found a large puddle of oil underneath, there should be some left.
Also check for any milky residue on the dipstick, which can indicate the presence of water in the engine.
If you find this type of residue, clean the dipstick and check again.
Pull the oil fill cap and check for this milky film.

If your oil is caramel or black you are probably fine, even if a little contamination shows up at first.
If the oil itself is milky, pasty, frothy, or full of bubbles, you should consider an oil change as soon as possible, and probably even a full oil flush at the first possible opportunity.
 Go through the same fluid checking process with your automatic transmission fluid, if your car has an automatic transmission.


Transmission fluid is sometimes called 'cherry juice', and that's what it should look like.
If you see any foaming, milkiness, or dark or blackish color, get a transmission flush at your earliest opportunity.
Other than looking for water contamination, just check to make sure there is some fluid present before starting your car.
 When checking for coolant, you want to see a full level, but most importantly you want to see a clean green (or orange, or red, depending on the car and which kind of antifreeze it takes).


Your coolant liquid should have no sign of any oil slick, brown, white, or black residue floating in it, or flakes and motes, which could be rust or indicative of some sort of stop-leak additive.
If the coolant level is low, top it off with distilled water.
Avoid using tap or hose water, and remember to add antifreeze in a similar proportion at some point.
 Check your break fluid and power steering reservoir levels, and make sure they are full.


These should show full levels, and if they do, you can cap them.
If not, you must replenish them before starting your car.
 Lastly, peek around for places where oil may have leaked, dripped, or seeped.


Sitting in storage, oil gaskets can dry out, and cause leaks.
You might not see them immediately, but take a look just to be sure there isn't a glaring problem that you have to deal with immediately.

