 It can be hard to get your head around all the possibilities with the manipulation of its sound and performance. There are a lot of things about a guitar that affect its sound. Some only have a fairly small effect, like what capacitors are used inside your guitar and some are fairly relevant, such as the wood of the body and general build of such parts. However, the most important factor influencing your guitar's sound is the pickups. These are magnetized objects that generate a small signal when there is a disruption to their magnetic field, which is usually caused by the vibrations of the strings. This signal then travels around many coils of wrapped wire inside the pickup. It will eventually reach an amplifier where the signal is increased, and then can be heard through speakers. Because the generated signal is essentially what you hear coming out of the amplifier, the build of the pickup and its unique features are important. A variety of factors influence the tonal quality of the pickup, including materials used, the type of magnet used, the material of the wires, the length of the wires, how the wires are wrapped, the overall size of the pickups, where they are positioned on the body, their age and condition and the actual structural layout of the guitar. There are many more variables of the pickup's design that will influence the signal it creates from the vibrations of the strings. That is why there are so many choices when it comes to pickups, and any of these factors can contribute to various problems.;
, Gather company based information, which often includes a description of the sound, what genres of music it was designed for (although this is obviously not restrictive) and sometimes scales on 1 to 10 or similar devices that display the pickup's frequency responses for bass, mid and treble ranges. On some occasions, you may be able to find sound clips and demos of the pickup being used. YouTube and similar sites also have other demos and audio reviews contributed by the general public. All of this information is important in the decision-making process but shouldn't be solely relied upon.
 Ask your local guitar store if they have guitars with any of the pickups you are interested in, and most guitar shops will let you audition them in the store. In most cases, this is encouraged, and they are usually willing to let you try some equipment in the shopping stages to help you out. It is courteous to buy the pickup from their store if you want to buy it and they have it in stock. Aesthetic value is something that to some, is also an important factor in choosing pickups, however many consider the sound of the pickups to be the most important quality of the devices.
 If you're not sure where to even start with considering possible pickups for purchase find a musician or a band where there is a guitar that you would like to own the sound and tonal capabilities of. Doing this will narrow things down greatly because once you have an example sound in mind, you just need to follow that example. For instance, if you had decided you would like your guitar to sound similar to Steve Vai's guitar you could do some celebrity research and find out what his pickups are used for that song. Even if you don't want those exact pickups, it will help you decide between types of pickups such as humbucker, single coil or P90 etc.
 A general rule is that for warmer, fuller, louder and fatter tones humbuckers are better suited. For brighter, thinner and with a set of 3 being used, more universal guitar sound, single coils are better suited. But within these types there are again many, many possibilities and variations. So there are some methods to helping choose pickups, and some important things to keep in mind.
 One last major factor involved is the operation means of the pickups. Pickups will either be passive or active. There are also more complicated ways of pickups operating but these are often very high tech ways that will carry very unique properties. Most pickups are passive. Passive pickups require that the guitar is plugged into an amplifier that is connected to a power supply, since the pickups themselves do not provide any means of pre-amplification to boost the signal they capture. Active pickups have a built-in power supply within the guitar, and most are powered by a 9 volt battery, or similar. This allows for more expansive control over the guitar tone when using the on-board controls (volume knob, tone controls, pickup selectors, etc.) although many say there is also a distinctive difference between the sounds of active and passive pickups which can be hard to resolve, even with other tonal controls.
 Another important point to remember when searching for the right pickup is what the instrument is or is not capable of. Certain guitars are designed for specific acoustic or tonal qualities, and this will affect the way a pickup interacts with the sound created by the guitar. Electric guitars typically have solid bodies and will produce very different vibrations than an acoustic guitar. While electric guitars function primarily through the string vibrations because they do not produce strong acoustic sound, there are also subtle effects on these vibrations created by the material of the guitar itself (the type of wood or synthetic material it is constructed with). An acoustic guitar creates audible sound through the shape of its body, and produces sound by capturing and amplifying the actual sound waves as they move the air in and around the body. As such, the same pickup would react very differently when used for an electric guitar and an acoustic guitar. The same is true for all guitars that are constructed differently.

