 Privacy boundaries aren’t just with things like keeping your cell phone private or not listening into phone calls. Privacy also deals with your personal space and sexual boundaries. You should share with your partner what physical and sexual things you are comfortable with and what you aren’t.For example, you may not feel comfortable taking a shower or going to the bathroom with your partner in the room. Certain parts of your body may be private and you may not want your partner to touch them. Make sure your partner is aware of this.
You may have privacy boundaries that are different when you and your partner are in public than when you and your partner are alone. You may be okay with kissing or touching when alone but not comfortable with doing that in public.
You can say, "I love it when you kiss me and touch me when we are home. However, I do not like it when you touch me in an intimate way when we are in public. That violates my privacy boundaries." You may also say, "I do not mind you coming into the bathroom if the door is open. However, if I have closed the door, do not come into the room. If you need me, knock and I will answer you."

, Social media, cell phones, and other technology open up many different ways your privacy can be violated. You and your partner should discuss what is appropriate to share and what you do not wish to be shared.This can include anything. Make sure to let your partner know if and what photos are appropriate to post, if they can tweet or post about the relationship, if they can tag you in photos or posts, and if they can follow your friends and family.
You should also discuss your boundaries about sexting or revealing photos.
For example, try saying, "I do not want you posting pictures of me on social media unless I okay them first" or "Please do not sext me. I am not comfortable with that."

, Just because you and your partner are in a relationship doesn’t mean everything you own belongs to each other. You both should talk about what items are off limits and which are okay to share.For example, you may feel okay about sharing clothes, books, or food, but you don’t feel comfortable sharing money or a toothbrush. Tell your partner, "Though we share the grocery expenses and most of the food, this box of cookies is just for me. Please respect that."
Even if you live together, you should establish privacy boundaries about your belongings to make sure you don’t step on each other’s boundaries.
 Part of setting privacy boundaries is making time for you to spend with your other friends. You and your partner should be able to spend time apart with your other friends. Find time to be with friends and family outside of your partner without having to check in or detail everything that happened.You should not have to report back to your partner about what you did or talked about. If you feel like sharing details, that is your right. However, your right to privacy includes what you do with your friends and family.
 No matter what level of relationship you and your partner have, you may want to keep your passwords to social media, your phone, or accounts private. Giving your partner passwords removes the privacy you have in your own digital space. Even if you trust your partner, keeping passwords a secret is a way to ensure your privacy.For example, if your partner knows your social media password, they may be able to post without your permission or read your private messages. It may also lead to jealousy.
Allowing someone to know your banking password may lead to someone taking your money without your permission. If you give out your website passwords, someone may buy things on or access your private accounts.

