 These are the two most important modes of communication into and out of prison. This will be the vital bridge between you and your family.Maintaining contact with family and friends will give you something to look forward to and keep some sense of normalcy during your incarceration.
Learning about friends and family on the outside will motivate you to do everything you can to see them once again.
 If you are a father, husband, mother, or wife, do your best to maintain that role with your family while in prison.Try to make it easy for your spouse and children to speak to you and talk about family life as much as possible during phone conversations and in letters.
Trust your family. Do not let the failures of all those around you influence how you feel or treat your family members.
Overlook the little things and focus on the bigger picture. If you get upset and give your spouse the “silent treatment,” it could last forever.
Let your children, if you have any, unite your family not divide it. Don’t let them take sides and make sure you are doing whatever you can to encourage and support their goals.
Be polite and don’t be afraid to apologize when you are wrong. The odds are already against by going to prison.
 Visits from families can either be a great time to reconnect and talk about daily happenings or they can be completely disappointing if you let little things get in the way.Keep in mind that your family is making significant sacrifices while you are in prison. In the case that your prison is not located near your home, family will have to travel, stay overnight, and buy food just to come and see you.
Your family must also go through the hassle of security checks, long waits, degrading treatment by prison staff, and other embarrassing procedures. Make sure you show them a lot of appreciation for their efforts.
Although you are suffering tremendously in prison, understand that your family is also going through turmoil and probably they don’t need to hear you whine about your problems. Keep your focus on the family and family issues during their visit.
Stay connected to your children. They grow fast, their interests change, and they face the stresses of having a parent in prison. Do your best to find common interests and stay connected to them.
Stay on top of your children’s activities and give them advice, ask for pictures, and share their triumphs and failures. Just like a normal parent would.

