 Enter "credit card balance transfer offers" into a search engine. Click on web pages or websites of interest. There are also numerous sites that lay out different offers with their rates and terms in an easily-readable format. When you apply for the cards, just make sure you are doing so on the card issuer's website, rather than through an intermediary.
 One important thing to know when searching for balance transfer cards is that you generally cannot transfer balances between cards from the same issuer. This means that you cannot transfer balances between two Bank of America cards. However, this does not apply to payment processing networks, so you can transfer your balance between two Visa cards (provided they are from different issuers)., Each website will list features of their card including transfer processing fee, introductory interest rate, permanent rate, APR (the interest rate after the introductory period), late-payment fee, and annual fee, if any. Your primary goals should be to look for a low introductory interest rate (preferably zero percent) and low balance transfer fees (as close to $0 as possible). In most cases, though, balance transfer fees will be around 4 percent, but some card issuers waive them entirely., Read the fine print on every credit card offer to ensure you pick the card best suited for your needs. You should also read into the balance transfer process to see how exactly it works for the card. For example, the transfer might take two weeks or more to process. During this time, you will still be responsible for keeping up with payments on your old card(s). Check into this delay so that you can make a note to stay on top of your old card until the balance is transferred., Call the credit card company if you have any questions regarding balance transfers. Even if the card you are applying for is not a no-transfer fee offer, you may be able to talk the company down on their offer. Try asking for the minimum transfer fee or no transfer fee. In many cases, you will be able to get the transfer fee reduced by calling., Zero percent interest offers are usually available only for people with good or excellent credit. If your score is low, you may not find a credit card that offers you an attractive transfer option. However, if your credit is low, you may still be able to get a card with an introductory rate of around 7 percent, which can be beneficial if your current card rates are up in the 20 to 30 percent range.Learn how to check your credit score by reading how to check your credit score.
 Each person's needs are different. Try to figure out the amount of time it will take you to pay down your transfer balance. Make sure that the introductory rate on any card you are applying for lasts at least that long, so that you can avoid paying high interest rates. In many cases, introductory periods might last 12 to 16 months. Those with great credit might get 18 to 24 months.

However, be warned that longer periods of introductory interest rates often come with higher balance transfer fees and higher regular interest rates., The best way to make sure that you are getting a good deal by transferring you balance is to calculate out all of the potential savings from doing so for each card. This calculation will involve transfer fees, introductory interest rates, regular interest rates, and associated repayment periods. Luckily, there are calculators online that can be used to calculate savings for you. Try searching "credit card balance transfer calculator" into an online search engine to find one. Then, input all of your information as requested.For example, imagine you have been approved for a card with a zero percent introductory interest rate for 18 months. Your current balance is $2,000 on a card that charges 20 percent interest annually. You pay $100 per month towards the card balance.

Even if the card you are transferring to charges a 10 percent transfer fee, a $100 annual fee, and 15 percent interest after the introductory period, you would still save $245.49 in interest by switching cards, assuming you continued your $100 monthly payments.
 Before applying for a balance transfer card, assess your financial situation to make sure that you can actually pay down the balance before the introductory period is over. This calculation is simple, as interest will not accrue on your balance (assuming you have a zero percent interest introductory rate). However, if you fail to pay down the card balance during this time, it is possible that you will be hit with a bill for the accrued interest over the introductory period.For example, imagine you have a zero percent interest rate on your new card and an 18 month introductory period. If the balance transferred were $2,700, you would need to make sure you can pay down your balance within those 18 months. 

The monthly payment amount required to pay down your balance would be $2700รท18{\displaystyle \$2700\div 18}, which is $150. 

In this case, you would need to make sure that you could afford to pay $150 per month to pay down your balance. 


, Compare each side by side by lining up their terms in a list or spreadsheet. This will give you better insight as to which card provides you with the most benefits and saves you more money in the long run. For example, you might identify cards with the following terms:

A zero percent interest introductory period of 24 months, 20 percent regular interest rate, 10 percent transfer fee, and $100 annual fee. 

A zero percent interest introductory period of 12 months, a 15 percent regular interest rate, 5 percent transfer fee limited to $50, and a $50 annual fee.

No introductory interest rate, regular interest rate of 12 percent, a flat $10 transfer fee, and no annual fee.
 The best card will be the combination that provides you with the lowest fees and interest rates while you pay down your outstanding balance. In most cases, there will be a trade-off between interest rates, introductory period length, and balance transfer fees. Calculate the cost of each card's fees and interest rates over the expected repayment period. Then, choose the card that is the cheapest for you.The three cards mentioned in the previous example all have very different terms. The one that you choose to go with will depend on your specific financial situation and repayment capabilities.

For example, the second card would be best if you could pay off your balance within twelve months. However, the other cards may be useful for transfers that would take longer to pay off. 


, Some people look for a special introductory rate, which may be enticing; however, use one of these cards only if you are able to pay off the entire, transferred balance within the time frame they give you for interest-free payments. If there is any doubt that you'll be able to pay it off, choose a different card., Failing to research balance-transfer offers thoroughly beforehand can mean that you end up paying additional fees and spending too much money making the transfer. Be clear about balance-transfer fees. Depending on your account balance, that fee can be considerable, which adds to your accumulating debt. Failing to check for these fees can end up costing you more money than you were being charged before transferring your balance., Get pre-approved to make sure that the credit limit on the balance transfer card is high enough to cover all of your transferred debt. If you can't get a high enough limit, you can always apply for more than one balance transfer card. Just keep in mind that the two balance transfer cards you choose must be from different issuers., If you're still between cards, choose the one that comes with additional benefits beyond low fees. Cards may offer travel insurance, payment protection, and points earned on purchases, for example. Benefits should not be the most important criteria when choosing a balance transfer card, but good benefits can mean that the card will be worth using even after you've paid off your balance.