 Consistency in your workout regimen is vital. At minimum, make sure you’re practicing the specific skills needed to pass the challenge three times a week. These should be done in addition to other weekly workouts. In roughly half an hour, you can warm up, work at a competitive pace, and cool down. Include aerobic and anaerobic exercises in your workouts, as well as muscle strengthening exercise and stretching.;
, Spend a few minutes stretching your muscles and joints to prepare for a safe and productive workout. Immediately preceding whatever specific exercise you’re about to perform, go through the motions at a moderate pace.See this articles section of stretching for specific stretches you can incorporate into your work out.
 Aerobic, anaerobic, and strengthening exercises should be completed during this period. These will help prepare you for the endurance, speed, and strength-related components of the challenge. Be sure to take specific steps to improve your ability to excel in each exercise of the challenge., The first event of the Cadet Challenge is the one mile run. To prepare for this event, find a track – which are almost always ¼ mile around – or consult a map to establish a running route that is precisely one mile long. Always time yourself, and try to beat your own time from the previous run.If you have to walk for part of the mile, don’t be discouraged. Minimize the amount of walking by taking short walking breaks only when absolutely necessary.
Don’t worry too much about hills, as the test will be conducted on a flat surface. However, training on hills may get you better prepared by making flat runs relatively easy.
 The second event of the Cadet Challenge is a 30ft shuttle run. You will be required to sprint 30 feet from a starting position, pick up a block from the ground, sprint back to the starting location, and set the block down. You’ll then repeat this process, and conclude the test upon returning to the starting location for the second time as quickly as possible.Practice the shuttle run by measuring out a 30ft distance or going somewhere that already has two parallel lines 30 feet (9.1 m) apart. For example, a regulation volleyball court is 30ft wide.
Don’t forget to time yourself every time and try to beat your personal best time each run.
 The third criteria by which you will be tested during the Cadet Challenge is simply the number of pull ups you can perform. To practice doing pull ups properly, start from a hanging “dead weight” position. Use a secure, straight bar 1 to 1.5 inches in diameter that you can easily and safely grip, and that is far enough from the ground that your feet are not touching. Pull yourself up until your chin clears the bar.Use either overhand or underhand grip – put your palms on whichever side of the bar you prefer.
After each pull up, lower yourself to a fully hanging position, with your arms almost all the way straight. Do not go so far that you hang loosely, or as far as would allow your elbows to lock out.
Avoid jerking or swinging your body during movement, and do not kick or bend your legs up to assist you.
 If you are unable to do any pull ups, build strength by hanging from a bar with your palms towards your face and your chin above the bar. Use a ladder or step stool to reach a bar, and grasp it shoulder width apart. Have someone remove the ladder or kick it away. Try to hold your chin above the bar for as long as possible.Don’t allow your legs to swing around, rest your chin on the bar, or tilt your head backwards to raise your chin.
 Referred to by the JROTC program as “curl ups”, the fourth exercise included in the Cadet Challenge tests the strength of your whole body, particularly your abdomen. Start by lying on your back and raising your knees while dragging the soles of your feet towards you. Position your feet about 12 inches (30.5 cm) from your bottom, with your soles flat on the ground.If you go not have an exercise partner to hold your feet down, tuck your toes under something immobile, such as the bottom of a slide on the playground.
Cross your arms across your chest so that your hands are touching the opposite shoulder throughout the exercise. Keep your elbows against your chest.
Pull your upper torso upwards until your elbows touch your knees or thighs.
Lower your torso all the way down, so that your shoulder blades touch the ground.
Repeat this bend as many times as you can in one minute to mimic testing conditions.
Do not bounce off of the floor, as this is dangerous and will not be allowed during the challenge.
 If unable to do full curl ups, partial curl ups can help you get there. Lie down with your knees bent, and flat feet positioned about 12 inches (30.5 cm) from your bottom. For partial curl ups, do not secure your feet. Extend your arms forward and rest your hands on your thighs. Do a partial curl up by leaning forward and sliding your hands up your thighs as far as you can reach. Repeat the process as many times as you can muster., The final component of the Cadet Challenge measures your flexibility via a V-sit reach exercise. Following a full-pace work out, keep your muscles working at a more mellow pace for 4 to 6 minutes.Wind down slowly, and then stretch your muscles again. Make sure to practice the V-sit reach in particular.


Remove your shoes for the V-sit reach.
Sit with your legs outstretched in front of you, with your feet 8 to 12 inches (20.3 to 30.5 cm) apart.
Align your heels along a baseline, such as the edge of the carpet or mat, and position a yardstick extending from the baseline.
Clasp your thumbs together with your palms facing downward.
With your legs flat, lean forward, reaching beyond the soles of your feet as far as you can.
During the actual challenge, you’ll get three “practice” reaches; your fourth reach will record your score according to the distance of your reach.

