 When you get dehydrated, it can cause your skin to become flaky and dry and your hair to get brittle. If you don't tend to drink much water, try drinking several glasses every day. Within a couple of weeks, your skin should be less dry. Keep it up all year round for noticeably less dry skin.If you're not sure whether dehydration is a problem, look at your urine. If it's clear or light yellow, you're well hydrated. If it's medium to dark yellow or even darker, you need to drink more water.
You may not think to drink water in the winter, but it's just as important to stay hydrated when it's cold outside as it is when it's hot. In cold weather your skin will be a lot more prone to getting dry, so keep yourself hydrated from the inside out.
 Do you tend to scrub your hands when you wash them, and use hot water and strong soap? This routine is really hard on your hands. The skin on your hands can get dried out and cracked when you wash away all its natural protective oils. When you wash your hands, use warm water and a gentle soap, like castile soap. Pat them dry with a towel instead of rubbing them vigorously. Treat the skin on your hands as you would the skin on your face.


Look for a gentle soap that doesn't have sulfates, which are abrasive and drying. An oil-based, moisturizing soup is good for dry hands.
Only wash your hands when you really need to, like before meals and after using the bathroom. If you wash your hands too frequently, your skin will never get the chance to produce those protective oils.
If you work at a job that requires frequent hand washing, like in the medical field, try to use a moisturizing soap and put lotion on your hands immediately after washing them.
 Whether you're washing the dishes, cleaning the bathroom with a bleach-based detergent or handling paint and other chemical-laden substances, you should wear protective rubber gloves. Exposing your hands to harsh cleansers and other chemicals wreaks havoc on your sensitive skin, not to mention the damage done when you have to scrub the chemicals off with hot water. Avoid the whole problem by wearing protective gloves whenever necessary.
 Sun can cause skin to dry out in addition to causing UV damage. Many people apply sunscreen to their faces religiously, but forget to use it on their hands. Be sure to use an SPF of 30 or higher on your hands whenever you go out in the sun.
 Winter temperatures and wind are tough on hands, so wear gloves when you go outside. Be sure to get insulated gloves that will prevent your knuckles and fingers from getting chapped. As an extra protective measure, you might want to apply cream or oil before you put on your gloves and go outside.
 If you live in a dry climate or a place with long, dry winters, you might want to get a humidifier for your home. A humidifier adds moisture to the air, creating a better environment for your skin. Having one can be especially helpful during the winter, when heating appliances dry up the moisture in the air. Depending on where you live, you might want to use a humidifier all year long.