 The court recommends that you get legal advice before beginning your application for an intervention order.


If your intervention order is related to domestic violence, you must get an attorney – you cannot represent yourself.Check with the family violence registrar to see if you're eligible for free legal assistance.You should definitely get a lawyer if there are children involved or if you expect the respondent to oppose your request for an order.Applicant support workers also are available through the courts. They can assist you with filling out your form and give you general information about the application process and resources to help protect you and your family.While the courts are open from 9:00 a.m. until 4:30 p.m., if you go in the morning you may have a significant wait. Go in the afternoon if you need an applicant support worker and don't have an appointment.;
, You can get a paper form at your nearest magistrate court, or download the form from the website for magistrate courts in your state or territory.In certain cities and suburbs, you also may be able to get a form from your local Neighbourhood Justice Centre.There are two separate forms. If you are related to the person or have had a romantic relationship with him or her, you need a family violence intervention order. If you aren't related to the respondent in any way, you typically need the personal safety intervention order.The two forms ask essentially the same information; however, the family violence intervention order asks additional questions about your relationship to the respondent.The form requires specific information about why you need an intervention order, the person against whom you're seeking an intervention order, and who the intervention order will protect.You also must specify whether you are requesting a warrant or interim order. An interim order protects you from the respondent during the time between when you file your application and when the magistrate issues a full order., The form requires personal information such as names and addresses of everyone involved in the intervention order.


Include your children if necessary. If you do, expect the magistrate to ask about their exposure to the abusive or harassing behavior. Depending on your answer, the magistrate will either allow them to remain on your order or issue a separate order pertaining solely to them.Don't include other adults. If you and your romantic partner both need protection from the same person, you each must file separate applications for intervention orders.Keep in mind that you must have the full legal name and address of the person against whom you are seeking the intervention order – otherwise the court will be unable to deliver notice of the hearing to that person and the order will have no effect.Although you must provide your current address on the form, you can ask the court not to disclose it if you don't want the respondent to know where you live.If the respondent has a gun or a firearms license, indicate this on your application, including the gun's location if you know.You can include additional respondents if they are related to the original person. If your order is issued, he or she will be subject to the same conditions as the primary respondent.For example, if you are asking for an intervention order against your ex-husband, and his brother has threatened you as well, you can include both your ex-husband and his brother on the same order.
 The form includes lists of general acts or patterns, as well as space to describe specific incidents.For example, the person may have damaged your property – that is a specific act. He or she also might behave in an economically abusive way by controlling your access to your income or finances – that is a pattern of behavior.You must provide the date and location of the most recent incident of violence and describe what happened. The form also gives you space to discuss any other incidents that may have happened in the past.If you reported any of those incidents to the police, provide information about the police report and attach the report itself if you have a copy.
The court typically will not grant an intervention order unless you fear similar incidents will happen again. You must explain why you believe the respondent will threaten or abuse you again if you don't get an intervention order., The form provides a list of standard conditions you can request that the court include.You may choose as many of the conditions listed on the form as you like, but you should keep in mind that the magistrate may not include all of your chosen conditions in the final order.If you want something that isn't included on the form's list, speak with the registrar to find out how this request can be included in your application.You also must tell the court how long you want the order to last. If you want it to last longer than 12 months, you must explain why you want it to last so long., Filing an application requires an interview with the registrar, so making an appointment means you won't have to wait.You can find the address and phone number of your nearest magistrate's court by visiting the website of your state or territory court system.If you don't want to go to the nearest court for safety reasons, explain this to court staff when you call and they will make the appropriate accommodations.Do not sign your application form until you are in front of the registrar – the registrar must verify and witness your signature., You should take all documents or other evidence that proves the acts of the respondent or your reasons for requesting an intervention order.


You may find it helpful to make an outline of incidents or events that took place between you and the respondent, starting with the most recent and working backward.If you have any documents related to the information you included on your form, such as a police report for something the respondent did to you, take them with you when you file your application. You also may want to bring personal documents such as print-outs of emails or voicemail recordings.
When in doubt, bring everything you have. The registrar will use all this information to compile your final application., At the magistrate's court, the registrar will interview you and assist you with the application process.You won't have to pay any court fees to file your order. However, you may end up with attorney's fees.Keep in mind that applying for an intervention order can take several hours, so make sure you've cleared sufficient time on your schedule to complete the process., The registrar will review your evidence and ask you questions about the information contained in your application.


Explain all the incidents that have happened between you and the respondent. Start with the most recent incident and go backward in time, providing dates and locations and as much additional detail about the incident as you have.Although the registrar may ask questions you feel are very personal, you should answer them as thoroughly as possible and provide as much detail as you can. This will help the registrar complete your application and make it more likely that your request will be granted.Make sure you explain to the registrar why you are afraid similar incidents will happen again. The court won't grant an intervention order unless the person is a continual threat to you.If the respondent has used or threatened to use a firearm against you, tell the registrar. He or she can have the respondent's firearms license suspended., If you need an interim order, you also must present your case to the magistrate.


Make sure you tell the registrar if you feel unsafe and believe you need immediate protection. He or she will make sure you get to see the magistrate, although it may not be right then. If the magistrate is busy, you may have to wait or come back on another day to get your interim order.If the magistrate issues an interim order, it goes into effect immediately, before the respondent has any way of knowing about it.Your interim order has the same power as a final order, but only lasts until the date the hearing for your final order is scheduled.If you are seriously threatened, the magistrate also can issue a warrant. With a warrant, the police will immediately arrest the respondent., Before you leave the courthouse, make sure you have a copy of your completed and filed application, summons, and any interim orders or warrants issued by the magistrate.


The registrar will type up your application and other court documents. Read them over to make sure everything is correct, then sign.
The registrar will give you a copy of the final application and a summons that tells both you and the respondent when to appear in court for your hearing.If the magistrate has issued an interim order or a warrant, you can get a copy of these documents as well.The court will give all of these documents to the police department, and an officer will deliver them to the respondent., To get a full intervention order you must provide evidence that the respondent is a danger to your safety.


You may want to call the registrar if you haven't heard from the court and your hearing is in a few days. If the respondent hasn't filed any papers in response or if the police have been unable to find him or her, the court may want to reschedule your hearing.Make sure you have all the documents you used to fill out your application as well as your copies of all the court documents related to your application for an intervention order.Organize any personal documents such as letters or emails from the respondent, as well as official documents such as police reports or medical reports.You may want to write down a brief outline of what you want to say to the magistrate and practice several times what you want to say – either in front of a mirror or for a friend or family member – so you can speak calmly and confidently in court., If you know anyone who saw the respondent committing the acts you listed in your application, they can testify on your behalf about what they saw.


Keep in mind that any witnesses must have actually seen or heard abusive or threatening acts or statements themselves – they won't be able to testify about things they merely heard you or someone else talking about.You also can have a friend or family member come along to court with you for emotional support., If you require any adjustments to standard court procedure due to concerns about your safety or for other reasons, you must make these requests to the registrar before your hearing.


For example, if you don't feel comfortable speaking in English you may request a translator and the registrar will arrange for one at no charge to you.If you're nervous about speaking to the magistrate – especially with the respondent in the courtroom – you can ask for help. Depending on your circumstances, the court may agree to clear the courtroom of all spectators, let you give your evidence from another room using a video link, or let your attorney present your testimony from your written statement., Although the magistrate still may issue an order even if you don't show up, it's important to attend your hearing so you can present your case.If possible, make arrangements for someone to care for your children while you are in court rather than bringing them with you.Perhaps the most important part of the hearing will be you telling your story. You have the opportunity to speak under oath and tell the magistrate exactly what happened, why you fear for your safety, and why you need an intervention order., After the magistrate has heard all the evidence from both you and the respondent, he or she decides whether to issue an intervention order.


If the respondent violates any of the conditions of the intervention order while it is in effect, he or she will be arrested and charged with a criminal offense.If the order is about to expire and you still feel threatened or endangered by the respondent, you can return to court and file an application to renew it.