 You can use a quality camera if you own one, but a cheap webcam works surprisingly well. Buy one with a manual focus ring, so you can adjust the focus to get sharp, close up images. You can find these online for as low as $5 USD.

Make sure you can attach the webcam to your device. On a mobile device, you will likely need to purchase a cable, and install an app that allows you to use webcams.
Some of the software recommended below will only work with webcams, or certain cameras. Check for compatibility before you spend your money.;
, You can install this on just about any device, although laptops and mobile devices are the easiest to transport around your film set. Many stop motion programs have a free trial period, so you can try them out before you buy. Read the terms first, as the trial may restrict your options, or cover your images with a watermark. Here are a few suggestions:

For Mac: iStopMotion, Boinx, Dragon Frame
For Windows: I Can Animate 2 (recommended for children), iKITMovie, or Stop Motion Pro. Windows Movie Maker is an option with fewer features, but it may already be on your computer.
For iPhone or iPad: Frameographer, Stopmotion Cafe
For Android devices: Clayframes, Stopmotion Studio

, Some good choices include clay, wire, LEGO or similar building block figures. Be imaginative; you can use almost any object to make your movie.


Start with a small project, such as an orange peeling itself. One second of film can take 18–24 photos, so you'll get plenty of practice from this.
You can draw on a whiteboard or stack of paper instead, changing the drawing slightly with every frame. If you do this, set up a stable stand to hold the drawings, so there's no accidental movement.
 You can use any lights, as long as they don't flicker or change in brightness. You may need to block outside light with blinds or curtains, if clouds or other moving shadows are causing changes in brightness.

Some light bulbs take a while to reach full brightness. Leave them on to warm up while you get ready.
 Set up your first shot in an area without wind or background movement. Make sure all your pieces stand up on their own. If one of them falls over during filming, it can take quite a while to set it back up in the exact position.

If a figure is tilting or threatening to fall over, stick it onto the surface with poster tack.
 Take your camera and device to the location you'll be shooting. Connect your webcam or camera to your device. Open your software and confirm that it "sees" the webcam image. Once you've worked out any kinks, set the camera on a tripod, or tape it down firmly to prevent motion. If the camera shakes as you take photos, the movie will appear chaotic and lack continuity., Take a single photo of the objects or figures in the starting position. Move the objects bit by bit, by a very small amount each time, and take another photograph after each movement. You can move one piece at a time (such as an arm waving back and forth), or make several movements at once (a more fluid walk involving legs and arms, or several objects moving in a busy scene). Try to move an object by about the same distance each time.

Before taking each photograph, make sure the object is in sharp focus. You may need to disable your camera's autofocus. If using a webcam, rotate the focus ring by hand.
 Each time you take a photograph, a frame should appear in your stop motion software. These frames are placed in a row to form a strip of film, usually near the bottom of your screen. You should be able to flick between the frames or play a video to get a rough idea of what your movie will look like. Don't worry, the end result will be much smoother.

If you make a mistake, just delete the frame you just took and take another photograph.
 This extremely useful feature is one major reason to use dedicated stop motion software instead of a free movie editor. With Onion Skinning enabled, the previous frame shows up as a faint image on the screen, overlaying the image your camera sees. This lets you arrange objects accurately, seeing exactly how much they will move on screen. If you knock over a figure or make a mistake and need to re-shoot a few frames, Onion Skinning makes it easy to return to the old scene by lining up the figures with the faint image.

If you can't find this feature, look for a Help or Tutorial section, or visit the website of the software developers.
 Continue moving and photographing until the scene is finished. Save your work frequently. Leave your setup in place once you're done, in case you need to retake some photographs.

There's no need to finish the scene in one sitting. Taking regular breaks will help make the process a pleasure instead of a chore.
 If you duplicate a frame, that frame will stay still for a tiny bit longer before moving. As a general rule, stick to one or two copies of each frame. Occasionally, slow this down to 6–8 frames between movements, so an object pauses before changing directions or starting a new motion. This looks more natural and makes your animation less frantic and easier on the eyes.

If you don't know how to do this, look for instructions for your specific software.
 You can now render the project as a video file and show it to your friends. If you like, you can open the video in video editing software and add music, sound effects, and special effects.