 To really change the feel of a room, you’re probably going to want to either paint or wallpaper it. If you’re not sure you want to do wallpaper on all of the walls, think about one accent wall with a special wallpaper. Paint and wallpaper are so essential to the way that the room will come together -- you must be very sure about the colors and paper you have chosen.You can create a classically romantic bedroom by including floral patterns or ribbons in the wallpaper and trim.You could create a beach retreat by using relaxing ocean colors. You can even include a mural or large photograph of an ocean scene., Decide if your furniture all fits together with your new look and color scheme. Will some of your old furniture need to be refinished or updated? Maybe it just needs to be put into a different location. Don’t clutter up your bedroom with too much furniture. When in doubt, leave it out. Once your furniture is where you want it, you can now place any other items you’ve decided to include in your new revamped romantic bedroom.


Be choosy about how much furniture you use in your bedroom. If you do need to include some, consider choosing it all in one style/color to help the room feel put together. If it’s in a variety of colors and styles, think about painting it all one color so that it feels like it goes together. Or if it’s all wood, varnish it all in the same shade.Don’t put too many accessories in your room and take the focus away from the bed. A few focused accessories, such as a rose-embroidered throw pillow or an elegant piece of driftwood, can make a bigger impact than a host of clutter.Try not to include a television or other electronics in your bedroom. Not only do they make it more difficult to sleep, they can severely diminish the romantic nature of the room.
 Romantic lighting is one of the most important elements in a bedroom. Think about how to have pleasing lighting -- stay away from strong overhead lights and consider recessed lighting or lamps with shades. If you do use lamps with shades, painting the inside of the lampshades pink can make an extremely pleasing glow. Try some of the following:Lamps with soft lighting and shades in the colors of your bedroom
Candles in holders that can provide both romantic lighting and wonderful scents
Vases for flowers or other arrangements
Photographs of you and your loved one

, Even if you only choose one or two pieces to hang, they can make a huge difference in your room. Think about hangings that can complement your color scheme, but not necessarily mimic it. For a bedroom that really goes together, it’s probably best to choose one organizing principle for the wall hangings.

A mirror is also a good option, either without a frame or with a frame in a color that is part of your color scheme. Some other choices might be:Travel posters of places you and your partner have visited
Concert posters of sentimental value to you and your partner
Photographs (either color or black and white)
Abstract art
Enlarged handpainted or framed love letter