 A good place to start is www.homepath.com, a resale marketing site. Fannie Mae, for example, lists thousands of properties they acquired through foreclosure. They occasionally offer cash incentives toward closing costs., Ask the listing real estate agent or look for incentives that are mentioned in the property's For Sale ads. Seek out properties that have been on the market for a long time, or have something so badly wrong with them that the bank or seller is willing to pay you to purchase the property. Or you can suggest incentives during the negotiation process. Cash incentives may include:


Cash-back offers. These could include offering to pay a year's worth of property taxes or mortgage payments. Other types of cash-back offers include credits for a down payment, repairs, landscaping, closing costs or mortgage points.Expensive gifts such as season tickets to sporting events, use of a vacation condo, gift certificates for high end purchases, golf club memberships and even mineral rights.Seller-financed carry-back loans which are mortgages or loans financed by the seller. Sometimes this is included with a zero down payment incentive. However, keep in mind that this can be a risky option if the seller does not transfer ownership or allow you to have the property recorded to your name. The property may not be transferred until a certain amount of money has been paid into it, so it is possible that the owner could foreclose on the property even if you are paying them every month.
 The best type of property to buy is one that has a good roof and foundation but has been mismanaged and not cared for. Look for properties that have old carpet, peeling paint, cracked tile, dirty grout, leaking faucets, burned light sockets and broken windows. You can pay a handyman to fix these at about $40.00 in labor for each defect.


You will save even more money if you learn to make some of the repairs yourself. Take an adult education class or get training from a friend or family member who has carpentry, plumbing or electrical skills. You can also check Youtube for skills training videos on just about anything.
 These people are desperate to sell for reasons such as divorce, bankruptcy, death, an out-of-town new job, poor condition of the property, behind on payments, etc. They will be more open to sell below the market value or provide a price reduction to account for repairs that are needed. Your local real estate broker can help provide information on who might be in this situation.
 You can search the county site for properties that have non-owner occupied homes. These may be good sources of inventory to check out. You can also drive through neighborhoods to find vacant properties. Or, you can ask your realtor to provide a list of all vacant properties.

Websites that offer “for sale by owner” listings and auction sites can be good places to check.

