 Although this is the first level you can try it on, and it is possible to beat it at this level, you probably shouldn't try it until level 70, which is the highest level you can be without defeating this fight.;
, With all three of these, the higher level the enemy is you are fighting, the easier it will be to skill up.


hand to hand- by attacking with a hand to hand weapon.
guarding and evasion- by being attacked.
 Have two sets of gear, one for a chi blast, which you would use as much mind+ as you can get, plus the artifact hand piece, Temple Gloves, for boosting. and the other for dealing as much damage as possible.
 He will be equal in level to you, so accuracy won't be a major issue, no matter what race you are Counter and evasion plus is also a good idea. Some examples:


Cross Counters
Emperor Hairpin Head
Peacock Charm Neck
Spike Earrings Ears
Scorpion Harness+1 Body
Ochiudo's Kote Hands
Sun Rings Ring
Amemet Mantle+1 Back
Brown Belt Belt
Akido Koshita Legs
Fuma Khyans Feet
Sole Sushi + 1
Opo Opo Necklace Neck
12 Sleep Potions
Icherus Wing

, Start a whole new line of macros just for this, to prevent confusion and to eliminate you having to delete your normal macros. Your macros should look like this- one for boosting before chi blast (/ja "Boost <me> /wait 15 /echo boost) one for equipping the gear you brought for melee, one for a quick use of all your abilities, (dodge, focus, counter stance, most likely in that order.) Finally, one to equip the artifact body, Temple cyclas, use Chara, then to equip back in the body you are normally using.



First go talk to Maat, in Ru'lude Gardens, near the archdukes bedroom. He will tell you that you must collect a testimony.
Testimonies for monk can be gotten in the following places; Castle Ostroja, in the area right outside the throne room where the high priest spawns, fight monk type mobs (the same place you went to get the artifact piece, Temple Hose) in Davoi, either in Monastic Caverns, or in the center area with that house that you can only access by going through the monastic caverns.
Fight orcish champions, and finally, in Sea Serpent Grotto, off the monk type mobs behind the gold door. Make sure to bring a gold beastcoin, as you will need it to open the door. No matter where you go, it would be a good idea to bring a couple of friends, as these mobs are quite tough. A thief is a good idea, because their Treasure Hunter ability will make your search faster.
Go talk to Maat again. After a short conversation, he will tell you that it is time for the final test, a fight with him, then offer to teleport you to the battlefield where the fight will take place. Before accepting this, make sure you have everything you need on you, including a reraise scroll, and a warp scroll or cudgel.
Now you will be in a Burning Circle area. Before entering the battlefield, strip all of your equipment. It's been theorized, though not proven, that Maat wears what you wear upon entering. This might not be true, but better safe than sorry.
After entering, equip your chi blasting gear, use your sole sushi, then equip your opo opo necklace. This necklace allows you to raise TP while you are asleep. With it equipped, use a sleep potion until you have enough TP, then advance towards the fight.
Stand as far from him as you can while still being able to target him, then start boosting. at your 10- 11th boost, hit him with a chi blast. this should take a good chunk out of his health.
Avoid him and macro in your melee equipment, then your abilities. With all your abilities on, turn and punch the crap out of him. Use a weapon skill, then use an Icherus wing, giving you 100% more TP then another weapon skill (raging fists is the best, but dragon kick is nice too.) If at this point he still lives, use hundred fists and watch the sparks fly. If you get a little low, use the Chara macro. Now with a little luck, you should take him out quite easily.

