 Because your extensions aren't getting the moisturizing oils produced by your scalp, they have a tendency to dry out much faster. Dry hair of any kind is much more difficult to wash and is prone to breakage. Add a little hair oil to your weave before you shampoo.


Place a shower cap around your hair and allow the oil to infuse into your hair for about an hour before moving on., This will remove built-up hair products and prevent dandruff. Fill a spray bottle half with water, half with apple cider vinegar. Spray it track-by-track onto your scalp and massage it in. Then give the weave itself a few spritzes. Leave this to set for five minutes before rinsing with warm water.


You don't have to clarify every time you wash your hair. Once a month should be enough to keep your scalp healthy., There are many shampoos on the market specifically made for hair extensions. However, some stylists recommend that any mild shampoo can be used.Others advise to treat your weave like dry, damaged hair and use a deep-moisturizing shampoo. Like your natural hair, finding what works best may require some trial and error.
 Wet your hair thoroughly before applying the shampoo. Add a dollop of shampoo into your hair and lather it. Massage the shampoo into your roots. Be gentle to avoid tangles and breakage. Rinse with warm water. You can do this in the shower or using a sink or wash basin.


When you clarify your roots, you can skip shampooing them., Keeping the hairs moisturized will extend your weave's lifespan. Deep condition with your choice of moisturizer. Leave it for 15-20 minutes before rinsing thoroughly with warm water., Either allow your hair to air dry or sit under a hooded dryer. You may also use a blow dryer, but this may damage your weave. Focus drying your roots. Make sure your natural hair and the portion of your weave attached to it dry out completely. Damp hair under a weave can cause mildew or even a bacterial infection., It is generally recommended to wash your weave and natural hair once every one to two weeks. Washing too often will cause breakage and result in a weave that doesn't last very long. However, not washing at all can damage your natural hair and may end up being unhygienic.