 This will be your portal into an entire world of closed circuit television (CCTV) cameras wired to the internet.
 This list is ever evolving so if one search query does not work, try another until you see results.
 After you Google one of these queries, you will see thousands of search results. Click on any one of them. If the link is still active you might see a page filled with thumbnails of security camera images. These images are usually click-able links. In other cases, you might just see the screen of a single camera.


You may be asked for a password. If you are an authorized user, you will have it at hand. If not, you'll have to use your imagination. Keep in mind: If you have to break through an existing log in system, it's most likely illegal and certainly unethical.
 Depending on the type of camera that you have access to, you may be able to zoom, pan, and tilt the camera.
 Do not repeatedly maintain connections to a feed for more than 30 minutes. Administrators review the access logs for the devices on a regular basis.


Many administrators will disregard brief attempts to access low importance devices when no harmful use is found. However, long periods of monitoring could attract suspicion and may cause your access IP address to be reported to authorities.



inurl:/view.shtml
inurl:ViewerFrame?Mode=
inurl:ViewerFrame?Mode=Refresh
inurl:view/index.shtml
inurl:view/view.shtml
intitle:”live view” intitle:axis
intitle:liveapplet
all in title :”Network Camera Network Camera”
intitle:axis intitle:”video server”
intitle:liveapplet inurl:LvAppl
intitle:”EvoCam” inurl:”webcam.html”
intitle:”Live NetSnap Cam-Server feed”
intitle:”Live View / - AXIS 206M”
intitle:”Live View / - AXIS 206W”
intitle:”Live View / - AXIS 210″
inurl:indexFrame.shtml Axis
intitle:start inurl:cgistart
intitle:”WJ-NT104 Main Page”
intitle:snc-z20 inurl:home/
intitle:snc-cs3 inurl:home/
intitle:snc-rz30 inurl:home/
intitle:”sony network camera snc-p1″
intitle:”sony network camera snc-m1″
intitle:”Toshiba Network Camera” user login
intitle:”i-Catcher Console - Web Monitor”;
