 An Anxious Departure: It is natural to be nervous when embarking on a big adventure, especially if you are traveling by yourself for the first time. Goodbyes are also going to be hard if you are going to be away from home for a while.


Leaving for a college exchange is a bittersweet experience; you are probably going to be very excited and can’t wait to get there but you could also experience feelings of anxiousness and sadness when leaving behind loved ones.
The important thing to remember is that, thanks to amazing technology these days, people on the other side of the world are only a phone call or one click of the mouse away.
You also need to remember that you will be meeting some amazing people and making many new friends at your destination.
Depending on where you are departing from, the length of the journey is going to be different. However, it is likely that it could involve more than one flight and many hours of sitting around airports hoping your flight has not been delayed or canceled. In the case of a canceled flight, the best thing to do is to stay calm and not panic. You may feel the urge to breakdown and cry because you just want to get to college, but this is not the answer. Get as much information from the airline as you can about the next available flight, get in contact with the host university to let them know your new arrival time then enjoy the free meals and hotels the airline has to provide. Hopefully, though, there won't be a canceled or delayed flight and you can continue your journey normally.
During a long flight try to relax and just make the most of having some ‘you-time.' Granted, some seats on a plane are more comfortable than others, but regardless of where you are sitting, make the most of your personal entertainment system and catch up on those movies and TV shows you keep meaning to watch.
Just sit back and relax while the air hosts bring you a never ending supply of food and drink. After landing, be sure to explore the airport. There are many amazing and fun things to see and do at airports so definitely go for a wander.;
, Make sure you have all the required documents on hand to show at immigration. Once you have successfully proceeded through customs, you are officially in the exciting land of America!


By this time you may be very tired, hungry, and grumpy, but don't let it ruin your first impression of whichever country you have traveled to. Be happy that you are in a new country and are about to have an amazing adventure!

, Landing in America can be quite an exciting but stressful experience.
 You aren't alone.


Even when coming from a country such as Australia which is not overly different from America, there is still going to be culture shock. The tiniest differences could become quite distressing, simply for the fact that it is different to home and what you have known your whole life.
The currency will be different, the food will be different and even the people will be different.
Remember, you are a guest in someone else's country so be sure to respect their culture and abide by their rules.
One of the hardest things to get used to is different food. It will take a while to get used to it but be optimistic and don't be scared to try a new dish, it may just become your new favorite food!
Also, make an effort to be polite to everyone and you will find that they are generally friendly and very helpful.
 Again depending on where you are from college may be a lot different to what you experience at home. See the 'tips' section for some tips on making the most of college life!

, It is such an amazing experience which helps you discover the world and yourself. It is often said that people should take risks and try something new. Well going to study in another country certainly falls under this category. Don’t let fear of the unknown stop you from having the time of your life. Just sit back and enjoy the ride!

