 Many newer Android device's have a flashlight function built-in. You may be able to find it in your Quick Access Panel.;
, You may have to pull the panel down twice to display the quick access shortcuts. On some phones, you'll need to swipe the Quick Access icons to display a second set. If your phone has a built-in flashlight function, it will appear here. Tap it to turn your camera's flash on to act as a flashlight.


Note: the Flashlight function may be disabled if your device is low on battery.
 There are a variety of apps that you can download that will turn on your device's camera flash to act as a flashlight.
 This will display a list of flashlight apps that are available for download. You'll have a lot to choose from.


Note: If you are using an older Android device without a camera flash, you won't be able to use any of the flashlight apps.
 Flashlight apps can be tricky, because many shady developers like to sneak in extra permissions that can access your data to be sold to advertisers. Before installing an app, check what permissions it is requesting. You can find these by scrolling to the bottom of the app's store page and tapping "Permission details."


Flashlight apps will require access to your device's camera, since the camera's flash is used as the flashlight.
Avoid any flashlight apps that can access your contacts or data., Reviews are a good way to see if the majority of users are experiencing problems with the app. You may be able to see responses from the developers as well.


Don't pay attention to claims of brightness. Your flashlight will only be as bright as your camera flash bulb. There's nothing an app can do to control the brightness.
 Once you've found the app you want to install, tap "Install" to download it to your device. Depending on your settings, you may be prompted to enter your Google password.
 Most flashlight apps have a similar interface. Tap the "Power" or "On" button in the app to turn on the flashlight. This will enable your device's camera flash. Tap the button again to turn the flashlight off.


Your camera's flash will run your device's battery down quickly, so try to avoid leaving it turned on longer than necessary.
Some flashlight apps will allow you to turn your screen white instead, which is useful for phones without camera flashes.

