 Most sites will provide basic personal information for free, but may require payment or fees for more in depth information. Keep in mind that providing your email address and password to any of these sites can lead to access to your personal information, unless otherwise stated on the site’s registration page.


PeekYou - a good site for finding people online that searches over 60 different social networking sites, blogs, websites, and other online sources.
WhitePages - an easy to use site to search for someone’s address in the United States.
Zabasearch - This comprehensive search engine allows you to look up someone’s address and phone numbers, including any unlisted addresses or numbers.
Pipl - this search engine claims to dig up information Google may miss by looking for someone on the “deep web”.The initial results are free, but there are fees for more in depth information.
PrivateEye - this site can provide someone’s name, address, phone number, marriage certificates, bankruptcy records, and more. The site gives out information like full name, city, state, age, and possible relatives for free, but additional details like a phone number or address require the user to pay a fee.
PublicRecordsNow - using public records, this site can search for someone using their phone number, name, email or address.
 There are sites like wink.com that allow you to search multiple sites and services at once with a comprehensive search. This will save you time and help you collect as much information as possible about the person on multiple sites.
 There are sites that offer less comprehensive services and provide search parameters for only specific information about someone.


These sites cost less money, in the range of $5 to $10, than full-service people tracking websites. They will search for tracking parameters like name, location, email, address, phone number, Social Security Number (SSN) and license plate.
 For more in depth information, register your search on sites like Intelius.com and Checkpeople.com.


These sites can charge anywhere from $50-$100 a search, but they will likely provide the most in depth information on the person you are looking for.