 Fitness includes these four themes:


Physical Training (will be referred to as PT throughout)
Nutrition

Cardiovascular Training (will be referred to as CT)

Rest.

If any of these key themes are missing you will not make great gains. PT should be done at least three days a week and should include in this order a warm-up, dynamic stretching, workout itself, static stretching, and a cool-down. PT can be done with two different goals, muscular endurance or muscular strength. In this article PT will include only body-weight exercises. Nutrition is a self-explanatory theme, but will be described in detail later on. CT is similar to PT, but focuses on other forms of exercise to burn stored energy. Finally, Rest is obvious. Get enough sleep and you will have met this goal.

;
, Body-weight exercises that should be incorporated into your workout include:



Upper Body (Arms, Chest, Shoulders)

Pull-ups
Super-mans
Press-ups (push ups) in many variations
Ball grips
Chin-ups



Lower Body (Calves, Legs, Glutes)

Calf Raises
Squats in many variations
Glute Marches
Wall Sits
Glute Bridge Raises



Core Muscles (Abdominals)

Crunches
Reverse Crunches



, Dynamic Stretches allow for full range and speed of movements overtime.
, Static Stretching develops flexibility.


Static stretches that should be used after workout as a cool-down include:

Lateral and Forward Neck Stretches
Swimmers Stretch
Upper Back Stretches
Posterior Shoulder Stretches
Supine Back Stretch
Overhead Trunk Side Stretch
Torso Prone Stretch
Hip Cross-Overs
Iliopsoas stretch
Butterflies
Standing quadriceps stretches
Sitting hamstrings



, Either do jumping jacks, jump rope, or a stationary bike for five minutes.
 Use repetitions of 13 and upwards. For strength, do 6-10 reps (12 might be pushing the boundary between strength and endurance). With strength comes muscle size, with endurance comes toning of the muscle.
 How can I possibly build strength with those?" Altering push ups to make them harder so that you can only do 6-10 reps is easy. In fact, you can add resistance to any body weights exercises. Try doing the exercise more slowly, do exercises on side of the body (i.e. one arm push ups, one-legged squats), also, try wearing a backpack with small bags of sand, books, or anything that adds weight.
 To build muscle you must take in additional calories then needed.


To determine how many calories you need a day, use this equation: 6.95 x Weight + 679= Calories normally burned in a day.
Now, take that amount and multiply by 1.7. So the final equation should be 6.95 x Weight + 679= Daily amount x 1.7.
Now that you have figured out your daily expenditure, add 200-500 calories for muscle gain. For weight loss, subtract 200-500 calories from your daily expenditure.
 Only eat healthy fats such as those found in olive oils, fish, nuts, and flax seed oils. Saturated and trans fats will only shorten your life and add body fat. Aim for these percentages: complex carbs (found only in whole foods, vegetables, whole grain -- eg, whole wheat) 60-70%, protein 20-30%, fat 10-20%.


Chicken
Fish
Pasta
Potato

, Do it only on your off training days. Stationary bikes are good, but sprints are even better.

