 Multiple monitor displays and FHD or HTPC video do not require a high amount of power. High-end games, demanding emulators, high resolution video and virtual reality may require extra power for optimal performance. You will need to determine how powerful you want your video card’s components to be.;
, Your computer’s motherboard may feature one of three key slots that act as a video card bus interface. A key slot is a connector on a motherboard that features a specific pattern that allows you to plug in a card to expand your computer’s functionality. Inspect your motherboard and confirm with your motherboard’s documentation for which key slot is provided.PCI-Express is the most popular iteration in today's PCs. These can range between in Times one (x1) up to times sixteen (x16) which determines how fast the card is able to perform and the size of the key slot. Today almost all graphics card use PCI-Express x16 (PCIe).
PCI is an older and obsolete slot type. You may have a motherboard that features integrated graphics that does not include a PCI Express or AGP graphics card. PCI cards primarily support 5 volts for power and some cards may be compatible with 3.3 volt key slots. All PCI cards are 32-bit cards, but can be plugged into both 32-bit and 64-bit key slots.
 Ensure your computer can not only fit the card but will be able to sustain its power as well.Your video card may be limited by the power of the Central Processing Unit (CPU), memory, power and even the size of your desktop tower’s chassis.


The CPU speed must be fast enough to allow your video card to perform at it’s maximum capacity. A CPU with fewer cores or at low speeds may cause your video card to throttle its performance.
Measure the inner size of the PC chassis. A video card can vary in size. For high-end computers, a video card may require a long length and may take two PCIe slot width in order for it to fit properly. Your video card may also be obstructed by the internal wiring. Be sure to note how much space is available in the chassis of your computer.
Your power supply is very important, and will need to be able to not only sustain the power that your video card will require (low-end cards mostly draw power from PCIe slots only but high-end cards require more power and have additional 1 or 2 six or eight-pin power connectors).
Always check how many watts your power supply can deliver, the number of additional connectors provided, and how much power is required for the card (usually given in the manual or on the website of manufacturer).

