 For many individuals with nocturnal asthma, coughing may be the only detectable symptom.If you believe you may have nocturnal asthma, it's important to assess how, when, and how intensely you cough.


Coughing typically occurs during early morning hours, especially between 2:00 am and 4:00 am.There is usually no mucus or phlegm being coughed up. It's most frequently a dry, persistent cough.
Some people experience intense wheezing with coughing, though you may still have nocturnal asthma even if you do not experience wheezing.
If you have a partner, roommate, or family member living with you, ask them to listen to you at night and report any dry coughing and/or wheezing that you experience in your sleep.;
, Difficulty breathing is a very common symptom of asthma, including nocturnal asthma. Talk to your doctor as soon as possible if you experience any of the following symptoms:


shortness of breathtight chest
difficulty expanding the lungs while breathing in
pain in the chest
wheezing

, Many individuals with nocturnal asthma experience sleep disturbance because of their condition. Nocturnal asthma can cause fatigue and impaired performance the day after an asthma episode.If you consistently feel tired and unrested after a normal night's sleep, or if you have difficulty concentrating or performing at work or school, you may be suffering from nocturnal asthma.
 People with asthma, including nocturnal asthma, may experience varying degrees of severity when it comes to an asthma attack. The estimated severity of an asthma attack typically depends on your ability to speak and lie down while experiencing the attack.During a mild asthma episode, you may experience shortness of breath without any effect on your ability to speak or lie down once you're awake.
During a moderately severe asthma episode, you may feel out of breath while talking once you wake up.
During a severe asthma episode, you may feel restless and out of breath while resting once you're awake. You may also be incapable of lying down or speaking in complete sentences.
 If you suspect you may have asthma, it's important to see a doctor as soon as possible. Only a doctor can give you a definitive diagnosis and prescribe any medications you may need to treat your condition.Your doctor will run tests to confirm your condition and gauge its severity.
Your doctor will also want to rule out any other diseases.
Panic disorder is frequently mistaken for asthma. Numerous pulmonary conditions may also be mistaken for asthma, including chronic obstructive lung disease, pneumonia, bronchitis, a pulmonary embolism, and severe allergic reactions.
 Because nocturnal asthma symptoms are typically most prevalent at night, your doctor may not be able to directly observe your asthma symptoms. Therefore, many doctors rely on a self-completed questionnaire to assess the symptoms of asthma and their frequency.Ask your doctor if you're unclear on any of the terms or the phrasing of any questions, as accuracy is important when answering the questionnaire.
If you do not feel able to accurately diagnose your own symptoms during the night, consider having a friend or family member sleep in the same room as you and report any symptoms to you.
 Imaging scans may be performed on the lungs and sinus cavities to assess any infections, diseases (including tumors), or structural malformations that could cause breathing problems.Ruling out these potentially fatal conditions is an important step in diagnosing asthma.
 There are a number of different tests your doctor may have you perform in order to diagnose a case of asthma.The main categories of tests are either spirometry, which measures both the quantity of air expelled and the time it takes to exhale, and peak flow, which measures your lungs' ability to breathe in and out.A vital capacity test measures the maximum quantity of air that your lungs can inhale or exhale at any given time.
A peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR) test, also called a peak flow rate test, measures your lungs' maximum rate of flow while exhaling as hard as you can.
A forced expiratory volume (FEV1) test measures the maximum quantity of air your lungs can exhale in one second.
 This test may not be widely available in some regions. However, in locations where it is available, it can help give some insight into whether an individual has asthma. This test measures how much nitric oxide is in your breath, as high levels of this gas are usually associated with inflamed (and therefore asthmatic) airways., Sputum is a mixture of saliva and mucus that your lungs expel while you cough. When you experience an asthma attack, your body's levels of a particular white blood cell called eosinophil become elevated, and those cells are visible in your sputum when viewed under a microscope.Your doctor will collect a sample of sputum from you and stain it with a dye called eosin. The sample can then be viewed under a microscope.
The presence of eosinophil in your sputum is usually a confirmation of asthma.
 Once your doctor has run the necessary tests, they will be able to determine whether or not you have asthma. If you have asthma, your doctor will also classify the severity of your asthma based on the frequency of your symptoms.Mild intermittent asthma is characterized by having symptoms up to two days in a given week and up to two nights each month.
Mild persistent asthma is characterized by having symptoms more than twice weekly, with symptoms never occurring more than once in any given day.
Moderate persistent asthma is marked by the presence of symptoms once each day and more than one night in a given week.
Severe persistent asthma involves having symptoms throughout the day on most days of the week with frequent episodes occurring at night.
 There are medications your doctor can prescribe for long-term use that will help with your condition. However, you may also need quick-relief medications for short-term relief of asthma attacks.Short-acting beta agonists like albuterol (ProAir HFA) or levalbuterol (Xopenex) can help improve your ability to breathe very quickly.
Fast-acting bronchodilators like Ipratropium (Atrovent) can help relax your airways almost immediately.
Corticosteroids like prednisone and methylprednisolone can be used to quickly relieve inflammation of the airways. However, corticosteroids can have multiple serious side effects, and prolonged use is not recommended.
 Short-term relief is crucial when it comes to asthma attacks, but you'll also need something to manage your symptoms over time. Many short-term relief medications cannot be taken for prolonged periods of time, so your doctor will most likely prescribe some type of long-term medication in addition to those short-term relief medications.Long-acting beta agonists like salmeterol (Serevent) and formoterol (Foradil) are administered via inhaler. They help dilate the airways, but they can also cause severe asthma attacks if not used in conjunction with a corticosteroid inhaler.
Inhaled long-acting beta agonists combined with corticosteroids like Advair (fluticasone/salmeterol) and Symbicort (budesonide/formoterol)can help relieve inflammation in your airways. They will not provide immediate relief, though, and it usually takes several weeks before your condition will improve.
Leukotriene modifiers like montelukast (Singulair) and zafirlukast (Accolate) are taken orally to reduce the symptoms of an asthma attack. These medications can provide relief, but they can have psychological side effects, so it's important to exercise caution if taking them.
 Allergy medications will not help everyone with asthma, as it does not directly act on your inflamed airways. However, if you have allergies and asthma, allergy medications may help control your allergies and reduce the risk of a severe allergy-triggered asthma attack.Some medications are specifically designed for people with both asthma and allergies. For example, omalizumab (Xolair) may be administered every two to four weeks to control allergies and reduce asthma symptoms.
Ask about immunotherapy. This involves gradual exposure to a known allergen over several months until your body gets used to it and decreases your immune system response.
 Asthma can often be aggravated by exposure to irritants during exercise, viral infections, and inhaled allergens in your home, such as tobacco smoke and dust. To help control your nocturnal asthma, make sure that you do what you can to avoid and eliminate these irritants. Some things that might help include:

Avoiding outdoor exercise when pollen counts are high or when poor air quality has been reported.
Using an air purifier in your home to help filter dust and other airborne allergens.
Not allowing people to smoke in your home or around you.
Seeking treatment for allergies.
Getting a flu shot every year.