 Wear cotton underwear.100 percent cotton underwear lets your skin breathe, preventing moisture from building up in your vulva. Your underwear should either be entirely cotton or have a crotch which is entirely cotton. Wear skirts or loose-fitting pants. Give your body a break from underwear when you can.


Sleep without underwear, or wear a nightgown and nothing beneath.
Change out of wet or sweaty clothes immediately. Change your bathing suit or workout clothes as soon as you can.
Avoid hot tubs and very hot baths.
Avoid sustained pressure on the crotch. Avoid tight-fitting underwear, pantyhose, shorts or pants.;
, Yeast is always present in the body, and is only an issue when overgrowth occurs. Antibiotics can kill off the other bacteria in your body, allowing yeast to take over. Avoid any instance of antibiotic use that your doctor says isn't strictly necessary, such as when you have a cold or virus that can heal with rest. If you must take an antibiotic, take extra precautions to avoid a yeast infection.
 Do not use scented soaps, sprays, pads, or tampons. Change your pads and tampons as often as recommended, and avoid sleeping with a tampon in. If you have vaginal intercourse, use a condom, as semen can change the PH of your vagina. Wipe front to back after using the toilet, and use unscented dye-free toilet paper.Do not douche. Douching removes healthy bacteria from your vagina.If you use lubricants, avoid oils, parabens, and glycerin. Buy water-based, glycerin free lubricant.
 There is some evidence to support the theory that eating cultured food can help the healthy bacteria in your vagina flourish.Try eating eight ounces of yogurt with "live cultures" daily, or taking Lactobacillus acidophilus capsules. Some people report good results from the use of lactobacillus suppositories.Although studies have not backed up the claim, many people think cutting down on sugar, beer, and bread can help prevent Candida overgrowth., Ask your doctor about maintenance therapy. At a time when you do not have a yeast infection, you will take a regimen of oral fluconazole tablets or clotrimazole as a vaginal suppository once a week for six months.


Recurrent yeast infections can be signs of a suppressed immune system. Ask your doctor if you should be tested for HIV and diabetes.