 This person will shuffle the cards and deal everyone, including themselves, three cards face down. They will put the remainder of the deck in the center of the table flipping the top card face up next to the deck. This face up card is the start of the discard pile.;
, The score in your hand is equal to the highest total of same suited cards. Face cards are worth ten and aces are worth eleven. All other cards are worth face value.



If they don't want the face up card, they must pass the turn to the next player. If everyone passes, including the dealer, then the player to the left of the dealer may draw from the deck.
If someone picks up the face up card before the turn gets passed all the way around through the dealer, they will discard another card in their hand. Play then goes to the next player who may either draw from the deck or pick up the top card of the discard pile.
The option to pass only applies after the deal and ends when someone has picked up the face up card or when everyone has decided they didn't want it. At that point, players may either pick up from the discard pile or the top card of the deck at the start of their turn.
 This forfeits their turn and gives everyone else one more turn to get as high of a suited hand as possible. Once everyone else has had a turn, everyone will lay their cards down face up and say their score. The player(s) with the lowest score pay one chip or dollar to the pot. If, however, the person who knocked has the lowest score OR is tied with someone else for the lowest score, then the knocker themselves pays.
If a player gets a thirty one (two tens and an ace of the same suit), then they immediately lay their hand down to show everyone they have thirty one and everyone else at the table pays one chip or dollar to the pot.
After one of the above events happens, the round ends and the deal goes to the player to the left of the last dealer to start a new round.
 They continue to play like normal. If they lose again, then they have nothing left to pay to the pot and they are no longer in the game and are removed from play. This elimination of players continues until just one person is left and has won the game. If playing for money, the winner gets the winnings from the pot and bragging rights! Congrats!

