 Keep food covered and put sweet things away as soon as you've eaten them. Use plastic trash bags and tightly closed lids in all outdoor trash cans.
 Bees forage for water a fair distance from their hive, so you may see bees around pools, irrigation systems, or other water sources even if there are no hives nearby. If the bees successfully retrieve water, they may return more frequently, and in greater numbers. Use a pool cover when swimming pools are not in use, and repair broken irrigation systems, leaky pipes, or other sources of puddles., Vinegar may make a water source undesirable for bees, causing them to move somewhere else in search of water. Add about 2 tablespoons (30 mL) vinegar per gallon (3,800 mL) of water before filling outdoor water containers for animals, including bird baths.


While pine scented cleaner may be more effective, it should only be used in water that no humans or animals drink from., If these deterrents are not enough, killing the bees that come to forage for your water may prevent an influx or more bees. Mix 1/8 cup (30 mL) dish soap with 2 cups (480 mL) of water and put it in a spray bottle. This spray can quickly kill individual bees trying to retrieve water.While the death of a few bees is unlikely to harm the hive, hiring an exterminator for larger-scale control is not recommended unless the hive is already established in or near your house. Bees are an important pollinating species for many plants.
 If bees are swarming in your yard, or present in great numbers, you may need to perform a full check of your house and yard to block them from all potential hives. This can be a tedious task, but is still much easier than removing a hive once it is established.


Caulk or cover all holes and cracks that are at least 1/8 inches (3 millimeters) wide.Check the walls, foundation, the chimney's attachment to the wall, and all sheds and outbuildings.
Use tightly fitting screens to cover larger holes. Cover drains, vents, ill-fitting doorways or windows, and all other large holes with tight-fitting, fine mesh screens.
Fill animal burrows with dirt, or cover them until the swarm has passed by.

