 Always travel your dog in a crash-test approved safety device, such as a travel pod (small dogs), harness (medium-sized dogs), or crate (large dogs.) This keeps the dog safe and prevents it from distracting the driver by actions such as climbing onto his lap.;
, A good compromise is to feed the dog 3-4 hours prior to travel. You can also wait to feed your dog when you get to your destination, if your trip is short.


Remember that a dog may feel sick even if its stomach is very empty.
 Your dog will need toilet breaks if you are taking it for a long ride. You should also carry water and a bowl so it can have a drink during breaks in the journey.


Get out and take your dog out to stretch its legs. This will go a long way toward soothing its sickness or nervousness.
For long journeys exercising the dog before hand will help to burn off excess energy and help it to settle en route.
 Don't over heat the car or smoke during the journey, as this may induce nausea even in a seasoned traveler.Consider using pheromones in the car, such as an Adaptil collar on the dog. This gives off hormones that reassure the dog and reduce anxiety, and may well help with his distress at being in a vehicle.Take along something the dog finds comforting, such as a blanket that smells of home, or a favorite cuddly toy., Your dog can easily distract you if it is moving around a lot in the back of the car and if it is whining or barking. Obviously any distraction while you are driving can be dangerous.


If the dog is sitting in a rear gate, have someone pat the dog (if able) every so often. Move it if this location causes undue stress.
Talk to your dog to reassure it. Use a calm voice and don't show panic or annoyance if it is doing something you don't want it to do. Just keep calmly talking to the dog and telling it how good it is being.
 It should include treats for rewards, a good strong leash, fresh cool water and a bowl to drink from, a toy or two, and plenty of cleaning up materials, such as cloths, spray cleaner, poop baggies etc. It is likely that your dog might have an accident in your car in the early days just due to plain nervousness. If you have cleaning products at hand, the long term damage to your vehicle will be minimized and you and your dog's comfort can continue for the rest of the journey.

