 Be aware of when your tests take place, as well as the time for each exam that applies to most people in your grade. Note down the dates on a calendar or a planner so that you won't forget. This will help you plan the meetings for your study group. Make sure that your information is correct by checking with teachers or classmates.;
, Ask your classmates if they want to join your study group. Do your best to only gather those who are in your grade. That way, you'll be able to cover most topics that everyone will understand. Those who are older and younger than you may have trouble participating in the study group and won't benefit as much from it. Avoid forcing classmates to join your group, as some may study better by themselves.


Collect people's phone numbers or emails. That way, you'll be able to contact them in case there is a change of plans. They can also let you know if they won't be able to come to a meeting.
 Once you have an appropriate number of people in your study group, discuss the dates and times for your meetings. Since everyone has different schedules, some people may not always be able to come. You should make sure that they'll be able to attend most of the meetings. You should also decide how often you will meet.
 Once you have determined the dates and times for your meetings, try to find a quiet place free of distractions, such as a classroom in your school. Libraries and a classmate's house are also good ideas, although you should check ahead to ensure that it won't be filled with distractions. Be sure that your study location is close to everyone's houses; otherwise, they may have trouble attending. Avoid going to a certain place and holding it without prior permission, as it may already be in use by someone else.
 Before making a choice, make sure that everyone agrees with it. Be sure that your decision is made ahead of time so that they know what supplies to bring. You should also take note of your members' weakest subjects and try to place your attention upon them during your meetings. At the end of every meeting, talk with your group and decide what subject to study during your next meeting.
 Decide how many subjects that your group should cover before you're completely prepared. You should also discuss how much information needs to be studied during your meetings so that you're ready for the final exam. It may not be possible to focus on every single detail, but do your best to cover most of the information during your meetings.

