 You can simply crack the egg in half, but you won't have much space to plant the seeds in. Instead, consider cracking the egg near the upper third with a spoon.Save the egg yolk and white for eating later.


Don't use hardboiled eggs, as the shells would be brittle. If you already cooked the egg, save the water you cooked it in, let it cool, and use it to water your plants instead.
Don't use colored or painted eggs (such as Easter eggs). The pigments in paints and markers contain dyes that can harm the delicate seedlings., When rinsing the shell, be sure to run your finger around the inside of the shell to remove any residue.
 It is easiest if you do this from the inside.It is not absolutely necessary, but it will help prevent over-watering, which can kill a young plant.
, Larger vegetables, such as beans, cucumber, and squash can work, but they will need to be moved outside 1 week after they sprout.Consider easy-to-grow herbs, such as: basil, dill, and parsley. Marigolds are great for starting in eggshells, and they are edible too., The holder can be as simple as an egg carton to as fancy as an egg holder. If you are using an egg carton, consider lining it with plastic first so that it doesn't get soggy from the draining water.
 Depending on what type of seed you planted, you might see the seedling emerge in less than a week. When watering the seedlings, consider using a spray bottle instead of a watering can; it will be a lot more gentle on the delicate, young plants.Depending on how dry it is in your home, you may need to water the seeds every day to every few days.
Consider rotating the eggshell every few days. This will allow the plants to get equal amounts of sunlight and grow more evenly.You may need to pull out the smaller/weaker seedlings so that each eggshell has one plant growing in it. This will ensure that the young seedlings enough space to grow in., Before you plant the egg in the soil, crush it slightly in your hand—enough to break the shell but not so much that the soil loses its shape. This will break the shell up a little and allow the roots to poke through.Eggshells are biodegradable. As they decompose, they will release nutrients and calcium into the soil, which will help the young plant grow.,