 OB/GYNs only have “admitting privileges” at certain hospitals. You will most likely be delivering your baby at the hospital where your OB/GYN has admitting privileges. If they do not have admitting privileges at the hospital of your choice, you may want to select a different OB/GYN.
 You may need to go to the hospital quickly while you are in labor. This is especially important if you're expecting during the winter months when weather conditions could be dicey or if you have a high risk pregnancy.
 Given the evidence that breastfeeding is healthier for mothers and babies, the World Health Organization (WHO) and the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) started the Baby-Friendly Hospital Initiative. This global program "encourages and recognizes hospitals and birthing centers that offer an optimal level of care for infant feeding and mother/baby bonding."Baby-Friendly Hospitals will most likely staff lactation consultants. These certified specialists provide education, support, and private consults to pregnant and nursing mothers. If you choose to breastfeed, you should ask to make sure that your hospital can provide you with a lactation consultant., If they are, what accommodations do they offer? Some hospitals only have private delivery rooms, some have only shared delivery rooms, while others have both. Do your research ahead of time so you'll know what to expect.
 Policies vary from hospital to hospital, so this is a great question to ask if your partner wants to accompany you in the delivery room. Having a family member with you may ease your stress during delivery.
 You should look for a hospital that will allow your baby to stay with you constantly throughout your stay. This is also called "rooming in.” It allows you to bond more frequently with your baby., If you do not want a C-section, you will not want to go to a hospital that will pressure you into one. Instead, you want to find a hospital that has about a 19% rate of C-sections.This generally means that they do C-sections when they are necessary, but they do not perform unnecessary C-sections. Not all hospitals perform C-sections, so asking ahead of time could save you from having to be transferred to a different facility, should the need arise.

