 Since babies do not exercise or get as dirty as adults, their hair is also generally cleaner. Wash your baby's hair around 2 times a week.


Of course, if the hair is visibly dirty, you should wash the hair.;
, If the bottle says "tear-free," it may be a good choice.


It would be best to ask your pediatrician what he/she recommends since the stores can be confusing.
It may also be a good idea to purchase a non-scented shampoo so that the baby does not object to the smell.
 Babies can become cold very quickly so heat your child up by cleaning their body first.


This will also help make your baby more comfortable and hopefully more cooperative.
 Do not wrap it so tight that your baby is uncomfortable but make sure it is snug.


Try to fold your baby's arms across their chest before wrapping the towel around. This is a comfortable position for the baby to be in and will help them be more cooperative.
 Consider your baby's stage of development. Many infants will require you to support their neck and head while being held and washed. Look at how to hold a baby properly if you do not know how already.


If the tub or sink is below your waist, kneel down next to the tub.
 This will allow you to wash the hair while keeping the rest of the body dry.


This step may be easier if you wash your baby over a sink instead. This will only work, though, if the baby is small enough to be held over a sink.
 Keep on doing so until all of your baby's hair is wet. The water should be warm enough to feel the heat but not so hot that it hurts to touch. Find a temperature comfortable for you and then make it slightly colder for your baby.


Take care not to let any water get to your baby's ears or eyes. This will be uncomfortable for the baby just as it is for you.
Try to angle your baby's head slightly back so that the water will flow away from the eyes and ears.
 The amount will depend on the thickness of your baby's hair, but try not to use more than the size of a quarter.


You will need to set your baby down or hand him/her off to another person for this step.
 Use gentle, circular motions to create a small amount of lather. Use the tips of your fingers to massage and clean the scalp. Do not run your fingernails along the scalp, though.


You should only need to shampoo their hair for around 20-30 seconds since the hair will not be too dirty or sweaty.
 You may need to use more water in order to remove all of the shampoo.


Try to gently run your hand through your baby's hair to make sure all of the shampoo is gone.
 Do not dry too vigorously. Try to palm your baby's head and move your hand in slow circles while holding the base of the head and the neck.


Try to use a warm washcloth to help soothe the baby.

