 This is dependent on the size of your grout's joint (the space between the tiles where the grout lies). There are 2 types of grout for regrouting tile: sanded and non sanded. If your grout joints are larger than 1/8 inch (.3175 cm) use sanded grout to fill in the space; if your joints are going to be less than 1/8 inch (.3175 cm) use non sanded grout to fill in your joints as it is more compact.;
, If necessary, remove the existing grout before preparing to lay down new grout. This will keep the appearance clean and even, as well as prevent mold contamination. (Tools for this include a utility knife, a ceramic chisel, a hammer and for caulk removal from the facing of the tile use vice grips with a utility knife blade set in like a scraper), Apply a tile sealant over the surface of your tiles if they have become porous so the grout does not sink underneath the surface when regrouting your tile. Do this by using a tile sponge, a roller, or simply wipe the tiles with a coat of sealant and allow to dry for 24 hours.
 Mix the grout in one of the 5 gallon (19 L) buckets using your margin trowel.


A margin trowel is a small, hand-held tool used in masonry for laying pasty materials on tile, counter tops, and flooring.
 Apply a generous amount of grout to your grout joints along your tile floor using the rubber grout float. Be sure to distribute extra grout into the grout joints in order to fill them completely. Grout all areas of your tile floor except the expansion joints; these are the areas between the floor tile and bathtub, wall, door, and cabinet or sink area.


The rubber grout float is a rectangular, flat tool with a steel handle and rubber surface used to distribute grout. Hold the rubber grout float at a 30 degree angle and distribute grout across the surface of the tile floor.
 Remove the excess grout from the tile floor once every grout joint has been filled. Do this by going over the tile with the rubber grout float, only this time use it at a sharp angle and move it diagonally across the tile floor in order to scrap the excess grouting material off.


Moving diagonally avoids detaching recently laid grout from the grout joints.
 Let grout set for approximately 10 minutes. While the grout is setting, fill your second 5 gallon (19 L) bucket with water and grab your tile sponge in order to clean the tile floor.
 Dip the tile sponge in the bucket of water and wring out any excess water leaving a damp tile sponge.
 Wipe all grout residue off of the tile using the damp tile sponge in a diagonal motion. Clean the excess grout from the expansion areas using the margin trowel to leave those areas completely clean for caulking.
 Rinse tile sponge and repeat the previous step until all of the grout residue is removed and tile is completely clean of grout haze.
 Allow grout to cure for 24 to 48 hours before stepping on it to ensure its stability and that it is completely dry.
 Caulk the expansion joints using a caulk color that matches your grout. Completely fill these expansion joints then smooth and concave using your finger.
 Apply a penetrating sealer using either a sponge or spray bottle to the grout joints once the grout has completely cured. Wipe off excess sealer from the tile immediately as it will stain the tile.

