 Some people with sensitive skin can have allergic reactions to the chemicals in hair removal, or depilatory creams. To make sure you aren’t allergic to the cream you’ve chosen, dab a small amount onto your skin. Try somewhere like your ankle or arm. If you have no reaction after a few moments of the product being on your skin, you should be fine to use that product.


Red skin, a rash, or intense itchiness are all signs of an allergic reaction.Always check the warning labels and ingredient lists on any skin product you use before using them.
 Since your underarms are particularly sensitive, choose a product that is specifically labeled and made for use on sensitive skin. Some depilatory cream brands offer specific creams for underarms and bikini areas, so try one of these. This will reduce the risk of skin irritation when you use the product.


Even if you choose a product for sensitive skin, it’s still a good idea to do the allergy test prior to using it.
 You want to make sure you don’t have any lotion, deodorant, antiperspirant or skin oils on your skin when you apply the cream. This will ensure there is nothing acting as a barrier between the cream and your skin. Use a gentle soap when washing to make sure all products and oils are removed from the skin.You will also want to make sure you don’t have any cuts in the area you’ll be applying the cream. This can be very uncomfortable and cause a stinging sensation.
 Make sure not to rub the cream in. Instead, dab it over your skin and make sure you cover all the hair you want to remove. Use a thick enough layer to fully cover the area. The cream you bought may have come with a special spatula for spreading and removing, so you can use that. Or, you can use a wooden tongue depressor or put on a plastic glove and use your hand.You can spread the cream with your bare hand, but you will want to wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water promptly after finishing.
 The label will specify how long to leave the cream on before wiping it off, and you should follow those instructions completely. Don’t keep track of the time in your head--use a watch or timer to make sure you leave it on for the exact amount of time. Leaving it on longer could result in skin irritation., Using the spatula that came with your cream, or with a washcloth, apply firm pressure and wipe the cream away. Use a downward motion. Make sure you apply even pressure when wiping away the cream, as this will remove both the cream and the hair in one motion. Extra rubbing could cause unnecessary irritation.If you have any kind of negative reaction during the time the cream is on your skin, remove it. Burning, excessive or painful itching, or a rash are all signs of an allergic reaction. Even if you did a test patch somewhere else on your skin and had no reaction, it’s still a good idea to remove the cream if it causes a reaction when you use it.
 Using warm water, rinse all the excess cream off of your skin. Make sure all the cream comes off. You don’t want any lingering and causing skin irritation or burning from staying on too long. You don’t necessarily need to use soap, but you can if you feel you need to. Or, if the directions on the label call for using soap to wash off the cream, follow those instructions.Be careful not to rub your skin too harshly with washcloths or loofahs when rinsing the cream away. Your skin may be a little sensitive from using the cream, and doing so may cause irritation.
 Some depilatory creams will come with a lotion to apply after using the cream. If yours did, use that cream and apply a generous amount. If your depilatory cream did not come with an after-lotion, you can use a mild moisturizing lotion you have on hand. Consider using one that is unscented to refrain from applying any unnecessary extra chemicals to your skin.