 Flats are ubiquitous in set design, as they are the foundation of any hand-made set. Flats are always 4x8 feet large, and are quickly and easily decorated to look like a home or room. Though it takes some carpentry and tools, flats are actually pretty easy to build. To make one 4x8 foot flat, you will need:


1 4x8' sheet of Masonite.
5 pieces of 1"x3"x8' wood for the frame.
1 4x8' sheet of plywood for the jack, or base.
Wood glue and a box of 1.5" nails., Put the piece of wood on the ground so that you can accurately measure out the size of your frame on it's back. The frame will surround the edges of the Masonite, like a a picture frame.
 The 8-foot long wood should fit perfectly along the long sides of the Masonite. Make sure they are flush with the edges and that the thin side (1" thick) is the one touching the Masonite.
 The smaller end needs to go inside the longer pieces, so you'll have to cut one plank of wood roughly in half to make the frame. If you used 1-inch thick wood, the two shorter sides should be cut to 46-inches long, since the wood is 4 feet (1.2 m) wide, minus an inch for the width of the long planks on the edges. Still, you should make this measurement before cutting to double check.
 The entire outside edge of the wood sheet should be framed by your wooden planks, with the two shorter sides tucked inside the longer 8-foot planks.


Cut a third piece to this exact length as well and fit it into the middle. The whole frame It will resemble a classic two-part window frame when you are done.
 Simply put a nail into every joint. You will be doing more work later to hold it together, so these 6 nails (2 for each horizontal slat) should be fine to start.
 You don't need too much, as you'll be using nails as well. Have a friend help make sure that the edges of the Masonite are flush with the frame.
 Start with the four corners, then put as many nails as possible into the board to attach it to the frame.
 Lay the piece down so that the wide side is flat in the center of the frame, then use a power drill to put pilot holes into the frame and wood piece. Use long wood screws to attach the wood to the frame. The result will be one long piece down the back of the frame, almost like a wooden pallet.


Use two screws along each horizontal wooden part of the frame. This long piece in the center attaches your flat to the stand that will hold it up.
 This is your stand. It will act like the stand on the back of a picture frame, holding your flat up so that it doesn't fall.
 The hypotenuse is the longest side of the triangle. Cut a rounded notch into the center of this side, cutting down roughly a foot or so. This notch is where you can drape a sandbag or weight to hold the flat down., Attach the plywood on either side of the wooden board running down the middle of the frame. Remember, your goal is to use the plywood like the back of picture frame, helping the flat stand on its own. Again, drill pilot holes into the plywood and frame, then use wood screws to adhere the two together. 6-8 evenly spaced screws should work fine.


To make it easier to work, you can also use wood glue along the edge of the board before attaching the screws.
 You'll have a lot to do, painting the walls to bringing in furniture, accents, and lights, but this is the best way to have full control of your set design.