 It's not always enough to just dress the part, but you have to appear hot. And a few tricks to improve your body language can help:


Stand tall and with purpose. Stick your chest out and keep your hands from fidgeting. The power position is often described with the image of Superman with his hands at his hips, chin high, and legs apart.
Move steadily with your actions. Talking too fast or doing things in a hurry shows that you're nervous or anxious.
Have a variety of expressions on your face and body. Confident people are able to express themselves naturally but won't overdo it. This makes you more approachable and open.
 Whether you want to achieve a certain body weight goal, or just become more physically healthy, getting in shape is a great step towards becoming hot.


Invest in a gym membership or a personal trainer. With a trainer’s guided advice and encouragement, you can start to work on areas of your body and achieve weight goals in a safe and effective way.
Eat healthy. Cut down on junk foods and start eating a better balanced diet.
Exercising and eating well will make you feel more comfortable in your own skin and improve your overall mental health as well.
 Improving your posture not only makes you look more confident, but also has many health benefits. Fixing your posture can reduce head and back pain, inflexibility, and prevent compromised muscles.


Assess your posture so you can work on your body’s problem areas.Generally, your shoulders should be balanced and one shouldn’t appear higher than the other. They should also be aligned with your ear so your neck and head aren’t jutting forward. Your back should not be rounded and your arms should relax at your sides.
Do posture-improving exercises everyday. They can be simple exercises like straightening your back while sitting, walking more, or stretching out those kinks. Or they can be more complicated exercises that stretch and form your back to the correct posture.Be conscious of how you hold yourself. It’s easy to start slumping forward when you’re working at your desk or sitting down and relaxing. Make an effort to sit in the correct position with your back straight, arms back, and head and neck aligned with your shoulders.
 Try dyeing your hair, cutting it extremely short or getting extensions to mix it up every once in a while and give off a dynamic appearance.


Take care of your hair. The simplest thing you can do is wash your hair and condition it. Invest in hair products or natural remedies to fight problems such as frizzy, dry, or greasy hair.
Get a haircut every month or two to avoid split ends and the unkempt look.
 Your skin is the foundation of your look. Keep it clean and clear of blemishes and other problem factors by treating and protecting it. Try out different products to make sure they’re right for your skin.


Wear sunscreen. It’s the easiest thing to forget but a little sunscreen every day can prevent wrinkles and skin discoloration.
Moisturize your skin. Use lotion, cream, or body butter for your hands, arms, legs, and face. Lip balm helps with chapped or cracking lips.
For oily skin, use oil-free products to cleanse your face.
For acne prone skin, avoid touching your face or popping your pimples. Instead, wash your face with an acne cleanser or warm water and hypoallergenic soap and keep your skin well moisturized. Acne develops when oils, either from your fingers or overactive hormones and glands, mix together with dirt to clog up your pores.

