 It helps to give students an online touchpoint for your course where they can check in and find everything they need for it. It offers a centralized place where you can upload readings, assignments, notes, calendars, announcements, and other materials for your class.


Many schools offer secure, in-house software like CourseWeb that makes it easy to put together a class home page.
If you don’t have access to CourseWeb and don’t have any programming know-how, it’s easy to create your own website for free with user-friendly platforms like Wix or WordPress. This is also a good idea if you’d like your course materials to be available to the public.
Many free web page hosts also offer a blog function that allows for multiple contributors so that your students can also use the course home page as a communication hub where they can interact with each other and post reflections, questions, and comments. If you make contributing to blog part of the course requirements, it can foster discussion and collaboration outside the classroom.
 If you approve of a particular site or find that it has useful supporting materials for your lesson, have your students interact with it. Besides giving your students access to excellent resources, information, and primary source materials, this will help them identify what makes an online resources valuable and legitimate sources for research.You can have students visit the official sites for museums, libraries, universities, government agencies, nongovernmental organizations, and reputable print media to do the readings for a lesson or track down sources for assignments.
For example, if you’re doing a lesson on scientific breakthroughs, you could use the related biographies, speeches, and videos available on the Nobel Organization’s website.
 Add interest to traditional lectures by sharing visuals, video clips, or audio files. Doing so can provide great support and illustrations for your points while keeping students engaged in your argument through visual and audio stimuli.


If you’re discussing a particular poem, share an audio clip of the poet reading it aloud. If you’re talking about the Vietnam War, find a video clip that provides a glimpse of the media coverage associated with the conflict.
Try Vimeo, YouTube, and news media sites for video clips. A Google Image search is great for photos and graphics. If you’re looking for material that you can download or that’s in the public domain, try searchable collections like the Library of Congress or Archive.org.
 This could be anything from a blog to a wiki to a shared web page. The only requirement is that your students get to actively participate in it as authors. Working together online helps to extend lessons and foster community beyond the classroom while giving students a sense of ownership over their own learning.For instance, create a blog for your class where students can share their assignments, respond to other students’ work, ask questions, and/or post on topics related to the class.
Sometimes students feel more able to express themselves online than in person. This gives those individuals a chance to participate and contribute even if they’re shy about speaking up in the classroom setting.
If you make your blog, wiki, or web page into a resource that’s available to the public, it can help motivate students to do their best work and feel like they’ve accomplished something meaningful through doing an assignment.
 Introduce students to apps that advance their studies while building 21st-century skills like digital literacy. That way, they can get hands-on knowledge of a specific subject and general preparation for their future at the same time.


For instance, if you’re teaching geography, why not use Google Earth? Or, search for the latest educational apps, such as Glogster, a multimedia tool that helps students learn about communications and design while completing their assignments.Using online and multimedia tools can also help accommodate a wide range of learning styles, giving students who might be more attuned to visual or auditory learning a chance to thrive.

