 Remember, most rodeo clowns provide their own protective equipment. Before you start working in the field and booking gigs, invest in making sure you're protected.


You'll need your own rubber escape barrel, which can be quite pricey. A good barrel costs around $1,000.
Protective padding for your legs, hips, chest, and arms is also important. Padding can range from $100 to $300.Most rodeo clowns have a specific act or routine and many use props. If you want to wear a particular costume or use something like fireworks in your act these are expenses you'll have to take care of yourself.
 Once you have your equipment ready, you can begin booking gigs. It can be difficult to find work at first, as you're just starting out. However, go back to some of the connections you made along the way to see if anyone can help you find work. You can also find a rodeo clown contractor in your area, usually by asking at a local rodeo, and see if he has room for you in his registry. A contractor can help you find regular work and build a reputation., There are many professional rodeo organizations in existence. Being part of an organization can help give you credibility and make connections. This can lead to steadier work.


There are many professional rodeo organizations in existence. They include the Professional Rodeo Cowboys Association, the Southern Rodeo Association, the Woman's Rodeo Association, and more. Find an association that suits your need
Applications and membership vary from organization to organization. Most web sties should list member requirements online. See if you meet the qualifications and are financially able to keep up with any subsequent fees.
 Rodeos are often seasonal and move from town to town to state to state. Travel is an essential part of your career as a rodeo clown.


Budget for travel expenses. Rodeo clowns are usually not compensated for travel costs.
Be emotionally ready for a life on the road. There's a reason so many country songs focus on the lonely rodeo participant. Life in constant movement can be difficult. It can be hard to maintain romantic relationships and friendships when your location changes by season. Make sure you're ready for this kind of sacrifice.

