 Visit the reddit "no WoW" community or Online Gamers Anonymous for advice and support from other gamers.;
, Reach out to friends and family, especially anyone who's drifted away because of your addiction. Ask them to encourage you.
 There are so many ways your life will improve once you are no longer obsessed:


More opportunities to see friends and try new things
A healthier sleep schedule and activity level
Clearer focus at work or school
More money to spend or save
No back aches, wrist pain, or eye strain

, Often, it's the social obligation to your friends and guilds, the sense of control and power, and the constant goals to work toward.Find ways to get these in real life, using the advice below.
 Daily goals and rewards are good motivation in productive activities too, such as exercise, real-life social interactions, and job searches.


Try HabitRPG, the productivity software for gamers.
 Read a book, toss a basketball at some hoops, or ask a real-life friend to teach you his leisure activity. Even another, offline video game can sometimes work as a temporary measure.
 If you feel depressed about your life, change it in ways that are fulfilling, not just distracting. Here are a few ideas:


Take classes online or at a community college.
Volunteer at a soup kitchen, or donate a month of WoW subscription to charity instead.
Offer to listen to a friend's problems.
 Look for a cognitive behavioral therapist, who can help you change your thoughts and feelings toward the game., Leave the guild for a week, and tell your guild mates you won't be available. At the end of the week, consider extending the break, or starting a "week in, week out" pattern.


Set your chatty friends to "ignore" during these breaks. They'll survive.
 Give these to strangers who won't return them if you come back. This reduces the sense of progress and accomplishment.
 Steel yourself and delete one of your highest-level characters, taking away one more emotional attachment to the game.
 Most operating systems have a parental controls setting that restricts when you can log in or go online. Have a friend choose the password to keep it secret from you.
 Access your router settings and find the firewall or port protocol settings. Block ports 1119 and 3724, and no one on your wireless network can access WoW.If you can't find these settings, search online for instructions specific to your router brand.
 Many former WoW addicts do not find it possible to play the game in moderation. Uninstalling the game and letting your subscription run out is often the safer path.

