 Hypoglycemia is a disorder of glucose balance in the blood in which there is a lower than normal concentration of glucose. Usually glucose transport in the blood is done using the protein hormone insulin. Usually also insulin helps glucose to enter the cells where it is metabolized in the energy producing processes which are called glycolysis and the citric acid cycle.


Without the help of insulin, namely in diabetic patients glucose cannot enter the cells and a state of hyperglycemia ensues. There are many causes to hypoglycemia. One of them is insulin excess in the blood. Insulin is usually secreted to the blood by the islet cells of the pancreas in response to high glucose level in the blood.
A tumour of the islet cells of the pancreas either isolated or as a part of the multiple endocrine neoplasia syndrome or MEN can cause a state of insulin excess in the blood which is called insulinoma which can trigger a state of hypoglycemia.;
, Hypoglycemia in turn stimulates the release of glucagon from the islet cells and epinephrine and Norepinephrine from the sympathetic nervous system in addition to growth hormone which is secreted by the anterior pituitary gland. All these hormones and neurotransmitters stimulate the release of glucose in to the blood from its storage site in glycogen.


Glucagon is a protein hormone which is an antagonist to the action of insulin. It functions by increasing the degradation of the biopolymer glycogen into its glucose units. Thus increasing its concentration in the blood. In some cases there is a tumour of the islet cells of the glucagon secreting cells. Thus causing a state of hyperglycemia with its accompanying diabetic symptoms.
 Another cause to hypoglycemia occurs in certain types of malignancies in which the malignant cells secrete an insulin like growth factor which mimic insulin in its function and has similar activity to insulin. Thus causing a state of pseudoinsulinoma. The treatment to this condition is by surgical removal of the tumor cells or by chemotherapy that destroys the malignant cells.
 Usually the adrenal cortex secretes important hormones to the circulation such as cortisol and aldosterone in addition to androgens. These hormone have important physiological roles and there absence or excess can be manifested clinically by metabolic diseases such as Addison's disease and Cushing's syndrome.


Cortisol acts among its many functions by increasing glucose level in the blood. In adrenal cortex insufficiency cortisol secretion is insufficient. Thus, causing a state of hypoglycemia. Cortisol antagonizes the action of insulin the same way that glucagon antagonizes the action of insulin.
 The kidneys and the liver are potential sites for the synthesis of glucose through a process which is called gluconeogenesis. Gluconeogenesis is an anabolic process in which glucose is synthesized in the body from amino acids. This is usually done in the case of hypoglycemia or shortage of glucose in the blood. Gluconeogenesis is the reverse of glycolysis. Glycolysis is the process of glucose metabolism to generate energy rich ATP molecules. In gluconeogenesis glucose is synthesized from amino acids and this process requires energy in contrast to glycolysis process which releases energy.


Therefore, liver and kidney failure deprive the body from a route to generate glucose. Thus these conditions can predispose to hypoglycemia.
 Diabetic mothers usually give birth to children with overweight due to the high glucose concentration in their blood. Also the high glucose concentration in the fetus blood causes a state of pancreatic islet cells hyperplasia which over-secretes the hormone insulin after birth. This hyperplasia is not corrected after birth and thus causing a state of hypoglycemia.
 Drugs administration against hyperglycemia states such as sulfonylurea can cause a state of hypoglycemia as well if taken in overdose. Alcoholics are especially vulnerable to develop hypoglycemia state possibly due to malnutrition or due to inhibition of gluconeogenesis.

