 This can be done by giving her little gifts you find when you’re out and about. You might also give her flowers, text or call her randomly during the day, make her food, take photos to say "This reminded me of you," or plan a special date.Take into account her interests and favorite things. Some girls think that the perfect surprise date is a walk on the beach, others prefer a hike through the woods, and some would rather sit in front of the TV with popcorn and a warm blanket. Figure out what she likes and do it for her.
 As simple as it seems, showing her that you're comfortable around her demonstrates trust and respect. It encourages her to be herself around you, too.Don’t pretend like you’re perfect. If you snort when you laugh, or have weird eating habits, expose them. That way she’ll feel less pressure to be perfect as well.
 Engaging in her interests helps her know that you care about her, and also care about the things that matter to her. You don’t have to lose yourself trying to show you’re interested in her pastimes. Taking part in just one of her hobbies or interests is enough to show you care.For example, if she's in robotics club, ask to come see the robot she's working on sometime.
You might also show interest in her friends, like asking about one friend who was sick or one whose parents are going through a divorce.
 Some partners take it upon themselves to try to “fix” whatever problems their partner is dealing with. Truth is, your girlfriend may not always need you to solve a problem. She may just want you to be there for her. Learning to do this will strengthen your relationship and help her feel more loved by you.


Depending on the situation, she may want advice, help fixing the problem, or just someone to listen to her. Ask how you can help by saying, “Is there anything I can do?” Then, really listen to her answer.If she doesn’t need your help and simply wants validation, respond with empathy, like “I'm really sorry to hear that." "So, you're worried about your brother, huh?" or "That stinks."

, The worst thing you can do in a relationship is make your girlfriend feel like she has to compete with other girls for your attention. She should feel like she’s the apple of your eye, which means showing her respect and not ogling at other girls or engaging in excessive flirting.


Doing this can only make a girl with low self-esteem even more insecure. When you’re around other girls, be sure you include her in the conversation and make it obvious who you’re with. Never leave her feeling like she has to compete.
 Even with all your love and reassurance, your girlfriend may still suffer from low self-esteem. This isn’t a problem that can be resolved overnight. In the long run, you’ll see that only she is responsible for improving her self-esteem. All you can truly do is try to love her through the process.

