 Square your hips, legs, and shoulders to all face the same direction. One side of your body should not be higher the than the other, and your weight should be evenly distributed.;
, The supporting leg is the leg that says on the ground throughout the position. Do not turn out more than is comfortable or more than your hip allows.
 Shift your weight to the ball of your foot on your supporting leg. Your supporting leg should now be perpendicular to the floor.
 Your working leg is the leg that you will raise for the position. Straighten out and lengthen your working leg with the top of the foot flat on the floor behind you., Keep your shoulders and rib cage square with your hips. With one hand, hold onto a barre or chair for stability and balance, and lift your chest up and out.
 Balance on your supporting leg, feeling it stretch into the floor, and slowly lift your working leg behind you.


Be sure to straighten the knee of your working leg and point your toes.
Typically, the working leg sweeps out to a 45 or 90 degree angle, but if you are just beginning, don’t force your body into this position. Only raise your working leg as high as you are able while still maintaining a strong upper body.
 Still holding onto the barre, lean forward at the hips and engage your abdominal muscles. This movement mimics that of a hinge.


Remember to keep your supporting leg turned out.Elongate your spine and keep your chest lifted.
 Lower your working leg to the floor with the top of the foot flat to the floor. Straighten your upper body at hips and square your hips and shoulders to begin the position again.
 Before you start stretching cold muscles, warm up your entire body and increase your heart rate by jogging in place or taking a brisk walk. Jog or walk for about ten minutes, long enough to break into a light sweat.
 Reach your arms up above your head. Bend slightly at the waist to the front, side-to-side, and to the back in one fluid and controlled motion. Try this warm up with both legs on the ground. Then challenge yourself and improve your stability by repeating the exercise on one leg., Stand up straight and swing both arms in large circles, keeping the motion slow and controlled. While swinging your arms, gently twist back and forth at the waist.
 Lie on your back with your arms at your sides. Swing your legs up and down, alternating between your left and right leg. Your motions should be fluid and controlled.
 Sit on the floor with your legs extended in front of you. Bend forward, stretch out your arms, and reach for your toes.


Reach until you feel a slight muscle burn on the back of your thighs and calves. Hold this position for 30 seconds.
If you can’t reach your toes, don’t force your body into the position. Repeat this stretch daily, gradually working toward reaching your toes.
 Since the Arabesque requires your back muscles to be engaged throughout the position, a stiff back can make your Arabesque flat.Rotate your torso, swinging your arms gently from side-to-side. Switch from swinging your arms to gently swinging your legs back and forth, alternating between right and left.
Use a foam roller or pilates ball to ease tension from you back. Lie face up with a roller or ball under your upper back. Arms and head relaxing on the floor. Allow your body to sink into this position and hold for a minute. Move the roller or ball to your lower back and repeat the stretch.
 Lying on your back, straighten and raise your legs to a 45 degree angle off the floor. Lift your upper back off the floor until your shoulder blades are also lifted. Straighten your arms and raise them about 2 inches off the ground. Pump your arms up and down.Keep your top and bottom abs engaged throughout the exercise in order to strengthen your entire core.
Breathe in for five pumps, and breathe out for five pumps. Do the exercise 10 times for a total of 100 pumps.
Repeat this exercise daily to gradually strengthen your core.
 Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart, toes slightly pointed outward, hips over knees, and knees over ankles. Keeping your back straight and your arms outstretched in front of you, bend your knees forward and lower your hips. If you can, dip your hips below your knees. Straighten and repeat the motion 9 more times. Follow with 2 more sets for a total of 30 squats.While performing the squat, be sure that you don't let your knees go past your toes.
If you can’t dip your hips below your knees, don’t force the position. Squat as far as you can, and gradually build your strength to dip below the knees.
 Straighten your knees and slowly rise to the balls of your feet. Maintain smooth and controlled movement, while making sure weight is distributed between the first and second toe of each foot. Start with 10 to 15 repetitions with both feet, and gradually work toward 10 to 15 repetitions alternating between each foot.