 Just knowing that you are experiencing anxiety can sometimes be more debilitating than the thing you fear. Because both anxiety and excitement stimulate the same areas in the body—rapid heartbeat and production of stress hormones—you can trick yourself into thinking what you’re feeling is actually a positive emotion instead of a negative one.Research shows that anxiety places you in a “threat mindset” while excitement places you in an “opportunity mindset.” Re-label your anxiety and you can benefit from the experience of enthusiasm rather than nerves.The next time you enter an anxiety-provoking situation, don’t say “I’m nervous” or “I’m anxious.” Say, “I’m excited” and see what a difference it makes.
 You don’t have to become a slave to your anxious thoughts, giving them permission to get you all worked up. Put them to the test instead. Reality testing involves assessing a situation for errors in thinking.


For example, you think, “My parents won’t let me go to the party. All my friends will think I’m lame. They’ll stop talking to me.”
To assess the reality of this situation, you want to ask what evidence is there that says this is true? Did your friends actually call you lame? Are they avoiding you?, When you find yourself becoming anxious, check your thought patterns to determine how realistic they are. What evidence is there that your thoughts are false?


Using the previous example, ask additional questions. Did your friends make alternate plans to hang out with you instead of going to the party? Are they still talking to you?
If your friends don’t avoid you, odds are, they aren’t thinking anything negative. Your mind is just exaggerating the situation. A better way of thinking is “Not going to one party won’t ruin my friendships. There will be other opportunities to hang out.”, When you worry and fret about every possible outcome, you remain stagnant. You can take action against anxiety by actively considering every angle of a problem. Ask yourself logical questions that help you switch the focus to productive problem-solving.


For example, you fear that one bad performance review will lead to you getting fired. Ask yourself: “How do I know that I will get fired?” “Is this worrying productive or just wasting my time?” “How can I cope with getting fired if it does happen?”
Now, you might reframe your statement to “The worst that can happen is I will get fired, but that is unlikely. If I am fired, I will contact my network for any open positions. I can also update my resume.” This is a much more active, realistic approach to worrying.Put your worries into perspective to make them seem smaller. For example,one "C" or "D" on a quiz does not mean that you will fail the entire course.

