 Corner kicks occur when the defending team plays the ball beyond their own goal lines. This can be a great opportunity to send the ball back into play and score a quick goal. Focus on the main concepts behind the kick, kicking technique, and teamwork to make the corner kick work for you.Strike the lower portion of the ball with the inside of your foot.
Send the ball towards your teammates who should be waiting near the goal.
Your teammates should receive the ball and quickly shoot it into the net.
Avoid kicking it towards the oppositions goalkeeper or other defending players.
 Free kicks allow you the chance to shoot the ball directly towards the goal. However, the other team will be allowed to form a wall of players between you and the goal. There are a few kicking strategies that you can use to overcome their defense and score a goal on your free kick.Shoot the ball above the other players. Strike the ball low and follow through with your kick. Practice your aim as you won't want to shoot too high and miss the goal.
You can try shooting the ball along the ground if you believe the players defending will jump up to try and stop your shot.
It is possible to kick the ball around the blocking players. This is the hardest technique and will require a lot of practice to get the proper power behind your kick and the right amount of bend in the shot.
 A throw in will result if the opposing team plays the ball beyond one of the side lines. Tossing the ball in has specific rules that you will be required to follow. However, a toss in also presents an opportunity to score a goal. Work with your teammates and practice various methods of scoring on a toss in.You must keep both your feet behind the side line and throw the ball in with both arms.
Throw the ball to players who are in a good position on the pitch.
Try to throw the ball at your teammates feet, allowing them to quickly trap the ball.
Goals cannot be scored directly by a throw in but do allow you to position the ball and your team for a greater chance of scoring when in play.

