 Make sure that you understand all responsibilities of the landlord and those of the tenant (you). In particular, read thoroughly any sections concerning repairs, maintenance, or damages. If your apartment is in need of repairs in order to bring it up to acceptable living conditions, laws generally state that it is your landlord’s responsibility to take care of those repairs. Typically, leases require landlords to ensure that properties remain livable, which means things like:


Meeting building codes
Keeping the building clean and free from damage
Keeping the building safe from intruders (all windows and doors function properly, for example)
Ensuring protection from the weather (no leaks, drafts, etc.);
, According to typical housing laws, landlords are required to ensure that the condition of their rental properties meet basic standards.For instance, if you have leaks, mold, broken windows, or other substandard conditions in your apartment, your landlord should take care of the repairs in a reasonable amount of time, and at no cost to you.


Remember that most landlords are willing to pay for necessary repairs if you inform them that they need to be done.The rental properties are investments for landlords, and they want to ensure that the properties stay in good condition and continue to provide returns.
Generally, there are special laws regarding renovations necessary to remove hazardous materials such as lead and asbestos.Your landlord should disclose if any of these materials are present, and you can ask about renovations to remove them.
 Before asking for necessary renovations, take pictures of any damaged or substandard areas of your apartment. Make at least two sets of these pictures, and mail one set to your landlord, if necessary. This will provide proof of the necessary renovations, should you need it.
 Type, save, and print a list of necessary renovations, so that there will be a record of the request. If you have to mail the request to your landlord, use certified mail so that you can verify receipt.


Make sure to include copies of the pictures you took when giving your landlord a copy of your request.
Keep a record of all additional communication with your landlord as well., When asking your landlord to take care of necessary renovations, keep communication polite and professional. More than likely, your landlord will respond in kind. However, if your landlord does not respond to your request, refuses to make necessary repairs, or makes unreasonable delays in doing so, you can take further action. Depending upon the area in which you live, you may be able to:File a complaint with a local official, such as a housing, fire, energy, or health inspector.
Ask a court to hold your rent in escrow, and to order the landlord to make the repairs.
Sue the landlord under any applicable laws.
Consult an attorney for legal advice if you think you need to take legal action against your landlord.
Even if your landlord delays in making the necessary repairs, you should still pay your rent on time and following any housing rules, because if you do not, you may violate your lease.

