 Sometimes it’s hard to say “I’m sorry” in person, especially if you feel you have really hurt or upset your older sister. It can also be intimidating to apologize to your older sibling, as you may look up to her as a role model. If you are nervous about apologizing to your older sister in person, you may want to write her an apology letter and give it to her to read on her own time.You can start the letter with “Dear Sis”, and then lay out your apology. First, you may acknowledge your sister’s feelings and then take responsibility for your actions.
You may end the letter with a heartfelt “I’m sorry for what I did” and a note that you understand it may take your sister some time to accept your apology. You may also offer to talk in person when she is less angry and end the letter with “I love you” to let your sister know you still care for her.
 Another way you can show your sister you are apologetic for your behavior is to compose an apology poem. This may be a good option if you feel more comfortable expressing your emotions in a creative way and do not want have to use the more formal letter format.ref>http://www.familyfriendpoems.com/poem/apology-to-my-sister</ref>

#*You may title the poem, “An Apology for My Big Sister.” You may then use the free verse form to write a poem where you address your sister’s feelings and own up to your bad behavior.

You may end the poem with a line that says, simply, “I’m sorry for what I did to you.” You may then sign and date the poem and give it to your sister so she can read it in private.
 You can also help to soften your sister’s anger at you by giving her a special gift as an apology. You should think of a unique gift that will show her you feel bad about how you treated her and that you want to make amends for your actions.For example, if you stole your older sister’s diary, you may give her the gift of a new diary with a better lock and key system. Or, if you broke your sister’s favorite item, you may try to find the same item and replace it as a gift.
You may also want to tie an apology gift to your heartfelt apology. Telling your sister how sorry you are and then presenting her with an apology gift could end up winning her over. She may be more likely to forgive you if you offer up a gift with your apology.

