 To create a playlist, click on the ‘+’ icon in the bottom left corner of the window and click on “New Playlist.”To duplicate a playlist, right-click on the playlist to bring up a menu then click on “Duplicate.”
To delete a playlist, right-click on the playlist then click on “Delete.”

, Click on “My Music” to access your music library. Search for songs by using the search bar in the top right corner and type in a song, artist or album title or sort songs using the drop down on the top right corner to sort based on certain criteria. Use these different methods to add songs to your playlists.


Left-click and drag over a song to show playlists to add to. Drop a song over a playlist to add the song to that playlist.
Select multiple songs by clicking and dragging over a group of songs to highlight them, then left-click and drag over a playlist to add them.
Use keyboard shortcuts to select groups of songs. Hold ⇧ Shift and left-click to select a group of songs or hold Ctrl on PC or ⌘ Command on Mac
Right-click to bring up a menu, then click on “New Playlist from Selection” to create a new playlist or “Add to Playlist” then click on the playlist you would like to add to.
If you add songs that are already included in a playlist, you can opt to skip those songs or add the song as a duplicate to the playlist.
 To re-arrange the order of the songs. You can click and drag your mouse to show a light bar in between songs. Release the mouse button to place the song in between the indicated songs.
 To remove a song from a playlist, right-click on an individual song and click on “Delete”.


Hold ⇧ Shift to select a group of songs or left-click and hold Ctrl to select individual songs. Then right-click on a highlighted song then click on “Delete” to delete the selected songs.
 To merge two separate playlists. Left-click and drag a playlist and drag it over another playlist to add the songs to it.


You can add the songs as a duplicate or skip adding those songs and add the other remaining songs onto the list.

