 Discussions about the behaviors, habits, weaknesses and appearance of others can backfire, exposing you to the politics you are trying to avoid. If a coworker approaches you with a story about another employee's mistake, try to understand the motivations behind the storytelling. The goal may be to belittle another person, chat out of boredom, or to help the coworker. If the intent is to degrade the person, find a way to avoid the topic.


Change the subject. Find ways to change the focus from the weaknesses of others to more productive topics.
Staying productive and committed to your work tasks will make it easier to be less available for fruitless discussions.
A consistent pattern of not engaging in the criticism of others lets people know that you prefer to avoid office politics. It also might increase the trust of coworkers when they realize that you do not spend time discussing them.
 If approached by a coworker about the negative motivations of someone else, ask for the facts. Determine how the negative conclusions were reached and if there are misinterpretations.


For example, if the person complaining is referring to a recent memo from the department head, read the memo together. Arrange to meet with the department head to achieve greater understanding.
 Confiding in a coworker who tends to make a big deal out of things or create interpersonal conflict can add to a political struggle situation. It is better to identify this type of coworker and keep your relationship with them restricted to neutral topics, like the weather and pop culture.To identify these corkers, ask yourself questions like, “Is this someone I should think twice about before emailing?” Sometimes you should not involve coworkers in a situation unless you are forced to.
Or, “Is this someone I should always talk to in person instead of emailing them?” Some people are bad about misunderstanding the tone in emails, so going to them in person prevents misunderstandings and drama.
 Although to stay perfectly neutral and out of workplace politics you would need to remain aloof from most people in an office, such impersonal behaviors can also alienate you and make work unbearable. It is wise to make some friends in the office. However, you must be sure to choose them carefully.Find people you can trust, such as those who don’t gossip and tend to have a positive attitude.
Choose friends who have a positive reputation in the office.
Look for people you can be friendly with, though not necessarily close friends with., Observe the behaviors of respected employees and company leaders. For example, managers who treat everyone with respect, speak well of others, and show appreciation for tasks well done are positive behavioral examples.


For instance, these individuals usually avoid office politics by maintaining a positive attitude and dealing truthfully with people.
 When a coworker performs a wrong against you, unless it is unethical or causes damage to people or property (or they threaten violence), do your best not to seek revenge. Avoiding retaliation makes you look like the bigger person, as well as keeps you from getting involved in politics.


For example, a boss legally cannot retaliate against employees for taking action against what they believe to be discrimination., In some work environments, working long hours is a sign of commitment and dedication. In other offices, an employee who consistently stays late may be considered inefficient. Paying attention to these dynamics helps to avoid becoming the target of criticism.


Criticism can involve you in politics whether you like it or not, so try to avoid other actions that invite criticism, like being antisocial and choosing obvious sides in a dispute.

