 Baseboards accumulate dust that is kicked up from the floor, walls, and surfaces. Save them for last to prevent accidentally undoing all of your work.


You can of course just clean the baseboards, instead of the whole room, anytime.
Baseboards don't need to be cleaned too often, so it may be easier to just do one room at a time each day/week you clean.;
, Get the basic dust and kick up anything under the sofa now, not after you've cleaned. Give yourself ample room to work by sliding the furniture back -- you'll need to get low to the baseboards., Get into the groove between the baseboards and the wall and knock off the dust lodged there.
, Clean 6-8" out in front of the baseboard with the brush attachment. Then run quickly over the edge where the baseboards meet the wall., That's right -- a normal writing eraser. You could also use a Magic Eraser or similar cleaning product, but a normal pink eraser is actually very effective at attacking scuff marks., Vinegar is a key, powerful cleaning agent that is all-natural to boot. Dilute it with water to make it easier to use and less harsh on the nose.


You can also use a few drops of mild dish soap in lieu of vinegar.
If you're not sure if your baseboards are painted or not, click here.
 Don't try and do the whole thing at once -- water left on wood generally doesn't do good things.
 Once you have an area clean to your liking, immediately dry it. While forgetting once or twice won't likely cause any damage, it can cause issues for sensitive woods or finishes.
 Get into the dustiest, dirtiest spots with a wet cotton swap. You may need a couple, but they're great for the harder to reach areas., Paint acts a sealant, protecting the wood partially from moisture or stripping. Most paint is also easy to accidentally strip away, as well. When in doubt, use this following method to clean your baseboards to protect the wood and the paint.
 Get off all the surface stains with a quick, easy wipe. You could also use:


A "Magic Eraser," or similar stain/scuff fighting product.Wet wipes.
An old sock! Put it on a toilet cleaning brush/want and then dip it in warm water. It looks silly, but you won't have to bend down as much., Use your damp cloth, work on a stain, then dry it off. This is just a preliminary clean to make your work more effective, so don't spend hours on one stain. Just get anything easy to remove off and make sure you've picked up the dust.
 Mineral spirits are a great, all-purpose cleaner, and work particularly well on scuffs. Use it to buff out any bad stains or issues, and wood cleaner will cover almost all baseboards.


Always open some windows and work in a well-ventilated area when working with chemical cleaners., Dip it in your wood-cleaner or mineral spirits and get in there to really clean everything of.
 Cleaner left on the baseboards will just attract dust, letting it stick to the wet, tacky surface. Wipe it away to make sure everything stays clean.
 This little hack coats the baseboards with some cleaner and banishes static, keeping dust off the boards and keeping your house a little cleaner for a little longer.