 Fever can lead to dehydration and you want to make sure you avoid this. It will only make you feel worse. Kids (and you) might enjoy frozen popsicles as well, but you do want to avoid too much sugar. Try making popsicles from herbal teas such as chamomile or elderberry. Frozen Italian ices or frozen yogurt or sherbet may be good choices as well. But don’t forget plain water!

, You may want to consider using an oral rehydration solution for young children like CeraLyte, Pedialyte. Call your physician before you do, and ask their advice.


Be prepared with a list of symptoms and about how much your child has been eating, drinking and how high their fever has been.
Also keep track of how often you have to change diapers or, for an older child, how often they have to urinate.
 If your baby is suffering from a viral infection, it’s a good idea to continue breastfeeding as much as possible. This provides food, water and comfort to your baby.
 Call your physician for advice even if you are just seeing the signs of mild dehydration, especially in babies. These can progress to more serious dehydration pretty quickly. Some symptoms of mild dehydration include:Dry, sticky mouth. In a baby, look for dry lips or crustiness around the lips/eyes. Also look for “lip-smacking” behavior.
More sleepiness, fussiness or tiredness than usual.
Thirst: This is hard to tell in a small infant, but the “lip smacking” behavior or pursing her lips as if she is feeding may be a clue.
Decreased urine output: Check an infant’s diapers. They should need to be changed at least every three hours. If the diaper is dry after 3 hours, this may indicate some dehydration. Keep pushing fluids and check after another hour. If the diaper is still dry, call your physician.
Check the color of urine. The darker the urine, the more dehydrated the baby or child may be.
Constipation: Check for bowel movements as well, especially when you’re checking the diaper for urine.
Few or no tears when crying
Dry skin: Gently pinch the back of the baby’s hand, just pinching the loose skin. Well-hydrated babies have skin that bounces right back.
Dizziness or lightheadedness

