 You can report a photo from your Foursquare tips, check-in, list, or venue using the app on your mobile device. If you want to delete tips, check-in, or list-related photos, you need to delete the entire tips and check-ins along with the photo. You can use this feature using either an iOS device or Android device. Foursquare, however, does not allow this feature on its website using a PC.


Tap on the Foursquare app listed in your app menu on your device. After launching the app on your device, you will be prompted to use one of the three options for logging into your account.
Tap on the “Log in” button to access the login page. Enter your email address and password in their respective fields, and tap “Sign in” to continue.
 To do this, tap the profile picture logo at the top of your device screen to open a drop-down menu. Tap on the “List” tab to open the saved lists of venues under your profile.


Tap on the link of the selected list to access the venues under that list and its uploaded photos.
 To do this, tap on the image to enlarge it in full screen. Now, tap on the “Flag this Photo” link on the photo. A box will appear on your screen.


Tap on the radio button to report a photo as “Spam/Scam,” “Nudity,” “Hate/Violence,” “Illegal,” “Unrelated,” or “Blurry/Low Quality.”
After choosing an appropriate reason, tap on the “Submit Flag” button, and your request to delete the photo will be submitted.
 If you want to delete a photo you uploaded that includes a tip or check-in, you have can do so.


Go to the selected tip, check-in, or list with the photo you want to delete. Remember that you can only delete those tips and check-ins you posted. You can find your check-ins under the Profile & History section.
Tap on the “Share” button at the bottom next to the text field of a tip, check-in, or list, and the different sharing options will appear.
Find and tap on the red-colored button at the bottom to delete the check-in or tip. It should be located at the bottom of the screen. The check-in or tip, along with photo(s), will be deleted.

