 When searching for laws and regulations, start by conducting basic research on the internet. These searches, conducted through Google or any other search engine, will help you gain a basic understanding of asbestos law. When you conduct these searches, look for news articles that discuss lawsuits, law firm websites that might provide information, and government websites that might provide a valuable background.


Keep notes as you research. This will help you keep track of where you have been and what else you need to do. In addition, write down keywords you find that you might be able to use in later searches.;
, Before you go any further, go to the local law library and talk to a law librarian. These individuals have a wealth of knowledge regarding how to search for and find relevant laws and regulations. In addition, their services are free and they will be happy to help you. When you meet with a legal librarian, tell them what your issue is and what you are looking for. They will be able to point you in the right direction and give you some ideas.
 If you can gain access to more focused search engines and search products, you should use them. In the legal world, the two most common legal search products are Westlaw and Lexis. These products provide extensive databases of court cases, statutes, law review articles, and practice guides. However, in order to use these search databases effectively, you must have a basic understanding of the laws you are looking for. For example, your initial internet searches might reveal that asbestos laws and regulations are primarily state statutes or court decisions. In addition, you might also learn about the agencies that write and execute the regulations surrounding asbestos.


Be aware that these legal services often cost a lot of money. These services often charge by the number of searches you make or by the number of documents you look at. Make sure you understand how you will be charged before you use these products.
 Courthouses often have small legal libraries within them. These legal libraries might offer a few resources you can use to help you with your research. In addition to the law library within the courthouse, talk with court employees, bailiffs, clerks, and administrators. These people work with the law on a daily basis and most are happy to help people in need.
 Law schools will have law libraries containing a wealth of information and resources. Apart from books and law librarians, a lot of law school libraries will also offer the free use of websites like Westlaw and Lexis. In addition to library resources, law schools have an abundance of eager legal students who may be willing to help you as well. These students have been learning about legal research for a period of years and will usually be able to find laws and regulations quickly and efficiently. Stop by the library and ask a student for help.

