 Is your skin shiny, acne-prone and oily? Is it flaky and dry? Is it aging, with lines and wrinkles? You will need to consider your skin type when choosing what foundation to wear.;
, Liquid foundation tends to be easiest to apply and blend and is well suited to nearly all skin types. However, it is not portable for touch-ups and can be messy. crème compact foundation is easy to apply, but may not blend as well as liquid. It is portable for easy touch-ups throughout the day. It tends to be slightly heavier and may not be well suited to oily skin. Powder foundation is the hardest to blend and can settle into fine lines or flaky spots on aging or dry skin, although powder is excellent for controlling shine on oily skin.
 Do you prefer a light, natural look, or do you need a flawless, formal "made-up" look? Is there any skin issue in particular you need covered?

, Matte makeup looks smooth and velvety. It is free of any and all shine and shimmer. It is an ideal look for oilier skin. However, it can look 'cakey' and dull on dry or aging skin. Luminous makeup looks fresh, glowing and dewy. It adds vitality to dry and aging skin, but can look shiny and greasy on oily skin. People with truly balanced, normal skin can choose a look-smooth and velvety with matte or dewy and glowing with luminous.
 Most Revlon foundations have a special feature "spotlighting" it, such as 16 hour wear, anti-aging benefits, mineral ingredients, or customizing your own shade. Choose the feature that is most appealing and useful to you.
 Its unique feature is the way it self-adjusts to match your skin tone. It is good for those seeking a fresh, natural look and don't need much coverage.
New Complexion, which has light to medium coverage. Its unique feature is technology that makes the makeup feel light and weightless on the skin. It is good for those who want a light foundation for everyday.
Custom Creations, which has medium coverage. Its unique feature is the ability to turn a dial to adjust the shade. It is good for those unsure about shade choice or for in between seasons.
Colorstay Mineral Mousse, which has medium to full coverage. Its unique feature is a matte formula with minerals to control oil. It is good for those with oily skin seeking a shine free look.
Age Defying DNA Advantage, which has medium to full coverage. Its unique feature is advanced sunscreen formulas to protect skin's DNA from sun damage. It is good for those with skin just beginning to age, who want to prevent further damage.
Age Defying Makeup with Botafirm, which has full coverage. Its unique feature is the Botafirm ingredients, which help to reduce the appearance of lines. It is good for those who already have lines and wrinkles and want to minimize them. It is available in Dry Skin or Normal Skin formulas.
Colorstay Makeup, which has full coverage. Its unique feature is its 16-hour long wear formula. It is good for those who like full coverage makeup but don't have time to touch it up. It is also good for special occasions like weddings, proms or parties. It is available in Oily Skin or Normal Skin formulas.
PhotoReady Makeup, which has full coverage. Its unique feature is "photochromatic" technology that reflects light for an airbrushed luminous look. It is good for those working or spending time in unusual light situations, like bright summer sun or flashing cameras as well as for those wanting a luminous look while still achieving full coverage.
 Its unique feature is a powder-like finish without powder being required. It is good for those who want lighter coverage but prefer a matte look.
PhotoReady Compact Makeup, which has medium to full coverage. Its unique feature is the same technology as the PhotoReady liquid makeup in a compact form. It is good for those wanting a luminous look from their compact makeup.
 Its unique feature is coconut water to prevent cakes and add a refreshing, hydrating feel to the makeup. It is good for those wanting a soft, powder finish, while still achieving a more luminous look.
Colorstay and PhotoReady powders and finishers, which can be worn over the corresponding liquid makeups to add longevity to the makeup. Ideal for oily skin, as powder absorbs oil.
 Some foundations, such as Beyond Natural, Custom Creations, Colorstay Mineral Mousse and Colorstay Aqua require only that you choose a general shade, such as "Light," "Light Medium," "Medium," "Medium Deep" or "Deep." Others, such as Colorstay, Age Defying, New Complexion, and PhotoReady offer a wider range of shades. In choosing a shade, it is helpful to bring a tube of your old foundation (provided it was a good shade match) to compare to bottles in the store. Another tip is to hold the bottle next to your neck and see if the shade matches. Once you've found your shade, write it down or memorize it for future purchases.

