 You can get a fuller understanding of cardiac output by learning about what influences it. The most straight forward of these is heart rate, the number of beats the heart makes in a minute. The more it beats the more blood is pumped all over the body. A normal heart should beat at 60-100 in a minute. When the heart rate is too slow, it is also called bradycardia, a condition in which the heart ejects too little blood in circulation.If your heart beats really fast it may cause tachycardia (a heart rate that exceeds the normal range) or, in severe cases, arrhythmia (problem with the rate or rhythm of the heartbeat).
Although you may think that the faster the heart beats the more blood is circulated, in fact the heart ejects less blood with each stroke.
 If you are interested in the influences of physical fitness on cardiac output learn about contractility. Contractility is the ability of the muscle to contract. The heart is made up of muscles that contract in a certain pattern to eject blood. As the heart contracts, for example during exercise, this equates to increased cardiac output.The stronger the heart contracts, the more blood it draws into itself with each contraction, hence the more blood it circulates.This is what is affected when a piece of the heart muscle dies, and the heart is able to eject less blood during circulation.
 Preload refers to the stretch of the heart before shortening and impacts on cardiac output. According to Starling’s law, the force of contraction depends on the length to which the heart muscle is stretched. Therefore, the greater the preload the greater the force of contraction, which results in a greater amount of blood being pumped by the heart., The final key factor that influences cardiac output and is connected to the condition of the heart is known as afterload. Afterload is simply the amount of force that the heart needs to overcome to pump blood, which is highly dependent on the tone of the blood vessels and arterial blood pressure. A decrease in afterload can increase cardiac output especially in cases when the heart’s contractility is impaired, as often seen in heart problems.If heart muscle has been damaged, increasing the health of arteries and lowering blood pressure gives a net increase in cardiac output.

