 To begin your hydroponic gardening project you will only need a few things to get you off to a great start. Many of the items you need for hydroponics can already be found around your house so you can save money before you go full tilt into this hobby or found all together in a hydroponic garden.;
, Most newbie gardeners can either purchase an easy to install grow room or build a greenhouse outside of their home. Small grow rooms for the beginning hydroponic gardener are usually slightly larger than a closet and can be completely installed in under an hour. The cost ranges from several hundred dollars to over $500, depending on the add-ons that you think you will need.
 A small greenhouse can cost considerably more because you will need to either include a cement floor and drainage system or lay other types of flooring such as gravel before you build the greenhouse itself. Many small greenhouses cost anywhere from $500 to over several thousand dollars, depending on the add-ons you choose.


The basic items you need after you decide on either a grow room or greenhouse include a temperature control unit, exhaust fan, heating mats, light fixtures for your blue and red spectrum lights, an aeration system (an aquarium system works well for small gardens), pearlite, marble and Styrofoam work well as a beginning medium and rockwool, oasis or Rapid Rooters. Typical beginning tables for your plants include plastic tubs, a child’s swimming pool or fish tank. A gardener can also buy any of the items they need for their grow room from stores specializing in hydroponic supplies.
 Make sure that it can be grown where you live (don't choose a citrus plant if you're living in Alaska, for instance) and that it isn't a plant that is grown underground.
 Fold it over, and place it gently in a clear, sealable bag.
 Germination is triggered when a seed is wet, so keep the paper towels moist. Don't forget that some seeds take longer than others.
 What you do next depends on the type of plant.


If the seed has a frailer stem, keep it in the original paper towel but cut small holes for the leaves to emerge through.
If the seed has a stronger stem, feel free to cover only the roots in wet paper towels and let the stem straighten out and grow leaves.
 This is a very fragile time in their life, so be extremely gentle.
, You can choose between having one plant per container, or doing a larger container with many plants. If you choose the second option, make sure that all the plants have good support.
 If you are growing a plant that gets much taller, you should probably tape a support to the side of the container.
 Also, plants need nutrients to grow, so buy a pack of liquid fertilizer to add to the water every week. Follow the package instructions, and don't overfeed the plants.
 They will open and dry up, leaving behind the start of a fruit or vegetable.


If the plant needs cross-pollination in order to be fertilized, place the plant outside or near an open window for a few days so that insects can do the job. A good plant for hydroponic gardening is one that self pollinates.
 Normally, plants can anchor themselves into the dirt for extra support. Check your plant's stem daily for any cracks or bending points.
 Enjoy your hydroponic garden!

