 You need to know your total debt load before you do anything else. Take out your monthly statements and add up your total debt. Look at your online account to see the most recent balance.


Also look at interest rates. Are you paying 20.99% interest on one card but 10.99% on another? If so, you might be able to transfer balances onto the card with a lower interest rate.;
, You need to stretch your savings until you find a new job. Accordingly, go through your budget and find expenses you can cut. You can easily reduce the amount you spend on entertainment, meals at restaurants, and travel.Now is a good time to reassess whether you really are using your gym membership or Netflix subscription. Cancel them and pocket the savings.
Depending on your financial situation, you may need to move in with relatives or friends.Rent is many people’s largest monthly expense, and the best way to save money is to move in with someone.
 You’ll need cash for all kinds of expenses, such as your mortgage/rent, as well as groceries and utilities. Don’t spend all of your emergency fund or savings on your credit card debt. Instead, reduce your credit card payments to the minimum.By paying the minimum, you will pay more over time. However, it’s important to hoard cash when unemployed. If you run out of cash, your options are more debt or bankruptcy.
 Pay for necessities before debt and debt before luxuries.You need to take care of yourself, which means rent, medicine, and food take priority over debt payments.
 You might feel pressure to take out a new credit card or a cash advance to make ends meet. You should avoid doing so. You’ll only go deeper into debt and feel even more stress.


Instead, ask friends or family for a loan.You might feel embarrassed to admit you are in financial trouble. However, explain your situation and the steps you are taking to find a new job.
One exception to the “no new debt” rule is to check whether you can get a balance transfer credit card. These cards offer a 0% APR for a promotional period.Transfer your current balance to the card and reduce your monthly payments. However, since you are unemployed, it might be difficult for you to get a balance transfer card.
 You might not be able to find a new job quickly. However, you can still raise funds by selling possessions you no longer use. Give your home a spring cleaning and find anything you can sell.You can sell large items, such as furniture, by listing on Craigslist. You’d be surprised by how many people will respond.
Smaller items, such as clothing and tech items, can be sold on eBay, which is ideal for goods valued at $5-10.
Everything else can be sold in a garage or yard sale.
 Every little bit of money coming in helps. As you wait for your dream job to open up, you can do temp work to raise money. Also consider freelance work. You might be able to write articles or design websites., Many credit card companies will work with you if you can’t make the minimum payment because of a situation beyond your control. However, you need to know exactly what to say to them before you pick up the phone.


For example, many credit card companies will be sympathetic if you’ve lost your job. However, they want to know what you’re doing to find a new job and when you think you might be successful. Write out your plans so that you can explain them to someone at the credit card company.
You should also be prepared to talk about your budget. The credit card company wants to know how much you can contribute to your debt., You might have balances on multiple cards. However, you don’t need to seek a reduction in payments with every single card. Ideally, you’ll get forbearance for some but not all cards.


In particular, a creditor might lower your credit limit to the balance or even close the account once they know you are having financial difficulties.There’s no reason to tip all of your creditors off to that fact.
If you can make at least the minimum payment on a card, then you should continue to do so.
 Find the phone number on the back of your credit card and call the company.Ask about their forbearance programs (also called “hardship payment plans”). The person who answers probably can’t help you, so ask to speak to the mitigation department or a credit manager. Your creditor might help you out by doing any of the following:lower your interest rate
stop assessing late fees
allow you to skip payments until you’re back on your feet

, Getting forbearance isn’t easy. You’ll probably have to talk to many people, some of whom will contradict each other.Accordingly, you should take detailed notes of every conversation you have.


Write down the name of whoever you speak with and their direct phone number. Also summarize the substance of the conversation.
 Your credit card company might not immediately agree to help you. This means you need to negotiate. Explain your financial situation honestly and completely. Don’t take the first “no” for an answer.


You have a lot of leverage in negotiations with credit card companies. If you declare bankruptcy, your credit card companies will be wiped out completely. It’s in their best interests to help you.
Also negotiate how the account will be reported to the credit reporting bureaus. If the creditor insists that you close the account, then have it reported as “closed by consumer.”Of course, your creditor might not help if you are still current on your accounts. They might only agree to forbearance after you miss payments.
 Your credit card company will cancel any hardship payment plan if you miss a payment. Accordingly, you need to maintain your financial discipline and remember to make payments on time., Hardship repayment plans programs don’t last a long time, generally only six months to a year.Accordingly, this is a short-term solution to a sudden cash crunch caused by unemployment. You’ll need to find employment or another source of income soon.


Your credit will be frozen while you are in forbearance, so don’t plan on using your cards to pay bills.
If you can’t find a job, then you need to consider other options, such as bankruptcy or debt settlement. Debt won’t disappear on its own.
 Credit counselors can assess your financial situation and help you develop a plan to manage your credit card debt. If necessary, you can also enroll in a debt management plan with a credit counselor. Basically, they will negotiate with your creditors to waive late fees or penalties. They may also get your creditor to reduce your interest rate.Look for credit counselors who are non-profits. You can find credit counselors through credit unions, local housing authorities, and universities.Never work with a credit counselor who charges an upfront fee or who wants financial information before telling you about their services.
Debt management plans will be recorded on your credit report, and you won’t be able to get new credit until you finish the plan. However, your credit score shouldn’t take a hit., Debt settlement is a more extreme measure than a debt management plan. You’ll stop making payments to creditors. Instead, you’ll save up enough money to offer a lump sum payment. If successful, your creditors should accept a portion of the amount you owe (around 40-60%) and waive the remaining balance.


Because you stop making payments, your credit score will get hammered. Also, you might be sued, which could result in losing property or having future wages garnished.
There’s no guarantee the credit card company will agree to settle a debt for less than its face value.Accordingly, you might wreck your credit without much benefit.
There are many debt settlement companies out there. Thoroughly research them all before signing up. They should give you a list of required disclosures and use a signed contract.
 You might fear bankruptcy, which is reasonable. A Chapter 7 bankruptcy can stay on your credit report for 10 years, during which time it may be difficult to get any credit. Nevertheless, bankruptcy is sometimes the best option, and you should consult with a bankruptcy lawyer about your situation.


There are two primary consumer bankruptcies—Chapter 7 and Chapter 13. Both can wipe out credit card debt. However, they are different, and you should research those differences.
If you have no assets (such as a home or car), then a Chapter 7 is ideal. You can quickly eliminate your credit card debt.

