 Poor grades and a sharp decline in interest in things they used to enjoy are strong warning signs of stress in teenagers. This is especially true if your child usually makes good grades.Stress can sap a teen’s motivation and make it difficult for them to concentrate, both of which can lead to worse academic performance.
However, there are other reasons your teen's grades could be slipping, such as too many obligations like work or extracurriculars, problems with bullying, or intellectual issues such as an undiagnosed learning disorder.;
, Withdrawal can be a warning sign for stress. If your teen avoids spending time around family members or no longer wants to see their friends, they may be feeling stressed out.You might notice that they want to be in their room all of the time.
Other abrupt changes in socializing habits, such as abandoning old friends for a new group, can also signal that a teen is under stress.
Changes in your teen's social life could also be caused by bullying, so ask questions to see what the root of any changes could mean. You might ask, "I notice you never hang out with Billy anymore. What happened between you two?"

, Stress can take a toll physically as well as mentally. If your teen gets sick frequently or often complains about headaches or stomachaches, consider whether stress could be the cause.Watch for significant weight loss or gain, changes in appetite, or fatigue and lethargy.
If your teen frequently says they don’t feel well, take them to the doctor first to rule out other possible causes.
 When a teenager is under chronic stress, their sleeping habits are often the first thing to change. Notice whether your child is staying up later than usual or whether they mention having a hard time sleeping at night.You may also notice that your teen is sleeping all weekend, getting to school late, or going to bed soon after returning home from school.


Teens need more sleep than adults. On average, they require 9 ¼ hours of shut-eye every night.Not getting enough sleep can reduce teens’ ability to cope with stress, making the problem worse.
Again, there are other possible causes to be on the lookout for pertaining to your teen's sleeping patterns. Use of drugs or alcohol or an undiagnosed mental illness like depression or anxiety could also influence how much they are sleeping.
 Stress can cause many types of uncharacteristic behavior in teens. If your teen has been acting overly sensitive and emotional, or if they seem angry or defiant, it might be an indication of stress.If your teen is having a hard time managing their behavior, particularly if they are hurting themselves or threatening to hurt others, seek counseling or another type of professional intervention for them. Stress could be the cause, but there could also be an underlying issue at play.

