 If the guitar is dirty or dusty, take a damp (not wet) cloth or use a polish or polish treated handi-wipe (such as Murphy's Oil cloth or Fender / Gibson polish) and wipe it down, taking note as you go of the details.


Do you see inlay or detailed carvings in the wood? Is the guitar even made of wood at all? Or is it made of plasticine or particle board?






Are the tuning knobs ornate or heavy? Made of metal or bone, even? Or are they made of plastic or missing altogether?






What about the condition of the guitar? Does it appear to be old? New? In good shape? Heavy? All of these are clues telling you about the value of the guitar.






For example, if it has ornate carving or details, it is probably old or hand made, giving it more value. If it is heavy, it is probably made of a better wood. If it is in good shape, it is worth more than if it is missing parts or in need of repair.


Regardless of its shape, if it is a certain name brand of guitar, it may be of some value none-the-less.






Also, are you sure it's a guitar? Does it have 6 strings? If it has 4 (naturally, not missing 2 strings), it could be a ukulele. If it has 5, it could be a banjo. If it has 4 doubled side by side or 6 doubled side by side, it could be a mandolin or a 12 string guitar.





;
, Once the guitar is clean and you've made some observations about the condition and details of the guitar, observe the headstock and determine if you can find the name of the guitar's maker. What does it say? Gibson? Fender? Martin? All of those are reputable guitar makers.


Regardless, just because you've never heard of the maker doesn't mean it's valueless. However, the name of the maker can hold important details about when it was made, as some guitar companies are no longer in business and operated during distinct periods in history which might give you an idea of when the guitar was made.
 Look inside the sound hole of the guitar (the big hole in the center of the body of the guitar, duh!) and see if you can make out any more details. Is there a serial number or a city or year written on the paper inside of the hole? Is there any paper or details at all? There may not be.
 If it is an electric guitar, turn it over and look at the back. See if you can find a serial number or any additional details on any of the metal or parts.
 Once you've gathered your details, write them down - the guitar's maker the brand of guitar if there is one (i.e., Fender Telecaster), the size, the weight ("heavy" or "light" is a good start), the type of wood if you recognize it, etc. Also make note of any damage. This might include nicks, dents, discoloration or fading on the paint, broken strings, cracks in the wood, missing tuning pegs, etc.
 Do a Google search for the guitar maker and brand. If you can find it listed on eBay multiple times and the prices are within the same range, there's a good chance that's the value of the guitar. However, if your model is a bit different - if it looks older, better, somehow snazzier, it could be worth more. Don't take eBay's word for it; go to the library, music or antique store, pawn shop or talk to a guitar expert to get a 2nd opinion. A carpenter or woodworker might also have an idea of the value. The name of someone who works with, builds and fixes guitars is a "luthier", so do a search in your phone book or online to see if you can find one in your community.
 You might try typing the name into Google and then clicking on "Image" and trying to cross reference it by the hundreds of photos that will come up.
 If all these efforts leave you info-less, try going to a local open mic and asking someone with a guitar to give it a look. Look for someone who plays well or who looks like a hippie (long hair, beard, older, faint odor of patchouli).


Most guitarists appreciate seeing other people's guitars, especially if it's something unique or of value.
 Now that it's all cleaned up and looking good, get a wall hanging guitar hook or a guitar stand and put it somewhere that it will be seen. If all your searches and hippie shake downs turned up nothing, eventually, someone will come along, pick it up and tell you everything there is to know about it.
 You might not find the information you want to right away, but when you do, you might realize that you have a treasure on your hands, or you may find the thing is just a regular old guitar.


Either way, a guitar is a great item to have around the house. Even a poor quality guitar holds value in that when a person who knows what they're doing with it picks one up, it brightens the whole room.






Music can be played on any guitar in working condition, regardless of its value. Even worthless and broken guitars make great decorations, planters, canvases, art or sculpture material, props or can be sold for parts or traded for an item of personal value to you. There's a good use for any and every guitar.







