 Your doctor may prescribe you anti-nausea medicine to take when you start to experience symptoms. These medicines, like Zofran, help you feel less nauseated and can stop or decrease how much you vomit. Ask your doctor about how much to take and when to take it., Some medications decrease the amount of acid in your stomach and can help alleviate nausea and vomiting. You can get over-the-counter antacids like Tums, or your doctor can prescribe you stronger medication.You will probably take these only when you start to feel sick, so ask your doctor about proper use.

Some antacids you might be prescribed or recommended include ranitidine (Zantac), lansoprazole (Prevacid), or omeprazole (Prilosec or Zegerid)., Headaches are a common symptom during CVS episodes.People who have migraines are more likely to have CVS, and CVS sometimes transforms into migraines as you get older. Treating your migraines may improve your CVS, and vice versa. Talk to your doctor or a specialist called a neurologist about managing your migraines.

There are a number of therapies available. The right one depends on your symptoms, family history, and other medical conditions.Your doctor may prescribe a medication like sumatriptan (Imitrex) to treat your migraines.
 Sedatives are sometimes prescribed to take during an episode. They can help you feel calmer and sleep through some of your worst symptoms. Sedatives are probably not safe for children to take, so discuss this option with your doctor.Some medicines that are prescribed for sedation are lorazepam (Ativan), diphenhydramine (Benadryl), and/or chlorpromazine.These can have side effects and should only be given by your doctor.
 If you have symptoms more than once a month or your symptoms are severe and debilitating, you may be able to take prophylactic medication – medicine you take all the time to prevent symptoms. Antidepressants are commonly used for this, especially the medication amitriptyline.Your doctor can prescribe this.

Some medications, including amitriptyline, are not safe to use in children. Talk to your doctor about whether these medications are appropriate for you.
 If you are going through a well phase, your doctor might prescribe a medication such as amitriptyline (Elavil), propranolol (Inderal), or cyproheptadine (Periactin) to reduce the frequency or severity of future episodes.