 This method is perfect if you're looking for a stylish way to carry your iPhone, but you aren't concerned with using the phone while it's inside the case. This is a great opportunity to "upcycle" and re-purpose something that you might otherwise throw away.To make your iPhone pouch, you will need:


A necktie that matches or exceeds the width of your phone. Pick out a tie that catches your eye. If you don't have any vintage neckties lying around your house, you should be able to find something suitable at a thrift shop or a vintage clothing store.
Sharp fabric scissors or a rotary cutter.
A ruler.
A sharpie.
A cutting board.
A needle and thread, or a sewing machine. Pick a thread that complements the color of the tie.
A decorative snap button or a traditional "buttonhole" button. You may be able to remove a button from an old piece of clothing. Otherwise, you should be able to find a button or a set of buttons at any arts-and-crafts or fabric store.
A snap fastener or snap fastening pliers. This is only necessary if you want to put a snap-shut button on your iPhone pouch, rather than a traditional "buttonhole" button. You should be able to find these tools at an arts-and-crafts or fabric store.;
, Fold over the large pointed end of the tie, and use the ruler to measure from the straight edge that this creates. This edge will become the top of your pouch.









Use a sharpie to mark off a space that will fit your iPhone. This may be anywhere from five to seven inches. Slide your iPhone inside the tie to make sure that you have marked out a large enough pouch.
Leave an extra half-inch for a seam at the bottom of your pouch.
 You should be left with the large end of the tie. Turn this cut piece inside-out.









Leave the inner lining of the tie in place if you'd like the extra padding for your phone. If not, feel free to remove it with scissors.
 Stitch a straight line to close the end of the pouch, leaving about a half-inch of space along the edge that you severed from the rest of the tie. Now you should have an iPhone-shaped pouch.









Consider folding the corners in and sewing them down to give your pouch rounded edges.
Trim the excess fabric from the bottom of the pouch, and turn it right-side-out again.
 Secure the bottom ("receiving" end) of the snap in place through the fabric in the front of the pouch, about a quarter-inch down from the "V" of the pouch opening.









Affix the other end of the snap button to the outside of the pouch flap, right at the tip of the tie. Make sure that the two halves of the snap button line up evenly before you attach them.
Refer to the directions on the snap button package to make sure that you're assembling the pieces correctly.
If you want to use a traditional "buttonhole" button, simply sew the button where you would fasten the receiving end of the snap: about a quarter-inch down from the "V" of the pouch opening. Use fabric scissors to cut a slit in the pouch slap where the top of the snap button would sit. The slit should be as long as the diameter of the button that you are using.
Consider using Velcro to the same effect. You should be able to find a strip of Velcro at an arts-and-crafts store. Simply replace the top and the bottom of the snap clasp with the two parts of a Velcro clasp. Cut the Velcro into small squares and carefully glue it to the fabric.
 Make sure that the phone fits snugly into the pouch, and make sure that it cannot slip out.









If you are going out and you don't need to take a large bag, you can slip cash and a photo ID into the pouch along with your iPhone. This case functions as a stylish, compact on-the-go carrier.

