 This recipe uses a high baking temperature to cut down on cooking time. While you wait for your oven to heat up, you can proceed to the next few steps to save even more time.;
, This recipe does not call for baking sheet that's been greased or made "non-stick" in any way. However, if you wish to grease your baking sheet with shortening or a non-stick spray, this won't hurt the biscuits. This may be a good idea if you have had problems with baked goods sticking to the pan in the past.


Other alternatives include using a sheet of baking parchment or sprinkling a layer of flour over the baking sheet.
 Add the flour, baking powder, salt, and sugar in a large bowl. Whisk together until well-blended.
 Measure the oil and pour it into a separate bowl or container. Next, measure the milk and pour it on top of the oil. Do not stir or combine these ingredients. Pour them together into the bowl containing the dry ingredients.
 Use a mixing utensil or your hands to lightly combine the wet and dry ingredients. Transfer the dough to a floured surface (countertops work well) and knead once or twice to form a ball of dough.


You don't want to mix too much or the biscuits can lose their light, flaky texture. Be sure to stop mixing when the dry ingredients are almost uniformly moist and sticky — a few tiny clumps that aren't combined are OK. Be sure also to knead only once or twice.
 You have a little freedom here depending on how thick you like your biscuits. On the same floured surface where you kneaded the dough, roll it out to about 1/2 to 3/4-inch thick. You can use either a roller or your hands as long as you get the dough uniformly flat.


To cut down on mess, you can put the dough between two sheets of plastic wrap before rolling it if you wish.
 Use a round cookie cutter to cut circles of dough two inches in diameter from the flattened dough. Dust the biscuit cutter in flour first to prevent sticking. Transfer the cut-out biscuits to your baking pan, leaving at least an inch of space between each so they cook evenly.


When you've cut out all the biscuits you can from the dough, roll the leftovers into a ball and flatten it again, then repeat.
 This will typically take about 10-12 minutes. However, since you're using high heat, it's wise to check on the biscuits after about eight minutes just to be safe.


After carefully removing the baking pan from the oven, let the biscuits sit for about five minutes, then transfer them to a wire rack. Serve warm or at room temperature.