 Smoking can cause cancer and lung diseases. Alcohol is illegal for anyone under 21 and also has many harmful effects on your body and safety.


If a friend asks you to smoke or drink, politely decline. If they try to pressure you into drinking or smoking, firmly say, “No thanks. I don’t want to harm my health. Please respect my decision.” Leave the area your friends are doing drugs in if necessary.
Make sure you don't get in a car when the driver has been drinking or doing drugs.
If your friends don’t respect your decision to remain alcohol- and tobacco-free, think about getting new friends.
 Drugs include any substance the Drug Enforcement Administration has deemed illegal. It also includes prescription or over-the-counter medications like painkillers and cough syrup that are abused.Drugs have many side effects, none of them good.


Marijuana exposes you to cancer-causing agents and can damage your memory. It is especially harmful to teenagers, as their brains are still developing.
Cocaine can lead to feelings of anger and anxiety, and can produce muscle spasms and convulsions. It can even lead to heart attacks and death.Heroin is highly addictive. Heroin addicts increase their risk of contracting HIV and AIDS because they often share needles.
When a friend offers you drugs, think twice. Not only are drugs harmful to your health and well-being, but if you’re caught using drugs by the police, you could be facing criminal charges. Tell your friend firmly, “I do not want to harm myself or endanger my future by doing drugs. You shouldn’t either.”

, For instance, you should always buckle up when in a car and do not text or talk on the phone while driving.


Follow the speed limit. This is for the health and safety of both you and other drivers.
Wear a helmet when riding your bike.
Always swim with a friend or at a location where a lifeguard is on duty.
 If you choose to have sex, it is important to avoid STDs and pregnancy. Always use a condom. Do keep in mind that abstinence is the only 100% effective way to avoid these things.


Talk to your parents or a trusted adult if you have questions about sex. It’s okay to feel uncomfortable talking about sex, but you should do it anyways to ensure you’re getting reliable information. Initiate the conversation by texting or emailing your parents a link to some sexual information you read online and asking them if it is accurate. You might also talk to them about their own sexual histories by asking, “When did you start dating?” and leading to more private questions like, “When did you first have sex?”
If you are a girl, talk to your doctor about getting a long-acting reversible contraceptive or a birth control prescription.
Never have sex just because your boyfriend or girlfriend is pressuring you to. If you aren’t ready, be calm but firm in your refusal. Explain that you are not ready to have sex and insist that if they really love you, they will respect your decision.
Remember, having sex means that you run the risk of pregnancy. The safest sex is no sex at all. Sex includes the risk of pregnancy and infection with a sexually transmitted disease.

