 Many people’s vision slowly changes over time. Essentially, your eyes and brain will be straining to correct your vision if they need more assistance than your glasses provide, leading to fatigue and discomfort. As such, even slight changes in your vision can lead to headaches if you don’t keep your prescription up to date.If you notice a gradual increase in the frequency of headaches you experience, schedule an eye exam with your optometrist to determine whether your vision is the cause.;
, You may not notice it at first, but another sign that you may be ready for stronger lenses is more frequent squinting. If you do notice yourself squinting more often, go see your optometrist for a vision exam as soon as it is convenient to do so.If you eyes and temples ache after using a computer or reading, you may have been squinting without even noticing.
At first, you may notice yourself squinting more at night. The sooner you get it checked out the better.
 If the muscles around your eyes and other parts of your head feel sore at the end of the day, this can be another sign that you’re straining to see throughout the day. While fatigue of this sort can have many causes, you shouldn’t be experiencing it daily. If you are, get a vision exam from your optometrist soon.Other, unexpected areas of your body may also be strained by weakened eyesight. For instance, you might have neck or backaches from leaning over or inwards to see things better.
 There are a few signs that you should see your eye doctor as soon as possible. For instance, if your vision is suddenly or periodically blurry, or you have trouble focusing, call your optometrist's office and let them know what's going on. They may recommend an immediate exam, or even a visit to the emergency room.Similarly, visual disturbances such as specific spots of obstructed vision or flashes of light require immediate attention as well.
If your vision is gradually becoming blurry, it's time for an eye exam, but it is not cause for immediate concern.
 Even if you haven't experienced any vision complications, you should get new glasses whenever the pair you have is damaged. Scratches or other damage to the lenses are especially important to address, as they may lead to vision complications or injury.Similarly, if your eyeglasses no longer fit as well as they used to, it may be time for either new glasses or an adjustment to the glasses you have.
If ever you have a question about the safety or fit of your eyeglasses, you can likely stop by your optometrist's office to have them look at your glasses without scheduling a full exam. Call ahead to make sure.

