 When you talk to the pediatrician, have a prepared list of symptoms and problems you have noticed with your child. Having this prepared helps you communicate all of the symptoms, which you may forget if you try to come up with them in the office or on the phone. Specific symptoms can allow the doctor help you better over the phone, or have all the information during the exam.Start with your child’s temperature. An accurate, up-to-date temperature can help give the doctor a good indication of what is wrong with your child.
If your child is vomiting, tell them how many times it has happened.
Provide any medication and prior health problems.
 If you are not sure about a diagnosis or treatment, ask your pediatrician to help you understand it. You can also ask them to explain things in more simpler terms if you don’t understand the medical terms. This will help you trust what they diagnose and prescribe so you are comfortable with your child’s treatment.For example, you can say, “I don’t understand what that means exactly. Can you explain that to me so I can understand?”

, You can help the doctor provide the correct treatment by letting them know what you have already tried. This includes any over-the-counter medications that you have given your child.You should also tell them about any other remedies you have tried, like using cold compresses or oatmeal baths.
 Being open with your pediatrician about things going on in your child’s life can help them better treat your child. These life events may affect your child’s behavior, health, or development. If your pediatrician has this information, they can get you the proper resources or refer you to a specialist.For example, tell the pediatrician about deaths, divorces, or moves. You may also tell them about any problems at school or home.
 After your child goes home, assess their progress. If a medication doesn’t work or your child develops side effects, you should contact your pediatrician. You should also talk to them if your child gets worse., Though you should trust your child’s pediatrician, you also know your child. If you think your child is off, let the doctor know. Help the doctor understand your child better since you know them and your pediatrician only sees them a few times a year. If you feel like something isn’t right, talk to the doctor.You can question side effects and the safety of a medication, or if the something is necessary.
 If you go to an appointment where your child is being treated for an illness, your pediatrician may not be able to discuss behavioral or developmental problems during that visit. Instead, they may suggest making a future appointment to focus solely on those problems.Try not to feel like the pediatrician is ignoring your concerns. Since the appointment was made for a different issue, that is their first priority. Making an appointment for a different problem will give you both more time to discuss the other concerns.

