 In Jason’s first appearance as an adult in Friday the 13th Part 2, his clothing style hadn’t quite developed beyond “hillbilly chic” yet. Capture the backwoods brutality of his original costume with pair of dark blue overalls. This will you the creepy overgrown child aesthetic you’re looking for and take care of the biggest part of the costume, leaving you to only have to worry about a few other pieces.Overalls are another no-frills item of clothing that are inexpensive and can be found in many places.
 To complement the country theme started by the overalls, deck yourself out in a plaid button-down shirt underneath. The shirt Jason wore in the movie was a faded blue-brown pattern, so find something as close to this color combination as you can. Try on the shirt and overalls alone and you’ll already be guaranteed to scare yourself a little.Don’t worry if you can’t find a shirt exactly like the one used in the movie. Just about any rustic-looking pattern will work when the rest of the costume is assembled.
Dirty the shirt up a little before you wear it to go out.
 Earth tones are the theme of Jason’s costume in Friday the 13th Part 2, and his boots are no exception. Dig up a used pair of heavy-duty brown work boots in your size, the older and more rugged the better. If you can’t find the right pair of brown boots, it’s okay to use black, gray or another dark neutral color. Just make sure they look like they’ve seen their share of moonlit treks through the woods., It’s nothing personal—Jason is just a little shy when it comes to showing his face. Before he stumbled upon the hockey mask that would come to define his image, he kept his features concealed with a dingy old pillow case with one eye hole cut out. Fortunately, this part of the costume is extremely easy to replicate. For best results, use a different pillowcase than the one you plan to lug your Halloween candy around in later.To make an eye hole for visibility, put the pillowcase on over your head, mark where your left eye is with a pencil and then use scissors to carefully cut out the eye hole.
If you want to be especially accurate, keep the pillow case secured around your neck using a little rope or butcher’s twine.
 For his first foray into bloodshed, Jason used various farming tools for hacking, slashing and poking, having not yet discovered the versatility and ease of transport of the hardware store machete. See if you can find a prop version of a wood cutting axe or miner-style pickaxe to reflect this. Once you’ve got your hands on one of Jason’s signature improvised weapons, you’ll feel ready to make make-believe mincemeat out of some rude teenagers.Do not carry actual weapons or farming implements for your costume. You might accidentally put an eye out!

