 Regular exercise lowers blood sugar levels. When you exercise, your muscles need to find energy. To do this, they use glucose reserves. After they use that, they pull glucose from your bloodstream. Then, when you finish your workout, your liver replenishes the glucose in your body. Together, this process uses glucose in your body and helps level out your blood sugar.


Stopping physical activity or decreasing the amount of physical activity can have a negative effect on your blood sugar levels. When you stop exercising, your blood glucose levels rise. Consistent physical activity is important to managing your blood sugar levels.Exercise also lowers your blood pressure and cholesterol. It burns fat and helps promote weight loss, which helps control blood sugar and diabetes. It also improves your circulation and increases insulin sensitivity.
 To make sure your blood sugar doesn't drop too low, monitor you levels before you exercise. Check your glucose levels half an hour before you exercise and then just before you exercise. Your blood sugar should be between 100-250 mg/dL.


If your blood sugar is lower than 100 mg/dL, eat a healthy snack so that your levels don't fall too low during your activity.
Talk to your doctor to determine your specific blood sugar levels before you begin exercising.
 Before beginning an exercise plan, talk to your doctor to find out the best kind of exercise plan for you. Your doctor can help you figure out your overall health, how strenuous your activity should be, and the kinds of exercises you should be doing.


Your doctor can also help you figure out what time of day you should exercise. You and your doctor can come up with a plan that takes into account exercise, your meals, and medication., To get the proper exercise, you need to include aerobic cardiovascular exercise, strength training, and flexibility exercises. A regular routine that has these three components helps increase your overall health.


To help reduce blood sugar levels, try doing 20 minutes of vigorous exercise 4 times a week or 30 minutes of moderate exercise 3 times a week.
Try aerobic exercise 30 minutes a day 5 times a week. Choose activities that you enjoy. Great cardio workouts are walking, dancing, swimming, cycling, and skating. You can also play group sports, like soccer, tennis, or racquetball. Join a gym and use their treadmills and stationary bikes, or try one of their cardio classes.
For strength training, work on building muscle. Go to a weight training group class at the gym. Use strength training workouts online or DVDs. Use machines at the gym or buy some home weights.
Stretch before and after exercise. Do a yoga video for some stress relief and great flexibility work.
Get a pedometer and try to take 10,000 steps every day. If you're not close to that number now, work your way towards 10,000 steps.
Increase your workouts gradually. If you can only exercise for a few days or for a shorter length of time when you first start, make it your goal to improve that each week.
Keep a record of your blood sugar levels before and after your exercises. This can help you track the positive affects exercise has on your blood sugar levels.