 Mats are a good choice if your dog is the type to sleep just about anywhere. They can be used to cover and protect upholstery if your dog sleeps on a couch, or they can offer a bit of warmth if your dog typically likes to sleep on the floor.


If your dog sleeps in a crate, you can get a dog-specific mat for inside it. Alternately, you can also use a bath mat inside the crate to offer softness and comfort.
 These oversized pillows featuring a loose filling are good for dogs that stretch or sprawl out while sleeping. Large dogs especially tend to stretch out as much as possible while sleeping, so the freedom offered by a rectangular pillow bed or large pad will suit your pup.


In less expensive models, the filling can clump or dissipate over time. Only buy the less expensive models if you can remove the cover to clean it, since washing the whole bed will decrease the lifespan of it.
If your dog tends to chew pillows, select a pillow bed made out of durable materials.A variation on the pillow bed is a bean bag-type bed, which is a bit overfilled to offer even more comfort for your dog.
 Shaped like its name would suggest, a donut bed is round or oval-shaped with raised sides. These are great for small dogs that like to sleep curled up.Donut beds can also help your small dog stay warm while sleeping.
Some dogs like to walk in circles a few times before laying down, and donut beds are a good option for these pups as well.
 Similar to donut beds, nest beds also feature high sides. They help retain heat well, so they’re good for dogs that need a little extra help staying warm at night.


Since the high foam sides of these beds usually prevent you from putting them in the washing machine, make sure they have a removable center pillow for ease of cleaning., These beds are like mini sofas, with a raised edge around it that your dog can rest its head on. Bolster beds are good for dogs that like big pillows and tend to startle when approached from behind, since the raised back provides a measure of security.Bolster beds can be expensive, since they tend to be very well made with durable stuffing.This style can also take up a lot of space, so make sure you have a good spot for it before shopping.
 These beds, with a cave-like arch, are also called tent beds. The semi-covered design is good for dogs that like to stay warm, covered, and cozy while sleeping. They can also be good for older dogs that have a hard time staying warm.Cave-style beds offer your dog a place to “hide away” if they get stressed out during the day, so they can be good for anxiety-prone dogs.
These beds are typically designed for smaller dogs, those weighing less than 20 pounds.
 Similar to human hammocks, these beds are elevated and made of a sturdy material affixed to a framework. They can be good if your dog is incontinent, since they clean easily and there is nowhere for the urine to settle in and cause odor.These beds do not offer much padding, so they are not ideal for all dogs.
Some dogs may feel uneasy being elevated above the floor while sleeping.

