 If it's a special occasion for her (birthday, name day, etc.), besides the present you will offer, you should explain to her that this is a major event for you, and even if you're separated or your relationship is a little tense, you couldn't have missed it for anything in the world. This will make her feel very important and will be the first step in making her believe you still love her and convincing her that she has a significant role in your life.;
, Let's say you and your ex girlfriend are part of the same group of friends, and you receive an invitation to a party , either you both receive it from a common friend, or even from your ex lover since you have the same friends. Let's take for example it's her birthday at school/work and she invites her colleagues to her party. In this situation you should pick wisely her gift. Taking into account that there will be a lot of gifts and all sort of presents , yours must be something really special, that will totally blow her away. Offer her a gift that only you and her know about , a gift with a direct link to your ex girlfriend, that will draw her closer to you than all the rest of the people invited.
 She must desire something, and you probably are the only person who knows that. But there's a catch, that something must be a gift that she can enjoy beside you. Let's take an example: tickets for a rock concert. She really wants to go, but none of her friends like this particular kind of music. Take into consideration, this is only an example, in order to help you understand the situation better. Let's get back to our example. You decide to buy her those tickets, and even thought, the relationship between you two is not working very well, your offer will be too tempting or interesting for her to refuse. It's a simple step that can prove very useful in your quest of bringing your ex back to you.
 Think about all the stuff she wanted and never had the time or the means to get it. A simple example would be an old book or a certain album she never found. Try to find this small but also valuable gift (valuable in terms of value to her, not to be mistaken with the word expensive). Also an important factor would be not to brag about trying to find this, keep it cool, act as if it was a random event, you just stumbled upon that particular thing and since you knew she liked that very much, you decided to surprise her.
 You don't have to be someone else to get her back, you will only look like a hypocrite, she will only see you like a sham, and that's not your goal. Try to be yourself, think the situation before you act , remember that sometimes more doesn't necessarily mean better.

