 Employment can be hard to come by in a recession, with employers generally looking to shed staff rather than expand. If you find that you are struggling a bit and want to make some more money in your spare time, think about how you can use your skills and knowledge to do this. An ever-popular way to make more cash is by tutoring in the evenings or weekends.Tutoring may most often mean teaching kids after school and helping with exam preparations, but there are many more ways to use your knowledge to make extra cash.
Perhaps you could give some music lessons, or teach a foreign language.
Maybe you could teach a cooking or baking class.
You may even be able to get part-time work as a driving instructor if you complete the necessary requirements.
 You may be able to make some extra cash in your evenings and weekends by completing some mystery shopping assignments. These tasks won’t earn you big sums of cash, but they are relatively easy to come by if you sign up with a reputable company and show them that you are reliable and do the work properly. You can find listings of opportunities in your state online.Mystery shopping will generally involve you visiting a store or business and asking questions or getting a specific product.
You will fill out a form evaluating things such as the customer service and your experience in store.
Beware of scams, and steer clear of any mystery shopping company that has a membership fee or tries to charge you for anything.
Don’t pay fees and don’t respond to unsolicited emails., An easy way to make money at home in your spare time is by taking part of various online surveys. This is not, however, a way to make a lot of money quickly as you will often only receive a few dollars for a five or ten minute survey. The advantage of these surveys is that they are more or less recession-proof and they quick and easy to fit around your other commitments


Look at some independent information that compares and rates online survey companies before you sign up for one.Make sure you know all the details before committing as some places pay with vouchers rather than cash.
 There are a number of smart phone apps that you can use as an easy way to make a little extra cash. Generally these apps give you a chance to earn small amounts of money, but are quick and easy to use. The requirements will vary depending on the app, but some of the possibilities include quick surveys, checking prices of goods in stores, or photographing your receipts.


There is even an app that pays you just to install it.
The app will collect anonymous statistics from your phone about the websites you visit, how long you spend on Facebook and other information.
You can also get cash rewards for correctly predicting a string of sports results., If you are looking to earn a little extra cash, you can look online for short tasks that you will be paid for. Many of these are things which you will be able to do from your computer at home, and might include things such as testing a website, transcribing some audio, doing a translation, or some data entry. Other opportunities for skilled freelancers include writing, voiceovers, explanatory videos, graphic design, web design, coding, or any other skilled service.


Websites like Guru, Freelancer, Elance, Upwork, and Toptal connect talented freelancers with paid work.You may not get a lot of money per task, but they will most often be quick and easy to finish.
Be alert to potential scams, and only sign up to work with trusted websites., If you have a car, it is now easier than ever to earn money as a private driver. Uber has made it easy to use your car to make some more in your spare time. You will need to sign up to the website and complete all the necessary forms, including information on you and your car, and pass the background check, before you can start taking fares.