 Starting a Chapter 13 case is very much like starting a Chapter 7 case. You need to gather all the information about your assets and debts, complete the bankruptcy schedules, and file them in the Bankruptcy Court.


You can find all the forms you need for filing bankruptcy at http://www.uscourts.gov/forms/bankruptcy-forms.
 The distinguishing factor of a Chapter 13 case is your ability to create a plan to pay at least some of your debt to your creditors. You must pay 100% of any administrative and priority debts (these are mostly taxes and charges related to the bankruptcy case). You must then propose to pay unsecured debts whatever you can pay from your monthly disposable income. Your plan must last 60 months (5 years), although under some circumstances you may get permission for a 36-month (3 year) plan.The Chapter 13 plan is usually filed together with the bankruptcy petition. This means that you need to make the calculations for your monthly payments when you prepare the rest of your paperwork. If necessary, you may file the petition without the bankruptcy plan, and then file the plan within two weeks., As with a Chapter 7 case, you need to record and keep note of the date that you filed your Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition. The filing date is the way that the court determines when you become eligible for a second discharge., A Chapter 13 trustee is appointed, basically to represent the court and the creditors. The trustee will review your filing papers and may ask you to provide additional information if necessary. It is your obligation to cooperate with the trustee to earn your discharge., In a Chapter 13 case, as in any other bankruptcy case, the trustee will convene a meeting of your creditors. The trustee and creditors will review your petition and schedules and have the opportunity to question you about them. You need to attend the meeting and cooperate by answering all their questions., It is your responsibility to make your monthly payments on time. The trustee will work with you to let you know when and to whom to make your payments. You generally will write a single check each month to the trustee, rather than paying each individual creditor. If you default on the payments, you risk losing the discharge in your Chapter 13 case., In Chapter 13, your discharge is delayed until after you make all of the Chapter 13 plan payments. Because the plan generally runs for 60 months (5 years), this will be quite some time after the initial filing date.Your Chapter 13 case will be closed administratively some time after the discharge enters.
 This requirement in the Bankruptcy Code sets up a logical conundrum. After you file your first Chapter 13 case, you must make payments for three to five years before your discharge can enter. However, the waiting period for a second filing is only two years from the first petition date. In theory, this means that you could file a second Chapter 13 case while you are still making payments on the first case, and before you earn your first discharge. This creates some overlap and requires that you be very careful in your accounting.Most people who want to file a second case will wait until the first one if closed. Then they are eligible to file the second Chapter 13 case right away. However, under some rare circumstances, you could have new obligations arise that you need to discharge in bankruptcy, after you have begun the first case. You cannot add new obligations to a pending Chapter 13 plan, so you may want to open a second case.

