 Relationships go through ebbs and flows. Being able to accept change and the distance between you will help reduce tension and anxiety in the relationship. Don’t avoid acknowledging when it’s difficult, but don’t dwell on those moments either.


Stating your support for each other's decisions, like relocating for school or a career opportunity, will help you avoid focusing on negativity and difficulty.
Try to focus on the positive effects of change and the possibilities it provides your growing relationship.
 Sometimes people get busy and lose touch, but it does not mean they don't want to stay connected. If it has been a while since you have spoken with your friend, try reaching out.


Try calling or texting and saying something like, "Hi Jill! I was just thinking of you the other day and thought I would call/text. How are you?"

, Although many relationships are based on building shared memories, dwelling on these memories too often can cause tension and prevent you from forming new bonds. Take this distance as an opportunity to pursue a new kind of friendship.Avoiding focusing too much on shared memories does not necessarily mean resisting them. Instead, try and talk about a shared memory and how it has positively affected the current relationship as opposed to focusing on the negative effects of distance.
 All long distance relationships undergo change; some for the worse, some for the better. Although there are many ways to try to maintain connection and strengthen the relationship, there may come a time when it’s best to end the relationship and say goodbye.Knowing when it’s time to say goodbye can be difficult to assess, but it helps to continually check-in with yourself by asking questions like, “Am I still enjoying this relationship?”, or “Is this relationship making me happy?”
Constant and continual fighting, whether you’re unable to reconcile differences or cope with change, is a clear sign that you need to re-evaluate the relationship.Ending relationships, whether you initiate it or not, is always difficult. Try to stay calm and remember that this person was once an important part of your life.

