 When in a conversation, do not look at your phone or glance around the room. Do not think about things like what you're going to do after work or eat for dinner that night. Direct your attention solely on the speaker. This will help you listen better, as you'll focus on what's being said.Keep your eyes on the speaker most of the time. If you find other thoughts creeping in, remind yourself to return to the present and listen.
 Eye contact shows you're paying attention. Meet the person's eyes as they talk. Eye contact conveys that you're paying attention and present. A lack of eye contact can come off as rude or disinterested.Electronic devices, like cell phones, can often demand our attention, especially if they make noise or give off notifications. Keep your phone in your purse or pocket when talking to someone so you're not tempted to look elsewhere.
Eye contact can also let you know if you're boring someone else. If someone breaks eye contact while you're speaking, you may be talking too much. Pause and give the speaker a turn.
 Listening is not a passive act. While the speaker talks, it's your job to listen to what they're saying. Try to withhold judgment while you do so. Even if you disagree with what's being said, wait your turn to speak. Do not think about how you'll respond while the speaker is talking.It can help to try to picture what's being communicated. Create images in your mind that represent what the speaker is saying.
You can also try to latch on to key words and phrases while the speaker talks.
 In any conversation, it will eventually be your turn to share. Before doing so, however, make it clear you were listening. Paraphrase in your own words what the speaker said and ask any questions you have.Do not repeat what the speaker said verbatim. Just rephrase your understanding of what they said. Also, keep in mind that active listening is meant to help you pay close attention to the speaker and let them know you are listening. Do not use active listening as a way to interject or make your opinions known.


For example, say something like, "So, you're saying you are stressed about the upcoming office party."
Then, follow up with a question. For example, say, "Where do you think this stress is coming from? Do you want to talk about that?"
Make sure to be empathetic and non-judgmental as you listen to the speaker. You can express respect and validate their position without giving up your own position.

