 Everybody's got their own definition of what's too big and too small to be tasty, but a good rule of thumb is to shake hands with the corn. If the cob fills your hand nicely and the silk on the top is brown, it's ready to pick. If it feels too scrawny, look for larger cobs to freeze.






;
, Have a seat and take all the husks off the corn once you've picked enough corn for your purposes. Collect the corn in a bowl and dispose of the husks.









For a classic country husking, sit outside in the afternoon sun and husk your corn.
 Rub the silky fibers off the cleaned cobs with your hands.It helps to keep a bowl of water on the table while working to dip your hands into, otherwise you end up feeling like Spiderman with everything you touch sticking to your hands.
 There are other methods of preparing and cooking the corn, but many believe this method gives the best taste. Put the corn in the water, put the lid on, and bring the water back to a rolling boil.
 You need to do this as quickly as possible to maintain the right texture of the corn. Take the corn out when the water's boiling and cool it down by submerging the corn in ice water.









If you have lots of corn to freeze, use one side of the sink to cool the hot ears just off the stove, then move the lukewarm ears to the left side of the sink to finish up the cooling. Cold water trickles in from the faucet into the left hand side of the sink.
 Once the corn has been blanched and cooled so that the ears are cool to the touch, use a sharp knife and run it down the cob vertically. Go slowly, and try to get enough corn without getting too much of the cob.
 Once the corn is off the cob, put it into cake pans or baking sheets for a good initial freezing. Cake pans work well because they spread out the corn and transfer the heat nicely. Freezing the corn on a flat surface is a good idea to freeze each kernel individually and ensure that you don't have a big, difficult to manage, block of starchy corn when you defrost it.









If you're freezing lots of corn, cycle the warmest batches from the cooler to the freezer to keep the temp of the freezer high. Don't put extremely hot corn straight into the freezer, or you'll lower the temperature and slow down the process considerably.You don't have to freeze them initially before bagging them, but it is a good idea to cool them down by doing this process at least for a little while.
 Once the pans of corn are completely cooled, all that's left is to package the corn up for final freezing. Use quart and pint Ziploc baggies and portion the corn into meal-sized amounts. Squeeze as much air as you can out of the bags before zipping them up.









Don't overfill the bags. You don't want them totally full, just enough so you can close them easily and then flatten them out so they store easily. A quart baggie is about enough for one meal for 4-5 people, and a pint baggie works well for 2 people.
 Stack them as flat as possible in your freezer. It's a good idea to date them and label the bags before putting them into the freezer for later. Frozen, sweet corn should be good for several months up to the next year.








