 Tap the App Store icon on your iPad, iPhone, or iPod to launch it.;
, Type in “CameraWindow” on the search field and tap the “Search” button.
 Locate the correct app from the results and tap the “Install” button beside the app to download and install it into your iOS device.


This app is free.
 After installation, locate the app on your mobile device and tap on it to launch it.


It has an icon with a compact camera lens on it, and the name on the app will be Canon CW.
 After the app is launched, wait for the camera to connect to the same Wi-Fi network or SSID as your device.
 Turn your camera on by pressing the “Play” button at the back.


Be sure that the camera has an SD card inserted with the pictures you’d like to transfer to the mobile device.
 In order for your camera to be properly identified by the other Wi-Fi devices, it needs to have a nickname. On the back of your camera, press on the “MENU” button then select the second tab for Settings (with the tools icon).


Scroll down the menu by pressing down on the DISP. circular button until you find “Wi-Fi Settings.” Press on it.
The first item under the Wi-Fi Settings menu is “Change Device Nickname.” Select this, and enter the nickname for your camera.
Press the “MENU” button again to exit the screen and return to the Wi-Fi Settings menu.
 At the back of the camera, press the Wi-Fi logo at the top of the circular button. This will bring you to the camera’s Wi-Fi menu.
 From your camera’s Wi-Fi menu, select the tablet icon. On the next screen, select “Add a Device.” The camera will look for an Access Point and then for the available mobile device within the same network.


Make sure the camera has been set up to connect to a network or Access Point. Refer to the user manual if you need further details on how to set this up.
The Access Point should be the same one your mobile device is using.
 From the list of results, select the mobile device you wish to link this camera with. Confirm the selection by choosing “Yes.”

, Once the connection has been established, it will be easier to connect the two devices next time. The mobile device will now appear under the Wi-Fi menu, and connecting back to it from the camera will just be one selection away.
 Set your camera to direct towards the subjects it’s shooting. Secure its position, either on a flat solid surface or on a tripod.
 After installation, locate the app on your mobile device and tap on it to launch it.


It has an icon with a compact camera lens on it, and the name on the app will be Canon CW.
 Use the camera’s Wi-Fi menu to connect it to your mobile device. Since it has already been linked, setting up the link once again should be easier.


The name of your mobile device should also appear under the camera’s Wi-Fi menu for easier connection.
 Back on your mobile device, on the CameraWindow app, select “Perform Remote Shooting” from the main screen. The camera will bring out its lens, and the mobile device will display what the camera sees in real-time.


The screen of your mobile device now serves as the screen or viewfinder of the camera.
 Just like on the camera, you can adjust some settings right on the mobile device before actually taking the shot.


The zoom factor can be adjusted with the horizontal bar at the bottom.
The flash and the timer settings can be set with the reverse arrow button on the right side.
The display screen can be set by tapping on the “DISP” button found at the top.
 Once the settings have been set and you’re now ready to take your shot, tap the circular button found on the right side of the CameraWindow. The shot will be taken immediately.


The picture taken will be stored on the camera’s storage card, not on your mobile device.
 After installation, locate the app on your mobile device and tap on it to launch it.


It has an icon with a compact camera lens on it, and the name on the app will be Canon CW.
 Tap “View images on camera” from the main screen. Since the camera is now linked with the app, it can read and display all the pictures from the camera remotely.


Viewing the images on an iPad, for example, is way easier and better with its bigger screen and higher resolution as compared to the one on the digital camera.
 The pictures will be loaded remotely from the camera. Browse through them and view them just like you normally would with your iOS photos from the Camera Roll.
 If you want to view a picture on a larger scale, tap the picture from the list and it will load up. It may take some time for it to display in full resolution, depending on your Wi-Fi speed.


You can move forward and backward with the pictures from the enlarged view as well by tapping the right and left arrows or by swiping right and left.
 If you want to transfer the pictures from the camera to your mobile device, refer to this article for further details.

