 There are several well-known sites dedicated to trading books. Here are a few options:


Join a books-by-mail site such as BookMooch, WhatsOnMyBookshelf, or PaperBackSwap. You mail out books to other users, earning points to request books for yourself.
Sign up for BookCrossing to join a worldwide community of readers passing on books from hand to hand.
To avoid long-distance postage, search online for country-specific sites, such as BookSwapAustralia or the UK's Read It Swap It.;
, These aren't limited to books, but that doesn't mean you can't find readable treasures. A few options include:



Joining a local Freecycle to find free things in your neighborhood.
TitleTrader for books, films, and music.
The free section of sites such as craiglist, Yerdle, or freelywheely. Be cautious and meet strangers in public during the day., If you have extra books, invite friends and family over to trade for them. It's best to trade all books one-for-one, regardless of value. This keeps things friendly and focused on good books, not good deals.
 Charity shops and thrift shops often have giveaway bins of stuff they can't sell. If you're lucky, you might live near a "shop" that gives books away, such as Book-Cycle in the UK., The Little Free Library project has been spreading miniature book-filled houses across many lawns and sidewalks. Many of these are registered on the project's online map. Cafés, libraries, and college campus buildings have been using this "public bookcase" idea for much longer, but most of these can only be discovered by word of mouth.


If none of your bookworm friends have discovered these, try finding an online forum for your neighborhood and asking about them there.
Starting your own is a great way to collect books and meet other readers in your area. If you live in an apartment building, ask your landlord if you can put a bookcase in the lobby.
 Authors sometimes give away their books as a promotion, or in trade for a public review. You can find these most easily on large book community sites such as Library Thing and Young Adult and Kids Books Central.


The #amazongiveaway Twitter hashtag usually has several book or ebook giveaways going on. View it "Live" instead of "Top" to see all recent results.
Small blogs host these contests as well, but it's not worth tracking them down unless you follow the blog already. Look through book blogger directories online if you're interested in hearing from authors, reviewers, and other people in the book world.
 If you think you've exhausted your local library's supply, talk to a librarian. Most libraries let you order books from other branches, or borrow online content using your library card.


You can request a specific book from the head librarian or a Friend of the Library organization. Depending on budget, the staff may be willing to purchase that book for the collection, and let you know when it arrives., If you know someone with a full attic or garage, offer to organize it in exchange for books you find in the process. Bookstores and libraries may also be willing to give you overstock for a few hours of shelving.

