 Are you going to focus on furniture, kitchenware, bathroom goods, computers and accessories, personal accessories, or toys? There are many possible items that could be collected. The key things are:


Choose what you like. There is little point collecting things that don't resonate with you and your idea of style.
Hone down the parameters of your collection to avoid getting things that don't fit in.;
, An antique is something that is usually useful during its period, and often has a discernible production period, after which it will cease/has ceased to be produced.


Read magazines, style and product catalogs, and look online. Wide publication of an item in magazine product review sections, especially quality magazines, is a good indicator of the product's popularity and worthiness to be added to your collection.
Visit exhibitions that feature new products.
Learn the background of the item's designers. The more famous the designer, the better it will be to add the item to your collection.
Visit museums. Is your item already on display? This is a good sign! What other similar objects from other decades are on display? This will help to give you a good idea of how the items are valued by future generations.
 For example, designs that receive the prestigious National Design Awards from the Smithsonian Cooper-Hewitt Museum will give you an excellent idea of what's considered the best in design right now and in previous years, and is worth adding to your collection. Awards on an item will always set the item apart from the pack, and make them much more collectible.

Groundbreaking design: Something that didn't exist until this item came along, or a design that reshaped the future of an item, are really useful reasons for collecting it. The steady progression of Mac computers is a good example of product evolution that contains products worth collecting.

Elegance: Style should be something that lasts down the ages, and can be easily discerned whatever is the modern trend. If the item is the height of "good taste" at its time, then it's worth collecting.

Quality: The item should be well made. This should be obvious but isn't always heeded!

Unique: This is only applicable where an item is unusual and you'd like it form a part of your collection. Not every item in your collection has to be unique, although items should stand apart from their more generic copies. Unique tends to refer to "hard to work out what it is" because it has been designed so cleverly but it still retains a useful purpose. Vases, kitchen equipment, and storage items often fall into this last design style.

Science meets design: When science is used to produce an amazing design, the resulting product is usually worth adding to your collection.
 Once you know what you want to collect and you've done your research, it's important to locate trustworthy sources that provide your items at good prices.


Develop a relationship with a reputable local dealer who specializes in the items. Ask to be put on mailing lists, to be asked to special events, etc.
Learn how to find good deals online from both retail websites and auction sites. For auction sites, always do a thorough check of the seller's feedback first.
See if there are other possible sources, such as factory direct, special art and design stores, from the crafts person direct, etc. A lot of this is about establishing and maintaining good relationships – you can also form firm friendships along the way!
Look in sales "just in case". Don't rely on sales but do treat them as a possibility for finding an occasional item at a bargain price. This is definitely a fun part of the hunt!
Don't dismiss live auctions in your own area. Not everything sold at an auction is old – many household auctions are from deceased estates, as gifts, unused items stored with care, etc., are abandoned by distressed and already over-burdened family members who want it all off their hands. You can find modern quality items at some of these auctions too.
 Record the date of purchase, the cost, and any reasons as to why you bought it, such as because it was made by a certain designer, or because it was the last one of the manufacturing run ever, etc.


Don't rely on your memory – you're bound to forget over time! Add labels to items if in storage, as well as keeping a notebook.
Keep associated catalogs, postcards, advertising materials, etc., as these will add to the value and can sometimes be an antique in their own right.
Always keep items in their original packaging or boxes where relevant. This always increases the value in the future.
 If you cannot hang onto something of value, then it won't gain its antique value over time. Patience – and space – are a necessity!


Be prepared to keep these items pristine. They should not be used (with the exception of furniture but still be careful!). If you want to use the item, buy one for use, one for collecting.
 Items will deteriorate when exposed to the usual daily effects of light, moisture, human traffic, etc.


Keep out of the way of children, pets, and meddlesome family members.
Create a clear and safe storage space.
Consider the effects of sunlight on your items – usually it will fade items, so try to keep them out of sunlight.
Choose between display and storage. When on display, ensure that the display space is safe, clean, and out of sunlight.
Anything with paper should be stored flat and out of sunlight, along with insect deterrents. This includes books, postcards, magazines, catalogs, etc. Keep loose or fragile paper items in acid-free plastic sleeves.

