 Many companies have strict policies regarding references. You need to find out ahead of time if you can give one. Ask Human Resources.


If company policy prohibits references, you should consider giving a reference in your personal capacity. This means you won’t use the company’s letterhead., Once you agree to write a reference, ask if you need any information from the candidate. For example, they can provide you with an updated resume.Alternately, they might draw your attention to a project they are particularly proud of.


Check the deadline. Don’t procrastinate with your references. Starting early gives you a chance to outline your letter and think about what you really want to say.
Identify the type of reference. For example, you might be providing an employment letter or a character reference for someone. These differ somewhat.
Ask who will receive the letter. The requester might want a generic letter, or they might need it for a specific job.
 Refresh your memory about the person’s strengths and weaknesses. Also take another look at any projects they completed, as well as their performance reviews.If, after review, you realize you can’t provide a strong reference, then you should tell the requester.
 Set up your reference letter as a standard business letter. You should print it on company letterhead, so leave room at the top of the first page. Subsequent pages do not need to be on letterhead.Ask the requester who you should address the letter to. If it’s a generic letter to use more than once, you can use “To Whom It May Concern.”

, In the first paragraph, you need to identify yourself and how you know the candidate. For example, you may have been someone’s direct supervisor. If you no longer work with the person, state that information as well.For example, you can write, “I enthusiastically recommend Ellie Smith for the position of project manager. During the four years I supervised her at the Department of Health and Human Services, Ellie impressed me with her commitment and problem-solving skills. Although she has not worked for me in two years, I still remember the positive impact she made.”

, A positive reference must be concrete. You need to identify skills or abilities that make the candidate a great person to hire. This might require some brainstorming on your part. For example, think about times the person really pulled through for you. What skills did they rely on?


Many employers are looking to hire people with excellent communication skills.Accordingly, you should mention how well the person writes and verbally communicates, if possible.
If you’re writing a character reference, then you should identify traits instead of skills. For example, you might have been asked to write a reference letter for a friend who is looking to adopt. In this situation, you can highlight their patience, comfort with children, and stability.
 Your reference cannot be a string of conclusions. Instead, you need to support your statements with detail. It’s okay to say, “Terri is a tremendous worker,” but it’s better to explain why you think Terri is dedicated.


For example, you can write something like this: “Terri is a tremendous worker. During the first six months, she did the work of two people when her co-worker was out on maternity leave. Terri came into the office on Saturdays and stayed late most days of the week. For example, when a client needed an emergency presentation, she was able to pull it together in about a week when two or three weeks is standard.”
Remember to tell the truth. You might be excited to help someone out. Nevertheless, your glowing recommendation must be factual.Make sure you can back up everything you say with evidence, such as stellar performance reviews.
 Sum up your impressions of the candidate and enthusiastically recommend them for the job. Include your phone number or email so that the hiring manager can call you with follow-up questions., A poorly-written letter reflects badly on you and the candidate. Put the letter aside for a couple days and then analyze it afresh. Rewrite awkward sentences and provide more detail if necessary.


Proofread it to catch typos, missing words, etc. Also ask someone else to read the letter. A second set of eyes can catch small errors.
When the letter is finished, print it off and sign it. Hold onto a copy for your records.
 Often, a letter isn’t necessary. Instead, the candidate will put your name down on a list and the hiring manager will call. You should still prepare by reviewing the person’s resume and performance evaluations.


If the manager asks something you don’t know, then say so. For example, you might be asked about the person’s salary when you didn’t have access to that information.Some hiring managers might try to obtain information they shouldn’t. For example, they might ask questions about the candidate’s religion or marital status. You should decline to answer questions of this nature, since they are illegal.
You are likely to be asked about a person’s weaknesses in a telephone call. Identify something that the person has worked to correct. For example, you can say, “Terri didn’t have much experience working with spreadsheets when she started, but she took several courses.”

