 Follow the steps laid out in method one, up through step five, the creation of a gravel and sand foundation.


To ornament an existing patio or path, you can also cover a pre-existing concrete slab with flagstones using the mortared flagstone technique. In this case, you can skip the excavation stage and just work on top of the slab., A clean surface will ensure a better bond to the mortar.If working on a concrete slab, pressure wash it as well.
 Follow the same procedure detailed in step six of method one.


Make certain you are satisfied with your layout. Once you start to put the stones in place with mortar, it will be very difficult to move them.
If you are planning to fill your joints with grout or mortar, try to keep your joints narrow. If using sand or gravel, you can make the joints any size you find aesthetically pleasing. If using grout or mortar as joint filler, the flagstone surface will have a cleaner look and a smoother finish if you fit your stones together such that you keep the joints narrow and as uniform as possible., Mortar is a mix of sand, cement, and water. You should mix two measures of sand to every one measure of cement. Then, slowly add water while stirring the mixture. Continue adding water until you get a consistency similar to cake frosting.It's a good idea to mix up a small practice batch or two before you mix up a large enough batch to lay your stones.
 One by one, lift each stone, apply mortar to your bed of sand and gravel or the concrete slab you are attaching your stones to, then set the stone into the wet mortar.


If your stones are not of uniform thickness, you will need to apply additional mortar underneath some of them to get an even surface. In this case, start by identifying the thickest stone and mortaring it in first. Then, work outward from this stone, ensuring that each subsequent flagstone is about the same height., Don't do anything else until your mortar is completely dry.
 Fill the spaces between the flagstones with sand, gravel, additional mortar, or grout.


Grout can be purchased at any home improvement store. Follow the instructions on the bag to mix the grout.
Using a tool called a float, also available at your local home improvement store, press the grout between your flagstones, then immediately do a second pass with the float to remove excess. After the grout sits for 15-30 minutes, wipe up the remaining excess grout with water and a large sponge, changing the water often. Afterward, wipe the stones with a dry towel to remove remaining mud.If you wish, you can change the color of your grout prior to application with mineral dyes (available at most home improvement stores) or even acrylic paint. It is recommended that you experiment with a small batch before dyeing the grout you'll actually use on your flagstones, in case you don't like the final look.For sand or gravel joints, just pour the filler on your flagstones and sweep it into the joints with a broom.
 If you used grout or mortar in your joints, wait for it to completely dry (this may take as long as a couple of days) and then cover them with a matte or glossy sealer (available at your hardware store). This prevents water and/or ice from getting into the joints and damaging them.You can apply the sealer with cotton swabs or a disposable paint brush.


If you used sand or gravel in your joints, there is no need to seal them.
Sealing your joints is optional but highly recommended, especially if you live in a place that gets a lot of rainfall or cold winters.