 Mouth infection is typically accompanied by some type of localized pain. If you can identify what in your mouth is giving you trouble, you may be able to find the source of your infection. This includes:Pain in a particular tooth.
Pain along the jaw, ear, or neck.
Soreness of the gums.
Mouth sores or cuts.
Chewing or swallowing problems.
 There are many different types of symptoms that may manifest in mouth infections. These can all signal that something is wrong with your mouth. Some common symptoms include:


Red or swollen gums.
Bleeding gums.
Bad breath.
Dry mouth.
Difficulty swallowing.
Fever.
Loose teeth., To help your dentist find the most accurate diagnosis, you should keep a record of when your symptoms occur. Writing down these details—either in a notebook, planner, or in your phone—can help you remember the specifics of your condition. Write down:


When symptoms occur.
How long symptoms last for.
What activities you are doing when symptoms flare up.
What you have eaten recently.
When do they calm down and medication that calms the pain.
 Only your dentist can give a proper diagnosis and treatment for mouth infection. As mouth infection can include many different types of infections and diseases, it is important to be screened regularly to catch the infection in its early stages. Common mouth infections include:



Oral Thrush: a fungal infection that is caused by the same bacteria that causes diaper rash and yeast infections.Gingivitis: the early stages of gum disease marked by tender, swallowed, or bleeding gums.

Periodontal Disease: the late stages of gum disease that causes bone loss, bleeding or receding gums and tooth loss.Cavity/Tooth decay: weakened enamel caused by a build-up of plaque on your teeth, which creates acid erosion.Tooth abscess: an infected tooth caused by tooth decay, gum disease, or a cracked tooth., If your infection is severe, you may have to undergo a procedure or surgery to correct the problem. You may even be referred to a specialized doctor such as a periodontist or an endodontist. Follow your dentist’s advice to receive the best care for your infection. Some common procedures include:



Tooth extraction: the infected tooth is removed.

Drainage: fluid that has built up in the gums or tooth is drained by the dentist.Root canal: infected root pulp is removed from the tooth, and the tooth is then filled with a rubber-like substance and antiseptic paste.Flap surgery: the gums are pulled back so that the surgeon can remove tartar, necrotic cementum, and infection from deep within the gums.Bone or tooth grafts: natural or synthetic bone is implanted to help promote bone growth.