 Some people favor doing complete workouts instead of working out specific muscle groups. Because of this, compound exercises are one of the best types of exercises to create a challenging full workout routine.


Work out your lower body, core, and upper body on the same day. For instance, complete 3 to 5 sets of bench presses, squats, and planks.
Consider limiting the total number of your sets to no more than 25.
Make sure to rest at least a day before completing another routine.
Try to exercise three times a week for the best results., Another approach to performing a routine is to focus on different parts of your body on different days. This way, you’ll give certain muscle groups time to rest and heal in-between workouts.


For your lower body workout, consider squats, 10 to 20 minutes on the erg/rowing machine, and lunges. Consider doing 4 to 6 sets.
For your upper body workout, consider dips, bench presses, and pull-ups.
Limit your sets to 6 repetitions.
Be conscious of what types of exercises you are doing and try to categorize them appropriately. This is especially difficult because compound exercises use more than one muscle group at a time. You can classify exercises appropriately by grouping them based on the type of muscle that is used the most in a particular exercise. Group squats with leg presses – both focus on lower body strength., You also need to make sure you balance your overall exercise routine. This includes making sure that you rotate your compound exercise routine with any cardiovascular exercises you engage in.


Since some forms of compound exercises also count as cardio, such as using an elliptical or rowing machine, so you might consider doing compound exercise routines on one day and then doing sustained cardio exercise on the following day. For instance, try doing an upper body workout that includes some cardio on Mondays and Wednesdays. Then, do a compound workout that includes cardio on Tuesdays and Thursdays. And then on Fridays and Saturdays, do a cardio-only workout, such as walking.
You may also consider doing compound exercises in the morning, doing cardio at night, and then resting the following day.
Make sure to rest a day between exercising the same muscle group. In addition, consult a doctor or personal trainer if you have any unexpected pain or other problems.