 You'll need brown plasticine for the bulk of the volcano, white plasticine for the snow cap and red or orange plasticine for the lava. If you want a green landscape around the base of the volcano, you'll also need some green plasticine.;
, You'll need a basic cone shape for the volcano, so make a basic cone with a large opening from either construction paper or thin cardboard. This can be taped together or stapled. The cone is probably best then sitting around a bowl, to provide something firm underneath for you to press into when adding the plasticine.
 Start adding the brown plasticine to the cone, smoothing it around the cone shape from the base to the top. Aim for the same thickness all the way around, with more plasticine layered at the base and finer layering at the top.
 Use the white plasticine to make a snow cap around the top of the volcano, using a wavy line around its base area.
 Stick some lengths of red or orange plasticine running down one side of the volcano, to give the effect of lava.
 You can stop here; the volcano is good for a diorama or display model as it is. Or, you can go ahead to the next phase and add materials that will allow the volcano to explode for real.


If adding vegetation, place the volcano on its display base, then shape some trees, fields, and perhaps add some small houses, model farm animals, etc.
 If you do want the volcano to work this way, design the volcano according to the size of the bottle from the start, to save you having to hunt high and low for a bottle of the right size.
 Fill it about halfway with baking soda. This will be the substance that reacts with the vinegar, to create the "lava".
 This consists of a good squirt of washing up liquid and a few drops of red food coloring. Then add 2 tablespoons or so of white vinegar. This is now known as your "lava mix".
 When the lava flows, it is going to make a mess, so that volcano must be on a surface that won't stain and can be cleaned with ease. A good surface is a portable plastic tray with high edges, or a bowl, allowing you to transport the volcano with ease and perform the explosion.
 Stand back as it bubbles up and bursts forth with red lava, which will cascade down the side of the plasticine volcano.
 Dab up any liquid around the base of the volcano. Remove the bottle and wash the contents out. The plasticine volcano can be kept for another explosion some other time.

