 Does she have a website, does she have ads going back at least 6 months, does she have reviews (although some escorts do not like being reviewed)? Google her name and phone number or email before contacting her. Also expect her to want to screen your for her own safety; be respectful and provide whatever info she requires.;
, Unless you are giving notice of a time change well in advance, expect to pay for the time you missed. If your 60 minute date was supposed to start at 7 and you get there at 7:15, STILL LEAVE AT 8. Please respect the escort's time and schedule, and don't linger. Even if the escort genuinely enjoyed the time with you, it is annoying and awkward if you overstay. If you want more time, ask and if she says yes, expect to pay for it at the rate previously discussed.
 Escorts use code words like, CIM, greek, GFE, PSE... google these before you call or email.
 For your own safety! If it is a sting, they will try to get you to say what you are there for out loud. When in doubt, kiss the girl or ask her to get more comfortable. If she complies, green light!

, If you must refer to it at any time, call it a gift. Do not hand the money directly to her, set it down where she can see it, or wherever you were told to beforehand, (often by the sink in the bathroom).
 She is a real person, you don't need to be intimidated and you certainly shouldn't feel superior either.
 While noble, and very sweet, she is there for you. Do not hold back at the beginning because you want to last for her, this often ends in not being able to finish at all. Which nobody wants. You can take care of her after if you enjoy that, but no pressure here either.
 She is a real women with real likes and dislikes. Not everyone wants to be talked dirty to, or smash-cuddled post coitus. Some might love it though!

, Whether you need to get back to work, or just aren't into idle chit-chat and cuddling, do your thing. She will enjoy the extra down-time. If you have a genuine rapport or chemistry, or if you are just enjoying the company and a break from real life, then stay the whole time! She will be happy either way.
 Always tip. No one care if it's $20 or $200, tip your escort. Unless she was terrible. Tipping lets the woman know that you liked her and that you appreciate her time and effort. This is especially important if you want to see the escort again. If you went for a twofer, then tip extra well!

, If yes, keep it simple, and do not fabricate. If you say she did something that she didn't, other clients may expect that same service in the future.
 Very very clean. If you just came from work or whatever, take a quick shower at the location. You don't want to be known as the 'Smegma-Guy'.
 Real advice from real escorts.
 Escorts love this and you will go right to the front of the line, hopefully. Wine can help to get you both relaxed and comfortable, and is a good social lubricant when you have to make all the magic happen in an hour or two. You can ask in advance what she likes, and don't forget the glasses! Gift certificates are always a safe bet if you want to bring a gift, stores like Amazon, Victoria's Secret, Bath and Body, etc. If you know the escort well, you may want to give her more personalized gifts like lingerie, jewelry, and perfume. ****Super extra bonus points if you buy her drinks/take her to dinner first, (WHILE she is being compensated for her time at her usual rate). If you really enjoy her company and can afford to do this, this is the best way to make her feel special. Remember she is on the clock though, and do not ever ask her to meet for free. That is a line neither of you should cross.

