 If you’re uncomfortable standing up for yourself, a class on assertiveness may help. This type of training can increase your self-esteem and help you assert yourself in a non-hostile, authoritative manner. In addition to helping you with your relationship with your sibling, it can also improve your assertiveness in other areas of your life, such as with your job, other family members, and friends.


A quick Internet search can inform you of any assertiveness training classes in your area. If you aren’t able to find any locally, you may be able to find one online.You can also work with a counselor to develop your assertiveness.
 You didn’t ask to be bullied. Also, you probably didn’t do anything to illicit this type of behavior. Remember, you’re not the problem here; it’s likely because of issues the bully is going through.When you find yourself being self-defeating, recite a positive affirmation, such as “I welcome positive, uplifting relationships into my life” or “I try my best to be a great sibling.”

, Being the victim of bullying is stressful. The constant stress can cause both emotional and physical problems. You owe it to yourself to do what you can to relieve this turmoil.


Often, physical activities are just what you need to remove the stress from your body. You may find that meditation, yoga, running, or another type of exercise can help. The results you see may also improve your self-esteem in the process.Taking good care of yourself in other ways, such as by eating healthy foods and maintaining good hygiene, may also help to improve your self-esteem and make it easier to withstand the bullying.
 Despite your best efforts, you may not be able to make the relationship work. If you find that trying to stay only makes you feel worse or isn’t healthy, it may be time to move on. Accept that you can’t change the relationship, and distance yourself from the sibling.


Removing your sibling from your life is a drastic step. Ensure you have thought through your decision and that this is what you really want to do before you make the move. This may mean that you cause tension with other family members, but if your life has become toxic because of this person, it may be exactly what you need to do.If you do decide to go this route, it is best to do so with the guidance of a therapist who can help you to manage the family dynamic changes.

