 The theist believes in a god or gods while the atheist denies this belief and all others like it. An agnostic is one who believes that there is currently insufficient evidence to determine the existence of any deity. An agnostic will still always fall into the category of a theist or an atheist, also being an agnostic simply means they are admitting they don't know for sure that their viewpoint is true. In a strict philosophical sense, some scholars would argue that we are all agnostics about everything (epistemology) because we can never truly know anything, including our own existence.;
, Monotheists believe in only one god or divinity and reject any other form of deity. Polytheists believe in a set of many gods. Pantheists believe that everything in the universe is divine. Omnists (omnitheists) accept all gods and religions as equal. Of course, these statements may over-simplify for the sake of being concise.
 Theists may view atheists as immoral because they do not believe in a god/gods, while atheists may view theists as deluded for believing in a god/gods. Both parties hold their beliefs strongly and necessarily make sacrifices by subscribing to one over the other. Understanding this intensity will lead to more productive and personable debate that will further human understanding and community.
 Most ethical elements of many religions are agreeable to theists and atheists alike, e.g. the golden rule of Jesus: “Do unto others as you would have them do unto you," or as Rabbi Hillel put it, “Don’t do to others what you wouldn’t want done to you." Most people agree with such a statement, and recognizing this common ground provides a buffer for the emotional issues surrounding belief vs. disbelief.
 Most atheists were once theists (or were raised in a theist tradition), but those who were not should consider the ideas of various forms of theism before discounting such ideas, and those who were raised as theists should study theist ideas with which they are unfamiliar. Many theists have been theists for their entire lives. Before satisfying debate can occur, both parties must understand their opponent by critically examining their ideas.

