 Then, try to make the dog put his head into the collar: don't push him if he is scared, but bring the harness very slowly closer and closer to the dog head, till he will have worn it; if he gets scared, freeze where you are, let him calm down, and then continue from where you stopped;
,, You will do this by praising him when he runs, recalling him and encouraging him to resume running when he stops.
, Also add 2 more words ( like "SLOW" and "RUN" ), when you decelerate and when you increase your speed. At the beginning, you will start on straight paths: later go where there are some crossroads too: you will repeat "LEFT" or "RIGHT" any time you turn one or another direction.
 If you are not sure, ask your vet about any doubt! Then, over weeks, slowly add speed and duration. Again, if in doubt, ask your vet, and anyway, better do less than the dog could do, than doing more and hurting him.
, Keep on praising and encouraging him when he runs in front if you, pulling you. If you notice he is unsure about what to do, increase your speed to make him understand he does have to run in front of you, faster than you, even if you are slowing down.
 At the beginning, do not ride the bike, but run by its side: once the dog will fully understand how to behave, you can start actually riding

, This step is not much different than passing from jogging to biking, but sled for sled dog are difficult to handle if you are not used to. Also, to pull one, you need at least three dogs, of the same size and weight.
 Also, this is a demanding activity so it is important your dog is fit and well muscled to avoid injuries.
 Also follow his/her warnings on how to proceed.
when you start, start with something that is not more demanding than your dog's usual activity: if he is used to walking for 5 minutes a day, start with a 5 minutes walk.
add difficulties gradually and slowly: a general rule is that when the dog, once home, stops being as tired as usual but only appears satisfied and still ready to go, it is time to add duration/speed. For example: you start off with a 20 minutes walk, and once home your dog is not willing to do anything more for the whole day; let's say that after 2 weeks, he comes home tired but after, say, 6 hours he is ready to play and run again: then, you can start adding difficulties, for example from 20 to 25/30 minutes walk
train your dog for many activities: only doing one kind of activity/training and nothing else is unhealthy and can lead to injuries ( it happens with humans too ). Instead, alternate sled dog/running training with at least 2 other completely different sports, like disc dog ( lots of jumping ), agility ( jumping and sprinting ), swimming, etc. Also, teach your dog "tricks" ( things like: roll on the floor, give paw, etc. You can find many examples if you search for "dog tricks" on youtube ): they develop strength, agility and flexibility in dogs, which lead to less injuries, better performance, longer life and better health for the dog.
do not overtrain your dog: learn and respect his limit, never force him to do something he is scared of, uncomfortable with. Always bear in mind that doing a bit less than your dog could, will cause no damage, while doing only a little bit more, might cause serious injuries, that might take very long to heal. Also, as said before, train your dog for many different activities, not only sled dog

