 SSA will send you a notice telling you why you have been denied benefits. You should read this notice closely.You’ll need to respond directly to SSA’s reasons for denying you.


If you can’t find your notice, contact SSA. Ask that a copy be sent to you.;
, SSA should give you instructions in your denial notice for how to appeal. You must follow all instructions, so read them carefully. Note deadlines and what forms you must complete.Your appeal will be denied if you don’t follow instructions.
 SSA might have used wrong information to evaluate your claim. For example, they might have wrong information about your age, educational level, or work experience. Go over your notice to find errors.
 Your denial notice should identify what medical information SSA relied on when deciding to deny you coverage. Now is the time to supplement your record with additional information.


For example, you might have had new tests taken which show the extent of your disability. You should get copies of the test results to share with SSA.
Also gather updated medical records. Submit the most recent ones, not old ones.You might need to pay your doctor to cover the costs of the copying.
Review the medical records to see that they are complete. Medical records should contain sufficient detail. Often, doctors don’t record complaints about pain or other important information. Speak to your doctor if you think the records don't accurately explain your symptoms.
 Ask your doctor if they will support your disability claim and if they will write a letter in support. The letter should identify the extent of your limitations and explain you cannot work because of them.Ideally, your doctor should fill out SSA’s assessment form. You can get the RFC form by calling your local Social Security office and asking for it.If your doctor won’t support you, try to find a different doctor who will. It's much harder to obtain benefits without a doctor's support.
 You’ll be unlikely to win your appeal if you are no longer seeing your doctor. Typically, you should see your doctor at least once every two months.You might have lost your health insurance when you stopped working. In that situation, try to find a free clinic or a county health department to visit.
 Make sure your letter is readable. You should print it instead of handwriting it. Go to your local library if you don’t have a computer or word processor. When formatting your let, set one inch margins and choose Times New Roman 12 point as your font.


At the top of the letter, include your name and your claim number. Your claim number may be the same as your Social Security Number., In the first paragraph, write that you are appealing your denial of Social Security disability benefits. Also explain whether you have provided additional supporting documentation. You want the reader to know immediately the letter’s purpose.


For example, you can write: “I am writing to appeal my denial of Social Security disability benefits. I have included additional information about my arthritis and have attached medical records from my treating physician.”

, Give enough background so that SSA understands how your symptoms developed and have worsened over time. Also correct any inaccuracies SSA made when summarizing your condition.You don’t have to write a lot, but one or two paragraphs should be sufficient.


For example, you can write, “My arthritis began four years ago, in May 2013. I continued working as a secretary and received initial treatments from my doctor. However, the pain and swelling increased to the point that I had to leave my job in April 2015. At that point, I found it difficult to dress myself and manipulate small objects, like buttons or zippers. Because work is important to me, I took a job as a greeter at a local department store, but by June 2016 the stiffness in my joints had spread to my knees and feet. I am unable to stand for long periods of time as a result.”

, Include a paragraph explaining how your disability prevents you from working any job—not just your old job. SSA might have determined that your experience and education qualify you for other work, and they will deny your application for benefits on those grounds.For example, a concert violinist with arthritis might be denied benefits if they can do other work.
 Explain generally what you have included and why it is relevant. Point out whether this is new information that SSA did not consider when reviewing your claim.For example, you might write, “I have enclosed updated medical records from my doctor which support my claim. These show that my condition has worsened since I first applied. My treating physician has also written a letter explaining my swelling and pain, and how my advanced arthritis has limited my movement. Since you did not have this information when you denied me, I thought it would be helpful.”

, In the final paragraph, ask SSA to reconsider your claim. Type “Sincerely” and then your name. Underneath your name, include your contact information, such as your telephone number and address.
 SSA will give you forms to fill out. There will be a few lines for you to explain why you should win your appeal. You should write, “see attached page” on these lines.Generally, you’ll fill out the following forms:


Disability Report of Appeals
Request for Reconsideration (Form SSA-561)

, You want to keep a copy of your letter and all forms you submit. Gather everything in an envelope and mail it to the office address provided to you. If you want, you can mail it certified mail, return receipt requested.


You can also call one or two weeks after you submitted your appeal to see if it was received., You have a right to several appeals. If you’re initially denied, then you must appeal to an administrative law judge. You should hire a lawyer at this stage. About 80% of all claimants have a lawyer, and you’ll increase your chances of success.


Contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral to a Social Security attorney.Call them up and schedule a consultation.
SSD lawyers are paid on contingency, which means you don’t pay them unless they win your case. If you win, then the attorney will get 25% of any past-due benefits up to $6,000.