 Llamas are natural foragers that will get most of their nutritional needs met in your pasture. Compared to horses and cattle, llamas are exceptionally efficient eaters and can thrive in a number of pasture types. However, because they are such efficient eaters, they have a tendency to get fat when exposed to particularly healthy pasture land. Score your llama regularly to make sure that it is meeting its nutritional needs through foraging.Llamas need a diet that is 10-12 percent protein, so be sure to have your grass and hay tested to make sure you are meeting its needs.
Try to avoid feeding your llama grain. Llamas are susceptible to choking on it and can easily get fat from grain., If you live somewhere that has poor quality pasture land or gets regular snow fall, you will want to feed your llama grass hay. Ideally, you should feed your animal orchard grass. You can also feed them alfalfa, but it should never constitute more than 20 percent of its diet. Too much alfalfa can cause a mineral imbalance.You should avoid feeding your llama straw, clover and timothy.
Although it might be a little more costly in the short-term, good quality hay will keep your animal healthy and prevent expensive trips to the veterinarian.
 If you have poor pasture land or have to feed your llama hay in the winter, you will likely have to provide a mineral supplement. The best way to do this is to fill a feeder half-full of a commercial llama mineral and place it in the pasture. The llamas will eat the minerals if they need them. You can buy these supplements online or through your local farm supply store.Minerals are particularly important for pregnant and lactating female llamas. Without minerals, the females can get sick and possibly die.
 You should provide your llama with a source of fresh drinking water. A stock tank with a freshwater source is ideal. This will need to be high enough to prevent the llamas from getting in the water, but not so high that they cannot drink out of it. If the temperature gets below freezing, you will want to consider purchasing a stock tank heater to prevent ice from forming.Do not let your llamas have access to a stream, pond or other water source that they can get in. Llamas love water and will lounge around in it on warmer days. Unfortunately, this can ruin its fleece and result in fungal and bacterial infections on its skin.