 Even if you tend to work better apart from a group, there are still ways for you to volunteer your time and skills. Before looking for volunteer opportunities, decide how much you would like to interact with others while volunteering. This will determine what sort of volunteer opportunities you should pursue.


If you like groups, you can join one of the efforts through your local United Way or even through your school. If you work better on your own, you can try things like making some fundraising phone calls for a charity, or volunteering for a crisis helpline from home.
 If you are not currently working and you're willing to take on 20 to 30 volunteer hours per week, you might have more opportunities than if you can donate only an hour or 2 every month. On the other hand, if you want something to do just once, or a few times a month, there are still plenty of ways to get involved.If you are a student, make sure you take your own personal obligations into consideration when determining what kind of time you can commit to volunteer work. Try to avoid overcommitting yourself, and then having to back out of things last minute.
 Think about what you have to offer, both practically and emotionally. By determining what skills you would like to put to use, you can narrow down volunteer opportunities to the ones that would best fit you.Don’t focus strictly on “practical” skills you might have, such as your specializations or education. Think about what else you have to offer, including patience, compassion, an ear for listening, a sense of humor, working out problems, and even things like arts and crafts.
Finding a volunteer opportunity that matches your specific skills will help you and your community get more from the work you do.
 If there is a specific cause you are interested in, look for opportunities in that field. For example, you might love the arts or animals or helping elderly people or children with disabilities. Maybe you want to volunteer with an organization that has something to do with your college major, or with a cause you have experience with already.
 Just like volunteer work can help your community, it can help you as well. The act of volunteering is emotionally rewarding, and can also help you build a strong resume or curriculum vitae when applying to college or graduate school.Volunteering is a great way to get a better look at a specific field or organization. You can learn a lot in the process, so you can use volunteering as a way to help you get a better understanding of a certain career path.
Everyone can benefit from the feeling of their skills, time, and personal qualities being valued and needed by others. Volunteering can offer a sense of personal accomplishment and value.

