


Leaving objects on the lab bench can get in the way or be a safety hazard. Paper left on the bench can catch fire if a Bunsen Burner is knocked over.;
,

Use a liquid disinfectant meant for hard surfaces, containing bleach or ethanol.
,

This allows the disinfectant more time to kill microbes and prevents re-contamination from a towel or wash cloth.



Long hair can not only impede your work, but can also become dangerous around an open flame.



Do not wear safety glasses because they do not cover your eyes completely and keep you safe from splashing.



Use soap and wash halfway up your forearm. This reduces the chance of contaminating your culture with bacterium from your skin.



If you are allergic to latex, use vinyl or nitrile gloves to prevent a reaction.
Gloves that are too tight are at risk of tearing and exposing you to the microbe.
Wear the gloves pulled up over your sleeves to prevent them from dragging in cultures or slides.



Use powder cleaner (like Comet) and wash the slides in a sink with warm water to remove anything remaining from previous uses.
,


This is Ethanol Sterilization.
Make sure to let the ethanol burn off completely before setting the slide down or returning the forceps to the ethanol, or risk setting a fire.



This is Aseptic Technique.
Hold the tip and stem of the inoculation loop in the flame of the Bunsen Burner for at least 10 seconds, allowing the metal to turn a bright orange.
Allow the loop to cool before using, or risk killing the bacteria in your culture, aerosolizing the bacteria, or burning hands/equipment.


This heats the air in and around the opening of the test tube, causing it and any bacteria in the air to rise and prevent contamination of the culture.



This kills any bacteria remaining on the inoculation loop and makes it sterile and ready for the next culture or storage.
,


Rinse the slide into the sink and down the drain if using safe bacteria.
Clean with water and powder cleaner (like Comet).



Always carry all test tubes in a test tube rack to reduce the chance of dropping and breaking them, contaminating the lab.


Once again use liquid disinfectant and disposable sponges to clean the work space. Allow to air dry.


Remove your latex gloves properly. Avoid touching the outside of the glove with your bare hand.
Pull your right glove off by grabbing the outside of the glove near your wrist and pulling the glove inside out to your fingertips and off.






Hold your right glove in your gloved left hand and insert two fingers on your right hand into the inside of the left-hand glove near your wrist, avoiding touching the outside of the glove.











Pull the left glove inside out and off of your hand, leaving your right glove inside of it.






Throw both gloves away in the biohazard bin, being careful to only touch the inside of the gloves.
,