 You may want to do this step with the boat out of the water. The shrink wrap will need to cover the entire top of the boat, including extra height for windshields and other protrusions down to an area on the hull below the rub rail. After you have determined the measurements for your boat, contact a shrink wrap manufacturer or boating supply store to purchase the amount of wrap you need and a heat gun if necessary.;
, You should plan to shrink wrap the boat in a well-ventilated area because of the chemicals that will be released during the shrink wrapping process. If you must install shrink wrap outside, try to do so on a clear, windless day to minimize the chances the shrink wrap will stick to itself before it is attached to the boat.


Tape over all fuel vents. Because you will use heat in the following steps, you need to be sure that there is no chance of fuel vapors reaching the heat source and exploding.
Pad any sharp areas. Sharp pieces sticking up, such as windshield corners, antennas, or ski pylons, could cause the shrink wrap to tear and prevent a good seal. You know your boat best, so be sure to cover any protruding areas with padding before beginning the shrink wrapping process.
 Keep the wrap folded in the box until you are ready to use it. Be sure to keep the wrap off the ground. Try to use 1 piece of wrap to cover the entire boat. If you must use 2 pieces, you will need to join them together with shrink wrap tape and heat, which will take extra time.
 Belly bands are straps that wrap around the boat, keeping the shrink wrap film tight. This allows for a tighter seal when the shrink wrap process is complete.



Begin at the bottom on 1 end of the boat. Moving the heat gun in a similar motion to spray painting, move up and down from the bottom of the shrink wrap to the rub rail, and work from 1 end of the boat to the other.
Repeat this process on the other side of the boat.
Heat the wrap on the top of the boat. Be especially careful around corners and on any objects that protrude because of a higher risk of tearing in these areas.
 Chances are, you may burn a few holes in the shrink wrap. Repair any holes with shrink wrap tape, following the instructions for your brand.
 Shrink wrap is flammable. You should keep a close eye on your boat until the finished project has returned to the ambient temperature and be prepared to put out a fire in the unlikely event that one occurs.
 Most shrink wrap manufacturers offer zippered doors that you can install after the shrink wrapping process is complete. These doors allow you access to the boat while maintaining a shrink wrapped seal.

