 If you love him, you have probably shared your feelings and other personal information with him before. What settings worked best when you communicated this information. Was it over the phone or a text message? Was it during a romantic date night? Do you two prefer to have more casual, natural conversations?There is no right or wrong way to tell him that you love him.
You are less likely to scare him if you use a method that he is receptive to.
 If you are nervous about talking to him in person, consider giving him a card or a letter that expresses how you feel. This will also give him time to digest what you have said and think about his feelings for you. If you are nervous about telling him or worried that you may clam up during the conversation, this is a good way to tell him.


A card is really helpful if you do not know what to say. You can even choose a more humorous card to keep it light and still get your point across.
You could also find a poem or song that says what you would like to say and rewrite it in your handwriting.
 Telling him face-to-face is the most romantic, yet nerve-racking way. Verbally expressing your true feelings forces you to be vulnerable. Your man may even be more attracted to you when you show him who you really are and how you really feel.If you go this route, practice saying "I love you" out loud and in front of a mirror.
You could also make a video that tells him how you feel. You can make sure that you tell him everything that you want to say without getting too nervous. If you mess up, you can always make another video.
 Love is more than a feeling. Your words and actions should match. Before you tell him that you love, your actions should already be saying that you do.


Do something nice like cook him is favorite meal or surprise him with tickets to a movie that he wanted to see.
Be present during good and bad times. While it’s easy to be supportive during happy times, you can really show your love when he’s down in the dumps. Whether he’s had a bad day at work or is dealing with a family health crisis, be his rock and show him you are on his side 24/7.
Support his passions and dreams. From going for a master’s degree to his love of mountain climbing, be his cheerleader. Research his hobbies or goals and bring additional insight to the table.

