 Kannada's alphabet is derived from Kadamba and Cālukya scripts that, over centuries, morphed in Kannada and Telugu scripts. These scripts were formalized and translated into English script forms in the 19th century.Here is a chart of Kannada vowels and their pronunciation.
ಅ a KANNADA LETTER A
ಆ ā KANNADA LETTER AA
ಇ e KANNADA LETTER E
ಈ e KANNADA LETTER EE
ಉ u KANNADA LETTER U
ಊ ū KANNADA LETTER UU
ಋ r̥ KANNADA LETTER VOCALIC Ru
ೠ r̥̄ KANNADA LETTER VOCALIC RR
ಎ i KANNADA LETTER e
ಏ ii KANNADA LETTER AE
ಐ ai KANNADA LETTER AI
ಒ o KANNADA LETTER O
ಓ ō KANNADA LETTER OO
ಔ au KANNADA LETTER AUCanarese consonants come in two forms, structured and unstructured. Structured consonants are categorized by where the tongue touches the palate. These come in five categories. They are:
Velars ಕ (ka) ಖ (kha) ಗ (ga) ಘ (gha) ಙ (nga)
Palatals ಚ (cha) ಛ (chha) ಜ (ja) ಝ (jha) ಞ (nya)
Retroflex ಟ (tta) ಠ (ttha) ಡ (dda) ಢ (ddha) ಣ (nna)
Dentals ತ (ta) ಥ (tha) ದ (da) ಧ (dha) ನ (na)
Labials ಪ (pa) ಫ (pha) ಬ (ba) ಭ (bha) ಮ (ma) The unstructured consonants are: ಯ (ya), ರ (ra), ಲ (la), ವ (va), ಶ (sha), ಷ (ssa), ಸ (sa), ಹ (ha), ಳ (lla)Kannada also includes two letters which are part consonant and part vowel, called "yogavaahaka". They are the anusvara: ಅಂ (am) and the visarga: ಅಃ (ah), The Kannada language has a numbering system that stretches from 0 to 1 million.Below is a sample of Kannada numbers from 0 to 9.
೦ sonne 0 Zero
೧ ondu 1 One
೨ eraḍu 2 Two
೩ mūru 3 Three
೪ nālku 4 Four
೫ aidu 5 Five
೬ āru 6 Six
೭ ēḷu 7 Seven
೮ enṭu 8 Eight
೯ oṃbattu 9 Nine, The Kannada language is alphasyllabary, which means all the consonants have an inherent vowel sound in them. Just like English, Canarese moves from left to right horizontally. When consonants appear together without a vowel in between, the second consonant is written as a special conjunt symbol, usually below the first.When Kannada is written using English language characters, you will sometimes find that vowels in the middle of words are capitalized to represent the long vowel sound. However, this convention is not uniformly practiced., Understanding basic pronouns is essential to speaking or comprehending languages. Below is a list of Kannada pronouns.


I - naanu
you - neenu
he - avanu
she - avalu
we - naavu
they -avvaru
me - nanna, nannage
you - ninna, nimage
him - avana, avanige
her - avala,avalige
us - namma
them - avarige
my - namma
your - ninna
his - avana
her - avala
our - namma
their - avara
mine - nanna
yours - nimma
his - avana
hers - avala
ours - namma
theirs - avara, The pronunciation of certain Kannada words can be difficult for English speakers, as there are some sounds in Canarese for which English has no equivalent. Nevertheless, the pronunciation guide below should be useful in grasping the basics of pronouncing Kannada words.


Ane (here A is as in Ball). In contrast, in aDike a is short as in "aristocrat".
mEle (here E is as in Baby).
prIti (here I is as in Meeting)
hOda (here O is as in roam)
pUjari (here U is as in fool)
The consonants which are capitalized are:
aDike (the D is as in "Dog"); lower case d is soft).
koTru (here T is as in "Tom"); lower case is soft.
chELige (here L is a sound with no equivalence in English; lower case is as in "lamb")
kaNNu (here N is nasal; lower case is as in "no")

, All Kannada nouns have genders. There are three categories of gender applied to nouns in Kannada. They are masculine, feminine, and neuter. This can be tricky for English speakers, as English nouns are not gendered, and elements of Kannada religion and cosmology play a role in the gendering of nouns., Kannada, unlike western languages, does not have infinitive forms for its verbs. Rather, they take the form of "singular, nonpolite imperatives."In most cases, unconjugated verbs take the form of verb stems.Because of this, when looking at a Kannada language dictionary, you will find verbs by their verb stem rather than in a constructed, infinitive form. For example, see the conjugation of "to walk" in Kanadda below.
to walk - naḍeyalu
I walk - nānu naḍeyuttēne
you walk - nīvu naḍeyalu
he walks - avaru paricayisuttade
she walks - avaḷu naḍedu
it walks - idu paricayisuttade
they walk - avaru naḍedu
we walk - nāvu naḍeyaluNotice that all of the conjugated forms maintain the root "ade" somewhere in the word.

