 What are their lives like? Where do they struggle? Are there any gifts that come with their disability? What do they feel are common misconceptions?


See if any people with disabilities would be open to being interviewed. There is no substitute for face-to-face time with real people.
If you are polite and clear, many disabled people are willing to offer advice and answer questions. Try asking questions via social media.
Remember that disabled people are diverse. No two people are exactly alike (whether it's two blind people or two people with Down Syndrome).Symptoms can vary between individuals.
 Every person is a unique individual, with interests, strengths, and flaws, if they have a disability or not. Although a disability is a character train, a disability is not a defining character trait.It will influence their life, but their personality (likes, dislikes, relationships, skills) is far more important. Spend plenty of time developing them as a person.


Avoid the mystical disability stereotype. This is the idea that people with some sort of physical difference will always have something bordering superpowers. Examples include autistic people having superior mathematical powers, like in the movie "Rainman", or the idea that blind people have enhanced sensory ability. Most disabled people are quite ordinary: they wake up, eat breakfast, go to work, and live fairly average lives. Portraying disabled people as "beautiful tragedies" ignores the fact that in fact, most people with disabilities are not any more or less tragic or beautiful than anyone else. , Some writers make the mistake of portraying people with cognitive disabilities as "irrational" or "mysterious" beings whose thoughts and behavior make no sense. The reality is that everyone has a reason for what they do, and the clarity of disabled people's thoughts is often underestimated. The way of thinking may be very different than others, but if observed closely, there are logical reasons behind every behavior. If your disabled character isn't the main character, that's fine. You can still attribute thoughts to them, and have the main character recognize what's going on in their head. (For example, "Lucy visibly relaxed as soon as the Christmas music came on. She loved happy song lyrics, so I kept a playlist of songs with good messages."), People with disabilities come in all shapes, colors, backgrounds, socio-economic levels, and so on. Readers have been calling for diversity,and an easy way to satisfy that need is to write more than one deviation from the privileged "norm" at a time. Try writing a black woman with cerebral palsy, a chubby boy with Down Syndrome, or a blind lesbian.
 This may require medication, therapy, and/or lifestyle adjustments.It may take years of hard work. Recovery is not a straight line, and there will be good days, bad days, and relapses.


Mental illnesses such as depression and psychosis are sometimes possible to recover from completely, with enough time and effort. This often involves a combination of pills and therapy, along with a loving and supportive environment.
Some conditions and illnesses have no cures. In this case, the individual's best outcome is to manage their symptoms and understand their limitations better.
Some disabilities, such as deafness and autism, are not "illnesses" but simply conditions.
 Many parents of disabled children, and disabled adults, have to fight for necessary accommodations.Faking a disability for accommodations would actually take a ton of energy. (The idea of fakers also makes it more difficult for real disabled people to get the help they need.), Admitting that you have a problem and need help (especially involving medication) is a very difficult task. Many disabled people struggle with the idea that it's "all in their head."You can help people with disabilities by showing that it's okay, or even heroic, to ask for help. This can help them have the courage to do this in real life.


Stay far away from stereotype that mental illness medications are for the weak.These medications may be the only way to have a decent or functional life.
For some people, a diagnosis and the subsequent accommodations are an enormous relief.It also affirms that it isn't a moral fault or "not trying hard enough."
Show disabled characters asking for help, and non-disabled characters asking the disabled character what they need.This can encourage the idea of people with disabilities asking for and receiving help when they need it.
 People with disabilities (especially teens) may feel insecure about being different and not "passing" as non-disabled.If disability is a significant part of the story, then this may be an interesting dynamic.


Some people with disabilities are very nervous about others knowing they are disabled. Others choose not to care what others think of them, and spend less energy on blending in.
Some people can "pass" as non-disabled, while others cannot.
 Almost all disabled people experience mistreatment related to their disability (including before they are diagnosed). Many have difficult childhoods, and get treated differently from their peers.Whether they experience constant ableism or are mostly shielded from it, it will affect them, their coping skills, their ability to ask for help and trust others, and how they handle conflict. Consider your character's past and how it has shaped them. They may have dealt with...


Bullying, being left out (few or no friends, very little media representation)
Being talked down to, or talked about as if they weren't there
Trying and failing to perform to non-disabled standards; seeing adults' disappointment
False "helpers" who don't listen and get discouraged or angry when the disabled person fails to stop being disabledAbusive therapies meant to "cure" deafness or autism symptoms
MoreThis depends on the severity of the disability, the quality of the community, how charismatic the disabled person can act, the family, and other factors.

