 Keeping your hands and nails moisturized may also help to protect your nails from breaking.Try to apply lotion after you wash your hands as well as any time they feel a little dry.Keep a bottle of hand lotion with you at all times, such as in your purse or on your desk.
 Nail polish remover can damage your nails and make them more prone to breaking. To keep your nails healthy and strong, try switching to a conditioning, acetone-free nail polish remover.








It is also a good idea to limit how often you use nail polish remover. Use nail polish remover no more than once per week to help prevent damage to your nails., It is common practice to clip cuticles. However, clipping your cuticles can put you at risk of developing an infection in your fingernails. To keep your nails healthy, avoid clipping your cuticles.








Try soaking your fingertips in warm water for about five minutes and then use an orange tipped cuticle pusher to gently push back your cuticles. This will help to make your nail beds look more attractive while also protecting your nails.
You can also apply a cuticle cream to help keep your nails healthy.
 Biting your nails can also introduce infection causing bacteria into the nail bed, so it is important to do what you can to quit biting your nails.Some things you can do to stop biting your nails include:Applying a bitter tasting nail polish.
Keeping your nails trimmed down.
Finding something else to do with your hands, such as knitting or playing with a stress ball.
Getting a manicure once per month.
 Constantly wearing nail polish or acrylic nails can weaken your natural nails and make them more prone to breaking. To keep your nails healthy, try to let them breathe for at least a few days once every two to three months.








While you are letting your nails breathe, try applying a rich moisturizer to your hands and nails often to keep them looking healthy and glossy. It will also help to restore some of the moisture that your nails have lost from wearing nail polish., If your nails are constantly splitting and breaking no matter what you do, then it might be necessary to see a dermatologist. You may have an underlying problem that is causing this to happen. A dermatologist may be able to identify and treat the problem.

