 Think about the way they were formed, if they rose from a volcanic plane from underneath the ocean or broke off from an immense pangea. You can be as detailed as you want to be when it comes to this.
 You can include forests, mountains, rivers, lakes, and more. Remember to consider the geological history of the land.

An ice age would cause glaciers that carve U-shaped valleys into the land and tectonic faults would cause mountain ranges like the Andes or fold mountains like the Alps, depending on how they form and how they differ in composition. This can help when distributing resources.
Remember, you can be as detailed as you want to be when it comes to this.
 This piece of paper will list your civilization's statistics, such as resources and troops.

Below your civilization's name write 4 populations, 4 tools.
Write capabilities below that.
Write down hut building, basic tool building, and basic organization under that.
 Include 4 stick figures and 4 tools., Each turn you receive a number of actions equal to how many action makers you have. For example: An extremely advanced civilization has 30 people and 10 working machines that produce weapons (so an overall total of 40 actions, 10 which must be used to craft weapons). After all actions are spent, your turn is over. Note that actions can't be saved. Actions are divided into the following types:

Search - it can be used to find things that are natural. Use the search table for each action spent searching.
Harvest - this can be used to gather material and/or resources. Use the harvest table for each action spent searching.
Build/repair - this action can be used to build anything. (Note: You must have met all requirements, including the materials needed, and knowing how to build/use the "what's being built.") Repair and heal anything damaged. Use the build table for each action spent building something. Use the repair/heal table for each action spent repairing/healing something.
Conflict - this is used for all kinds of conflict. Roll on the conflict table for each action spent on conflict.
Population boost - roll on the population table for each action spent boosting population.
Capability boost - it is used to increase a civilization's capability. Roll on the capability for each action spent boosting a civilization's capability (roll 1d6 for each action spent).

3 action attempt successful
6 action failed
Other action table



,

3 found 1d6 of aspect searched for
6 aspect not found

, For example, you need axes to cut down trees. Roll 1d6 for each action spent harvesting.

2 greatly harvested: Gain 2d6 of aspect harvested
4 aspect harvested: Gain 1d6 of aspect harvested
6 aspect not harvested

, After an aspect is built, the materials are reduced (example: after a stone house is built, the amount of stone used is gone). Roll 1d6 for each action spent building for the build table.

2 aspect completely built
4 aspect nearly complete: Will be completely finished next turn
6 aspect not built

, For example, a soldier is wounded and a medic spends his action healing him, who has a medical kit and has medical capability. Roll 1d6 for each action spent repairing and healing.

2 aspect completely healed/repaired
4 aspect nearly completely healed/repaired will be completely repaired/healed nearly healed/repaired next turn
6 aspect not repaired or healed at all

,

2 opponent soundly beaten (select effects, such as being killed)
4 opponent beaten, but only wounded
6 opponent not beaten

,

2 population increased by 3d6
4 population increased by 2d6
Population increased by 1d6
Population not increased

, Capability increases what your civilization can do (E.G. A capability such as mining allows a civilisation to mine). Roll 1d6 for each action spent boosting a civilisation's capabilities.

2 capability completely learned: Can begin using it this turn
4 capability nearly learned: Can begin using it next turn
6 capability not learned

Once a capability is learned, it stays learned.
 Events roll after turn 10 (Roll 1d6).

2 peaceful events. (Roll on the peace table.)

Warfare event. (Roll on the warfare table.)
Disaster event. (Roll on the disaster table.)

6 no event.
 An example could be 3 traders make up a fair trade, and roll 1d6. On a result of 1-3 they take the deal, and on a 4-6 they don't.,

Prosperity: Gain 3d6+5 precious ores.
Huge population surge: Your population doubles.


2 barbarians:attacked by barbarians 1/4 your population size
4 enemy nation:attacked by an enemy warriors 1/2 your size
6 no event

,

Storm: Loose 10% of ships, 50% are damaged.
Earthquake: Loose 20% of buildings, 10% are damaged. Loose 1% of population.
Volcano: Loose 20% of buildings, and 1% of population.
Epidemic: Loose 50% of population, 1% remains sick.
6 no event.

