 Roleplay is acting as if you're in real life so you're going to need a character name such as Emilio_Carino.


Once you have your name, you'll need to determine where he/she is from, how old he/she is and how tall he/she is, also how much he/she weighs. This is extremely important for roleplay because you'll need to communicate with other people and you need to fit in the right group or you'll get hurt.;
, You're going to need to know the following terms: Metagaming, Powergaming, Bunnyhopping, Deathmatching, Revenge killing, In character, Out of Character. There are so much more but these are the main terms you must know. So, we'll start off with metagaming.


Metagaming is using out of character information, in character. So, let's say your friend is getting robbed and he private messages you where he's getting robbed and by who, so you come over and kill the robbers. This is metagaming as you didn't find this out in character.
Powergaming is forcing action upon another character without allowing them to roleplay back such as you punching your enemy and creating the emote with this; *Emilio Carino punches John Doe in the face, breaking his nose and knocking him out* This is powergaming and is not allowed. There is another type of powergaming which is doing things that are physically and mentally impossible such as *Emilio Carino picks up a garbage truck, throwing it over a tall building* This is impossible and considered powergaming.
Bunnyhopping is quite simple, bunnyhopping is pressing the jump button multiple times in a row to get somewhere quicker and abusing the system.
Deathmatching is killing someone for a horrible reason such as killing because he/she told you to f**k off.
Revenge killing is killing someone who has previously killed you within an hour or so and they haven't done anything. Once someone has killed you, it means that you cannot approach them again and kill them or have previous memories.
In Character is asking as if you were in real life.
Out of Character is PMs, and other things with the out of character brackets (( ))

