 Mix one cup of low-fat plain yogurt, one teaspoon of bacon fat, and three slices of cooked and crumbled bacon in a large mixing bowl. Pour the mixture into ice cube trays and freeze overnight. Serve frozen.The bacon ice cream will stay good for up to six months in your freezer.
Give your dog a cube of bacon ice cream after it has shown patience and fortitude by enduring visit to the vet or a nail trim.;
, A beefsicle gives your dog a healthy dose of meat and peas. To get started, mix one pound of ground beef, two cups of water, and one cup of peas in a blender. Blend on low, then increase the speed until the mixture is pureed. Stop the blender and pour another cup of water into it. Resume blending for another minute or two. Pour the mix into a 10-quart saucepan.The fat will be stuck to the inside the blender. Wipe it out with a napkin and discard. Add four cups of water to the saucepan. Boil the mix, then reduce heat to medium and cook for 30 minutes.
After the mixture has cooled, pour it into an ice cube tray. Freeze the mixture overnight. Remove the beefsicle cubes and store them in an airtight container.
The beefsicle cubes will remain edible for six months.
You can use fresh, frozen, or canned peas.
 Raw puppy pops are a meaty treat packed full of vitamin A, vitamin C, chelated minerals, fiber, and other nutrients. Combine one pound of raw ground turkey, lamb, or beef, ¼ cup of chopped parsley, and ¼ cup of alfalfa sprouts in a mixing bowl. Pull a bit of the meaty mix into a ping-pong sized ball and roll it in sesame seeds until the whole surface is covered.Continue rolling the mix into balls and covering them with sesame seeds. Place the meat balls on a cookie sheet.
Put the sheet in the freezer for a few hours until frozen. When they’re frozen, remove them from the sheet and place them in a resealable plastic bag. They will stay good for up to six months in the freezer.
Give one to your dog on a hot summer’s day.
 A raw dog treat is a yummy delight packed with fiber and protein. Mix one pound of ground sirloin, one egg, and two tablespoons of molasses in a mixing bowl. Pour one cup of chopped raw pumpkin seeds on a piece of parchment paper. Pull a bit of the meaty mix out of the bowl and roll it into a ping-pong sized ball.Roll the ball over the chopped pumpkin seeds until their surface is totally covered.
Place the balls on a cookie sheet lined with parchment paper and place the cookie sheet in the freezer overnight.
The next day, remove the balls from the sheet and place them in a resealable plastic bag.
They will stay good in the freezer for six months.
 A brothsicle will keep your dog hydrated on toasty summer days. Dump 12 cups of water and one pound of chicken meat into a slow cooker. Cook the chicken on a low setting for at least eight hours. Remove the bones and skin, if any are present, once the chicken has cooked. Shred any large pieces that remain with a knife.Stir the pot. Ladle spoonfuls of the mixture into plastic cups or an ice cube tray.
Scoop at least a few small pieces of chicken with each ladleful so every brothsicle has some chicken in it.
Freeze the ice cube tray or plastic cups overnight. Remove them and store in a resealable plastic bag. They will stay good in the freezer for six months.
 This cheesy treat is sure to please your dog. Just cut a block of hard cheddar cheese into eight one-centimeter (0.5 inch) cubes. Put the cheese cubes into eight separate 2.4 ounce kitchen containers. Pour chicken broth over the cheese until it covers the cheese, but don’t fill the containers up all the way. Seal the containers and freeze overnight.When your dog is ready to consume a cheesy broth treat, let the container thaw for several minutes, then remove the lid, turn the container upside down, and thwack it on the inside surface of a dog food bowl. The cheesy treat will come out and into the bowl.
Encourage your dog to eat the cheesy treat.
You could also place the cheese cubes into an ice cube tray instead of 2.4 ounce kitchen containers.

