 Even if you are depressed because you have no job or no friends, perhaps there are already a lot of things that you may have but fail to recognize, like a big house, a lovely dog, happy family, or a nice voice. Even if you feel that you have none of those, you can enjoy the fresh air that you breathe, the run that you take every day, or just the fact that you are alive.;
, For example, if you are unlucky, depressed, and unemployed, you can enjoy time with your best friends or your family, and have fun instead of pitying yourself. If you are all alone, spend your time studying things you love and not complain all the time. Life is short, just try to have a little fun.
 Try to breathe deeply,concentrate in your breath for 10 minutes a day-absolute silence,no phones ringing or kids shouting-.After two months you will feel deeper relaxation,less stress and more contentment (at least some hours in your day).But be persistent.
 TV tries to make money by making you depressed because you are not as beautiful and rich as the people displayed. The models on TV shows have nothing to do with reality. Be yourself, love yourself, and try to just keep yourself healthy (with healthy food and exercise) and happy with those you love (even if it's one person).
 Set achievable goals, think positive, and never, ever compare yourself to others--it can make you depressed very easily). Search the Internet, books, and people about a subject that you want to do, learn, or work. Be practical,don't lose your time just complaining.
 It makes you look miserable, and you don't know if the listeners actually care or even want to see you better. It feels good to speak but only to those who are real friends, not to everyone. Don't let people know so many things about your life. Look cool.
 Forget the past, life is changing constantly. Don't admire others so much, admire only those who have changed their lives alone.
 Go out and exercise in a park, run, and do some sit ups and push ups at home.You don't need gym memberships. Internet is full of information about exercises from fitness experts. Start easy, like 10 minutes a day, and gradually improve your level. If you have health issues, ask your doctor first, but try. Even if you are overweight, you can do it. It is never too late. No self pity! Its time to work!

