 Many shelters and rescue groups are in dire need of volunteers, and will provide training for you once they approve your application. To be sure that you meet the volunteering requirements of your local shelter or rescue organization before applying, call for information or visit their website to see if you fit the criteria. Volunteers can be in charge of many tasks, including walking dogs, teaching basic obedience, moving dogs in and out of their cages, cleaning, and meeting with potential adoptive owners.For instance, the Animal Humane Society, the leading animal welfare organization in the Upper Midwest, outlines on its website that it requires applicants to be at least 16 years old, willing to commit to a full year of volunteering (at least once every other week), and be able to lift up to 20 lbs.;
, Making a monetary donation to a dog shelter or rescue group, which run on donations for the most part, is the most straightforward and simple way to help dogs in need. As a general rule, most organizations accept donations by mail, in person, or online via credit card. Donations are usually tax deductible, and can be made on a monthly basis in many cases.For example, the Humane Society of the United States allows you to make a one-time donation, or set up a monthly donation of a certain amount on their website via credit card or PayPal. The Human Society also accepts donations made in memory of pets or persons., In addition to monetary donations, shelters and animal rescue groups can benefit greatly from the donation of different items to help care for their dogs. Such items could include food, blankets, dog beds, dog toys, treats, collars, leashes, grooming products, laundry detergent, and towels. Call your local shelter or rescue group beforehand to make sure that they will accept all of the items you have to donate, and ask when during business hours you should bring your donation.Some rescue groups, like the San Diego Humane Society, allow you to make donations of specific gifts on shelters’ Amazon.com wish lists. This can be done from your home and shipped directly to the shelter or center in question., If you are interested in raising money for the shelter or rescue group you are supporting, inquire about hosting a third party fundraising event. Whether you want to undertake the fundraiser on your own or collaborate with a local business, call or visit the organization’s website for more information (the Humane Society of Huron Valley in Ann Arbor, MI, for instance, has a fundraising questionnaire on their website to be completed online or printed and mailed). Some good ideas for community fundraising events may include:Bake sales
Car washes
Fundraising walks or races
Golf tournaments

, Shelter and rescue groups, especially small ones, require transport of dogs to veterinary appointments, adoption events, and adoptive homes. Beyond that, hundreds of dogs are transported around the country every week from high kill shelters to no kill organizations. Look online for groups and shelters in your area that require transport volunteers.


The Reach Out Rescue and Resources organization in Maryland, for example, has an application form for drivers on their website, and rely on these volunteers to help dogs who are travelling anywhere from a few hundred miles to as much as 1000 miles, broken down into legs of 50-75 miles.