 No one has ever found a significant other by sitting quietly in his or her room all day. To find a romantic, partner, you'll need to venture out into the world around you, which means going out and doing things where you're likely to meet people you don't already know. You don't have to do this on your own — if you can convince your friends to tag along, you'll have someone to talk to even if you don't meet anyone new.


There are literally countless things you can do to meet people. Some of these are obvious (like going out to bars, social clubs, parties, and so on), while others aren't. For instance, hosting a book club or a rock-climbing outing and inviting your friends to bring their friends can be a great way to meet new people. Be creative! Anything you do that involves other people can be a way to meet someone.
This really can't be stated enough — the only way to meet people is to go out and do things where you're likely to interact with other people. If you're not having luck meeting people in the places and situations you're used to, keep trying new places and activities until you do start running into new people.
 When it comes to getting dates, being decisive and spontaneous is usually a big strength. Almost everyone gets a little nervous when faced with the prospect of talking to someone they have a crush on. However, one of the keys to success in dating is to act quickly and decisively. If you feel an attraction for someone in the room, approach this person and start talking right away! This shows a great degree of confidence, which, to many people, is quite attractive.


Don't hang back and waste time worrying about how to approach perfectly. You may not always find success by approaching without hesitation, but you will have more successes than you would otherwise. In addition, even in cases where things don't go the way you want them to, you'll meet more people this way.
 If you've just met someone and you feel the first twinges of attraction, don't let this person get away! Instead, make it known that you want to see this person again in the future. In 99.9% of cases, the absolute worst case scenario is that you'll get a "no thanks." However, if you never get around to asking, there's a 100% chance you'll regret it!


At this point, you don't have to put the invitation to hang out in a romantic context. Simply saying something like, "Hey, you should come with us the next time we go bowling," is a low-pressure way to extend the offer to hang out in the future. If the person you're talking to is interested, she'll usually either do one of two things: accept, or decline but give an excuse and say that she'd enjoy hanging out some other time.
 This is a big one — nothing kills romantic chemistry like appearing too clingy, too soon. Never be the person who can't take "no" for an answer. If someone doesn't want to talk to you or hang out with you, that's fine — this person is a human with the freedom to choose, just like you. Simply change the topic of conversation or walk away guilt-free! Don't try to win a person's affection after you've been rejected. This never works and it's usually embarrassing for both parties.


To avoid getting crushed by rejection, try to avoid investing your self emotionally in crushes that you haven't followed through on yet. This way, if you get a "no," it's not a big deal. You have other options.
 Don't obsesses over your looks before you go somewhere where you're likely to meet people. While you'll definitely want to pay attention to the basics of personal hygiene, and grooming, the rest is usually up to you in casual social situations. Try to dress in ways that you think look good and that make you feel confident. If you think the person in the mirror looks smooth, chic, and/or debonair, it'll be easier to approach upcoming romantic opportunities with the confidence needed to succeed.


The big exception here is for formal and semi-formal situations. Certain places and events (like weddings, fancy restaurants, etc.) demand a certain level of formality in your dress. In these situations, showing up in an overly casual outfit can indicate a lack of respect, so, if you're unsure, contact a staff member at the place you're going ahead of time to see whether there's a dress code.
 For the most part, people are fairly good at telling when they're being lied to. Because of this, you won't want to try to "fake" any sort of interactions you have with people you're romantically interested in. Being genuine is always your best bet. Don't be the kind of person who overwhelms someone with flowery, fake-y compliments or puts on a cocky or arrogant persona when you're trying to pursue romantic opportunities. Eventually, you'll have to let your guard down around this person, so it's best to be yourself from the beginning to ensure this person isn't rudely awoken to your true personality.


On top of this, it's also disrespectful to approach someone romantically without being honest with them. Ask yourself, "Would I be flattered or embarrassed if someone lied to me just to get closer to me?"

, If you've been hanging out with someone to the point that you've begun to feel a strong attraction, you'll probably want to ask this person on a date without waiting too long, or you risk sending the message that you're not interested. There's no need to be showy when you ask someone out. However, you will want to have some sort of plan in mind. This accomplishes several things: it shows you've put some thought into your decision, it shows confidence, and it shows that you have good ideas about how to have fun. Asking someone out without having any specific activities in mind can be a little awkward — avoid this by making plans beforehand. Below are just a few ideas for great first dates:


Go hiking in a scenic location (or try geocaching!)
Create an art project together (e.g. paint, make pottery, etc.)
Pick fruit in the wilderness or in an orchard
Go to the beach
Play a competitive sport (if you're feeling risky, try something like paintball)
Don't go to a traditional movie theater (these are great down the road, but for your first date, you want to do something where you can talk to the other person). Instead, try a drive-in or watch something at home.

