 As a parent, there's no better way to send a message than by actually practicing what you preach. Your kids will respect your authority much more when you limit your own screen time. Don't go overboard with media and technology so that your kids appreciate these sources of entertainment in moderation.


It may be nice to set a family rule of a certain time period when everyone can use technology for entertainment purposes. Otherwise, you should try to have fun as a family with other forms of entertainment like books, puzzles, and board games.
Don't get caught by your kid pouring over your Facebook or Twitter feeds during breakfast. And, don't binge-watch an entire television series on a weekend either. Using technology in a healthy way will trickle down and influence your children's choices.Keep in mind that since you are the one who can provide your child with access to technology, such as a tablet, you can also control how much they get to use it.
Be sure to avoid giving your child a tablet or other electronic device as a way to get them out of your hair.
Consider your child’s age as well. The younger you allow your child to use technology, the more dependent on it they will be.;
, Of course, today even education has become integrated with technology. Set some clear guidelines with your children about which types of media are approved outside of the typical screen-time window.


This might include using the computer for school research, logging onto a math application to build better division skills, or watching a movie for a report. Plus, reading on Kindles and tables should be acceptable, also., Ask your children how much “screen time” they think is appropriate. You can then work together to come up with an acceptable time. By giving them input as to how long they are able to play, you may stop them from wanting to play all of the time.


Setting strict limits and forbidding them to play during certain times may cause them to want to play more. But by allowing them to do so in moderation, you may stop the temptation to play because it is forbidden.However, you may want to be flexible sometimes and allow more screen-time. For example, if you're going on a long family vacation, it may be a lifesaver to have sources of entertainment to bring with you in the car.
 Electronics shouldn’t be the only part of your child’s life. Give them other activities to engage in. When they have other options besides just electronics, it’s not a big deal when they aren’t able to use them.


For instance, enroll them in sports, clubs, or music lessons. Giving them opportunities for other activities makes them realize that everything is best when done in moderation.
 If you use technology as a "treat" kids will automatically view it more positively, and want it more often. When your kids do well in academics or extracurriculars, find healthy ways to recognize their good work. Try making that particular child's favorite dish for dinner or going on a family outing to the park instead.
 Experts suggest that screen time exceeding three hours a day can affect a child’s mental well-being. Spending all this time playing video games or looking on the internet can cause them to miss out on educational and social activities. It may also expose them to violence or situations that are inappropriate for them, thus causing negative behavioral effects.


Contrarily, children who play for less than an hour a day are typically happier than children who don’t engage in electronics at all. Pointing this out just solidifies how moderation is best.However, keep in mind that your child might not understand this concept. Try providing them with experiences so that they will have something for comparison, such as going on a technology-free camping trip or doing something else together that does not involve electronics, like miniature golfing or hiking.

