 Some people need more time than others before they are ready to have sex. Some see sex as a physical commitment while others see it as an emotional one. If your partner is unsure if they are ready to make either one of those commitments, they are not ready for sex. The surest way to know if you are ready to have sex is to make sure your brain, heart, and sexual organs are in unison and not out of order.Make sure to have a mature conversation about protection, birth control, disease, exclusivity, and sexual history. If you find that your partner does not take it seriously or is not mature enough to have an adult discussion, it is probably better to take more time.
Be cognizant that most people will have a sexual history or at least have been in an intimate relationship before you. If you partner was in an abusive, hurtful, or even unsuccessful past relationship, it could influence whether they are ready for sex with you.
If your partner is not ready to deal with the emotional and physical consequences of pregnancy or transmitted infections, then it is safer to practice abstinence at the present time.
 If you feel your partner is having sex with you to compensate for a date or gift, to make you love them, or to impress their friends, it is probably because they are having sex from pressure rather than because they are ready. It is best to disengage and have a talk with your partner before proceeding. It might be exciting at the time, but if your partner is having sex because of peer pressure, the end result will be guilt, anger, and regret.Make sure you discuss sexual boundaries and what you expect from having sex. Will it enhance your relationship? Is it something you both want to do.? Are you ready to deal with the emotional feelings and responsibilities associated with sex? Answering these questions will help you understand your partner, especially when it feels they are being pressured by friends.
If you feel your partner is sacrificing their convictions to have sex with you it is probably because they either fear the pressure of losing you or are being peer pressured. In either case, it is best to stop and talk about why they are surrendering their beliefs.
 Having unprotected sex can lead to serious consequences such as contracting a sexual disease or getting pregnant. If your potential partner is unwilling or too embarrassed to buy protection then they are probably not mature enough to engage in sexual intercourse.Before having sex, it is important to become familiar with the consequences of your actions. If you talk to your partner and they are confused about how they could catch a sexually transmitted disease or infection, then they lack the education and maturity to take responsibility for their actions.
If your partner cannot accept the risk of pregnancy or infection as part of the experience, then imagine what the situation will be after intercourse and a positive pregnancy test. If these consequences are unacceptable, then so is having sex.
If your partner refuses to practice safe sex, you might want to reconsider having sex since they obviously do not understand the serious risks involved. If you find your partner saying things like, “I can’t finish with a condom on” or “I'll only put it in for a second...” without using protection, then you must be prepared for the consequences.
You can get pregnant or catch a disease every time you have sex, including the first time.
 Not respecting rejection could result in criminal charges such as involuntary deviate sexual intercourse, sexual assault, or rape.In movies, victims of sexual crimes look battered and bruised. In reality, improper sexual contact can range from inappropriate touching to a life-threatening attack. And, it can happen to anybody.
Domestic violence is a factor in abusive relationships. The offense can be emotional, physical, or sexual in nature.
If you pick up any of the signs that your partner does not want to or is not ready for sex, then be respectful and wait or reevaluate what you want from the relationship.

