 If you want to get moving as part of a weight loss goal, MyFitnessPal can be a great app. In addition to tracking your exercise and calories burned, it can help you stay on track with nutrition.To use MyFitnessPal, you can download the free app and then set up an account. You can track your exercise while also noting your food choices. MyFitnessPal has a database of foods, including meals from restaurants and fast food places. It can help you figure out if you had an overall calorie deficit on any given day, allowing you to stay on track with weight loss goals.
MyFitnessPal can help you stay motivated by giving you things like badges and presenting you with challenges.;
, Nike Training Club is a fitness app for women. It helps you develop a workout routine based on your fitness goals and current physical stamina. It can help you stay motivated as you'll be able to move up slowly, preventing you from feeling overwhelmed.You can start at the beginner level if you're just getting into exercise. The app will allow you to gradually move up as you meet fitness goals.
You can also select music to go with your workout as you use the app. Music can help pump you up and encourage fitness.
 Time management can be a major roadblock to motivation. You're less likely to keep moving if you feel there simply aren't enough hours in the day to get in exercise. Timeful can help you better manage your time.You can sync Timeful with your calendar and, from there, add habits you want to develop, such as exercising more.
The app works by recommending when you can engage in activities like exercise based on how long it will take and when you have time in your schedule.
 Wonderful Day uses simple motivational tactics to keep you on track with your goals. It presents a calendar where you mark each day you completed the activity you strove for. For example, if your goal is to walk every day for 30 minutes, you would mark your calendar each day you walked.A green dot will appear on the days you completed your daily activities. A red dot will appear on days you didn't.
Seeing your progress in concrete terms can be a great way to encourage you to keep up with your goal of moving more.
 Sometimes, small tweaks can help you get moving. For example, you could bike to work instead of driving or take the stairs instead of the escalator. Google Now helps motivate you by tracking these small changes.You can use a tracking feature on the Google Now app that tracks your steps. This will allow you to see how much you've walked in a single day. Gradually trying to increase that number is a great way to increase how much you move overall.
 Rewards can be a great way to motivate you to get moving. EveryMove is an app that tracks all your physical activity and rewards you with points for moving. You can then redeem points from brand companies, your employer, and your insurance company. You may feel more motivated to move if you're unlocking rewards as you go.