 Radiant Dash is Kharazim’s Q ability, which you can use to instantly teleport to an ally or an enemy. If used against an enemy, you will immediately smack that enemy with a basic attack. This is very useful for engaging into or disengaging out of combat. Radiant Dash can also be talented extensively to increase its utility, from holding more charges and doing more damage to revealing cloaked enemies and increasing your movement speed. You even pick a level 20 talent that can instantly add two charges to Radiant Dash.
 Breath of Heaven is Kharazim’s W ability. Pressing it will instantly heal you and nearby allies while giving everyone affected a 10% boost to movement speed for three seconds. Both the heal and movement speed bonus give it a surprising amount of utility no matter what build you choose to stick with, although Breath of Heaven can be talented to heal more or to protect yourself and your teammates from slows, roots, blinds and silences., Deadly Reach is Kharazim’s E ability, which is a self-targeting buff that doubles your attack speed and attack range for two seconds. This synergizes well with Kharazim’s traits and can help him deal a surprisingly large amount of damage over time – as long as your target is within striking range. It can be talented to boost your movement speed, last longer and be cast more frequently., Seven-Sided Strik is Kharazim’s first ultimate, which causes him to become invincible, sit still in one position and create a large glowing circle around him for a short time. He will strike the hero with the highest percentage of health for 7% of its maximum health within that circle, and he will do so up to 7 times – 11 times if you pick the appropriate talent at level 20. This skill is absolutely devastating if you manage to catch a hero alone – especially warriors with their large health pools – but its effectiveness starts to go down the more heroes there are within the radius as the strikes will be spread out among the enemy team., Divine Palm is Kharazim’s second ultimate. Casting it upon a hero (yourself included) will protect that hero from death for 3 seconds – reviving and applying a large heal if that hero should die while under its effect. This skill is pretty hard to time, but mastering it will give your team a massive advantage in team fights, from giving the tank a second lease on life to rescuing a hero that was caught out of position. Getting Peaceful Repose at level 20 will be useful if your timing is off, but it can also help when playing against smart enemies that hold off on killing your target while under the effect of Divine Palm., Kharazim is able to pick one of three possible traits at level 1. Each will drastically change Kharazim’s capabilities in a fight and will play a large role in how you use him.

Transcendence gives Kharazim the ability to heal a nearby hero with every 3rd basic attack; prioritizing the one with the lowest percentage of health. This makes Kharazim a useful tool for keeping the entire team’s health topped up – assuming he is able to keep landing those blows.
Iron Fists doubles the damage of every 3rd basic attack. It’s a straightforward damage buff, and synergizes well with the right talent build to allow Kharazim to quickly bring down the health of all targets that cannot get away fast enough from him.
Insight restores a small amount of mana with every 3rd basic attack. This allows Kharazim to keep throwing out his abilities without worrying too much about his mana reserves. This will synergize well with utility builds that rely on frequently casting abilities to aid allies while frustrating enemy attempts to disable your team. The benefits of Transcendence and Iron Fists, however, often far outweigh the benefits of Insight in Kharazim’s current form.
 Kharazim is an extremely versatile hero and is able to fill drastically different roles depending on which talent build you work with. Picking the right build and knowing what to do with these builds will be key to utilizing him properly, from hanging back to support your allies to rushing forward to take advantage of an opening in the fight. This is especially important to remember when you consider the fact that Kharazim is a melee hero with a low health pool., This build maximizes the healing potential of Breath of Heaven while restoring your allies’ health as you attack whatever you can in range to trigger Transcendence as often as possible. Using Breath of Heaven will force you to stay dangerously close to the front line, but Radiant Dash talented with Quicksilver will help you get out of a bad spot when you start taking too much damage. If you notice that the enemy team is focusing you down with burst damage though, then you may want to swap out Quicksilver for Spell Shield instead. Storm Shield is the preferred pick at level 20, but Peaceful repose works if you have trouble timing your Divine Palms or are up against a smart enemy team.

Talent Build: Transcendence > Healing Ward > Echo of Heaven > Divine Palm > Quicksilver OR Spell Shield > Circle of Life > Storm Shield OR Peaceful Repose.
 This off-tank build allows Kharazim to deal damage while keeping him and his teammates topped up as he batters down the enemy with his fists. The point of this build is to talent Blazing Fists so that you are able to attack as often as possible while still preserving his ability to keep himself and his allies alive. This build is particularly effective at sieging enemy forts and capturing mercenary camps. These situations let you attack as freely as you wish; restoring health to the hero that needs it the most while you do so. It loses a lot of its effectiveness, however, if the enemy team has high burst damage that can take you out in the blink of an eye if they catch you out of position. Again, pick Peaceful Repose over Storm Shield only when you are having trouble with Divine Palm or are up against a team that knows how to hold off on the kill.

Talent Build: Transcendence > Overtake > Echo of Heaven > Divine Palm > Fists of Fury > Blazing Fists > Storm Shield OR Peaceful Repose.
 This build is all about doing as much damage as possible with your basic attacks. It’s a straightforward build, where all you need to do is find something to punch and then pummel it to oblivion. In practice, however, you will find that you will need the aid of an ally or two to hold your enemies in place. Talenting Deadly Reach will allow you to stay close to your target, but you will only be able to maximize your damage potential if your target is significantly slowed down or held in place with a well-timed stun. This build will also make you a lot easier to kill, so it is only recommended if you have another support to keep you alive or if you have heroes with lots of disables on your team.

Talent Build: Iron Fists > Overtake > Way of the Hundred Fists > Seven Sided Strike > Fists of Fury > Blazing Fists > Transgression.
 This utility build revolves around the idea of zipping around the battlefield and disrupting the enemy team’s attention while catching up and then punishing enemies that flee. At high levels, you will be able to significantly boost the movement speed of your allies thanks to Quicksilver and your multiple charges of Radiant Dash. You can also better chase down fleeing enemies so that you can annihilate them with a well-timed Seven-Sided Strike once they’re alone. You can then finish them off using talented Radiant Dashes. In exchange, you won’t do a lot of sustained damage and you won’t heal as much as you could. Getting Foresight and Clairvoyance also gives you the ability to neutralize the stealth capabilities of heroes like Nova or Zeratul while giving your teammates the speed they need to pin them down once they’re revealed. The added vision from these talents also gives your team an edge when fighting around corridors or visibility-blocking elements like tall grass or steam vents.

Talent Build: Transcendance OR Iron Fists > Overtake OR Foresight > Way of the Hundred Fists OR Clairvoyance > Seven-Sided Strike > Quicksilver > Blinding Speed > Epiphany.
 This is a utility build that focuses not just on healing allies but on countering enemy teams that rely too heavily on disables. Enemy teams filled with heroes that have long-lasting disables (e.g. Jaina, The Butcher, Leoric, Malfurion, Gazlowe, Murky, Nova, Thrall etc.) can make it virtually impossible for a hero to react – much less escape - once focused down with all these disables. Use Cleanse and Soothing Breeze to release allies from their status effects while protecting them with heals, shields, Quicksilver, Divine Palm and Storm Shield. This will ensure that your team will be able to weather the initial barrage to come out and finish up the enemy team once they’ve run out of disables. Timing is everything though, as you need to be far enough away not to be caught up in the disables and then jump in at the right moment to negate the control abilities tossed at your allies.

Talent Build: Transcendence > Protective Shield > Cleanse > Divine Palm > Quicksilver > Soothing Breeze > Storm Shield.

