 Pick any shade of brown you like. If you don't know how much to buy, consult an expert at the fabric store. An average sized female will need around 2 yards (1.8 m).
 One of the edges where it's folded over will be your head hole. Fold over that corner.


Cut your poncho to the desired length; remember to account for slits that will become fringe. This will depend on your height and your coverage preferences.
 Turn your material inside out before you begin cutting. Cut across the corner you previously folded over.


Sew the open edge, creating a poncho-like shape. The other side is folded and doesn't need to be sewn. Turn it right side out again.
 If you're not comfortable eyeballing it (or don't have a lined sewing mat), turn it inside out and mark lines down the sides with a ruler and pen. The fringes can be any length, but they should be about 1" (2.5 cm) wide and evenly spaced.


For a grown woman, fringes almost a foot long are appropriate if using a full torso-covering poncho.
 Use a skirt you have in your closet already for a rough pattern. The amount of material you need will depend on how long you want your skirt to be.
 An asymmetrical edge is the quintessential Pocahontas look. Aim for around the mid-thigh and end around the knee. But again: remember to leave length for the fringe! Pocahontas' booty was not hanging out.


Sew the edges about 2/3 of the way down, depending on your skirt length. This is because you'll be cutting away at the material anyway for the fringe. You won't need an entire seam sewn.
 You'll want fringe that looks similar to the one on your poncho. Use strips of similar width and length. They do not have to be perfect -- in fact, imperfect fringe may look better and not so geometrical.


Use an extra piece of fabric as a belt to keep the skirt up, if need be. The poncho should cover up the top of the skirt, so if you have an awkward issue, it can be easily remedied.
If you have more material left over, cut fringes into it and stick it into your shoes or boots! Footwear? Check!

