 Exercising regularly boosts your body’s immune system, making you less susceptible to infection. At the same time, it promotes a normal amount of lymphocytes, and regulates your metabolism (which deals with glucose and glutamine, both of which help lymphocytes to function properly).


Try to exercise for 30 minutes, three to five days a week. You should pick an activity (or multiple activities) that you really enjoy so that you feel more motivated to get out there and get moving. Ideas include running, biking, hiking, swimming, and rock climbing.
 Normal body mass index (BMI) ranges from 18.5 to 24.9. If you have a BMI that is under 18.5, you are considered underweight, while anything beyond 24.9 is considered overweight. Being too underweight or too overweight can make you more susceptible to infections because your lymphocytes are not as abundant.Exercising and maintaining a healthy diet are both important when it comes to maintaining your BMI.
 Washing your hands whenever you’ve been exposed to microorganisms that could make you sick is always a good practice. It is particularly important when you are trying to increase the number of lymphocytes in your body. Washing your hands lowers your risk of getting exposed to things that can cause infections (like bacteria and viruses).


Try to follow the three minute rule when it comes to washing your hands. Use warm water and soap and scrub your hands well, working from your palms to the back of your hands, and then from the tips of your fingers up to your wrists. It should take you about three minutes (or the length of the Happy Birthday song) to be fully free of any microorganisms your hands might have come into contact with., When your immune system becomes weak, your lymphocyte numbers decrease. Stress can take a toll on your immune system because it makes your body overwork. Try to reduce the amount of stress you feel each day. Some ways that you can do this are:



Going to yoga. Yoga engages the mind and the body while helping you to release both the physical and mental stress that you are consciously or unconsciously carrying around with you.Practicing meditation. Meditation is a way to let go of the things that are causing you to feel stressed. Even just practicing 20 minutes of meditation each day can help to calm you down., As mentioned above, when your mind and body is stressed, your immune system’s strength decreases. On the flip side, when you allow your body to rest, your immune system’s strength (and thus the number of healthy lymphocytes in your body) increases.Take breaks when you are tired and tried to get a good amount of sleep each night.


You should try to get around eight hours of sleep each night. Allow your body to rest for three to four minutes between tasking activities.

