 Toss the chocolate chips in a food processor and pulse in short bursts. Stop once the chocolate chips are broken into uneven chunks and a pile of "chocolate dust." These pieces will mix throughout your ice cream, adding more chocolate flavor.Set them aside for now.


Skip this step if you prefer intact chocolate chips in your cookie dough ice cream.;
, Combine butter and both types of sugar with an electric mixer or a long-tined fork.Whisk until there are no streaks, and the mixture is paler and larger in volume. This takes about one or two minutes in an electric mixer, or several minutes by hand.


Start with soft butter, especially if mixing by hand. You can shorten the wait by chopping cold butter into small pieces, grating it, or trying our other solutions.
 Stir in the vanilla and salt, then scrape down the sides of the bowl with a rubber spatula. Add flour in small batches, stirring until fully combined but still crumbly., Toss in the chocolate chips, and scrape out all the dust from the food processor. Add the cream one spoonful at a time, stirring until the mixture becomes soft and sticks together, looking like cookie dough.
 Cover a baking tray completely with parchment paper. You'll be using this to freeze your cookie dough, so clear some freezer space.
 Frozen cookie dough will be much easier to stir into the ice cream while keeping those nice, chewy chunks. Freezing usually takes about four hours, but you can make the ice cream while you wait. There are two ways to approach this:Spread the cookie dough onto the tray in a thin, even layer and freeze until solid. Once frozen, cut it into small pieces using a sharp knife.
For lager chunks, instead place small spoonfuls of the cookie dough onto the tray, as though you were making small cookies. Freeze until solid.
 Separate the egg yolks and combine them with the salt and sugar in a bowl. With a fork or electric mixer, whisk until the mixture becomes smooth and pale yellow, and falls off the whisk in thick ribbons.Optionally, add another egg yolk for an extra-rich ice cream.
 Fill a large bowl partway full of ice and cold water. Place a medium bowl inside the larger bowl, nestling it in the middle of the ice. Set this aside in the refrigerator to use later.
 Stir the milk and vanilla extract together in a saucepan. Heat over medium heat until the first small bubbles form. This should only take a few minutes.


Evaporated milk contains much less water, so your ice cream will have fewer ice crystals to break up while churning.If you use ordinary whole milk instead, you'll need to spend more time churning the ice cream as it freezes.
 Pour a very thin stream of milk into the bowl of eggs and sugar, whisking constantly as you pour. Adding the milk too quickly may cook the eggs, which ruins the recipe.


If you are concerned about ruining the recipe, let the milk cool until it is safe to touch.This may increase the cooking time.
 Return the milk and egg mixture to the saucepan and turn the heat to low. Gently stir with a wooden spoon, scraping the bottom. Remove the mixture from heat once it forms a thick custard, and coats the back of the spoon when you lift it out.


Take the pot off the stove right away if you notice any lumps of cooked egg. Strain these out before you continue., Pour the custard into the dry bowl in your ice bath. Leave this to chill while you continue to the next step.
 Whisk until the cream has doubled in volume, but not so long that it forms whipped cream. This will take a minute or two in an electric mixer, or several minutes of hand whisking., Wait until the egg mixture is cold to the touch. Fold the cream into the custard until they form a smooth mixture.
 Transfer the ice cream base to a freezer-safe container. If the cookie dough is ready, you can continue to the next section. Otherwise, leave the ice cream in the freezer for no more than 2 hours, while you wait for the dough. Stir the ice cream vigorously every 45 minutes to break up ice crystals as they form. Freezing for too long will make the ice cream difficult to combine with the cookie dough.
 Scoop the soft ice cream into a large container, then drop a handful of cookie dough on top. Repeat with alternate scoops, eyeballing the amount of cookie dough you'd like. Once you've scooped all the ice cream, fold the to ingredients together to distribute the cookie dough evenly.


Optionally, stir in some extra chocolate chips.
Save any cookie dough you don't use to sprinkle over the ice cream.
 Once the two ingredients are mixed together, transfer to a freezer-safe container. To break up ice crystals as they form, set alarms to check on the ice cream frequently, as follows:After 45 minutes, stir with an electric mixer or rubber spatula, breaking up all frozen chunks and forming a smooth mixture.
Check on the ice cream every 30–60 minutes, and stir again whenever ice crystals form.
After 2 or 3 hours the ice cream should start setting evenly. Leave it alone at this point and let it freeze to ice cream consistency.
If you used whole milk instead of evaporated milk, you may need to churn the ice cream more frequently.
 If you're using an ice cream machine, freeze and churn the custard base as usual, with the cookie dough set aside. About five minutes before the ice cream is ready, drop the pieces of cookie dough into the ice cream machine.Let the machine complete the process as usual.


You may not need to use all the cookie dough. Add according to preference, then keep the rest around for cookie dough lovers to nibble.
