 It may sound strange, but accepting your fears can help you get over them. If you try too hard to push fears out of your mind, this may backfire. Trying too hard not to think about something can make you think about it more.If you try to force yourself out of a fearful mood, this may create more anxiety. You may say something to yourself like, "It's just a story. You need to grow up and relax." If you find you don't relax, you may feel frustrated with yourself, leading to more stress and anxiety.
Instead, just acknowledge you're upset. Take a moment to accept the situation and deal with it from there. Think something like, "I'm scared because I read a story about a ghost. Now, I'm jumping at small noises in my home. It's scary, but that's okay. I can watch something else to calm down."

, While you know logically the stories are made up, when you're scared it's sometimes hard to remember this. Keep reminding yourself what you read is not real. While stories like Slender Man can seem compelling, they were made up by users on the Creepypasta website.Think to yourself, "This story is imaginary. The characters cannot hurt me."
Look at your fears from a rational perspective. In reality, you honestly have nothing to fear. The characters in the stories are not going to harm you, as they don't exist. Keep telling yourself this.
 Humor can help you confront your fears. Instead of pushing them away, which can backfire, you're facing your fears head on. Find a way to laugh at the Creepypastas you've read. You will find your anxiety lessens greatly if you laugh off the stories.Think about Slendy and Jeff going to ballet class, or smile dog getting his teeth whitened. Look at whatever story you've just read, and find a way to make it humorous. It can be something as simple as imagining a character doing something ridiculous or stupid.
You could also watch videos that make fun of Creepypasta. You can find these videos online. Google something like, "Silly Creepypasta" or watch people comically reading the stories and laughing.
 If you're having trouble calming down, it may be how you're looking at the situation. Instead of dwelling on your fear, examine it. Find a way to reassess the situation in a more positive light.For example, you're scared because you read a story about a murderer. You keep thinking about it, even though you don't want to.
Think of an explanation for your fear. Think about what you're really scared of. You're scared of danger, like most people.
Do not beat yourself up over this. Instead, think something like, "It's good and healthy to be afraid of danger. Being watchful for danger can protect me. Even though I don't really need to be afraid right now, this could be a positive in the future."

