 Evernote stores information of all types in a uniform type of container called a “note.” You can make a new note by clicking the “New Note” button in the upper right area of the window. Once you make a new note, you'll see that it appears in the center column as an untitled note, above the welcome note that comes prepackaged with Evernote. The content of the note appears in the right column. The note is made up of a few distinct parts:


At the top there is a field for entering a title; next to that there's a drop-down menu that tells you what notebook the note is currently filed inside. (Notebooks will be covered in another step.)
Below the title field, there's clickable text that reads “Click to set source URL....” This is for noting where you copied note information from if you retrieved it from an online source.
Next to the URL entry text, there's a field for entering tags (searchable keywords).
Below the URL and tag areas, there is a suite of word processor controls for things like formatting, font, and text size.
The lowest, and primary, area of your note is the entry field. Right now, it's blank.
 Enter information into the various fields to create a useful piece of information. Evernote will save and update the note automatically as you fill it in.


Start by clicking in the title field and giving your note a name. This helps you to find it more easily, so it's a good habit to get into before you have hundreds of notes.

If you can't be bothered to enter a title, Evernote will treat the first part of your note's text as its title.


Skip to the tags field and give your note a tag. Tags are another way to search for notes. They're usually related to the subject matter of the note.

Unlike Twitter, you don't necessarily need to start your tags with a # symbol. You can if you want, of course.
Try to keep tags short and to the point. If you were doing geological research, you might tag all your research notes with the word “geology,” for example.
You can add as many tags as you want.


Click on the entry field and enter some text. This is the content of your note. For now, just type a little bit of whatever you feel like typing.

