 In general, you can recycle paper, plastic, metal, and glass. Do not assume, however. There are exceptions and particular rules that apply to each material category. Read the recycling policies for your local recycling center to learn which items they'll take.;
, Assume that all paper products are recyclable unless they contain some attached metal or plastic component. Fill your paper bin with newspaper, magazines, cardboard, envelopes, egg cartons – anything made completely from paper.Paper products are shredded, mulched, and reformed into recycled paper. Create separate bins for your newspapers; your magazines, envelopes, printer paper, and glossy paper; and your cardboard.Look out for hidden plastic and metal components. A paper milk or broth carton, for instance, might be sealed with an interior metal (non-recyclable) lining to preserve the contents. You'll need to remove any non-paper components before giving paper products to a recycling program.
Consider making recycled paper at home. The process is relatively simple, and you can use it to dramatically reduce the amount of paper waste that flows out of your home!

, As a general rule of thumb: if it holds its shape, it can be recycled; if it doesn't hold its shape, it goes to the landfill. Thus, a plastic peanut butter tub or a plastic restaurant takeout box would be recyclable. You would not, however, be able to recycle an amorphous plastic bag or a six-pack soda can connector. Learn about the seven categories of plastic waste!1: PET (Polystyrene Terepthalate): This is one of the most common plastics used in consumer products. You can find it in most water bottles and soda bottles, as well as some packaging. PET is almost always recyclable.
2: HDPE (High-Density Polyethylene): This is the stiff plastic found in milk jugs, toys, soap bottles, and some plastic bags – even park benches and waste bins. It is the most commonly recycled plastic because the process is comparatively easy and safe.
3: PVC (Polyvinyl Chloride): PVC is not recyclable. This category of plastic is soft and flexible: it is used to make everything from clear plastic food wrapping to garden hoses to plastic pipes to children's toys. PVC contains a number of toxins that can leach out throughout its life cycle.
4: LDPE (Low-Density Polyethylene): This category is commonly used to make shrink-wrap, squeezable bottles, grocery bags, and garment bags. It is safer and less toxic than many other plastics. LDPE is not often recycled, but more and more communities are taking steps to handle this material.
5: PP (Polypropylene): This is recyclable through some curbside programs, but it is rarely recycled in the U.S. PP is often used as a barrier against moisture in chemicals: in products like plastic liners, disposable diapers, yogurt containers, straws, and packing tape. Ask your recycling program if they recycle PP!
6: PS (Polystyrene): This cheap, lightweight plastic goes into egg cartons, styrofoam cups, plastic cutlery, "packing peanuts," and laminate flooring. Polystyrene is carcinogenic, and it is one of the plastic types that most permeates the world's oceans and landfills. PS can be safely recycled, but most programs are not equipped to do so.
7: Other (BPA, Polycarbonate, and LEXAN): Category #7 is a catch-all for various polycarbonate and "other" plastics, which are usually not recyclable. Products containing #7 plastic include disposable coffee pods, baby bottles, and car parts. One notable exception is PLA plastic, made from bio-based polymers, which is compostable but still falls into category 7.
 The average recycling center is only equipped to recycle steel and aluminum. Thus, recycle your steel and aluminum cans: beverage containers, food storage, and aerosols. Be sure to wash and sort your aluminum food packaging, as well – pie plates, dinner trays, and foil., Be sure to recycle your used glass jars and bottles! Glass is recycled by color: brown, green, and clear. Sort your glass before you bring it to a recycling program. It doesn't matter if the glass breaks into shards – it is usually melted down and reshaped into new bottles. If you are able to keep the bottles whole, however, many U.S. states offer a small refund for each whole, empty bottle that you return to a local grocery store.Do not store your bottles in the same bin as used lightbulbs, mirrors, sheet glass, and pyrex. These products are made from a different type of glass than bottles, and they are usually not recyclable.
 Many recycling centers will not accept items that constitute more than 10% food waste. Rinse out your plastic containers, your glass bottles, and your aluminum food packaging before you try to recycle them. It won't take long, and you will make the job much easier for everyone else involved.

