 Bruce Wayne displays near inhuman levels of self-control and physical mastery throughout the many ordeals he overcomes in the DC comic universe. When training in the Himalayas with a Zen warrior monk, he meditates outside in the bitter cold wearing little clothing and is able to control his body to the point that he melts the ice on which he sits.Some exercises you might try to improve your willpower:


Meditation
Setting and accomplishing deadlines
Tempting yourself and not giving in
Making and completing to-do lists;
, One of Batman's greatest skills in combat is is ability to out think his opponents. This can be observed in his battle with Dragon, a martial arts master of comparable ability to Batman, where the Dark Knight dispatched his foe without having to lift a finger.To gain more strategic ability, consider:


Playing chess
Taking up Go

Studying great generals in history
Taking part in team sports
Playing board games
Practicing with Real Time Strategy (RTS) games, Tactics differ from strategy in that tactics are the particular measures taken in combat while strategy is the overarching plan.Excellent use of tactics is displayed throughout the Bat's career.You can train your tactical skills through:


Playing chess
Taking a tactical response course
Playing a team sport
Playing paintball, One reason why the Dark Knight is so rarely bested by his adversaries is that he plans for every possibility. This is illustrated quite clearly by the Kryptonite he carries with him in case Superman turns against humanity.Develop your contingency planning by making a habit to think of every outcome possible for a conflict. Think carefully the location, your opponent, tools, and environmental factors, like rain. Now plan on how you will use these to your advantage, or counter these if used against you.
 While mastering his body and mind, Batman gained superb control over pain.Even when is back is broken by Bane, the caped crusader pushes through the pain to train with Lady Shiva to restore his physical abilities.To accomplish this goal, try:


Starting with something that makes you uncomfortable, like physical exercise, but only push out of your comfort zone a little bit. Never do something that could put you in physical harm; the goal of this exercise is to help build your tolerance through exposure.
Increasing the intensity of your training over time to push the upper limits of your tolerance.
Regarding your discomfort as a way of reaching your goals and smile through the pain., The only way that Batman could become one of the greatest, if not the greatest, martial artist in the DC Comics universe is through the dogged pursuit of his goals. Batman would go to any length within his code of honor to accomplish his goals - and for you to fight like him, you will need to as well.To do this:


Meditate on and evaluate your goals regularly.
Develop, and keep, a training regimen.
Test your abilities against recognized masters and experts.
 The reason Batman does not kill and does not use a gun is because he adheres to a strict personal code.A personal code is something only you can devise. Think about the principles that matter to you, where you draw the line between right and wrong, and ethical concerns, and use these to guide the formation of your code.
 To move with the speed of the Batman, and to respond to the violence of your enemies like him, you'll need your reflexes to be top notch. Use a speed bag, reaction ball, and a jumping rope to begin sharpening your reflex response., There are four main kinds of punches in boxing: jabs, crosses, hooks, and uppercuts. You can rest assured that Batman had perfect mastery of these techniques.A brief description of each strike follows:


Jab: executed most often with your weak, leading hand. These are intended to keep your opponent at a distance. Twist your arm and wrist in a quick snapping motion just before hitting your opponent for maximum effect.
Cross: a blow you deliver with your strong hand with a slightly upward motion that moves across the body.
Hook: a blow intended for either the head or body. You should bring your punch in on your opponent in a sweeping motion, from the side. This strike works well with combinations, but is susceptible to counters.
Uppercut: an upper blow from either hand to the head of your opponent. This punch is very effective in close quarters.
 When in a martial conflict, your footwork will determine whether you are ready to evade or strike and can be the deciding factor in your balance.Poor balance can put you off your guard, which may result in a battle ending not in your favor. Batman would never allow this, and neither should you. Some general tips on keeping good footwork:


Keep moving while engaged in combat.
Never cross one leg over the other (cross-step).
Keep on the balls of your feet and ready to move.
 Even a martial arts master like Batman will take a punch every now and then, or worse.In the event that an opponent proves too fast, too skilled, or too stealthy and gets off a punch, you'll need to:


Block with a limb, like your hand.
Parry with a strike of your own, like a short, quick blow to the forearm.
Tense your muscles before being hit.
Maintain your stance.
Move with the motion of the punch ("roll" with the punch)., Bruce Wayne learned his Karate from an "ascended" master of the art while training in Korea.His master would be sure he knew all the basic stances. If you want to fight like the Dark Knight, so too should you. Two common stances are:


Natural stance (shizentai-dachi;自然体立ち): have your leading foot point forward and your following foot at a 45° angle. Your feet should be a approximately walking width apart.
Front stance (zenkutsu-dachi;前屈立ち): keep both your feet at a 45° angle to your line of approach, approximately walking width apart., The precise movements of Karate require tremendous balance and physical coordination. Batman developed this naturally over the course of his training.Spend time in each Karate stance you learn. Take into account stance weaknesses, your center of gravity, and any deepening of your stance or extension of your body that might improve your balance while in stance.
 You'll have to attain master level proficiency before you are able to claim you have equaled Batman in ability. But to begin with, you'll want to begin training:


The straight punch: from your stance, push off with your back foot toward your opponent, twisting your hips and shoulders as you do. Envision and aim at a spot beyond your opponent, punching through the space that he occupies for maximum delivery of force.The open-hand palm strike: keep your fingers together. You may curl your fingers slightly or adopt a straight finger shape. Push off with your back foot, aim beyond your opponent to strike through the space he occupies, and strike his body with the exact heel of your hand., In perfecting the various martial styles that he did over the years, Batman also learned various philosophies, including Tao, energy manipulation, and the use of shadows and stealth.To have mastered Karate, Batman would have also had to master its tenets. While you train, take note of:


The harmony and physiological balance expressed in Karate. Harmony between the parts of your self (heart, mind, body) is thought to lead to greater overall control.
The refinement of spirit attained through physical training. By exercising your mind and body in pursuit of martial excellence, you strengthen your will and learn the limitations of it.
The respect and courtesy required in the art. Every match begins and ends with a bow of respect to your opponent. This is termed reigi (礼儀) in Japanese, and is thought to promote harmony and humility., A gi (pronounced "gee") is a necessary part of training in Judo, and throughout Batman's backstory, he can be seen wearing this traditional martial arts garment. Once you have your gi, you'll be ready for action.
 The throws in Judo can be brutal if you do not fall correctly. Batman's ability to fight many opponents over a prolonged period of time, even after sustaining damage to himself, is proof of his mastery over this area of martial arts. There are many techniques you can employ to lessen the pain of being thrown, but in principle:


Do not fight the force of your opponent. Move with him, and try to allow the force to expend itself in motion, like through a ground roll. Relax while doing this, and exhale as you reach the point of shifting balance, when you can no longer resist and are in the process of being thrown., Many Judo bouts are decided on the mat, where groundwork proves its worth. These include various Batman favorites, like hold-downs, chokes, and joint locks.These should be studied with a suitable teacher at an accredited dojo (traditional training hall). Improper technique can result in injury for you and/or your training partner.
 As a known Judo expert, Batman would have learned the throws of this martial art inside and out.These throws can be dangerous if improperly executed. Practice your Judo throws at a proper facility, under the proper supervision. To perform the One Arm Shoulder Throw (ippon seoi nage; 一本 背負投), wait until:


An opponent grabs the front of your gi.
Cover his hand with your own and hold it in place.
Bring your free hand under the arm of your opponent and hook it under his arm at the armpit.
Twist your body to the opposite direction while still holding the hand on your gi.
Bend slightly at the knees in a balanced stance.
Use your back as a pivot and begin bending forward, leveraging your opponent with your arm beneath his armpit.
Bring your opponent across your back and launch him over your shoulder.