 This means that big-name clothing brands like Hollister, Abercrombie, Aeropostale, etc. are off limits. This is important for two reasons: it emphasizes your individuality and shows that you are "anti big-business". To buy clothes, check out stores like Buffalo Exchange. If you don't want to buy second-hand items, look for a store that sells new clothes with a worn or vintage look. American Apparel, however, is acceptable due to the fact that it is sweatshop-free .


Alright, so you live in a small-ish town where the only second-hand shop is Good Will? If you're caught in Urban Outfitters or H&M, you may not be proud, but you certainly won't be the only hipster in there.
 Note that "fits well" for hipsters is not the same as it is for non-hipsters. Mens' shirts should be somewhat tight-fitting with sleeves a hair shorter than a regular mens' shirt. Women's shirts, on the other hand, often mimic the "boyfriend" look. While women don't have to buy their clothes from the mens' section, consider investing in some shirts that are one or two sizes bigger than you'd normally wear.


Sexy here is in not being sexy. Especially for women, conforming to the is-it-so-tight-I-can't-breathe look is not in the hipster repertoire (men's skinnies notwithstanding). Baggy and loose is just fine, if not preferred. It's about irony, not silhouette.
 Except for denim skirts, that is. Tight-fit jeans are a must for both boys and girls. Pants can be any color or pattern, including floral print or neon green. If pants aren't really your thing, consider some denim cutoffs. These can be any length for women, but all mens' shorts should hit just above the knee.


Girls can also get away with the boyfriend look for jeans. If they're too long, cuff the hems once or twice.
Denim jackets and shirts are also great additions to your hipster wardrobe. Don't be afraid to take a pair of scissors to them, either. Denim vests are just as cool as denim jackets (if not more so)!

, It zips, right? It probably does. If you're hipster chic, you probably have a few hoodies hanging up in your closet right now. These go with everything. Literally, everything. The hoodie should be one of your best friends.


Bonus points if you can pair it with a Fedora or a blazer or a printed, feminine dress.
 There's no point in going green for the environment and being vegetarian if you can't follow suit with your wardrobe. When in doubt, before you throw it out, see if you can "recycle" it. How could you turn it into something totally wearable?


You don't have to keep them as is! A sweater could be turned into a pair of gloves (or a lampshade, book cover, pillowcase) for Pete's sake! You want original? Making it yourself is a pretty good way to start.
 While the intensity of your outerwear will depend on the season and where you live, it's important to be able to bundle up without losing your hipster look. Here are a few ideas:


Pick up some flannel. Large, button up flannel shirts are a perfect addition to any hipster outfit, regardless of the color. Ideally, these should not be matched with the rest of your outfit.
Invest in a cardigan or two. These can be found anywhere, even the more mainstream stores such as Gap. Choose a button-up cardigan with a deep V and large buttons. If possible, buy it one or two sizes too big.
Get an ironic crew neck sweatshirt or pullover sweater. Look for "grandma patterns" such as old flowers, kittens, or Christmas trees. Alternatively, look for a particularly "hideous" (read: awesome) pattern.
Keep your head warm with a grungy grey beanie. This can also be swapped out for a neon orange color.
 Because you're free to mismatch as much as you damn well please, you could be a veritable human Skittle if you liked. The more colors of the rainbow, the better. And if they're vivid or patterned, all the more reason to don them while taking photos with your analog camera at Brooklyn's Union Hall.


Neon, neon, neon. Neon pants, neon shoes, neon accessories, neon Ray Bans -- just because you're not "in style" doesn't mean you won't be eye-catching! Normal colors go too well together (damn color wheel), so spruce up your closet with neons, patterns, and anything else that clashes.
 Do not worry about matching here. Throw on anything you have; pair chunky and plastic with dainty and metal. Pendants of unexpected objects (such as owls or octopi), headbands with big bows on them, huge flower clips, chunky earrings, or anything that will draw attention. Anything with feathers is also a safe bet.


Leather accessories are also big. Try leather satchels or backpacks, leather vests, and leather belts.
Invest in some cotton/linen scarves to throw over any outfit. Patterned is best. Keffiyeh scarves are definitely popular, although they are also somewhat controversial due to their religious implications . For something a little safer, try a small checkered pattern.
Decorate your head. If it's too hot for a beanie, straw fedoras or fedoras with feathers are great hat options. Hats always put the icing on the hipster cake.
 Now that you know what makes a hipster on the outside, you'll be able to spot one from a mile away. In case you haven't noticed, they're everywhere (and some of them don't even know they're hipsters). If your local town doesn't have enough clues, here are some veritable cultural icons to turn to:


thesatorialist.com, stockholmstreetstyle.feber.se, lookbook.nu, and cobrasnake.com are all good places to scout out your look. Hopefully you'll be first in line!
Check out TV shows like "Girls," "Bored to Death," or "Portlandia" for inspiration. The fashion of your favorite musician works, too!
Try to search Google images for "hipster clothes". This may give you good ideas of outfits to try.

