 Determine a budget for getting supplies for your new dog. Consider the cost of essential pet supplies and determine your budget for all essential supplies such as a crate, bed, bowl, collar, leash, tags, and any applicable registration fees in your neighborhood. In addition, consider how much you want to spend on additional supplies that may or may not be essential depending on your living situation, such as baby gates, and for toys.Include a line item for a crate. A crate may cost between $15 and $200.
Make a line item for a bed, which will cost between $20 and $100.
Consider how much you want to spend on a bowl. They cost between $10 and $50.
Consider the costs of collar, leash and tags, which each cost between $20 and $50.
If you don’t have money for toys, see if you can borrow a toy from a friend or find sticks in the park for your dog.
 You can save money by purchasing used pet supplies at garage sales or online forums. Try searching online buy and sell advertisements for the pet supplies you need. You may be able to find a crate, leash or other dog supplies for cheaper than if you were to purchase them brand new.You could also try getting pet supplies at a local garage sale., If you or someone in your family has recently owned a dog, see if you can recycle any old pet supplies. If you don’t have an item that can be recycled, consider asking a friend or family member if they have the item you need. Try asking:“Do you have a spare crate that I could use for our new puppy?”
“Do you happen to have an extra leash I could use?”
“Do you happen to own any old toys your dog has lost interest in? If so, how would you feel about giving them to our new dog?”

, Reading and participating in online pet forums can help you save money. You can ask for advice about saving money on supplies for your specific breed and living situation. If you are able to find deals on pet supplies, you can also share your wisdom on the pet forum., You can get good deals by comparing prices between major online retailers. Look for the best deal on food, crates, leashes and other essential items by comparing the price across three or more pet supply websites., Search for the overstocked merchandise on pet supply websites. You can find this overstock, which is considerably cheaper, by looking at the “top” or “best” deal sections of major pet supply websites., You can save money on dog food by portioning food and by purchasing cheaper brands. By giving appropriate size portions to your new dog, they will be healthier in the long run. Since portions sizes are dependent on the size, breed and lifestyle of your dog, you will need to consult your veterinarian.You can also save money on the dog food itself but you should be aware that more expensive dog food may save money in the long run if it helps your dog live a healthier life. You could save on veterinary bills in the long run by spending a little more on the right kind of dog food. Nonetheless, consult with your veterinarian to see if there is a cheaper brand that performs well for your breed.A forty pound bag of dog food typically costs in the range of $35 to $50.Ask your veterinarian: “Is there a budget option that will also keep my dog healthy?”
Inquire: “What size portions are appropriate for my dog?”

