 Mouths draw a lot of attention, and dry lips can take a toll on your overall appearance. This is an easy place to start: apply moisturizing lip balm to seal in moisture. If your lips have dry, peeling skin, exfoliate by rubbing this same product on with a soft-bristled toothbrush.


Licking, biting, wind exposure, and excessive salt can damage your lips.
If your lips are chronically dry and balm does not fix the problem, try these other treatments.;
, The pores on your cheeks can easily clog due to skin oils, sweat, or makeup. Wash them once or twice a day with warm, soapy water, or a facial cleanser.


There's no need to scrub hard for everyday washes. Overdoing the pressure can rub your cheeks raw or trigger an acne break out.
 Gentle exfoliation once or twice a week can brighten your skin and clean out pores before zits can develop. You can use an exfoliating facial brush, or just apply cleansing soap with a soft-bristled toothbrush. You can also try many home exfoliation recipes, from coffee grounds to oatmeal.


If using an exfoliation product, make sure to pick one intended for the face.
 Lemon juice does lighten skin, but its acidity can cause a reaction on sensitive skin. Worse, citrus makes your skin photosensitive, meaning your face could break out into blisters or rashes when exposed to sunlight. If you do use lemon juice, apply it in tiny amount to dark spots and freckles with a toothpick. Test it on one corner for the first day to check if you get a reaction, and minimize time in the sun.
 It may feel satisfying to get rid of them, but most of the time popping just reopens the wound and invites the zit to come back worse next time. Unless it's a fashion emergency, it's best to let it heal on its own, or to apply acne medication.


In the meantime, conceal the acne with non-comedogenic makeup.
 Dark bags under your eyes are usually caused by lack of sleep or lack of hydration. For a short term solution, apply a chilled spoon, cucumber slices, or just a splash of cold water onto your eyes to reduce swelling and darkness.


When applying eye makeup, take care not to darken your overall appearance more than you would like. For a brighter face, limit the eye makeup mostly to the upper lid and the corners of your eyes.
 You don't need to count glasses of water, but you should be drinking water whenever you feel thirsty. Dehydration can lead to dull, flaky skin.
 There are many home remedies for brightening skin, most of which use harmless food ingredients — so why not try them? Here's one from the nation of India:


Mix equal parts gram flour (chickpea flour) and yoghurt in a ceramic bowl.
Stir in a teaspoon (1 mL) honey.
Optionally, add a dash of turmeric as an antiseptic. Don't overdo this, as it can stain your skin.
Apply a thick layer over your face and let sit 10 minutes.
Rinse off with lukewarm water.

