 Combine 1 envelope of Knox unflavored gelatin with ½ cup of canned unsweetened coconut milk and ½ cup of water in the saucepan over low heat. Stir constantly until gelatin is dissolved.


Add ¼ cup of sugar to mixture and stir until dissolved. Remove from heat and allow to cool.






Pour ½ cup of vanilla schnapps and stir.






Transfer mixture to waiting clear cups, filling each cup approximately 1/3 way full.






Place in refrigerator and chill until firm.
 Bring 1 cup of water to a boil and dissolve a 3 oz. package of orange Jell-O, stirring until dissolved.


Add 4 oz. of orange sherbet (about one scoop) to the mixture while it’s still warm. Allow mixture to sit for a few minutes until the temperature reduces to warm. The sherbet will melt as you stir and integrate it into the Jell-O.






Allow mixture to cool to room temperature. If you want to hasten this process, place saucepan in the refrigerator for approximately 10 minutes. Check often because you want mixture to be cool, but not cold (or it will set).






Add ½ cup vanilla schnapps and 3 tablespoon (44.4 ml). butterscotch schnapps. Stir well. If you want the orange color to really pop, add two or three drops of orange food coloring at this stage and well.






Pour orange layer into your cups that already contain the white layer. Since mixture should be at room temperature the orange layer should not melt or combine with the white layer. Pour into cups until they are each 2/3 of the way full. You still need to make room for the final layer--yellow.






Return cups to refrigerator so the orange layer can chill and set.
 Bring 1 cup of water to a boil in your saucepan and add a 3 oz. box of pineapple Jell-O. Stir until dissolved and allow mixture to sit until it comes to room temperature.


Add ½ can of coconut milk and ½ cup of vanilla schnapps to tepid mixture. Stir well. Make the yellow color more vivid by adding two to three drops of yellow food coloring and mix.






Top off each chilled cup with yellow layer and return to the refrigerator.
