 When he consistently breaks plans that you two had made without rescheduling, you should take this as a sign that he doesn’t want to hang out. He may also stop asking you to hang out, which is a major red flag.


If you notice that you are the only one suggesting things to do and making plans, you should hold back and see if he will start to try to make plans. He will make plans and try to hang out with you if he’s still interested.
He may offer generic excuses to break plans, like that he has other things to do, without offering you specifics. You should be aware if he never gives you a clear answer about why he can’t hang out. He may try to be evasive about breaking plans. He could say things like, "I have plans with someone else" or "I can't make it tonight" without offering a clear reason why he is breaking plans.
 You may be having trouble distinguishing whether he’s treating you differently or if he treats you the same way that he treats his friends. Watch how he interacts with people you know are his platonic friends and ask yourself whether he treats you in the same way.If he is treating you like he would any other friend, he is probably just being friendly to you and is not interested romantically. If he’s interested in you, he’ll treat you differently than he does his friends.
Some men have more flirtatious personalities, while others reserve their flirting for people that they do care about, so try to differentiate whether he is the former or the latter.
 Body language offers clues about how someone is feeling. When someone is disinterested in or uncomfortable in a situation, they will try to subtly move away from you and avoid physical interactions. Look out for body language cues that signal that he is uncomfortable or disinterested in your interactions.He may try to move away from you, cross his arms in front of him, or turn away from you while you are talking. He may also try to avoid physical contact, like a hug or you touching his arm, he is not interested.
If his eye contact is short and he breaks eye contact during conversations consistently, he may not be interested in what you’re saying. However, some men are shy – this might just signal nervousness or shyness and not a lack of interest.
Some body language cues that he is disinterested are: pointing his feet and body away from you, rubbing his neck, crossing his arms, looking at the floor, or angling his body away from yours., Touch builds attraction and emphasizes physical closeness in any relationship. Look for any changes in the frequency of your physical contact and in the type of contact that you have together.For example, the two of you may normally hug whenever you see each other. If he is no longer interested in you, he may stop hugging you, or move away whenever you try to hug him.
Even if you two do still have physical contact, the type of contact can change when he loses interest. He may tap you on the arm instead of hugging you, which is a non-romantic gesture that most men use with friends.
 When guys are interested in someone, they will make an effort to remember important things about that person like their interests, their schedule, or facts about them. Guys will stop paying attention and remembering these things when they aren’t interested anymore.For example, if he forgets your birthday even after you’ve been talking about it for a few weeks, he probably isn’t interested anymore.
If he consistently forgets things that you tell him, like that you have an interview coming up or that your family is coming in to town, he may no longer be interested in the things that are important in your life.He might also stop making surprising and meaningful gestures as he did in the past, such as surprising you with flowers or a random gift.

