 Feeling the saddle shifting to the side while riding is frightening both for horse and rider! You want to do this right before mounting because many horses tend to hold their breath when you first put the girth on, so when before you mount they tend to let it out, which may loosen the girth.;
, After checking the equipment, prepare to mount. Gather your reins and hold them firmly, but with a little slack. Yanking the reins while you mount may cause the horse to rear or protest. Wait until the horse is completely still before you continue


If you are a beginner, at a show, or if you do not have the time to be patient, have someone else take the reins and keep him still. In general, you are better off teaching him to stand correctly as described below, as it will greatly assist you in the future.
 Put your weight on the stirrup, not on your arms. Your hand can use the pommel for balance, but do not grab it tightly or pull yourself up with it. If you need a mounting block or a boost from another equestrian, get it.
 When the horse begins to move away, immediately remove your foot and take up the slack in the reins. Keep the reins short so the horse is forced to walk in a small circle. Wait until the horse stops moving, then start again. Repeat as many times as it takes to train your horse.


Be patient. Some horses will keep walking for some time. Trying to mount while they are still moving will teach them that they do not have to stand still.
 If the horse stops in response to your correction, reward him immediately with a pat or a kind word. If necessary, lead him back to where he was and attempt to mount again.


If he moves, correct him in a stern voice, but never slap or yell at him.
If the horse is stubborn and will not stop, just keep putting your foot in the stirrup, without trying to mount. When the horse finally stays still, reward it with a treat. Repeat until it consistently stays still for this stage.
 When he is completely still, you can start to swing your right leg over. If he starts to move while you are doing so, dismount completely and make him stop again. The horse will likely hate this aborted mount, which will help it learn to cooperate for a faster result.


Many horses take two weeks to become used to mounting for the first time.
 If you need to move the horse back to the starting position, apply pressure on his chest to send him moving backward. You can also try this on an impatient horse, to teach him that he will not get anywhere without you.
 Make sure you reward the horse for standing still. When he does not, you may correct him sternly, but do not punish him or shout. Just make sure not to give him treats or praise when he wanders off.
 Once you are seated, take an extra few moments to adjust your stirrups or tighten your girth as necessary. When you do decide to move, it should be your decision, not the horse's. Reward your horse for the patience, and enjoy the ride!

