 The size of the template should be large enough for the invitation; sizes are suggested below. The shapes you'll need are as follows:


Draw a trapezoid shape for the cupcake base. A suggested measurement is: 10cm/4 inches across the top, 6.5cm/2.8 inches at the base.
Draw a large semi circle for the frosting top. This should be slightly wider each side than the trapezoid base. A suggested measurement is: 11cm/4.3 inches at its widest and up to5cm/2.5" height. At the base of the circle, draw a wavy line with two inward waves, to form the "drips" that frosting develops.
Draw a small circle. This will the cherry for the top of the cake.;
, Put them together to form a cupcake to check that the dimensions and shape are accurate. The trapezoid goes at the base, the smallest side on the bottom, the frosting semi-circle sits over the top of the trapezoid and the cherry sits right in the middle of the top of the frosting piece. When you're happy with how it looks, it's now ready to use for the template.
 Draw another trapezoid. It will need to be slightly wider than the one drawn for the cupcake base because the invitation will slide into this one. Add about 1.2cm or 1/2 inch each side of the trapezoid to make it wide enough. Cut out the shape. Cut it out again and make a mock-up from simple card or scrap card; glue the edges together (or use double-sided tape). Test that the cupcake base slides inside it with ease; if not, make adjustments before proceeding.
 The color theme is entirely up to you, although it's a good idea to focus on colors that the party girl or boy loves. For example, a pink cupcake invitation could consist of a hot pink frosting layer, a pastel pink cupcake base and a metallic pink cupcake case. Use strong but lightweight card for all parts of the cupcake; for the cupcake case use craft corrugated card instead, to have the look of a cupcake case.


If you cannot match the colors exactly, you can paint colored dots, stripes or other designs on plain card, so that it carries the color theme through.
The cherry is best in red.
 For each invitation needed, cut out card as follows:


1 cupcake base
1 cupcake frosting
1 cupcake cherry
2 cupcake case pieces.
 Either works but just be a little more careful with the glue, that it doesn't glob anywhere; wipe off any excess that oozes out. The remaining steps in this section assume you've chosen one or other attaching methods.
 The frosting line should sit quite high up, so that you can see a lot of the cupcake base, and so that it doesn't interfere with slipping the invitation into the cupcake case.
, Be sure to only use a small amount of glue or double-sided tape right at the edges, to allow for slipping the invitation inside the cupcake case. Do not glue or tape closed the top part of the cupcake case; this is needed to allow the invitation to slip in.


The tape may need to be cut in half to prevent it covering too much area if you're using tape.
 This is not essential but if you want to add extra features, then feel free to do so.


You could paint a design onto the cupcake cases.
You could run a line of lace or ribbon across the top of the cupcake case (simply glue or tape in place)
You could add costume gems to the case, etc.
 Again, this is an optional embellishment and may look overdone in some cases, so perhaps do a test run on one invitation first to see if it's worth it. If you like the look, add glitter as needed.
 This is the cherry side of the cupcake.
 On the back of the invitation, write the date, time, place and occasion. Write "to and from" as well.
 It can now be slipped inside a large square envelope or simply given to the intended guests as it is.

