 One of the most common causes of sweating in your sleep is a room that is too hot or bedding that is too warm. Try lowering the temperature in your room, using a fan, or using less bedding. If your night sweating is more than occasional and is not relieved by adjusting the temperature in your room or the bedding you use, you might have night sweats. If this is the case, you will need to look into medical treatment.


Try moisture-wicking silk or bamboo pajamas. Find something that is comfortable, helps regulate your body temperature, and keeps sweat away from your skin.Choose moisture-wicking sheets, which will help keep the sweat off your body.Avoid synthetic sheets, which will trap heat and exacerbate your night sweating.If you live in a hot climate, try opening the window at night.
Keep your bedroom between 60 and 65°F (15 and 18°C).;
, Ask your doctor for a complete physical check-up to see if your experience of sweating at night is associated with an underlying medical condition. Typically, night sweats are related to a specific medical condition with other symptoms, although some people do experience night sweats with an unknown cause (idiopathic hyperhidrosis).See a doctor if you have any of the following experiences or symptoms:


If you experience night sweats on a regular basis.If the night sweats interrupt your sleep.If the night sweats come along with other symptoms such as fever., If you are experiencing severe night sweats and want to find a physician who specializes in this condition, you should search for a doctor with prior experience with this condition. Ask your general physician for a referral to a specialist.


The International Hyperhidrosis Society has a hyperhidrosis physician finder that you can view online., Since many medications cause night sweats as a side effect, you should look into whether your prescription medications are to blame. Many medications prescribed for depression, hormone regulation, and diabetes have night sweats as a side effect. Bring your current medications to your doctor and ask if any of them might be associated with your night sweating., You should ask your doctor if your night sweats are related to an underlying sleep, anxiety, or depression condition. Ask your doctor if any of the following might be related to your night sweats:


See if your depression or depression medication is related to your experience of night sweats.Explore whether sleep apnea and other sleep disorders are causing your night sweats.Find out if anxiety is the cause., Night sweats are often related to low blood sugar. If this is the case, you should work with your doctor to address low blood sugar at night. You may be exercising too late in the day, eating poorly, or injecting the wrong amount of insulin., You should ask your doctor whether your night sweats are related to an underlying medical condition. In most cases, doctors can identify the underlying physical cause of night sweats. In rare cases, night sweats are idiopathic or without a cause. Ask your doctor if any of the following medical conditions might be the cause of your night sweats:


Ask your doctor if your night sweats are a symptom of menopause.Ask your doctor if your night sweats are related to your cancer or cancer treatment. Lymphoma often causes night sweats. Typically, cancer patients will also have other symptoms such as weight loss.Find out if it is related to an infection. Infections such as endocarditis, pneumonia, tuberculosis, bacterial infections, osteomyelitis, HIV/AIDS, and boils can cause night sweats.Look into whether strokes are causing your night sweats.Find out if gastritis is causing your night sweats.Inquire into whether myelofibrosis is the cause of your night sweats.Find out if pheochromocytoma is the cause.Find out if syringomyelia is the cause.Determine whether autonomic neuropathy is the cause.