 Although hip pain can significantly lessen the amount of exercise you do on a regular basis, you should make sure your lower body's muscles are in good condition prior to undergoing surgery.


If you have been abstaining from exercise, your leg and gluteal muscles may have become much weaker.
Ask your doctor (or a physical therapist) for the right exercises to help strengthen your back, leg, and gluteal muscles.
This way, your body can support your recovering pelvic muscles after surgery.
Some people can do specific exercises that others will have a hard time doing. Go easy on yourself and listen to your body's cues.;
, Gluteal sets are very easy to perform, and you don't need any special equipment to do them.


Just lie flat on your back and squeeze your buttock muscles for a few seconds.
Your hips should raise a little while doing this.
Repeat this exercise 10 to 20 times.
 Leg raises are very easy to do and can be done on any flat surface, such as the floor or a firm mattress.


From the same starting position as the gluteal sets, you can advance to leg raises.
First, raise your knees.
Then, straighten your legs as much as you can, until your toes are pointing at the ceiling.
Hold this pose for a few seconds, then slowly lower your legs.
 You may use your hands to support your legs, or you can simply raise your legs as if you're about to do leg raises.


Rotate your ankles five times to the right and five times to the left.
Repeat with the other leg.
 Ask your doctor for recommended supplements to take prior to surgery, and follow his or her advice about other supplements you should take or avoid.


Iron is often recommended, because it helps prevent excessive bleeding after or during surgery.
Your doctor may advise you to stop taking certain supplements and medications that may interfere with the surgical and recovery processes, such as: vitamin E, gingko biloba, glucosamine/chondroitin, fish oil, turmeric, dong quai, or any other natural herbs or supplements that have known blood thinning capabilities.
 Sometime during the months leading up to your surgery, make sure that you call your insurance provider to let them know about your upcoming procedure.


Ask the insurance company if they will cover your post-operation care, such as therapy.

