 Most people strain their muscles or tendons, which can be addressed with bed rest, slow walking, anti-inflammatories and ice for 72 hours. Begin to increase your exercise and gentle stretching after 3 days.;
, This could be a sign of nerve problems and damage. Your doctor is likely to recommend Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) to properly diagnose the problem before a treatment is recommended.


People who are already experiencing chronic back pain should consult their regular doctor before getting osteopathic treatment, especially if they are using other methods of treatment, such as pain medication, epidural injections or physical therapy. Inform your doctor and seek recommendations before trying this alternative form of therapy.
 Osteopathy sites suggest it is most useful if treatment is sought within the first month. Read reviews online or get recommendations from friends before making your appointment.


A study conducted by WebMD and published by The New England Journal of Medicine found that people who suffered from a back injury recovered equally well if they used osteopathy or if they chose physical therapy and anti-inflammatories.
 Most European countries and all 50 states require an osteopath to pass an examination to be licensed. Check the credentials on a state or country licensure website or by calling up the osteopath's office.
 After reviewing your condition, the osteopath will recommend a plan to relieve your symptoms. Prepare for a series of weekly or monthly appointments that are usually recommended to treat back pain.
 There are a number of methods that are used.


A common procedure is called the high-velocity low-amplitude (HVLA) thrust. This is used to correct asymmetry in a facet joint. There is often a cracking sound associated with this movement. It is often considered the most uncomfortable portion of the appointment, but it rarely includes an increase in acute pain.
Another Osteopathic Manipulation Technique (OMT) is massage. The soft-tissue is manipulated with hands and pressure near the back muscles and facet joints. The osteopath often uses traction, where the head or feet are slightly lifted and pulled to relieve stress on the discs and nerves. This part of the appointment may be associated with a pleasant feeling in the muscles and back.
Counter force techniques are applied when the osteopath applies pressure against a muscle, in the hopes of helping it release. The patient is often asked to move their muscles against the pressure.
 Sometimes, the best pain relief is changing the way you stand, sit or lift. The osteopath may recommend daily changes in the following ways:


An osteopath will usually promote an active lifestyle. Similar to a general practitioner, an osteopath will recommend low-impact exercise, activity and weight-loss, if applicable. Diet change and weight loss can mean less stress on the muscles, discs and nerves in the back, relieving pain over time.
An osteopath will attempt to correct posture at most appointments. They will look to make sure that the spine is aligned from hips to shoulders to the neck. Changing your posture can be difficult, so make sure to think of it as your "homework," and it may result in a back pain relief.
Discuss stress-management with your osteopath. Not all osteopathic methods are strictly medical. The practitioner may recommend stress-relief techniques like deep breathing, meditation, light yoga, relaxing baths and more, which can relieve muscle tension and relieve pain.
 Stop if you feel an increase in acute pain. You may feel a few days of muscle soreness after each appointment.

