 You’ll never beat a five minute mile without a plan and proper schedule. For the best results, you should be training almost every day, incorporating different exercises.Start your week with a distance run, running for at least 40 minutes or about 3 miles, and gradually increasing that as you train.
Take the next day to rest or do some other training like yoga or weight lifting.
Pick a few days a week to do interval or hill training, followed by another day of rest or cross training.;
, In order to get your body into the right shape for a 5 minute mile, eating the right diet that will give your body energy is important, and it will help it to recover after training.Get the right proteins through eggs, sweet potatoes, salmon, and chicken. Proteins like salmon contain ingredients like omega-3 essential fatty acids which increase heart health and help performance.
Leafy greens like kale contain a wealth of vitamins that keep your body healthy and moving like vitamins A, B6, C, and K.Whole wheat pasta in the right portions will provide you with the carbs you need to maximize muscle glycogen stores., If you want to run a 5 minute mile you need to train your body in other ways than just running to get into shape. Other exercises will not only help you run faster, but will help prevent injury and increase form. Planks are a great way to strengthen your core, lower back, and shoulders; three areas that are important for a fast run. Hold planks for 45 seconds and do 3-5 reps.
Kettlebell squats will work your glutes and leg muscles while also strengthening your core. Do 2-3 sets of 10-12 reps.

Do some yoga to help you improve flexibility, recover faster, and simply destress., In order to be able to push your body hard enough to complete a mile in 5 minutes, you need to build a solid base of aerobic conditioning. Start conditioning your body beginning with longer runs.Aim for 5 or 6 mile runs that you can complete in an average of eight minutes per mile.
Run several days a week to get your body used to running distances, and record run times.
As you continue your training, shoot to improve your time to an average of about seven minutes per mile.
 At least twice a week you need to start running in intervals to train your body for speed. While distance running with help you with your heart and lungs, it won’t necessarily make you faster.400-meter sprint intervals. Do six intervals of 400-meters, resting for 1 minute between each sprint. Start at a decent pace and increase it with each interval.
600-meter sprint intervals. Now run six to eight intervals at a distance of 600-meters, resting for 1-2 minutes in between each repetition.
Alternate these interval sprints and perform them on days you are not going on distance runs.
 Hill running is a great way to build strength and increase your endurance. Look for a hill that will take you several minutes to reach the top of so that you can ensure that you’re actually building muscle.Begin your hill climb at a nice jogging pace, especially at the beginning of your training.
Once you’ve run about ¾ the way up the hill, sprint the remaining ¼. Repeat this run at least three times. Walk down the hill at a nice pace to recover from your climb, using this as your resting time.
Don’t strain your body by doing too many hill climbs a week. Substitute one or two of your sprint intervals for hill climbs.
 Not only will marking your progress help you to see how you’re improving, but it will also motivate you to keep pushing yourself. You will be able to see areas where you might not be improving as quickly as you want to.


Get a runner’s watch or use an app on your phone to track your times and mileage.
Write down your distances and times in your training schedule after you have completed them. This way, you can easily see your progress as you train.
 There’s no magic formula for running a mile in 5 minutes, but making sure that you are limbered up and properly stretched out will help to prevent injury and cramping during your run.


Stretch your back, quadriceps and adductors, hamstrings, hip flexors, and glutes.
Make sure that you also stretch after you’ve completed your run as well.
 Breaking 5 minutes is no easy task, you’ve trained and trained, and you feel ready. Now it’s time to breath, relax, and visualize yourself running a fast mile, hitting that mile marker in 5 minutes.


Envision yourself crossing the finish line. Let yourself experience how good it will feel to have accomplished this.
By telling yourself that you can achieve a 5 minute mile, you will put yourself in a positive mindset that will energize you.
 Don’t go nuts though, you don’t want to tire yourself out. A quick warmup, however, will get your heart rate going and awaken your muscles.


Do a few quick sprints to get the motion down and into your body.
You can also try some jumping jacks to get your heart rate up.
 Even though you only have one mile, you want to run a pretty consistent pace for most of the run. Keep a nice long stride throughout your run and remember to breathe.


Once you are nearing the end of the mile, you can push yourself. Depending on how much energy you have left, really push yourself to an all-out sprint.
Once you’ve crossed your finish line, cool down by continuing to jog for about a minute or so, slowing your pace until you’re at a comfortable walk.

