 If you're trying to be hard to pin down, nothing's more useful than cultivating a mysterious persona. Be a person of few words, but when you speak, make it count. Try to maintain a fairly deadpan personality, even when you're joking. Talk about things in broad strokes, but leave the details vague. Leave your motives up to others' imaginations. With luck (and a little practice), you'll leave others perplexed, but intrigued.


For example, let's compare a mysterious exchange to a non-mysterious one. Let's say an attractive person comes up to you and asks, "Hey, haven't I seen you at that bookstore around here?" An ordinary response might be, "Yeah! I go there every weekend. They have a great selection. What's your name?" This is a perfectly fine, friendly response, but we can be more mysterious if we say something like, "Mmm. Dostoevsky's brilliant, isn't he?" This makes your answer a little less cut-and-dry and gives your partner a few more follow-up questions.
There are tons of resources online for how to be mysterious. Often, these are dating guides written for a male audience, but there are numerous resources for women as well., If no one's confident that they can predict what you're going to do next, they won't be able to define you or pin you down. Keep people on their toes by doing whatever strikes your fancy at any given time. Are you out on a date? Pop into a new hole-in-the-wall joint you've never been to. Are you stuck in an airport terminal? Take out your guitar and start a sing-along with the people around you. Starting to follow some of your wilder impulses can help you make yourself completely undefinable to other people.


With unpredictability comes risk, however. The hole-in-the-wall joint that you visit on a whim may end up being disgusting, while the people you try to get to join you in a sing-along may give you the cold shoulder. As we'll see below, keeping a cool head and remaining indifferent to others' opinions and expectations of you can help you deal with the occasional failure.
 When people start to care about what other people think of them, they become predictable, and when people become predictable, they're not mysterious anymore. Keeping a high opinion of yourself (even when those with poor taste may not) is crucial for achieving the sort of mysterious, hard to pin down persona that can be so desirable. Don't work for anyone's approval but your own.


Learning how to not care what others think of you is one of the most common topics when it comes to online self-improvement resources. Many sites offer gentle, introspective advice (like this one), while others take a more practical, down-to-earth approach (like this one). Choose a resource that fits your needs and personality.
 Maintaining a wide range of hobbies and interests isn't just a way to keep your life varied and interesting — it's also a way to keep people guessing about you. Keeping your interests diverse helps ensure that people always have something to ask you, which can help you seem exotic and exciting. Try to indulge many different passions in your free time. For instance, on a given weekend, for Friday evening, you may play pickup basketball at the park, while on Saturday, you may study Old English literature. Finally, for Sunday, you may spend time writing on your blog.


Note, however, that doing something different every time you get some free time means it can be hard to develop skills (like, for instance, playing an instrument) that require steady, consistent practice. Because of this, you may want to devote a little time to the same long-term skills consistently even as you keep the rest of your interests varied.
 If you're looking to be hard to define, never reveal too much about yourself. Think of Bond (James Bond) — when people ask him about himself, he always lets them know just as much as they need to, but never too much. Making sure not to volunteer too much information about yourself at any one time can make you absolutely irresistible to the people you talk to. If you tease them with short, sly answers about yourself, they'll naturally want to know more, and, before they know it, they'll be hooked on your every word.
 Keeping your cool is an essential skill when it comes to being hard to define. Being mysterious, unpredictable, and guarded generally comes across well if you're pleasantly calm and collected, but not if you lose your cool. If, for instance, you become nervous, frustrated, or coldly dismissive when people ask you about yourself, you may get a reputation for being hard to get to know, but you won't be the smooth, desirable, hard to pin down type that you might have been if you had applied your moves correctly. So, try to remain relaxed and lucid whenever you're in a social situation — if you do so, you'll eventually become the (dark, quiet, and obscure) life of the party. Below are just a few techniques that may be helpful for relaxing before social situations:


Personal meditation
Getting plenty of sleep
Relaxing breathing techniques
Ensuring you have time to "cool down" after draining activities
Exercising
Spending time alone (e.g. reading, watching a movie, browsing the internet, etc.)

