 Though every child learns differently, for many children, slowly coasting down a long, gentle slope is one of the easiest ways to learn. Rolling forward at a slow, controlled speed allows children to get comfortable with the idea that staying upright on a bike without training wheels is almost as easy as staying upright on one with training wheels.


Grassy spots can be great for this. Grass keeps kids from going too fast on their bikes and cushions any falls they may have, making the experience much less stressful for them. The last thing you want is for your child to take a bad spill and get so afraid of riding without training wheels that they won't try again.
 Don't let your child get on their bike without a helmet. Not only is it dangerous, but also a very bad habit to let your child get into.You might also want to consider letting your child wear extra protective gear like knee and elbow pads — for children who are nervous about the idea of riding, this extra protection can make them feel more confident. Finally, make sure that your child can reach the ground with their feet when sitting on the bike, adjusting the seat as necessary.


Note that some places have laws making it mandatory for all bike riders below a certain age to wear a helmet.In some circumstances breaking these sorts of laws can count as a misdemeanor offense for the parent.
 When the child's ready to ride, let them gently roll down the hill or slope you're practicing at. Hold on to their shoulders or the back of their seat to keep them upright. Repeat this a few times until your child is confident and comfortable moving forward on their bike with your help.


As you walk or jog next to the bike, be careful not to put either of your feet in front of (or between) the wheels.
 Next, let your child coast the same slow, easy route down the hill as before, but this time, don't hold them unless they need it. Instruct the child to use their feet to control themselves or stop themselves as needed. This teaches the child the all-important balance skills needed to stay upright on a bike in a safe, controlled setting.If your child starts to lose control, grab them to keep them upright. Though a few spills may be unavoidable, you'll probably want to avoid them if you can, as they can make your child scared to continue.
 Next, do the exact same thing as before, except, this time, tell the child to use their bike's brakes to control their speed. When they get to the bottom, tell them to stop with their brakes. Repeat as needed until the child is confident slowing themselves and stopping without your help. Teaching the child that they can always stop the bike if they heed to is a very important part of building the child's confidence on the bike.


Most children's bikes have foot brakes — in other words, the child has to pedal backwards to brake. Many bike training resources recommend foot brakes for children learning to ride without training wheels because learning how to use the hands in addition to all of the other skills that riding without training wheels requires can be overwhelming for young children.However, if your child's bike has a hand brake, it's still perfectly possible for them to learn on it — it may just take a little more practice.
 Next, mover to a flatter area. Have the child start pedaling forward, then brake to stop. Repeat this several times until they are comfortable. Then, direct your child to try turning the handlebars just slightly while they ride forward. Walk next to the child as they turn, supporting them as needed. It can take some time for the child to get confident turning, so be patient.


Ideally, the child should learn to lean into the turns ever so slightly. However, this can be difficult to communicate to young children, so you may want to have it be something the child discovers on their own.
 Next, have your child pedal up a gentle slope. Here, a hard surface can be better than grass because grass can make it hard for the child to gain enough speed to make it up the hill. Tell the child to push hard on the pedals and, as always, support them as needed to prevent them from falling.
 As your child practices their skills, slowly start holding onto them less and less until they're comfortable with you simply walking beside them. Then, slowly stay further and further away from the child as they ride until they're comfortable riding without you next to them at all. Slow, steady progress is the key here — you basically want the child to start riding on their own without even knowing they're doing it.


Be prepared to "go backwards" for a short while if your child takes a nasty spill. It's better to offer your support after a fall than to make your child go it alone — this can turn them off from of biking on their own, making it harder to teach them essential riding skills in the long term.
 Stay upbeat and positive as you teach your child to ride without training wheels. Praise them for the progress they make. Tell them that they make you proud when they finally get to the point of being able to ride on their own. Don't berate them for making mistakes or push them to do things they're not comfortable doing. You want your child to eventually like riding their bike — if they do, they'll eventually be able to continue teaching themselves without any help from you.


Positive reinforcement, the practice of giving a child rewards for good behavior, is recommended by many serious parenting resources. Positive reinforcement teaches a child what good behavior is while giving them love and attention, which are important for any child.