 If you know early on that you have an interest in computer science, it is helpful to focus your high school curriculum on courses that will give you an advantage in college and in your career.


Try to focus on courses in mathematics, science, and computing.
It is likely that you already gravitate toward these types of classes, but if not, ask yourself whether computer science is really right for you. Computer scientists must have an aptitude for science, math, and information, and the ability to problem-solve and think logically. Maintain a good grade point average and standardized test scores so you can apply to top programs in the field.
 This is the best way to begin a serious study of computer science, preparing you for a career in the field. You'll have access to the best resources and experienced teachers.


If you know specifically what you want to study in computer science, look for the highest rated college or university with a program in that field in your area. Otherwise, look for a school with a strong information technology program and professors who can mentor you as you choose your specialization.
 Having experience in jobs that utilize some of the basic concepts of computer science can help you learn more about the discipline and also bolster your resume so that you will be able to find a good job when you get out of school.


Try to find part-time, summer, or work-study experience related to computing, engineering, mathematics, or other technological fields. You may not get hands-on experience with actual computer programming in your early stages of work, but even being in the same room with computer scientists will allow you to make connections, ask questions, and learn more. Consider working as a lab assistant or a library aid.
Get an internship that will give you hands-on experience with computer science, for instance at a software development company or at a computer help desk at a major corporation or university., Most computer scientists get at least a bachelor's degree, but some fields will hire a candidate with only an associate's. In general, an associate's degree takes two years and a bachelor's degree takes four.


Your coursework will emphasize math, science, and technology, but you should also be sure to take courses in English (or other native language in the country where you study and plan to work), writing, and the humanities.
 There are many options for what to do with a degree in computer science, including systems analyst, database administrator, hardware engineer, data scientist, help desk technician, security specialist, and many others.Look online on career websites, classifieds, or the websites of particular companies. Many corporate websites list open positions in computer science under the category of "Support" or "IT" (Information Technology). Look for an entry level position that sounds interesting to you!
You can also ask professors and work supervisors for job recommendations and help locating open positions.
 Remember that even after you've found a job in computer science, computers will constantly evolve and change, and so must your skills in order for you to remain relevant and keep your job secure.Many big tech companies offer continuing education courses, seminars, or conferences. You can also enroll in night classes at a local college, or ask your employer if they will help subsidize courses you can take from home.
It’s a good idea to subscribe to technology blogs, magazines, or listservs in order to keep up with changing protocols and languages.

