 Find out if any of your friends who also own pets have ever used any of the boarding facilities in the area. This can be a great way to get the inside scoop on what the kennels are like and what experiences people have had with them in the past.Be sure to ask if the staff was friendly, whether or not the facility seemed clean and sanitary, and if their pet seemed to enjoy the experience.
Also ask if they plan on using the kennel again in the future. This will be a good indication for how they feel about their experience with the place.;
, Many veterinarian offices offer in-house kennel boarding services. Ask your vet if they provide this service and about some of the specifics. Inquire about cost, services offered, capacity of the kennel, and availability for the specific dates you need.You can also ask your vet if they recommend any other kennels in the area. They will probably have a good idea about what other animal-related services are provided in your area.
 Try doing an online search for boarding kennels in your area. You should be able to find many options available online – and you may even be able to check availability dates on the facility’s website.Be sure to read any reviews you can find online for each boarding kennel you are considering.
 Local pet shops should be able to give you some information regarding what places you can use to board your pets in your area.


Smaller, locally owned pet shops will probably be the best place to look for kennel information.
But even larger chain pet shops should be able to make some recommendations. They may even offer boarding services themselves. For example, PetSmart offers overnight boarding services., Some boarding kennels keep the animals in rows of small cages with very little room to move around in. Other kennels may be more like a pet resort and provide your animal with more room and a more luxurious setting. Think about how you want your pet to live while you’re away and find a kennel that suits those needs.But remember, especially if cost is a factor for you, that the more luxurious the environment, the higher the price tag will probably be.
 Never take your pet to a boarding kennel you haven’t first visited in person. An online search is just a jumping off point. You really need to go do some site visits after you’ve found some places you like online.


During your visit, take notice of how clean the place seems. You want to choose a place with clean facilities so your pet will be in a safe, healthy environment.
Notice how the place smells. Of course any boarding kennel will probably smell a little bit like animals. But if the smell is too strong, or feels overpowering, this is not a good sign for the level of cleanliness they maintain.
 There is no governing body in the pet care field that accredits boarding kennel facilities. If you want a professional stamp of approval regarding the kennel you choose, be sure to consult with your veterinarian for recommendations.If your boarding kennel has received the prestigious Pet Care Services Association (PCSA) “Voluntary Facilities Accreditation” Award, you can be confident in the level of quality care your pet will receive at this facility. Less than 1% of kennels in the United States have received this recognition, so it is a testament to the excellent cleanliness, attentiveness of staff, and exceptional medical attention your pet will receive at this kennel., A good kennel should be associated with a reputable veterinarian who can consistently oversee the animals and provide any kind of medical care that may be needed. A quality boarding kennel must offer some kind of vet services or availability, especially in case of emergency.They should also be able to administer medication to your pet and monitor your pet’s health while it is in their care.
 It’s important to understand what kind of care your pet will receive while at your chosen boarding kennel facility. When deciding on which kennel to choose, you should ask questions about how much attention and interaction your pet will receive each day. You don’t want your pet just stuck in a crate all day for the whole time you’re gone.Inquire about how often your pet will be bathed, how frequently they’ll be taken out to the bathroom, if your pet is allowed to interact with other animals, and if there will be any play time for your pet.
 Find out what services each location offers. Usually, there will be a variety of packages to choose from beginning with the most basic amenities for your pet and branching out to more luxurious offerings. Ask what services are available and consider which options you want and how they compare to your budget.


Some boarding kennels even offer 24 hour video surveillance of your pet through a smartphone app., Obviously, prices will vary from location to location – depending on the services provided and how much care your pet will receive. Keep your budget in mind and be sure to ask about the cost per night (and for any additional services) as you are considering potential locations to board your pet.On average, depending on the size of your pet and services requested, boarding your pet can cost between $15 and $90 per day.
 Most boarding kennels will require that your pet’s vaccination records be up-to-date before they will allow your pet to come stay with them. This is important for your own pet’s health as well as maintaining the health of other animals your pet may interact with.The kennel will probably require an official copy of your pet’s vaccination records from your veterinarian’s office. Or they may call your vet for verification.
 Being boarded away from home and away from its family can be very stressful for a pet, but you want your pet to feel as comfortable as possible while you are gone. If the boarding facility will allow it, try to bring some things from home that will help put your pet at ease.Consider bringing your pet’s bed or its favorite toy. Maybe even consider bringing some of your pet’s favorite treats.
Definitely bring your pet’s food if they have special dietary needs.
This also includes any medication your pet may need while being boarded at the kennel – medication it takes every day, or even meds that your pet only needs occasionally. You want to make sure your pet is reasonably prepared for every situation while you are gone.
But always ask the kennel what they do and do not allow to be brought from home before you take the time to bring something they might not allow.
 Make sure you bring the kennel’s contact information with you after you take your pet to the facility. Ask them about any special instructions they may have for contacting them, especially after hours.


Be sure to leave accurate contact information for yourself with the kennel so they can reach you if they need to. Remember to give them your cell phone number if you’re going to be away from home.
Ask if the kennel staff is available by phone 24 hours per day, or if you can only call at certain times.
 If at any point you have questions about boarding your pet, call the facility. They should be happy to answer any questions you may have to help ease your mind and make sure you’re prepared for the visit.Be sure to remind the kennel employees about any special needs your pet may have when you arrive to drop your pet off.
 Leaving your pet can be stressful, especially for the first time at a new place. Consider taking your pet to the kennel for a short time to see how they do before you commit to leaving them for a longer period of time.


You should be able to tell how your pet will react to being boarded at the kennel if you leave it there for one overnight stay.
Be sure to discuss how your pet reacted with the staff and ask them if they have any advice on what you might need to do differently before bringing your pet in for a longer visit.

