 It's tough to draw with a mouse, unless you're using vector lines. Many artists use drawing tablets, with Wacom tablets being fairly common across the art world. However, search for different brands if you feel that Wacom tablets aren't right for you.


Decide what tablet is best for you - however, keep in mind your budget and how often you'll be using it. If drawing manga is your source of income, then it may be worth it to save up and get a touchscreen or a pen display. These are extremely costly, however, so start off with a regular tablet and decide which one is best for you.;
, You can't use MS Paint for manga, as the quality of art is terrible. Research art programs and find a free one, or purchase one if you can afford it.


Free-of-cost applications available to both Mac and Windows are FireAlpaca, MediBang Paint Pro, and GIMP. Mischief has a free version, but it doesn't have layer tools.
A commonly used software is Paint Tool SAI. It costs money, but many people use it. However, it's Windows-only, and running it on Mac through an emulator disables pen pressure.
Good quality software that is available to both Mac and Windows include Mischief, Adobe Photoshop, and Manga Studio. They can be costly, but they're good choices for art.
 The first thing you want to do after installing the tablet drivers is to figure out how the tablet matches to the screen and adjust any settings you want to change. Take some time to orient yourself with the tablet and drawing, and test out different settings that you may want to use.


If you haven't already, learn your way around the drawing software. You can search online for guides on your program, or explore by yourself to find out where certain settings are. Be aware, though - when it comes to programs such as Photoshop or Manga Studio that have different versions, you want to make sure that your searches are limited to the version you have.
 With pencil and paper drawings, there are certain qualities that can be bothersome - such as getting graphite all over your hand. Digital art has more features; however, some are dependent on the drawing software you use.



Layer tools permit you to create transparent layers that don't mix with other parts of the drawing. In other words, you don't have to draw your sketch and your final lines on the same layer anymore.

Most programs also have opacity locks, which prevent you from drawing or coloring outside of what's already been marked, and clipping masks, which make the layer "snap" to the layer below it and lets you add different colors without needing to be on the same layer.



Brush tools are extremely useful, especially if your software allows you to create your own brushes with different settings. Many programs have a catch-all list of brushes - pencil, pen, watercolor/blend, airbrush, blur, and the eraser. Some programs have different categories and other types of brushes, but most programs follow the list above.

Transform tools allow you to select something on the drawing - whether it's a whole layer or just a part of it - and move it, resize it, and in some software, change the angling of it. This is useful if you need to check sizing on something or draw something in the wrong place.

Select tools allow you to select part of the drawing - whether it's opaque or not - and color it. Using the select tools also allow the selected portion to be transformed.

Vector tools are only available in some programs, but are useful for creating lines that aren't shaky. They can be edited to be thick, thin, curved, straight, and the color of them can be altered. However, some artists prefer not to use these, viewing them as cheating.

Zoom tools can help to view your image up close or far away to see if you've done the linework incorrectly. Some programs also permit you to screen flip and change the angle of how you're viewing the art, which is recommended if something looks wrong but you can't tell what it is.
 Have fun with your art software! Draw your manga and have fun while doing so.

