 Sanz says the concept should always match the product you are selling. So, if the product is Italian, everything should be consistently Italian themed. If the product is Filipino, the concept should match.;
, "Even if the concept is good, but the product is bad, people will just avail at the start to try it out but they will not be coming back," Sanz said. Making sure that you have a consistently good product will ensure the long term viability of the business.
 This is one of the single most important factors of a food cart business. Make sure that the site is very visible with very high foot traffic. "Do your research, try to gauge the amount of people passing through a particular location, and also make sure that these people suit your target market for your product," Sanz advises.
 As a marketing tool, having a good storefront is critical for any startup. "Ask yourself, how will I differentiate myself from competitors? To do this, you will probably need to hire a good designer and architect or visit other countries to get a good idea. Trade books and magazines could also help you decide what design will work for your line of business," Sanz said.
 Sanz said it is very important to install a good operating system in your business, especially if you're a startup with limited resources. "Here is where the stall operation will revolve. This is important because in cart business, there is limited space. You should be able to store your product and prepare them with that limited space," he said.
 Don't bank on credit to bankroll your business. Obtaining the needed capital for your business is a necessary step, but Sanz counsels it would be wise to use your own money, so in case the business doesn’t do well, no creditor will go after you. "The rule is “you only invest what you are prepared to lose,” he said.
 A food business is very dependent on a good reputation for success, maintaining a good service level, efficient systems, and clean products and workstations will go a long way in helping your longevity and increase help you build credibility.
 There's nothing more annoying than having to stop operations for lack of supplies, place of business, or both. To avoid this, Sanz says entrepreneurs should set up an active payment system that is both efficient and timely. "Suppliers are the lifeblood of your company, and if they stop because of non payment, you will lose a lot money. Also, make sure to pay the right wages and give mandatory benefits to your employees, because a happy worker is a productive worker," he said.
 Before the first day of operations, make sure to register your business with DTI, IPO, BIR, and get the necessary business permits in the barangay and municipal/city hall (mayor's permit). Doing so will save you the hassle of processing it while your business is already under way.
 If you opt to get a franchise instead of starting your own business, make sure that the franchisor is a member of good standing with any (or both) of the two franchise associations in the Philippines, Association of Filipino Franchisers, Inc (AFFI) and Philippine Franchise Association (PFA). Do background checks, talk with franchisees, and consult a lawyer before signing the franchise agreement.
 This is why the membership with the AFFI and PFA is important because these two groups screen their members properly," Sanz said.
 LOCATION! LOCATION!. Location, plays a big part in the success of your food cart or in any business for that matter. You have to think of a good location where people frequents and can see what you are selling. But not all places cramming with people is a good venue

, People will keep coming back on you food cart business, if you sell good quality products at a very reasonable price. When you are just starting your business don’t be too greedy with the profit and be prepare for setbacks. Be creative and update your products every two months so that your customers will not get tired of what you sell. Always think that there are a lot of competition in the market.
 Customers will not come to you unless they're familiar with your store. Use Tarpaulins and Flyers, Use your Network. Let them know you're there.
