 To activate the yeast, you need to mix it with a warm liquid. Add ½ cup (118 ml) of warm milk to the bowl of a stand mixer. The milk should be 105°F (41°C).You can use 1% or 2% milk, but whole milk usually results in the best rolls.;
, After you’ve poured the milk into the mixer’s bowl, add 1 tablespoon (13 g) of sugar and 2 teaspoons (7 g) of yeast to it. Stir them into the milk to help the yeast dissolve.If you’re using a yeast packet for the rolls, you’ll need an entire ¼ oz (7 g) packet.
 Once you’ve gently mixed the sugar and yeast into the milk, leave the mixture to sit for 5 to 10 minutes. You’ll know that it’s ready when it becomes foamy., When the yeast mixture is foamy, add 3 tablespoons (43 g) of melted butter, 3 tablespoons (38 g) of sugar, 1 lightly beaten egg, and ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of pure vanilla extract. Blend the ingredients together in the stand mixer on low speed until they are fully combined.You can use egg substitute in place of the egg if you prefer.
If you don’t have a stand mixer, you can use a handheld electric mixer to mix the dough.
You can also mix the dough by hand, but it will require more time and effort.
 After the ingredients are mixed, add ½ teaspoon (3 g) of sea salt, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of ground cinnamon, and 2 cups (250 g) of all-purpose flour to the bowl. Mix the ingredients in on medium-high speed until a sticky but firm dough forms.If you prefer, you can replace the all-purpose flour with a blend of 1 cup (125 g) of all-purpose flour and 1 cup (96 g) of whole wheat pastry flour.
 Once the dough has come together, turn it out onto a lightly floured surface. Use clean hands to knead it until it’s smooth and elastic, which should take 5 to 10 minutes.You can knead the dough in the stand mixer with the dough hook attachment in place if you prefer.
 When the dough is smooth, place it in a large bowl that’s been lightly greased with butter. Turn the dough over once so it’s coated with butter on both sides and then cover the bowl with plastic wrap., Place the bowl in a warm place and leave it to rise. The dough should double in size, which usually takes about an hour.The oven is a good place to place the dough for rising. Turn on its light, but leave the actual heat off.
 When the dough is finished rising, turn it out onto a lightly floured surface again. Use a rolling pin to roll it out into a 14-inch (36-cm) circle that’s approximately ¼-inch (6-mm) thick.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can use any heavy, cylindrical object, such as a wine bottle or thermos, for rolling out the dough.
 Once the dough is rolled out, use a knife to cut it into a 8 equal-sized triangles. Separate the triangles so each is set out individually.A pizza cutter can be handy for cutting the dough.
 Add 3 tablespoons (38 g) of sugar and 1 teaspoon (2 g) of ground cinnamon to a small bowl. Mix the two together well until they’re fully blended.You can use store-bought cinnamon sugar if you prefer. You’ll need approximately 3 tablespoons (38 g).
 Place another small bowl with 2 tablespoons (28 g) of melted butter beside the bowl with the cinnamon sugar. Dip 8 marshmallows in the melted butter and then roll them in the cinnamon sugar so they’re fully coated.Dip each marshmallow into the butter and cinnamon sugar one at a time. Have a piece of foil or parchment paper ready to set them down on when you’re finished.
If you don’t want to use the butter, you can dip them into water instead.
 Take the dough triangles and place a coated marshmallow in the center of each. Next, wrap the dough over the marshmallow and squeeze it in your hand to ensure that it is completely covered by the dough.Make sure that there are no cracks or openings in the dough, or the marshmallow may seep out during baking.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the rolls, set the temperature to 350°F (177°C) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line a large baking sheet with parchment paper so the rolls won’t stick.If you prefer, you can use a silicone baking mat to line the baking sheet.
 Once the baking sheet is lined, arrange all of the rolls on it. Cover the rolls with a clean kitchen towel until the oven has finished preheating., When the oven is fully preheated, place the rolls inside. Allow them to bake for 15 to 20 minutes, or until they are golden brown.Keep an eye on the rolls near the end of the baking time. The bottoms can easily burn.
 When the rolls are finished baking, remove the baking sheet from the oven. Transfer them to a wire cooling rack to allow them to cool for 15 to 20 minutes or until you can handle them comfortably., When you’re ready to serve the rolls, instruct everyone to break them open. The marshmallow will have “disappeared” during baking so it serves as an ideal way to teach the resurrection story.Store any leftover rolls in an airtight container. They should keep for 3 to 4 days.

