 Many online sites, magazines or books offer reviews by a fitness expert or a number of other consumers. Reading over a few of these reviews may clue you in on the quality of the DVD you're interested in.


Pay attention to both positive and negative reviews. Try to understand why the user did or didn't like the DVD - did it promise something that wasn't achievable? Were the workouts described appropriately? Were the workouts easy to follow? They may point out aspects of the DVD that will prompt you to purchase it or not.
 Consider what your current fitness level is - are you a beginner? Or are you a well-seasoned exerciser? This information will help you decide which exercise DVDs are appropriate for you level.


Read reviews or descriptions on the DVD to find out what fitness level is required. Most DVDs will provide some information regarding the types of exercises performed in the routines and how fit you need to be to complete them.
Also think about your goals. Some DVDs have both beginner, intermediate and advanced programs included. Even if you start at the beginner level, you may be able to move up to more advanced routines as your fitness level improves.
 A variety of online sites offer fitness DVD rentals. In addition, you may be able to borrow some DVDs from your local library. This may be a good option before committing to a DVD and purchasing it. You'll be able to try out a variety of programs, trainers and types of exercises before spending your money on something you may not like.


Consider the length of the routines. Depending on your time, you may want to have a variety of length options to fit into your schedule. Look for DVDs that offer quick workouts in addition to full length workouts.
You may start out with just 1 DVD. However, you may get bored with those routines, so having a few more DVDs to keep things interesting may help keep you motivated long-term.
Watching free videos online is another alternative to purchasing DVDs. Many fitness sites offer short, free videos to follow along with at home.
 It's the combination of both types of physical activity that produces the best results and will help maximize your weight loss.This may also help cut down on cost of multiple DVDs and save you time from doing multiple workouts.
If you're lacking on time try routines that do both cardio and strength training at the same time. Or, just go for cardio as this burns the most calories per minute compared to strength training., Like many nutrition, diet and fitness products, not all exercise DVDs deliver what they promise. Be wary of programs that look too good to be true.


Any program that promises large quantities of weight loss in a short amount of time is most likely not safe and is most likely not promoting accurate or reliable information. The best weight loss occurs in small amounts of longer periods of time.Also be aware of exercise programs that promise you significant increases in fitness levels or muscle mass in just a short amount of time or in few minute increments. Again, it takes time, energy and patience to increase your aerobic fitness levels and to increase muscle mass.