 Chansey can only evolve into Blissey in generation II and later. If you're playing Pokémon Red, Blue, Yellow, or Green, you'll need to transfer to Gold, Silver, or Crystal in order to be able to evolve Chansey.


You can trade from Generation I to Generation II, but you can't trade from I or II to Generation III or later.;
, Chansey evolves when its Friendship or Happiness level reaches a certain level. When you capture or trade for a wild Chansey, it's Friendship level is set to 70. In order to evolve Chansey, you will need to raise its Friendship level to at least 220 (255 is the max). The process for raising the Friendship level is similar across most games, but each one has some minor tweaks.
 Determining Chansey's Friendship level is a little difficult, as you can't see the numbers anywhere in the game. Instead, you'll need to talk to a specific person and use the phrase they say to determine Chansey's Friendship level. When checking Friendship, make sure Chansey is the first Pokémon in your party. The phrase listed below will indicate that your Chansey has a Friendship level of about 200-250.Generation II: Talk to the woman near the Bike Shop in Goldenrod City. "I get the feeling that it really trusts you." This is the same for HeartGold and SoulSilver.
Generation III: Find the house in Verdanturf with a woman and a Pikachu. Talk to the woman to determine your Friendship level. "It seems to be very happy. It obviously likes you a whole lot." This is also the same for Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby. In FireRed and LeafGreen, talk to Daisy in Pallet Town. "It looks very happy. I wish Rival could see this and learn something from it."

Generation IV: Talk to the Beauty in the Pokémon Fan Club in Hearthome city, or talk to Dr. Footstep south of the Pastoria City entrance. "I get the feeling that it really trusts you." (Diamond and Pearl). "It's very friendly toward you. I can tell you treat it kindly." (Platinum)
Generation V: Talk to the woman in the Pokémon Fan club in Icirrus City. "It is quite friendly to you! You must be a kind person!". In Black 2 and White 2, you can call Bianca. "You two sure get along great! It looks like you are having fun together! You seem bright and cheerful!"

Generation VI: Talk to the Pokémon Breeder at the Pokémon Fan Club in Laverre City. "You must really like your Chansey and always keep it by your side!"

Generation VII: Talk to the woman near the TM shop in Konikoni City. "You clearly love your Chansey, and you must spend a lot of time together."


, One of the primary ways to increase Friendship is to keep Chansey in your active party. Every 256 steps you take (512 in Generation II) will raise the Friendship level by 1.
 Leveling Chansey up will provide a boost of up to 5 friendship. You'll get less Friendship for leveling when Chansey has a high Friendship rating.
 These are items that increase Chansey's stats, and each Vitamin will increase Friendship by up to 5. Again, the rewards will diminish as Chansey's Friendship increases. Vitamins include:


Protein
HP Up
Iron
Zinc
Calcium
Carbos
PP Up
PP Max
Rare Candy

, There are several activities that you can take Chansey to that will raise its Friendship. The activities available depend on the game you are playing. There are no massage activities in Generation III games.


Generation II: Talk to the Haircut Brothers in Goldenrod tunnel. Daisy Oak in Pallet Town will also groom Pokémon between 3-4 PM.
Generation IV: Talk to the Massage Girl in Veilstone City. She can be found in the house in the bottom-left corner of the town. The Spa Treatment from the Ribbon Syndicate building in the Resort Area will give a large boost.
Generation V: Talk to the Massage Lady in Castelia City. In Black and White, she can be found on the first floor of the western building on Castelia Street. In B2 and W2, she can be found in the building across from the Pokémon Center.
Generation VI: Talk to the Massage Lady in the house to the west of the Pokémon Center in Cyllage City. In Omega Ruby and Alpha Sapphire, a Groomer has been added to Mauville City, north of the Poke Miles shop.
Generation VII: Talk to the Massage Lady in the Konikoni City market.
 These special Poke Balls give a bonus to each Friendship increase as long as Chansey is stored in it. Luxury Balls are only available in Generation III and later.
 This item increase the amount of Friendship gained by the Pokémon that is holding it. Like the Luxury Ball, it was introduced in Generation III.


You can use the Luxury Ball and the Soothe Bell together to increase the boost. Each one boosts Friendship gained by 1 point, and combined will increase Friendship by 2 points each time it is raised.
 If Chansey faints in Battle, it will lose 1 Friendship point. Make sure to pull Chansey out of the battle if it's in danger of getting knocked out.
 Using herbal items during battle will take a massive hit on your friendship level. For example, using a Revival Herb can cost as many as 20 Friendship points, depending on the current Friendship level, while using Heal Powder will cost 5-10 points.


Try to do all of your healing at a Pokémon Center or healing with normal healing items, which won't have any effect on Chansey's Friendship level.
 Since you can't find the exact number, you'll have to guess based on the Friendship Checker's phrase. Once you're pretty sure that Chansey's friendship is high enough, level it up during a battle to start the evolution. You can also use a Rare Candy to level it up.


If the evolution into Blissey does not happen, Chansey's Friendship is not high enough.

