 There are various websites that will help you design and order custom beer or liquor bottle labels. You can also design, print, and cut your own. Affix these directly to individual beer bottles with sticker paper, or hang more traditional cards around the necks of your groomsmen’ favorite liquor bottles.Either present these gifts in person or send them in the mail. They can be even be used to break the news, or as a follow-up to an in-person conversation.
For instance, you might customize labels that look like name tags with text like "Groomsman Tucker."

, Part of accepting the gig as your groomsman is agreeing to wear whatever outfit you want them to wear at your wedding. If you so happen to have style-minded friends, they may appreciate a customized something-or-other that will fit with the suits you’ve chosen.For instance, get your buddies bow ties that reflect each of their individual styles. Get that wannabe lumberjack buddy a plaid bow tie and your alma mater’s biggest fan a bow tie with the team mascot on it.
 While booze and a cigar are the traditional groomsman gifts, consider getting something a bit longer-lasting to include with your groomsman requests. For instance, a simple but classy tie clip or a lighter monogrammed a buddy’s initials is something they’ll likely keep for the rest of their lives.Cufflinks are a classic example, and can be tailored to each groomsman.
For instance, have custom-made cuff links with your favorite picture of your buddy inset, or an inscription of an inside joke between the two of you.
 Getting down to brass tacks: it costs money to be a groomsman. Tux rental alone can be expensive, not to mention peripheral costs like a wedding gift, travel costs, and a potential bachelor party. In situations where you know cost may be a factor regarding someone’s ability to be your groomsman, don’t ignore the issue.If you have a friend that may not be able to afford being your groomsman but you’d like them to be, considering covering the cost yourself.

