 If you’re a teenager who’s never dated a girl before, it’s important to make sure that you have permission. Some parents may want their children to reach a certain age before they’re allowed to date, so it’s important to discuss the situation with them. If you really like the girl but your parents don’t think you’re old enough to date, don’t argue with them about it. Have a calm conversation with them to explain why you think you’re ready to date.It often helps to remind your parents how responsible you are. Point out all the chores you do around the house or that you’ve been doing well in all your classes and extracurricular activities, so they can trust you.
If your parents still aren’t convinced that you’re ready to date, ask them if you can go on group outings with the girl you like and some friends. You might even invite the group over for a movie night or other activity, so your parents can supervise -- and get to know the girl.
 When you’re dating someone, you often find yourself in difficult situations that require maturity to handle properly. Before you go out with a girl, you should know whether you feel comfortable talking to her about how serious you’re willing to be about the relationship and what your boundaries are when it comes to sex. You also have to be mature enough to respect her feelings and boundaries in return.Don’t start dating just because your friends are doing it. Make sure that you’re ready for all of the baggage that comes with dating and not just giving into peer pressure because everyone else has paired off.
 It may seem obvious, but you want to make sure that you’re genuinely interested in the person who you’re thinking about dating. Thinking that she’s pretty isn’t enough either. Make sure that she’s someone who you share some interests with, so you know you’ll have fun together. Pay attention to how she treats her friends, family, and teachers too -- you want to date someone who will treat you with kindness and respect, so her interactions with others can help give you an idea of what to expect.It doesn’t hurt to ask some trusted friends what they think of the girl. They’ll have your best interests at heart, so they should be honest with you.
 You want to be sure that the girl who you’re dating is someone that it’s safe for you to be with. Dating an older girl may seem exciting, but it may not be the best idea. That’s because you may feel pressured to do things that you’re not emotionally ready for. Try to date girls who are no more than one grade ahead of you in school.