 The style is entirely up to you but it must look good and be well presented. Even when you're doing celebrity casual dress-down, keep it neat and stylish.;
, This might be jewelry, a scarf, a hat or your shoes. Whatever it is, make it a focal point that you are known for wearing with flair., If you can afford it, have some good quality clothing and accessory from designer labels. The more obvious that it's designer wear, the better.


Check out consignment stores and thrift stores if you want lower priced designer gear.
 You might be outgoing and exuberant, attracted to talking to people everywhere, like many a celebrity. Or, you might be of the mysterious, "leave me alone" style of celebrity, who closely guards everything personal and only answers that which really needs to be answered when asked prying questions.


It's probably best to go with your natural personality style unless you're acting in a play or movie. It will be hard to sustain a different personality style for a long time in public.
 Make it clear to others that you're glad to meet them but that you hold center stage. This requires being charming, interesting and witty. Don't spend too long with any one person––be a social butterfly and get around to greeting many people., Your companion has to pretend that she or he is a celebrity, too.
 When you're on the bus or somewhere in public, talk to your companion:


You: So, did you finish shooting the first few episodes of the show you're going to have on Disney Channel?
Friend: Yeah, did you finish that movie you were shooting with Angelina?
You: Yeah, it was fun acting with her.
, What's up? Meet me after the concert at that restaurant you were talking about. Nick, Joe and Kevin will be there, too!

, Wear sunglasses and look around furtively when leaving cafes and stores. After all, who knows when the paparazzi will show up?


If you're role playing, have someone play at being a pretend paparazzi! Have them chase you with a camera, while you shield your face and run.
 Post tour updates, upcoming movie releases and other celebrity events you're involved in.
 Make a schedule ahead of time for having a fun celebrity day at home. Be sure to have a friend or two join in.
 Here are some suggestions:


Hot tub and fancy drinks (milkshakes, mocktails, smoothies); wear fluffy housecoats when you get out
Have a tasty brunch
Working out or a dance lesson; if you and a friend have different talents, teach one another something new






Having a make-over and manicure
Doing a voice lesson






Doing an acting, singing or dancing routine and film it on video (best done with friends)
Watch yourself in that movie the same night, with popcorn and friends.
 Have lots of exotic fruits and uniquely carved vegetables in salads. Enjoy flavored water for your drink of choice.
 Make a video with a "celebrity" friend that aims to inspire others. You could say completely vapid messages, such as: "Girls, be comfortable with who you are, don't get boob jobs, your shorts are too short! Be more tan!"

