 Perhaps you are looking to make your invitation to them a bit more formal or dramatic. Begin thinking of all of the things that your friend enjoys and find ways to incorporate this into your big ask.For instance, if they love the color pink, buy bunches of pink balloons and write something on a poster like “I have a question for you! Pop the balloons to find out” and then place note cards with “will” “you” “go” “to” “prom” “with” “me” in them. They will have to put the notecards together and will enjoy your sweet gesture.
 Another creative way to invite your friend is to lead them to the question via a scavenger hunt. Create clues at various locations that are relatively close together and important to your friendship. These locations could be your houses, your school, the movie theater, or the mall. Leave clues at these locations in a place where they won’t be disturbed.At the end of the scavenger hunt, have a large sign that says “Prom?”

, Another fun way to ask your friend is to decorate their locker. Arrive to school earlier than normal or stay later and begin decorating. Use their favorite colors or pictures of their favorite things to decorate.For instance, if they love soccer, you could decorate it with their favorite soccer player or team and write something like “It’s my goal to take you to prom. Can I?”
Make sure you don’t damage the locker in any way. If you get in trouble, you might not be able to go to prom.
 You can also invite your friend to prom through buying them a gift of some sort. This gift does not have to be expensive, just heartfelt and something they enjoy.For instance, if they like a certain kind of candy, buy some for them and put a note on it that reads “It would be sweet if you went to prom with me.”

, In coming up with a unique and fun way to invite your friend to prom, you might need the help of others to make it a true success. Hit up your other friends to help you with this or even your best friend’s parents, particularly if you will need access to their room for your invite.You might want to decorate their driveway and write “Prom?” using sparklers. If so, you will need their parent’s help and permission.

