 The best way to prevent pancreatic cancer is to reduce the risk factors that you have control over. One of the most important controllable risk factors is smoking. Smokers are twice as likely to get pancreatic cancer as those who do not. Research suggests this is because the cancerous elements from cigarettes enter your blood, which damages the pancreas.Quit smoking to help lower your risk of pancreatic cancer. If you don't already smoke, you should not start. You can quit smoking through many different methods, such as:


Use support groups. You can find a Nicotine Anonymous group or other support groups in your area through the American Lung Association. You can also find telephone-based support groups.Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), such as patches, nasal spray, gum, lozenges, and inhalers. These are not safe for pregnant women or those with heart disease.
Prescription medications, which will be prescribed by your doctor. These include Bupropion (Zyban) and Varenicline (Chantix).;
, A high alcohol intake can increase your risk for pancreatic cancer. Furthermore, cirrhosis, which can be caused by alcohol abuse, has been linked with an increased risk of pancreatic cancer.It is very important that you limit your daily alcohol consumption. If you don't drink, don't start, and alcohol should not be an everyday occurrence. Dietary guidelines suggest that you should have no more than one drink per day if you are female and no more than two drinks per day if you are male.


Limit the amount that you drink per week to avoid liver and pancreas damage., One of the risk factors of pancreatic cancer is obesity. You can start losing weight through exercise and a healthy meal plan. Ask your doctor for an exercise plan and food menu that will work for your particular situation.The suggested recommendation for exercise from the American Heart Association is 150 minutes of moderate or 75 minutes of intense exercise per week. This should be spread out over a few days., Preliminary research shows that too much red meat may be linked with a higher risk of pancreatic cancer, especially in men.Limit red meats in your diet, having them once or twice a week. Instead of red meat, eat more fish and skinless poultry.


If you have a higher risk of pancreatic cancer because of family history, you may want to limit it to once every few weeks or cut it out entirely.Always take the skin off your poultry because it has high levels of fat.
Eat more nutrient rich fish, such as cod, salmon, tuna, and haddock. These foods have omega-3 fatty acids, which are essential to your health., The consumption of processed meats has been shown to increase your risk of pancreatic cancer. Processed meats are any meats that have been changed to extend its shelf-life, such as smoking, curing, adding excessive salts or preservatives. To lower possible risk of pancreatic cancer, limit or eliminate your intake of processed meats, such as sausage, bacon, hot dogs, salami, beef jerky, and ham.If you want to eat these kinds of foods, look for all natural, uncured meats without preservatives, such as nitrates.

