 Do this by holding the power button at the top left corner of the device. You should feel a slight haptic feedback, and the device should boot up shortly after., The first thing you will see is a language selection drop-down menu, so tap the button at the bottom of the picture of the HTC One, and choose the desired language and tap “OK.”, The Setup Wizard will now begin., You will need a working wireless network around your vicinity to fully setup your phone. Upon starting the Setup Wizard, the phone will bring up a list of available networks for you to connect to, so choose one you have access to and enter the password.

Hit “Next” at the bottom right once the caption under the network name says “Connected.”

, In the next screen, you will find some options you can use to import data to your new phone to make the setup process much quicker. Here, select “Transfer from old phone” then, hit “Next.”

On the next screen, you’ll see some option as to which phone you will be importing data from (HTC, Other Android Phone, iPhone, Other).
 This will create a Wi-Fi direct connection between the two devices, which will be used to transfer the settings over., On your HTC phone and your old phone, head to the Settings menu. Tap “Wireless and Networks,” and tap the menu button at the top right corner of the screen, or the capacitive touch button if available, and then tap on “More.” This will open an advanced menu where you can select “WiFi-Direct” to toggle it on., Once enabled on both devices, the HTC One will search for the old phone, and then send a request to import data from it. Simply press “Accept” on the HTC One and the data will begin transferring over. When the progress bar fills up, the process is finished.

Moving from an iPhone will let you transfer data from an iTunes backup locally or over bluetooth, but the type of data will be limited to what iTunes allows.
 Once data has finished transferring, you will be taken to the last setup screen. The last setup screen is a text box where you can enter your phone’s name in. Think of a name, tap on the text box, and use the HTC keyboard to type in the desired name. Tap on “Finish” to proceed to the home screen

You have successfully set up your HTC One. Now you can begin customizing the phone with apps and Blinkfeed topics and services.

