 For the best results, you should have both a daily routine that incorporates glycolic acid products with glycolic acid peels every two to four weeks. This will give you the long-term benefits of creams and cleansers while providing instant results after the peel., After you’ve used a facial treatment which contains glycolic acid—whether it was in a facial wash or a facial peel—your skin will have increased sensitivity to UV light. In order to compensate for this and to reduce potential damage to your skin, apply high-SPF sunscreen if you’re going to be in the sun after using glycolic acid.The increased UV sensitivity occurs as an effect of all AHAs, as these abrasive chemicals wear away layers of outer skin that would otherwise protect your face from UV rays.
 If your skin becomes very red or you experience frequent dryness in the areas of skin that you apply the glycolic-acid peel or wash to, you should stop using the product. Skin care products containing glycolic acid may leave your skin with a light tingling or slight redness, but if you note side effects any more pronounced, stop using the product.Also plan to discontinue using the glycolic acid product if you develop any other skin conditions, ranging from eczema or a rash to raised hives or bleeding.
 Since glycolic acid is an abrasive substance which can irritate or damage your skin, it’s safest to start out using a low-percentage product. If your skin responds well to this, then you can safely use a product with a higher percentage of glycolic acid. If you start out using a product with a high acid percentage, your skin may develop a flaky crust-like layer as protection against the acid.If your face peels following the application of a product containing glycolic acid, do not pick at your skin. Breaking or tearing skin can result in scarring or hyper pigmentation.
To avoid hyper pigmentation after a glycolic acid treatment, wear sunscreen and a hat, even if it is not sunny outside.
If red or dry skin conditions persist after discontinuing the use of glycolic acid, schedule an appointment to see your physician or a dermatologist.
 Individuals with sensitive skin should not apply a product containing glycolic acid daily, as the abrupt introduction of the acid can damage your skin. Unlike scrubs, the glycolic acid does not damage low layers of skin, but will dissolve the upper layer, which can lead to reddened or peeling skin. You’ll reduce the likelihood of skin irritation if you begin by applying the glycolic acid product every other day.After a month of non-daily usage, you can begin applying the glycolic acid product daily.

