 Greek culture is largely informal, and individuals often get to know new men and women by asking personal questions. While this may feel invasive, rude, or exploitative to a traveling American, curious Greeks mean no disrespect. Personal questions are simply an effective and culturally appropriate way to quick get to know new people. These personal questions also dispense with the sense of formality which often accompanies introductions in other countries.For example, you may be asked:“Are you married?”
“Do you have children?”

, Greeks do not place great emphasis on punctuality. If you’re invited to a Greek person’s house, they’ll often extend the invitation by saying “come around 8.” In this situation, arrive at or after 8:30; a punctual arrival at 8:00 exactly, while polite in American society, will likely seem overly formal and early.The tableside atmosphere at Greek houses is largely informal and casual. Meal times serve as social gatherings, and long conversations often take place around the table.It’s considered impolite to refuse food in a Greek household. You’ll be expected to clean your plate, and can compliment the host by asking for another serving. If you must refuse some or all of the food, politely explain your reasoning.
 In Greece, the dress code is determined by the occasion, although formal attire is never called for. If you’re invited for coffee, casual clothes are fine. If you’re invited to dinner with a Greek family, or invited to dinner at a Greek individual’s household, dress well, but not formally. Men and women could wear a blazer and slacks, or a button-up shirt.Women in Greek culture typically wear dresses, including to more dressy events. If you prefer to wear a dress you can do so, although it’s not a mandatory dress code., If a Greek individual or family invites you inside of their home, it’s customary to bring a small gift as a show of appreciation. For example, you could bring a bottle of wine, a small bottle of whisky, or a small cake or pastry from a local bakery.Regardless of the gift you choose to bring, do not bring something that is clearly inexpensive. Avoid cheap flowers or cheap bottles of wine.


Also do not give cutlery, knives, or sharp objects as a gift, as these objects are seen as offensive when gifted.

