 It's important to keep your fingernails and toenails trimmed and even. Fingernails can easily chip, causing snags and scratches, and toenails look unsightly if they're overgrown.Keep your nails clean. Use a nail pick to get any buildup out from under your fingernails and toenails.
Use nail clippers or a good pair of manicure scissors to trim your nails. Trim straight across, then round off the tips so they're not sharp or pointy.Use an emery board if needed to help reduce sharp or jagged edges.
 Facial hair is another extremely personal choice. There's no right or wrong answer on whether you should go for a smooth shave or a scruffy beard, so go with whatever makes you comfortable and confident.


If shaving, use a lubricating shave gel and a sharp razor (ideally single-blade). Shave in the direction of hair growth, and don't pull your surrounding skin taut to avoid damaging your skin.If you wear a beard, it's important to keep it trimmed. Use an electric beard trimmer to tame your facial hair, setting the guard to a length that works for your hair and style., Whether you shave your face smooth, or keep some facial hair, you'll want to clean up the often-overlooked areas. That includes trimming back the hairs in your nostrils, in and on your ears, and off the back of your neck (below your hairline).


You should also trim your eyebrows from time to time, so they don't get bushy and overgrown.Use grooming scissors for the nose and ear hair, and a low-guard trimmer or straight razor for the hair on the back of your neck.
 Some men like a hairy chest. Others, however, may prefer a smooth chest, or at least a trimmed and well-groomed chest. This is ultimately your own choice (perhaps with feedback from your partner), but if you decide to trim your chest hair it's important to do it right.If you decide to thin out or trim your chest hair, use an electric clipper and move in the direction your hair grows.
If you want a clean chest, you can either use a clipper with the guard off, or use a razor and moisturizing shaving lotion.
 If you are feeling like you're stuck in a rut, a slightly new look might be just the thing to snap you out of it. Getting a good haircut and styling your hair the way you like it can make you feel beautiful and confident, no matter what occasion you're preparing for.

