 Choose a place that you know your partner likes. Maybe there is a restaurant that has sentimental value, like where you had your first date. If this isn’t an option, choose a place that serves the kind of food your partner enjoys, like a French restaurant. It should be some place that is fancier than where you would normally eat, but you don’t have to pay hundreds of dollars. You should be able to get a quality dinner for two that costs under $100, but if you want to splurge on something extra fancy, you can do that too.


If you are trying somewhere new, read reviews first to make sure that people had a good experience there. You could look on Yelp to see how other people liked the restaurant.
Look for a place with a romantic ambiance rather than a family-style dining place. It should be a restaurant where you will be able to talk and that has a good tone, like candlelit tables and tasteful artwork on the walls.
 This is important so that you are sure they will be able to seat you that night. It will also keep you from having to wait for a very long time at a busy place. Simply call the restaurant ahead of time and tell them when you need the table reserved.
 Besides sharing a romantic meal with your loved one, you can plan something for after dinner. You could take your partner out dancing or to a jazz club or to a movie or to live theatre. Think about the activities your partner enjoys and the interests your partner has and choose a special event for after you eat.


Depending on where you go, you may need to buy tickets in advance.
You could also keep it low key and simply take a moonlit walk together.
 If you wish to spend the night with your partner out of the house, book a hotel room. Try to find some place nice, and be prepared to spend at least $100, perhaps even $300 depending on the city you are in. It doesn’t need to be a 5-star hotel, but look for one that is tasteful and elegant, perhaps something like a Marriott., If you wish, you could buy your partner a gift to show your affection. Flowers, jewelry, and chocolate are always a good bet. You could get something more personal like a picture frame with a nice photo of the two of you. You could even make a gift, like a CD of romantic songs. Getting your partner a gift is a nice touch that they will surely appreciate.
 Make sure to wear something special to look your best for your partner. Depending on where you go, guys could wear a nice suit and girls could wear a knee-length dress. Dressing well helps make the evening special and your partner will appreciate the effort you put into looking your best.