 You can either ask for a complete day off or simply go for a half day off. This is dependent on the time slot for which your interview is scheduled. If the potential employer leaves you no choice and asks you to interview at a fixed time, then it’s a wise move to take more time off.;
, When asking for time off for an interview, don’t explain to your supervisor at length. The idea is to be truthful yet vague. A good manager is not going to probe you for more details if you give them an appropriate reason. You may say:


"I need time off from work this coming Tuesday from 2 pm onwards. There is a personal matter that I have to take care of. I tried arranging it outside of work hours but that’s not feasible. Could you please allow me time off?"
Remember that carrying out a job hunt is not wrong in any case. You are entitled to keep it private and if you successfully land on the new job, your boss will ultimately know the reason behind these off days.
 Before you put in any request to take time off for your interview, check how much paid time off you have. You can easily check this through the company’s information system or ask the relevant person in human resources to confirm it for you.


Once you have these details, you can request to take one of your paid holidays and then see if you can schedule your interview for this specific day.
 Similarly to calculating your paid time off, you should check your company’s flexible hours policy. If this exists, you can put in a request to your boss for a temporary schedule modification.


For example, instead of working your normal 9 to 5 hours, you could ask your boss if you could work 11 to 7 on a given day instead. Then you can schedule your interview for 9 am, but still get a full days work in.
 In case the interview times requested by the hiring manager cannot be arranged for before or after work, consider taking a day off from work.


You can submit a request for vacation time to attend one interview or multiple interviews if possible.
If the company’s policy allows for personal days, you can request these irrespective of the purpose.
 There are many companies who offer outplacement assistance for employees who get laid off as a result of project or business closure. If you happen to fall into this category, examine the terms of this placement opportunity.


If your company is offering such assistance, you can openly inform your manager and human resource department that you have an interview scheduled.
This is perhaps the only case where you can be candid about your job search and hence schedule interviews at any time

, The most workable method is to negotiate for a fair time slot that suits both of you.


Instead of simply accepting the time you're given, you can talk to the potential employer and ask to schedule your interview earlier or later in the day. Explain that your existing work responsibilities do not allow you to take time off during the work day.
Your potential employer should understand your situation and make an effort to arrange an appropriate time slot for you.
 Depending upon the information you receive in regard to paid time off and flexible hours; ask for a specific time slot from your potential employer.


If your time off policies don’t allow you to appear in an interview during working hours, seek an alternate time arrangement for the interview from the potential employer.
Don't just take the time off without asking. It’s not a good idea to assume that your absence will not be noticed and you can simply disappear during the work day and then appear later on once your interview is done.
 Share your concern with your recruiter or hiring manager and they should help you find a way to interview at a time that works for everyone. They will definitely appreciate your sense of loyalty and commitment towards your existing job, so this should leave a good impression on them.
 If the company about to interview you is in close proximity to your existing office, you could consider scheduling an interview during lunch hours. This is most suitable if you get a one hour lunch break.


Although a lunchtime interview may sound appealing, interviews often extend beyond the prescribed time and you cannot leave halfway through.
If it's very important that you be back at work at an exact time, such time limits may become nerve wracking.

