 Government agencies dedicated to regulating and licensing dog trainers do not exist. Therefore, your top priority when looking into programs is to assess the trainer’s experience and qualifications. Find out how many years of experience they have training, and how they were educated.The trainer should have at least one to two years of work experience training dogs.
Determine if the trainer worked as an apprentice, has some kind of certification from a dog training program, or has a degree from a college or university in animal behavior.Additionally, ask the trainer if they can provide you with their clients’ contact information so you can assess the quality of their program.
 Pick a dog trainer that uses humane training techniques. Humane training techniques are techniques that encourage appropriate behavior through positive reinforcement, such as food, play, attention, or praise.Training techniques should never include yelling, shaking the scruff, choking, hitting, tugging on the leash, forcing the dog on its back, and other actions that inflict pain or frighten the dog.Ask the trainer if you can sit-in on one of their training classes before you sign up.
 Assess the size of the classes. The classes should be small classes that allow the trainer to provide individual attention and guidance for you and your dog. Also, make sure there are separate classes for puppies and adult dogs.Instructors should also provide handouts that outline the trainer’s lesson plans and methods of training.
Instructors should encourage other family members to participate in training, as well.
All dogs should be required to have their basic vaccinations before entering a program.
 If you find a low-cost training program, but are unsure about its quality, keep searching. People who place their dogs in a low-quality training program usually find themselves in a situation where they have to spend more money on re-training their dog.If you are uncomfortable asking the trainer questions, or the trainer does not communicate effectively, keep searching for other programs.
If your dog does not respond well to a certain method, the trainer should be willing to use other methods to train your dog. If not, choose a different program.

