 Taking photographs outside when there's snow on the ground exposes your camera to extra light because it reflects off the whiteness of the snow. For this reason, it's likely that your camera will underexpose photos. Increasing the exposure can help combat this.In some cases, you won't have to change the exposure on your camera. It depends on how much light there is in the frame and what your subject is.
 If you're using a digital camera, it will be tempting to delete images when looking at the LCD screen. Because there's a lot of light and the screen has a low resolution and size, it's important that you save your evaluations for editing. Wait until you can look at the images on a computer under good lighting., During the winter, the days are shorter, and it gets dark outside sooner. To manage this, make sure that you bring artificial lights to take photos for when it gets dark outside.You can use a dedicated, through-the-lens (TTL) flash, spotlights, or clamp lights to achieve more light for your shoot. Using umbrellas and reflectors will help you control the level of light in your photos.Popular flashgun brands include Canon, Nikon, Pentax, Metz, Bower, and Vivitar.
Popular professional lighting systems include Broncolor, ProFoto, Hensel and Lumedyne.
 When you are shooting photos in cold weather it's important that you gradually heat your camera. A sudden change in temperature could fog your lens or create condensation inside of the camera which could damage important electrical parts. Refrain from things like keeping your camera under your coat then quickly exposing it to the cold air.Store your camera in a car or on a porch to allow it to gradually adjust to the temperature outside.
Keep an extra pair of camera batteries because cold drains them., If you use a tripod and set your camera to a longer shutter speed, falling snow will appear like streaks down your photo which can give it a powerful feeling. A shorter shutter speed will freeze the flakes in place which may make for a romantic and memorable photograph. Use a wide aperture if you want to vary how the snowflakes look.Test this with your camera before the wedding date to see which settings you want to use.
 When setting up a scene, use the winter weather to your advantage. Use the rule of thirds and do not center every picture if you want dynamic, interesting, and appealing wedding photos. Try to include the snowy background and beautiful scenery. Capturing snowflakes or snowy trees can also add to the whimsical feeling of your photography.Taking candid photos when people are not paying attention may help you capture genuine moments.

