 Break apart 1/4 to 1/2 cup (60 to 125 ml) of candle wax or paraffin and place it into the top part of a double boiler. Heat the wax until it melts.


You can use fresh wax or bits of old, recycled candles. Break it into small chunks so that it melts quicker.
If you don't have a double boiler, insert a metal can or metal bowl into heavy saucepan and surround it with 1 to 2 inches (2.5 to 5 cm) of water. The water should only sit in saucepan, not in the inner dish.
Bring the water to a simmer but do not allow it to boil. As the wax melts, continue onto the next part of the process.
 Wrap the end of an all-cotton pipe cleaner around the side of a pencil or pen. Once pipe cleaner meets itself and slightly overlaps, twist the remainder up so that it runs parallel to the side of the pencil.


After shaping the pipe cleaner, slide it off the pencil.
Note that all-cotton pipe cleaners are strongly recommended. Pipe cleaners made with synthetic fibers may not burn as well or as safely.
 Use side cutter pliers to trim the long end of the pipe cleaner. The finished wick should only have approximately 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) standing above the circular base.


After cutting the pipe cleaner, use needle-nose pliers to carefully twist the upright portion of the wick toward the center of the circle. This portion should still remain upright, but it needs to be fairly centered.
If the upright portion of the wick is too heavy or off-centered, the distribution of weight won't be balanced and the wick may topple over instead of standing straight.
 Grab the trimmed pipe cleaner wick using long-handled tweezers and carefully lower it into the melted wax. Let the wick soak in the wax for several seconds.


Work very carefully. Melted wax can cause terrible burns if it splashes or drips onto your skin.
Make sure that the entire wick gets submerged in the melted wax. Do not release it from your tweezers, though, since it will be difficult to fish out if you do let go of it.
 Remove the wick from the wax and set it down on a sheet of aluminum foil. Wait several minutes for the wax to dry and harden.


Stand the wick on its circular base as it dries.
When ready, the wax on the wick should be hard and cool enough to touch.
 Repeat the dipping and drying procedure one to three times, letting the wax harden in between coats.


You need to build a thick, consistent coating of wax on the outside of the wick. The wax will allow the wick to catch fire more quickly and burn for a longer period of time.
 Once the wick is completely dry after the last coating of wax, it's done and ready to add to the top of a solid wick-less candle.


When you light the wick, the flame should spread heat throughout the entire wick, sending it into the candle beneath it. The candle will begin to melt beneath the wick, and the wick will eventually end up floating on top of the melted wax.

