 Eating too much sodium puts many people at greater risk of heart disease and stroke. Since sodium is a component of salt, it is highly prevalent in many people’s food supplies. Make a point of monitoring your sodium consumption and making sure you’re not eating more than 2,300mg per day. If you are of African descent, limit your intake to no more than 1,500mg per day.People of African descent are relatively likely to develop high blood pressure, a condition that can can lead to stroke, and can be worsened by high sodium consumption.If you eat a lot of packaged foods, monitoring your sodium intake is especially important. Large amounts of sodium are often present in standard portions of canned food and packaged breads, for instance. On the other hand, if you use salt to season your food, make sure you’re using less than a teaspoon of salt per day.
As alternative seasoning options, try using fresh ginger, lemon juice, and dried herbs or peppers instead of salt. Checked mixed spices to make sure they aren’t mostly salt.If you are over 51 years of age, or have diabetes, kidney disease, or another chronic condition, keep sodium consumption under 1,500mg per day.
 If you eat meat and cheese, make a point of choosing healthier options. Avoid processed meats, which have high amounts of saturated and trans fats. Opt for lean cuts of meat and poultry without the skin attached, as well as low-fat or fat-free dairy products. Limit processed grains as well, by keeping pastry or biscuit consumption extremely rare.Check that fat content of packaged food. Avoid anything with hydrogenated or partially hydrogenated vegetable oils, and choose options with the least saturated and trans fat. As ballpark figures, you should consume less than a dozen grams of saturated fat and less than two grams of trans fat per day.There is plenty of healthy monounsaturated and polyunsaturated fat in foods like fish, nuts, and vegetable oils. These are not a concern, and can help strengthen your heart.
Try to cut out soft drinks, fast food, and frozen meals entirely. These all often include excessive amounts of sugar and sodium, and provide little in the way of healthy nutritional value.
 One way to immediately improve your diet is by cooking more at home. This is in part because homemade meals will generally be less sugary, and you can control the amount of ingredients such as salt. Further, fried food often contains inordinate amounts of fat and should be eaten rarely, if at all.


Food fried in oil, butter, or ghee is especially risky for your heart. When you do occasionally need to fry a dish, use vegetable, nut, or olive-based oil.
 If you’re female, limit yourself to one alcoholic beverage per day. For males, two alcoholic beverages per day is still moderate. In this context, one beverage consists of 1.5 ounces of liquor, 5 ounces of wine, or 12 ounces of beer.Interestingly, studies show there are beneficial effects of moderate alcohol consumption on lowering your risk of stroke.


Avoid binge drinking. You can’t have 10 drinks on Saturday, even if you didn’t drink all week. Keep the moderation guidelines even when you socialize.

