 Because the sun can cause wrinkles, you will need to wear sunscreen whenever you go out. Smoking can also age your skin; if you are a smoker, you may want to consider quitting. You will also need to use plenty of moisturizer to leave your skin feeling soft and supple. Lastly, you'll want to eat healthy and get plenty of rest; this will allow your skin to heal and repair itself.
 Those little red volcanoes might seem like they are begging to be popped, but the more you mess with a pimple, the worse it will become. Instead, try applying a topical pimple cream and wash your face twice a day.


You can also use a natural astringent on pimples, such as tea tree oil or witch hazel.
If you have severe acne, consider asking a dermatologist for a medicated pimple cream.
 Start by using a gentle cleanser and a soft washcloth; avoid using any harsh cleansers. Use a gentle, salicylic acid-based exfoliator, and make sure that it doesn't contain any irritants, such as dyes and fragrances. Moisturizing is also important when it comes to blackheads, but skip on the rich, heavy, creamy ones, and get the gel or liquid-based ones instead., After you have washed your face and used toner and moisturizer, use spot treatments on the oily/dry areas of your skin. For example, if you have dry skin on your cheeks, you may want to apply some extra moisturizer or oil. If you have oily skin on your forehead, you may want to use a lighter moisturizer instead, and blot excess oil with a tissue.
 If you have dry skin, be sure to use a richer, more intense moisturizer specially formulated for dry skin. You may also want to apply some natural oil, such as olive oil or jojoba seed oil, to extra dry areas. Lastly, if you suffer from excessive dryness, you might want to consider adding a humidifier to your home. This will keep the air moist, and prevent your skin from becoming too dry.When choosing products, pass on anything that contains alcohols, fragrances, and dyes. These tend to be very harsh, and might dry your skin out further.
 Avoid taking long, hot showers, which may worsen your skin condition. Instead, opt for shorter ones using warm water and a mild soap. Moisturizer is also important; try finding one that is formulated for eczema. If your skin is particularly dry, you can visit a dermatologist and get a prescription medication. You can also consider getting a humidifier for your home; it will keep the air moist and prevent your skin from becoming too dry., It might sound like a good idea, but it will dry out your face and cause your skin to produce even more oils to compensate. Instead, wash your face twice a day with a gentle, fragrance-free cleanser, and follow up with an alcohol-free toner. When buying moisturizer, look for something that is liquid or gel based, and formulated for oily skin.Exfoliating is a great way to get rid of the oil and dead skin cell build-up. Try to find something with salicylic acid in it.
Consider using tissues, rice paper, or oil blotting paper throughout the day to soak up excess oil.