 Answer: “What’s in it for them? How can I educate them?” Less is more: E-mail newsletter articles should be less than 300 words, or have a “more” link (to your website).;
, And now, start asking for their e-mail addresses. Be sure to add your potential future customers.
 Keep ‘em in your loop; they should be updated and reminded continually. If you don’t have their e-mail address, re-connect with them. Or send them a personal letter (or postcard) about your newsletter. Position yourself as an expert by sending prospects your newsletter.
 Notice whether they have an e-mail address on it. If not, ask: “Is there a good way to keep in contact by e-mail?”

, Offer your e-newsletter in all your communication collaterals. Your e-mails should have an easy (and encouraging) “Send-to-a-Friend” forward button (a.k.a. “viral marketing”). Passively invite and remind through your e-mail signature.
 Ask them to forward your e-mail to those who’d find your information relevant. Don’t have their e-mail addresses? Call them up to re-ignite the relationship, or send them a postcard about your newsletter.
 Also, don’t forget about your family’s doctors and other personal service providers. They won’t say no to their customer!

, Swapping lists may constitute spamming – you can ask your friend to write a brief foreword endorsing you (make it simple for them to opt-out).
 You can get much more out of chambers of commerce than just member directories, but it is a quick way to build your e-mail list. “Dear fellow member,” while ineffective, at least shows you’re not a blatant spammer. If you send an e-newsletter, be sure to add an un-subscribe or opt-out link. Coupled with a business relationship, adding their addresses to your list is a great way to cultivate business.
 Again, stealing addresses – or sending members unsolicited e-mails - is technically spam. But through networks like LinkedIn, Craigslist, Myspace, etc., you can privately ask if they’d like to receive your newsletter. You can also publicly notify special interest forums about your free newsletter. Again, the more informative your “e-Value Proposition” is, the better the response will be.
 This is controversial, but friend of a friend... should be your friend, on your list. When you get e-mails publicly displaying other people’s addresses, don’t simply add them to your newsletter list (this would still be spam). You should introduce yourself to them, and ask if they’d like to receive your newsletter. Make sure the introduction is personal, private, or at least BCC (blind carbon copy) the other e-mail addresses!

, Hopefully, e-mail solicitation isn’t the only reason you want to get to know your neighbors. But this ulterior motive can help you develop relationships with those you’re around everyday. Likewise, your e-newsletter can be the impetus to reacquaint yourself with old friends from school. And of course, add your family and friends to your list; go ahead and “spam ‘em!”

