 It may be a little scary thinking about how you can turn your crush into a relationship when you have a Tic Disorder. You can pursue romance if you suffer from a tic disorder if you have courage. Know that you are just as capable as anyone else at having romance.Take a deep breath and remind yourself that you can pursue romance.
Say to yourself, “I have a Tic Disorder but I also have the courage to pursue romance.”;
, This isn’t so you can stop yourself from twitching when you talk. It’s so you don’t have the added pressure of trying to come up with the right words when you are talking to your crush. When you have a tic disorder, practicing what you will say to your crush will make it easier to pursue romance.Practice what you are going to say in the mirror or with a close friend. For example, you might get in the mirror and say, “Hi! I’m Dawn. How are you?”
Or you might role play with your friend. Your friend could play as your crush. You could say, “Hey, Robin! How have you been?”

, It will be easier for you to pursue romance if you suffer from a Tic Disorder if you don’t let yourself get stressed about it. Romance can be stressful enough and stressing about your Tic Disorder too can make your tic worse.Take a few slow, deep breaths to calm yourself down. Inhale slowly. Hold it for a second or two and then exhale.
Try mediation as a way to calm yourself. Clear your mind and try to focus only on your breathing.
Tell yourself, “Calm down. There is nothing to be super stressed about.”

, If you don’t already know the person you are interested in, then don’t let your tic stop you from introducing yourself. Pursue romance as if you didn’t have a Tic Disorder and get to know your crush.


Hold your head up, stand up straight, and look your crush in the eyes when you introduce yourself.
Smile and speak in a clear, confident voice when you talk to them.
For example, you could hold your head up, walk over to your crush, look them in the eyes and smile. Then, in a clear voice, say, “Hi there! I’m Peter.”

, You don’t need to try to make it happen, but don’t try to suppress it either. Trying to stop your tic can actually just make it worse.Just be yourself. If you are pursuing romance when you suffer from a tic disorder, be okay with it happening.


Remind yourself that your Tic Disorder is a part of your life, but it’s not you. For example, you can say to yourself, “I have a tic, but that doesn’t mean I can’t have romance.”
Act as you normally would act when you are having a tic. For instance, don’t feel like you need to constantly apologize for it.
 It’s better to let your crush know upfront about your tic disorder than to leave them wondering what’s going on. When you tic, you can use it as a way to bring the subject up with your crush.For instance, you could say, “That thing I just did is my tic. I have Tic Disorder so it’s something that I do.”
If you feel it’s appropriate you can tell your crush more about Tic Disorder. Or you can wait until you the next time you all talk.
For example, you might say, “Tic Disorders are neurodevelopmental. That means my brain has difficulty with self-control so I tic. It’s genetic and I’ve had it since I was six.”

