 If you're prone to frequent breakouts, and overnight salicylic acid serum can help. The serum can help keep oils out of pores, allowing the skin to exfoliate overnight.Pick up an acne serum at your local drug store that uses salicylic acid.
After washing your face as usual, apply a very light layer of the serum to your face. Leave it on overnight and you may notice less frequent breakouts.;
, Your face rubs up against your pillows and blankets when you sleep. This can really dry out your skin, which can affect your face's appearance. Try applying a hydrating mask overnight to protect your skin.Look for a hydrating gel mask at a local beauty salon or drug store.
Before bed, apply a thick layer of the gel to your face. Make sure to avoid getting the gel in your eyes.
The mask works best if you try to sleep on your back.
 You can buy a facial oil at most drug stores or beauty stores. This can help keep your skin moisturized overnight, preventing it from looking papery in the morning.You do not need to use a lot of the oil. You only need to apply a few drops to your face.
If you live in a very dry environment, try using a humidifier as well as facial oil.
 Your face will get crinkled and smushed overnight from your pillows and blankets. A good way to counteract this is to use facial cream. Facial creams that come with hyaluronic acid and plumping peptides can prevent facial creasing, so look for these ingredients when selecting a cream.Apply the cream to areas that tend to crease overnight, like your cheeks, under your eyes, and near your mouth.
 When you sleep, your skin and body work on regenerating. It's a good idea to provide them with products that encourage this process.Browse your local beauty store or department store for products that help repair and rejuvenate your skin. You usually apply such products 5 to 10 minutes before bed after washing your face.
For added effect, aim to get some sleep between 11 PM and 4 AM. These are the hours when you skin is most prone to rejuvenation.
 You can buy rosewater online or at a local beauty salon. If you're frustrated by dark circles over your eyes, rosewater can help. Before bed, take a padded cotton and dip it in rosewater. Apply just under your eyes for 10 to 15 minutes every night before bed.