 Keeping your vaginal area clean can help reduce any burning or itching sensations. Take a daily shower and clean yourself well.Never use douche. Your vagina contains both beneficial and harmful bacteria, carefully balanced to create an ideal, acidic environment. When you use douche, this balance is disrupted and can lead to an overgrowth of the bad bacteria. This can lead to a yeast infection or bacterial vaginosis and can push an infection deeper into your body where it can cause more harm.You do not need any special products, like douche, to clean your vagina. The mucus made by your vagina naturally cleans blood, semen, and vaginal discharge.Simple soap and water should be enough to clean your vagina.
After using the toilet, always wipe yourself from front to back. This prevents bacteria from fecal matter from getting in your vagina.
Avoid using scented tampons, pads, powders, and sprays. In addition, consider using natural or fragrance-free detergents to launder your clothes.
 Tampons or sanitary pads can cause irritation of the vagina or vulva, which may lead to burning. Tampons can irritate the inside of your vagina, while sanitary pads and menstrual blood can irritate your vulva.If you use tampons and believe this may be the cause of your burning, start using sanitary pads instead. If you use sanitary pads, try switching to tampons.
 If you are itching, switch to 100% cotton underwear, which is breathable and may reduce itching. Try to avoid wearing other fabrics, like lace, satin, polyester, or some other fabric that doesn’t breathe. Also change your underwear every day.Avoid wearing tight underwear and tight pants.
 A simple approach to help reduce vaginal burning is using a cold compress. A cold compress or ice pack can help sooth inflamed and irritated skin.Soak a cotton washcloth in cold water. Apply to the vulva or vaginal area for about five minutes as often as needed.
Add a few ice cubes inside the washcloth before you apply it to the area.
 Milk is often used to soothe minor burns. It is also a common treatment for relief of dry, itchy, and inflamed skin. Try using a milk compress against your vagina to help reduce the burning.Soak a cotton washcloth in cold milk and apply to the vulva or vaginal area for about five minutes as often as needed.
You can also use kefir, a fermented milk rich in probiotics, in place of the milk.

