 Place the grated cheese, cornstarch, tapioca starch, sugar, eggs, salt, butter, and baking powder in a large bowl. Mix the ingredients together until a soft, smooth dough forms.Traditionally, Colombian buñuelos are made with a cheese called queso costeño, which is nearly impossible to find outside of Columbia. To obtain a similar flavor, use 1-1/2 cups (150 g) of Mexican queso fresco plus 1/2 cup (50 g) of dry feta cheese. If queso fresco is unavailable, you could use fresh farmer's cheese., If the dough seems dry, add milk 1 Tbsp (15 ml) at a time, kneading well after each addition.


Stop adding milk once the dough is smooth and holds together. Adding too much milk will make the dough too sticky.
 Pinch off small portions of dough. Roll each portion of dough in between your hands, working it into a smooth ball.


If the dough sticks to your hands as you work with it, lightly dust your hands with flour or additional starch.
Note that each ball should be about 1 to 1-1/2 inches (2.5 to 3.5 cm) in diameter.
 Pour 3 inches (7.6 cm) of vegetable oil into a deep pan with a heavy bottom. Heat the oil on your stove until it reaches 325 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius).


If one is available, you may use a deep fryer instead of a deep pan.
Use a candy or frying thermometer to monitor the temperature of the oil. The maximum temperature should be 325 degrees Fahrenheit (160 degrees Celsius), but you can probably cook the buñuelos without difficulty once the oil reaches 300 degrees Fahrenheit (150 degrees Celsius)., Drop several buñuelos into the warm oil. Fry them for 15 to 20 minutes, or until they turn golden brown on all sides.


Fry the buñuelos in small batches to avoid over-crowding the pan. They should be able to float around without knocking into one another.
Expect the balls of dough to sink when you first drop them into the oil. After 30 to 60 seconds, though, bubbles should gather around the sides and the ball should float to the top.
You'll need to stir and turn the buñuelos with a slotted spoon as they start browning. Otherwise, they may not brown evenly.
 Remove the finished buñuelos from the hot oil and transfer them to a plate lined with clean paper towels or brown paper bags.


Let the oil drain off for at least 30 to 60 seconds.
Pile the drained buñuelos onto a separate dish while you finish the entire batch. The residual heat from the latest ones should help keep the earlier ones warm while you finish frying.
 Buñuelos are best served hot or warm. You can still enjoy them once they cool to room temperature, too.

