 With so much to do around the house, kids to care for, meals to make, cleaning to do, and busy schedules to keep track of, your family will have to be just as involved in your return to school as you are. You and your family will have to work together to keep everything running smoothly as you go back to school.;
, If you used to cook and clean for hours each day, chances are you won't be able to continue this as you go back to school. Talk to your spouse and children about the new demands on your time, and ask them to step up and help around the house. Redistribute basic household chores like washing dishes, doing laundry, cleaning, and cooking, so that everyone helps out as much as they can.
 Write down when you are in class or at work, and then set aside times when you'll need to study. You can also schedule time to spend with your family, doing chores, or anything else you need to do. Post this schedule somewhere where the whole family can easily see and refer to it.


If you want, add your kids' and spouse's schedules, so that it can serve as a reference for the whole family.
 If you're at work or in class when they get out of school in the afternoon, arrange for them to carpool with friends, walk or bike, or take the bus home, or find an after-school care center for them. If your classes are in the evening, find a babysitter to watch them, or leave them with friends. This will help to ensure that your kids are well cared for while you get some time for you and your schooling.
 In a house full of kids, there are constant demands on your time and energy. There are always dishes to wash, fights to break up, cleaning to do, or questions to answer. This is not a very productive study environment. Find somewhere away from home - a library or other quiet place - where you can study productively. If you need to be at home, then isolate yourself in a room and tell your kids to stay away while you study, interrupting you only in the case of emergencies.
 Get plenty of sleep, and stay in shape. This will help keep you healthy and happier, which will help you deal with your busy, potentially stressful schedule. If you find yourself struggling mentally or emotionally with your new role, consider seeing a therapist. Making your health a priority is the best way to keep you and your family happy as you return to school.

