 Starting out in the field can be daunting, so contact your college's alumni department or local chapter of the STC to see if you can meet with an experienced technical writer. This mentor can give you advice and tell you what markets or employers are looking for entry level staff.


The STC also maintains an active mentor board. If you're interested in find a mentor to help you find an entry level job in technical writing, complete a profile that can be posted on this board.
A mentor help you by sharing experiences, advice and training. If you're uncertain what particular field of technical writing might suit you, a mentor can help you understand the different aspects that may affect your choice. A mentor can also help you access new training and professional development.
 There are more entry level jobs in cities such as Toronto, Ottawa, Vancouver, New York City, San Francisco, Los Angeles, D.C., Boston, Houston, San Diego, Seattle, Portland, Atlanta and Dallas than in smaller cities. Look at the STC website to find the best cities for technical writing jobs.


More and more technical writing jobs are available online as well. If you don't live in a larger city, you may want to find an online entry level technical job position.
Depending on the particular track of technical writing you plan to pursue, consider the other factors involved in your field to decide where you should live. For example, if writing for research in healthcare is your goal, look for positions in cities that also house major medical research centers. If you're interested in pursuing writing for the aerospace engineering field, look for jobs in cities that are major hubs for Boeing, Lockheed-Martin, etc.
Look online using job search engines. Reading the listings is a good way to become familiar with the job market in different cities.
 List all major companies that are hiring technical writers in any position. For this list, you'll want to be as inclusive as possible.


Make a spreadsheet that lists the company, industry, contact information and any special notes or qualifications.
You should be able to alter your spreadsheet as you acquire new information. Delete or add new entries as need be.
Call or email companies directly. Ask them to consider you for any future entry level positions and keep your resume and portfolio on file. To cover your bases well, contact between 50 and 100 companies.
 Meeting contacts in the industry and foster relationships. They may be able to give you hints about possible entry level openings.


Make sure you have an attractive and professional-looking business card to share with others.
Keep your resume up-to-date so that you can share with professional contacts you meet through networking.

