 Although most devices that support Netflix allow you to create an account through that device, you will generally find it faster and easier to create your account on a computer.


Netflix is not available in all areas. If Netflix is unavailable in your region, click here.
If you want to subscribe to the Netflix DVD delivery service in the US, visit dvd.netflix.com. The sign up process is very similar to the streaming service.;
, All memberships start with a one month trial. It will require entering in payment information, but if you cancel your membership within the first month you will not be charged.
 Creating an account simply requires entering your email address and creating a password. You can also create an account using your Facebook account, which can be useful if you're trying to keep your online accounts to a minimum.
 There are three streaming plans that you can choose from:


Cheapest - Watch on one screen at a time in SD quality.
Regular - Watch on two screens in HD quality
Premium - Watch on four screens in HD quality.
With the more expensive plans, you can share your Netflix information with friends and family and they can watch at the same time that you are (this is not technically allowed by Netflix, but is a common practice).
Not all content is available in HD. There is very limited content available in Ultra HD.
 You will need to enter your credit card and billing information. You can also use PayPal to pay. You need to enter a valid card, as Netflix will charge after the trial period is complete.


If you are signing up for the DVD rental service, make sure that you enter your mailing address correctly so that you receive your DVDs.
 This won't have much bearing on your service, but gives Netflix information about where people are watching from. You can still connect to devices that you don't select on this page.
 You will be shown a selection of titles from the Netflix library. Select three titles that you enjoy. This will help Netflix determine which titles they recommend for you. As you continue picking titles to watch later on, Netflix will adjust your recommendations, so don't worry too much about what you pick right now.


Use the Netflix DVD website to set the order that you want to receive your DVDs in. You can adjust the list and add new titles whenever you'd like. When you send a DVD back, the next DVD on the list will be sent to you.
 You can log into the Netflix website and watch directly from your computer. Use the search bar to find specific titles, or browse the different categories. You can use any web browser. You will be prompted to install the Microsoft Silverlight plugin if it is not installed already.


If you are trying to watch Netflix from a region that doesn't support it, click here.
 You can log into Netflix on your mobile device by downloading the free Netflix app from the Apple App Store or Google Play Store. Streaming Netflix videos on a cellular data connection can eat through your data allotment quickly, so be careful when watching and roaming.
 Netflix is available on more and more devices. Many Smart TVs and Blu-ray players come with a Netflix app installed, set-top boxes like Apple TV and Roku support Netflix, and most gaming consoles have a Netflix app available as well.


The process varies from device to device, but generally you will just need to download the Netflix app and log in with your account.
See this guide for detailed instructions on setting up the Netflix app on the Wii.
See this guide for detailed instructions on setting up the Netflix app on the PS3.
See this guide for detailed instructions on setting up the Netflix app on the Xbox 360.
 These browsers make it easy to install an add-on that lets you trick Netflix into thinking that you're connecting from within the US (or other supported market).



Click here for instructions on installing Chrome.

Click here for instructions on installing Firefox.
 This browser add-on will redirect your traffic through a server located in the country of your choice, allowing you to trick Netflix into thinking you're connecting from within that country. You can get it for free from hola.org.


Hola Unblocker is connecting via proxy made as simple as possible. The same results can be achieved by connecting to any proxy server or VPN located in the country you want to connect to Netflix from. See this guide for more details on proxies and VPNs.
 This will install the Hola add-on to your browser.
 You should see the Hola button next to your browser's address bar.
 You will still need to sign in with a valid subscription in order to watch video.
 This will open the Hola Unblocker menu.
 You can see a list of all the supported countries on the Netflix website.
 The site will change to the local version of the country you selected. Be aware that if you choose a country that uses a different language, the interface will be in that language.

