 What you should include in a career objective depends on your level of experience. If you're a high school or college student looking for entry level work, your career objective would be much different than someone with much experience in a given field.


If you're a high school student, a career objective should focus on general traits or values you possess. You should include a self introduction, measuring your strongest qualities, information about what role in a company you're hoping to fill, and an emphasis on your reliability as a job candidate. For example, something like, "Dedicated student with a strong GPA and high work ethic. Seeking to use my abilities as student intern. I am very dedicated and goal-oriented and can help benefit the goals of your company."If you're a college student, you're likely looking for entry level of internship experience. Your objective should include your degree, level of experience, your strongest traits, and an emphasis that you're hardworking and reliable. Something like, "Recent college graduate with a marketing degree and two years of social media marketing experience. Seeking further experience in the field of online marketing. A dedicated, detail-oriented worker with experience in SEO, web copy, and social media management."If you're a professional in the field already, you usually include a career objective if you're changing careers. Mention how many years experience you have, the qualities that would make you a strong candidate for a position, and any relevant education or certifications. For example, "Grant writer with 6+ years in the nonprofit sector. Aiming to use my written communication and fundraising skills to help your organization increase awareness of world poverty. Possess an MA in nonprofit management.";
, While a career objective should focus on your skills and accomplishments, it should not be all about you. Try to focus on how your specific skill set would benefit a company. Hiring managers are looking for someone with impressive skills that are applicable to the job advertised.Highlight relevant experience. If you're a recent college grade applying for a marketing position and you've done promotional work as an intern, talk about this. Throw something in your objective like, "Extensive experience promoting company events to the general public during my college internship experience."
Talk about your general skills that benefit that specific company as well. If you're applying for a position as an auditor, talk about your organizational skills, attention to detail, and strong written communication skills.Bring up relevant accomplishments. If you were salesperson of the year at your last job and are applying for a similar position, include something like, "Macy's saleswoman of the year 2 years running at the Lancaster, PA location.", Resume buzzwords are great for highlighting your experience in an impressive manner. However, do not simply choose impress sounding words without thought. Make sure the words you pick adequately reflect your accomplishments.


Focus on words that reflect your skill set. If you primarily worked behind the scenes alone, don't call yourself "people-oriented" or boast of "high verbal communication skills." Instead, talk up your "great attention to detail and high capacity for self-motivation."Do not pack too many buzzwords into your objective. This can be overwhelming for readers. Strive to make yourself sound impressive, but do not awkwardly force in multiple 3 or 4 syllable words into each sentence., While it may seem unlikely that a two to three sentence statement would have errors, you would be surprised. Rewording something over and over again can increase the risk of typos. Make sure you proofread your objective before sending out your resume. Have a friend or family look it over to make sure it's typo free.

