 Most routers and modems do not automatically update their software, and falling behind in keeping it up to date can throttle down your Internet access."Firmware" is the software embedded in your modem, and you can check to see if it's up to date through the admin page of your router.Type your default Internet Gateway or your DHCP Gateway address into your browser to access your router admin page. If you are unsure of your ID, the default number is: 192.168.0.1

, This might not work for all devices, so check online first to see if your device can handle an un-bridged router. Most newer model routers will likely support this feature. Access your router to un-bridge by typing your IP address (AKA the default gateway address) into your browser. Now that you've accessed your router, navigate to the section that says "Wireless Interface Type", which is frequently located under Advanced Wireless Settings. Change this from 802.11b/g/n (20MHz) to 802.11n (40MHz). This adjusts the maximum throughput of the router from 300Mbps to 600Mbps, creating twice as much bandwidth and, potentially, twice the speed.If you have difficulty accessing your router, the default gateway number is "192.168.0.1". Typing this into your browser should prompt a dialogue box asking for your username and password.
 Whether on a phone or some other device, unnecessary applications running in the background can steal your processing power and bandwidth. Get rid of any applications that are unnecessary or unused. If you are unsure whether an application is necessary or not, a quick internet search of the entire name of the application should reveal whether or not you can trash it.
 Too many applications running on your device can overwhelm it, effectively slowing your Internet. Even applications running in the background can have this effect.Uninstall any programs that you don't need.


Smartphone applications are known bandwidth hogs, some studies claiming that smartphone software can use up to 10.7MB per hour!, There are plenty of free basic services and more comprehensive pay-to-use services that you can find with a quick search online. Viruses and malware can create a bottleneck that limits your access to the Internet and hurts your speed or else bogs down your computer to the point that it can't get online.Do not install more than one anti-virus program, as different programs can conflict with each other, hurting your speed., There are add-ons available to you that will preload links before you click on them, which will make your browsing seem instantaneous. Depending on the add-on you use and the device you use it on, this can jump your bandwidth usage anywhere from 2x - 10x your normal speed.


Install add-ons with caution. Some of these are simply malware masquerading as a helpful program, and too many add-ons, even those that claim to help speed, will eat up your processing power and decrease speed.