 Think about a catchy name for your study abroad blog. You want to choose something more distinct than simply “study abroad blog” but not overly detailed. An overly detailed blog name might be, “study abroad blog for Australians living in Chicago with a passion for craft beer.” Find a name that is detailed enough that people will find an interest in it but also broad enough that you won’t be turning away viewers. Try to come up with three or four possible names, since some of them may be already taken.


An example of a great blog title is “The Pin the Map Project.” This blog title grabs your attention and evokes the image of a world traveler. Created by a former advertising and marketing professional in her twenties, the travel blog documents travel experiences around the world, focusing on budget options and a younger audience.;
, Once you have decided upon a blog name, check to see if it is appropriate and original. To see if it is appropriate, spell it out as one word to make sure it doesn’t spell out anything silly or otherwise inappropriate. To figure out if it is original, search the blog names you have brainstormed to see if the URL is taken or not. Look around on social media to see if the name is already in use., There are many choices for blogging platforms such as Wordpress, Tumblr, Squarespace and Posthaven. You can find blogging platforms that are free, as well as paid sites that are tailored for your needs. Some platforms only offer hosted options, whereas others only offer self-hosting. Some of the popular platforms include the following:WordPress is a popular choice for bloggers. It is a stable platform that is easy to use. You can choose between hosted or self-hosted options. This is considered the best choice for new bloggers.
Squarespace is very easy to set up but you need to pay for it. If you want something that looks great and is easy to set up and don’t mind paying a monthly fee, this is a great option. You cannot self-host on this platform, so you will have to be fine with Squarespace as your host.
Posthaven is a simple blogging platform that is potentially more stable than competitors. A lot of blogging platforms come and go, whereas Posthaven has been around for a while and plans to stay in the game.
Kirby is a wonderful choice if you want customized themes and have some basic coding skills including PHP. You will have to self-host your blog.
Svbtle is popular for having a straightforward interface. If you want to focus on writing and limiting distractions, this is a really nice option. You can use a sub-domain or host your blog on Svbtle.
 The domain name allows people to find you online. With your memorable and original name, you can now obtain the domain name that allows your readers to find you online. If you use a sub-domain name, you won’t need to spend money. However, if you want a domain name, you will have to purchase one. You can purchase and register domain names at sites such as GoDaddy, Hostwinds and SnapNames.If you are using a blogging platform that has sub-domains such as Wordpress or Tumblr, you won’t need to purchase a domain name.
 You will need to decide whether you want to self-host your blog or have your blog hosted on an existing platform. The easiest way to go is to start your blog on a hosted platform, which means you won’t have to worry about setting up a server or learning to code. If you want to self-host your blog, you will have to pay for a server company to host your blog. There are many reputable hosts such as the following:Bluehost hosts two million websites and offers great support.
DreamHost offers great performance and a lot of choices.
Flywheel is a well-respected host.
SiteGround has a great support team.
 Try to choose a template that is clean and straightforward so people can focus on the content of your posts. If you choose a theme or template that has a lot going on, your audience might be too distracted to read your posts. Depending on the platform, you may have to pay a small amount for a template or theme.You can pay a few dollars for a template or get one for free.
 If you have a good name and people stumble upon your blog, they will want to know something about you. You should include a short description of yourself, perhaps including something about your studies, hobbies, interests, and the focus of the blog.