 Moving soundlessly is much more difficult when you're walking on crunchy gravel and leaves than it is when you're moving over soft grass or dirt. To walk silently, assess the terrain and determine which path is the quietest. Whether you're indoors or outdoors, you can consciously walk over materials that help you move silently instead of creating extra noise.


If you're walking through the woods or in another outdoor area, try to walk on soft grass or dirt. Walk on wet leaves instead of dry, crunchy ones.
When walking outdoors, look for rocks or roots, as they won't crunch like leaves or twigs. Slowly put your weight onto the rock or root to be sure it won't shift or make noise. Once you are certain, put the rest of your weight down.
In a city setting, avoid wooden walkways, graveled areas, cobblestones, and other materials that tend to make noise.
Indoors, walk on carpeting whenever possible.
When climbing items trees and cliffs, be mindful of where your foot lands. Try to place your toes and the front padding of the foot in between branches and on crevices of the cliff. If you are forced to step in the middle of a branch or push up the side of the cliff, do it slowly and proceed with caution. A little force may dislodge a shower of debris or break a twig alerting watchers.;
, The space you move through is as likely to create sound as the path under your feet. When you want to walk silently, it's important to stay very aware of your surroundings so that you avoid touching anything that could give you away.


Avoid twigs and branches that could snag on your clothes and snap.
Avoid gates and fences that could squeak or creak.
Avoid brushing against piles of clutter and rustling fabrics.
 Walk in a slightly crouched position, engaging all of your muscles as you move. This lightens the amount of force that hits the ground each time you make contact, enabling you to move much more quietly. Keep your body compact, and distribute your weight evenly so you don't clunk your feet noisily against the ground.
 Place the heel of your foot down first and roll your foot slowly and gently toward your toes onto the ground. As you walk, rotate your hips slightly to make your steps even more controlled. Walk on the outer edge of your shoes if possible.


If you need to move swiftly, keep low to the ground and run using the same heel-to-toe strike.
When you're moving backwards, place the ball of your foot on the ground first, then lower your heel to the ground.
Running on the balls of one's feet can help with speed and quietness, but be careful; this requires more strength in the feet and lower legs, and greater flexibility in the ankle and foot joints. It also requires a better balance than normal movement, and creates a greater impression on softer surfaces (due to the weight being spread over a decreased surface area).
Land softly. Running or jumping silently is difficult, but it's possible if you master the art of landing quietly. Land in a crouched, balanced position without striking the ground too hard.
 Try not to use your hands and arms by balancing yourself on walls and such, because you could knock something over and give away your presence. Instead, hold them out in a position that makes you feel comfortable and balanced.
 Of course, you can't transfer all of your weight and pressure. Although it can't be demonstrated, theoretically, it could be described as feeling empty feet (but not numb) and feeling a pressurized head. Transferring your weight and pressure to your head might make you self-conscious of your surroundings, building up alertness. This is useful for multiple things, but primarily jumping. If there is a thick spread of dry leaves, you would need to jump. When jumping, aim for a clear spot that is not wet (e.g. puddle) and not covered with dry foliage (e.g. dry leaves or grass). Land with your toes and the front of your feet. Wearing sneakers work best as the rubber will smooth out the noise.