 Without basic hygiene you can't expect to smell alluring, or even the slightest bit sweet. Start with a clean, fresh base daily so you have something to work with. Shower daily, brush your teeth two times a day, apply deodorant when required, clean your hands and wash your hair on a regular basis. Basically, just follow the typical hygiene rules, easy as pie.;
, These products may include hair shampoo and conditioner, body wash, soap, moisturizer or body butter. Body butter is a great moisturizer and will leave your skin soft with a sweet scent. When using scented products, try to use products with similar scents so the smell is more distinct. A mixture of too many different smells may lead to a confusing aroma or something rather bland.
 Your hair has a smell of it's own, you may not realize it because the scent is always there, but you can be sure that your hair does have a unique scent, whether you can smell it or not. This is why regular hair washing is important; oily hair does not look or smell attractive. Use some sweetly scented hair products or spray a gentle amount of body spray into your hair, when the wind blows those lovely locks of yours, your peers will get a whiff of that alluring scent. Experiment with many hair products to find the one that works best for you. Also, remember that it's not only shampoo and conditioner that supply a nice scent for hair, but also leave in conditioners, hair spray and more.
 It doesn't occur to most people how much the smell of their clothes affects their over-all scent. So be sure to recognize the importance of this. Recognize the fact that if your clothes smell bad, then odds are that you will not smell too pleasant either, even if you are wearing perfume. Lucky for us, a vast variety of lovely smelling clothes detergents and powders have been created, some scents include Lavender, Sunshine and Rose. Consider investing in clothes detergents/powders with sweet, synthetic scents, you will find yourself pleasantly surprised and everyone will be wanted a whiff of you.
 There are so many different perfumes to chose from, so which one of them is the most alluring of all? With such a variety it can be incredibly hard to chose a favorite. When shopping for perfume, try to go for something that will suit your personality. For example, if you are a sweet person try a floral scented perfume. If you are aiming for a touch of mystery, try something with musky undertones. Even more confused? Well, they all have their own unique properties which makes them alluring, so consider which one is best for you by reading the following.


Urban scents: The urban scent is one that is 'earthy'. Earthy scents include musk, sandalwood and amber. This type of scent gives the impression of tranquility and peace, use it to draw people into you with the relaxing vibe it emanates.
Floral scents: When it comes to a floral scent, you don't want to go over-board. Keep away from florals that seem overpowering or synthetic. Go for a delicate, dainty natural scents such as the scent of a rose, a jasmine flower or a lily. These create the aura of femininity and will draw people toward you.
Citrus scents: These scents give of a unique, bubbly vibe. Some scents include orange, lemon, mandarin and sunshine. These scents draw people in with the offer of an exciting personality and a fun time.
Fresh scents: If your wish is to be subtle, then try a fresh scent. This could mean going without perfume and letting the scented products do their thing, or you could go for scents such as green tea, peach, coconut or kiwi.

