 When you hurt someone, like forgetting a person’s birthday, express that you recognize what you’ve done and are concerned about their feelings. When deciding how you will apologize, think about the person to whom you’re apologizing. Who are they to you? What is the person like? What would that person find most meaningful? Let the answers to these questions guide you in creating your apology., One way to apologize and demonstrate you truly mean it is to spread your apology out over the course of several days or more. Here’s one way to do this. There are websites online that allow you to upload photos, which they then use to create a jigsaw puzzle for you of varying sizes. Choose a photo of the two of you based upon your relationship and the message you want to convey in your apology. Upload the photo and when you get the puzzle, write on the back of each piece expressing that you’re sorry and, if you choose, what the person means to you.


It doesn’t have to be sappy or sentimental; something funny might be best for the person whose birthday you forgot.
When you’re done, mail one piece (or more) of the puzzle every day to the other person., Another way to spread out your apology is to create apology or “I’m Sorry” coupons or vouchers for services or activities that the other person can redeem at times of his or her choosing. Again, think about who the person is and what would be most meaningful when deciding what you’ll be giving. You can either make the coupons yourself using art supplies or your computer and printer or you can go to websites like givecoupons.com or spottedsparrow.com and have them printed for you. On the back, write what each coupon is “worth.”, Making a public apology not only shows that you have humility (or simply don’t get embarrassed easily) but also that you’re willing to accept responsibility for and go the extra mile to make up for your lapse. If you don’t think the other person would be embarrassed by this approach, post an apology on his or her Facebook page and tweet an apology on his or her Twitter feed. Tailor it to your relationship and the person’s personality.


Add a photo, quote or song that is particularly poignant (or funny) to you both.
It’s highly unlikely he or she will be the only person to respond., Another way to publicly apologize is to say you’re sorry on air. If you know what radio station the person listens to every day on the way to work – or at another time – contact the program’s DJ and explain the situation. Ask if you can get 30 seconds of scheduled on-air time to make your apology. Also see if they’ll play a particular song right after it, a song that is special to you and the other person. Be persistent if you don’t get a response right away. If they agree, write out what you plan to say and rehearse it. You’ll only have one chance, and you want to nail it.


To ensure the other person turns on the radio that day and at that time, you may need to enlist the help of someone you can trust to keep it a secret.
If that’s not an option, call the other person shortly before you go on air and say he or she should turn on the radio because they’re playing some really good music or something to that effect.
 July 2nd is National I Forgot Day. Believe it or not, there does, indeed, exist such a day. If the other person’s birthday wasn’t too much before July 2nd, you could use this day to your advantage. Go to nationalcalendar.com and order a National Day Wall Calendar. When you get it, circle July 2nd and write a personalized apology for missing his or her birthday. Ask the person over for dinner at your place on July 2. If he or she can’t do dinner, try lunch. Make a home-cooked meal with all of their favorites and set the table with only the calendar as the other person’s place mat so it will be sure to stand out.


When you sit down to eat, point to the calendar and make your apology – one that likely won’t be forgotten!

