 Conflicts can escalate when both parties are yelling at each other. By speaking in a slow, cool voice, you can help the other person feel at ease. Even if the other person raises their voice, keep yours low and calm.Avoid telling the other person to “calm down.” This can make them feel angrier and more defensive.Instead, ask them what can be done to help the situation. For example, you can say, “I understand that you’re upset about your broken window. Why don’t we discuss what can be done in a way that is fair to everyone.”

, An apology can go a long way to solving tension. You might not feel as though you have done anything wrong, but you should consider how you might have offended the other person. A good apology will include what you did wrong as well as what you will do to make it up.


You can say, “I’m really sorry for insulting you. I did not realize that what I said was hurtful, and I understand now that it was a really stupid thing to do. I hope that you can forgive me.”
If someone is accusing you of something you did not do, don’t take the blame. You can deflect the accusation by sympathizing with the other person. For example, you can say, “I’m sorry that your lunch keeps disappearing from the office fridge, but I’m not the one who is taking it.”

, Active listening is a form of communication where you repeat or paraphrase what the other person is saying to you. Ask the other person about their feelings or version of events. Listen without interrupting. Afterwards, rephrase what they said.For example, you can say, “I understand that you’re upset. You’re right. I spilled a drink on you, and now you’re worried that your dress is ruined.”
If the other person seems defensive, you can ask questions that will elicit the answer “yes” from them. This may help them feel less defensive. For example, you can say, “You are saying that you think this situation is unfair, is that right?”, Sometimes, a solution will not be found. In this case, you might just have to let go of the problem. If it will not affect your daily life, let the issue drop. You and the other person might just have to come to terms with the fact that no one will win the argument.You can say, “I understand your point of view, but I do not agree with it. I think we will just have to move on. I still respect you as a person, and I hope that this does not get in the way of our relationship.”

