 Now here comes the fun and dangerous bit! There are three major kinds of mobs in the game: Passive, Neutral, and Hostile. Hostile mobs are the most dangerous, since once they see you, they will start attacking you. Neutral mobs tend to fight back if you attack first, and Passive mobs run away if you get too close and don’t fight back at all.
 Each mob has their own individual behavioral patterns. For example, Butterflies and Rabbits are both passive mobs, but Rabbits are harder to kill since they don’t stray from their homes and flee quickly. Butterflies just flutter around faster than you, but are easier to kill because they settle on flowers for a few seconds, leaving them open to attack.


Beefalo and Bees are neutral mobs, and they both attack in groups once you attack one of them. Beefalo are stronger and have certain days where they are extremely hostile, signified by their inflamed red bottoms.
Spiders wander around at dusk and night, and are somewhat neutral until you’re much too close.
Tallbirds are persistent, and Hounds spawn every couple of weeks. There’s a lot more here to discuss, but as long as you keep an eye on Mob behavior and stay cautious, you’ll fare off better when you decide to attack.
 Different mobs have different attack patterns and quirks— Frogs knock things out of your inventory, Red Hounds explode after death, and Tall birds are highly aggressive, walk fast, hunt you down longer, and peck hard enough to kill weaker characters. Some mobs pause for a second before they attack, some can’t be stun-locked, and some kite around you while they attack. Time your hits well, observe your target’s attacks and abilities, and you’ll be able to outsmart and outfight them.
 Hostile and Neutral mobs tend to attack you as a group if you agitate them too much, which can spell death even for the most prepared players. There are many tactics to avoid being mobbed by Mobs, but as long as you play it safe and play it smart, you won’t die from being attacked by ten Beefalo at once.


Try and lure individual targets away from the group by hitting only one of them, then running as far away as you can. The one you attacked will follow you long after the others do, and if you lead them far enough away, you won’t be in too much trouble.
Smaller mobs, when attacked, can be “stun-locked” when you attack continuously. Stun-locking is a game phenomena where a mob stops moving for a few moments after they are attacked and tend to stay still for each consecutive attack, and is extremely exploitable that way. Simply holding auto-attack (F on PC, square on console, the fist icon on the iOS version) will ensure that you hit fast and continuously to take advantage of this function.
Kiting is also a great way of killing mobs. Also called the hit-and-run tactic, this tactic involves running around or away from your target after hitting it, giving you ample time to heal or equip new armaments while keeping the damage coming. Normally you can kite by either running away before every attack then returning, running around the enemy to confuse them and then attacking, or leading it away, waiting until they stop attacking, then coming back to attack and lead them away again.

