,,,,).
 Again, this is done by pulling gently up on the connector., Remove the 4 fat-head Phillips screws (marked in blue, two of which are under that black sticker that looks like it shouldn't actually peel up, but does, again gently using a flathead screwdriver).
 Along with the four screws, they hold the lower half of the phone onto the upper half. Once you've removed the four screws, you can gently slide the bottom half of the phone forward off of the upper half.,, Pop the side rails off of the upper housing.
 CAREFULLY. The little brown tab flips up (again, flathead screwdriver, but take great care not to scratch the harness with the edges of the screwdriver) and the harness should slide out with a gentle pull on the harness itself.
 The keypad should fall out after you've disconnected it.
 The screen is adhered to a protective plastic layer on the front, so it'll sound like it's peeling off of something. Once the screen is hanging free, peel off the green piece of tape, and disconnect the camera and speaker harnesses. Again, the white tabs flip up, and the wires slide out. You can use the needlenose pliers to gently work them out if you need to.
 Make sure there are no fingerprints/dust on the back of the protective plastic layer that goes in front of the screen. Wipe it off with a paper towel and some mild cleaner if there is. Avoid using cleaners, as they may make the plastic cloudy., This is where those needlenose pliers really help. Flip the white tabs up, maneuver the harness ends into the connectors with the pliers, and snap the white tabs down. Press the screen down into it's spot. There are tabs all along the edge of the screen that line up with corresponding holes in the housing. Replace the green tape.,,, They go in starting at the top, the round nub at the end slides into the housing, and the rest of them is reinstalled by pressing down gently, you'll hear some little pops as the tabs pop back in., Reinstall 6 Phillips screws. But wait, there's more! There's two different lengths of screws. The longer screws go in the top next to the camera and speaker (marked in red) and the shorter four go in the remaining holes (marked in blue).
 The two metal tabs slide into the holes in the battery compartment (marked in red). You can tell if the tabs are in when the four mounting holes line up (marked in blue). Reinstall those four, fat-head Phillips screws. Replace the skinny black sticker and the white Samsung sticker.
, It takes some work, the harness folds in a funny way once it's connected.
, The circuit board and number pad should all fit nicely into the lower housing now. Make sure the main harness isn't smashed or crimped in any way underneath everything. Also be sure that the microphone is tucked down into the housing, in front of the hole.
 Reinstall the six Phillips screws. Again, two lengths of screws. The shorter screws go at the bottom of the phone. Replace the rubber caps over the bottom screws.
 Turn the phone on. It should display the AT&T logo, but if after that, if it just goes to white, don't panic! Turn the phone back off, wait a few seconds, and turn it back on. This time, it should display the logo and then immediately the progress bar at the bottom should appear. You're golden., Test all the buttons (side ones, too), have someone call you from another room to make sure the speaker works, check to see if vibration mode still works, and check the camera.

