 When you are pregnant or a new mom, you are bound to be tired and overwhelmed. That means it's even more important to have at least some of your meals planned in advance. When you have a new baby, you'll want to focus your energy on the baby, and not spend the day thinking about getting enough nutrients.Set aside some time at the beginning of each week to plan your meals. The government offers a very useful checklist that you can rely on. You can find checklists here: https://www.choosemyplate.gov/MyPlate-Daily-Checklist

Choosemyplate.gov will allow you to view food choices that will supply you with the needed nutrients. You can pick some foods from each group, and the site will help you figure out which nutrients you're getting and which you still need.
 It is important that you eat frequently while you are breastfeeding. As a new mom, you may find that you don't have time to sit down for a large meal. This means that you need to make sure to eat several smaller meals to ensure that you are getting enough calories for you and your baby each day.Try to eat three regularly sized meals and three between meal snacks per day.
Even if you are at home with your baby, try packing a lunch as if you were going to work. Then you will have a meal you can just grab and eat as needed.
Have plenty of snacks prepared. The ones you can eat with one hand are best, so that you can still care for your baby as needed.
Keep a supply of nuts, fruits, yogurt, and cheese handy.
 You may be planning to breastfeed for several months, so you will be carefully monitoring your food intake for a while. To keep yourself from growing bored with traditional vegetarian fare, try out some new foods. Once you have spent some time learning about the best foods to eat, you'll feel more comfortable experimenting.Make use of lentils. Lentils are an excellent source of protein, but often overlooked. You can make a wide variety of lentil soups, casseroles, and veggie burgers. Bonus: lentils are very inexpensive and will keep in your pantry for a long time.
Try dried fruits. Although fresh fruits are delicious, even our favorite things can grow tiresome. Try switching up your routine by adding some dried fruits, such as mangoes, to your meals. You can even add them to salads.
Experiment with meat substitutes. Most vegetarians are probably familiar with tofu and tempeh. In addition to these great products, grocery stores are adding more meat substitutes each day. Try some vegan gyro "meat" to add some variety.
Eat nutrient-dense foods, such as avocado, beans, and full-fat soy milk.
 Talk to your doctor or search online for recipes for meals or snacks containing foods that are thought to boost milk production. While there is no scientific proof that these foods can increase lactation, but there are some foods that have some anecdotal evidence that they can help. Foods to try include oats, fenugreek, fennel, brewer's yeast, spinach.Try searching "vegetarian lactation bars" or "vegetarian lactation cookies" into a search engine. You will likely find many different recipes.
 If you can prepare some meals in advance of your baby's arrival, you'll find it can make all of the difference in your life as a new mom. In the weeks before your due date spend some time in the kitchen. There are several meals you can make that are nutritious and freeze beautifully.Even without a baby, mornings can be hectic. Don't forget to make some breakfasts to freeze ahead of time. Single-servings of oatmeal or muffins are great options.
Make large batches and freeze into single servings. This will make them easier to reheat and eat. Try a pot of vegetarian chili, a vegetarian lasagna, or a lentil casserole.
Don't forget about snacks. You could make a big batch of granola or homemade peanut butter energy balls to freeze and have on hand.
 Try writing out some daily menus when you are doing your planning. Being able to refer back to your ideas will help you to make sure you have the time and ingredients that you need. You'll also probably gain some peace of mind by planning out your menus in advance.For example, try muffins for breakfast. You can make a whole batch of these single serve meals and freeze them. In a muffin tin, combine eggs (if your vegetarian diet permits you to eat them) and any vegetables you like (think spinach, onions, tomatoes). Add some shredded cheese for extra protein and bake until no longer runny. Wrap in foil and place in a freezer bag. In the morning, just pop one in the microwave for 1 minute and enjoy with one hand.
Lunch can be a challenge. Make burritos or wraps your friend. For example, wrap a whole-wheat tortilla around black beans, cheese, spinach, and salsa. You can make this any time throughout the day (or a day or two ahead) and keep in the fridge. Then, just heat and eat whenever you're ready.
For dinner, eat vegetarian lasagna. You can pack this with veggies, and low-fat cheese is a great source of protein. Make ahead of time, freeze, and heat single-servings as necessary.
Snacks are a necessity. Try making (or having a friend make them) homemade fruit and nut bars to keep on hand., If you can plan a week's worth of menus ahead of time, you will be able to list everything that you need from the store. Match your grocery list to your menus, adding in extra items such as fruit and nuts. If you have a list ready, you'll be able to easily let your friends and family help you out by doing the shopping for you.Try planning only two options for breakfasts, two for lunch, and two for dinner. This will get you through the week, but cut down on the amount of ingredients you need to buy.
A full fridge will help ease your stress, so buy more than you think you might need at first. You'll find that with a new baby, it's much harder to pop out to the store if you need something.

