 This method can reduce wrinkles and save space. The U.S. military uses this for their soldiers. It's a great way to fit more things into your bag, especially if you're trying to lighten your load.








This method works especially well for shorts, socks, synthetic T-shirts and tank tops, some pajamas and sweats.
The key to making this method work is to smooth the items as you're rolling them up. This makes it so that they won't come out the other side so wrinkled.;
, Make sure that the jeans are smooth. Start rolling up the length of the jeans from the bottom or cuff. It's good to start off with jeans and bigger items so that you can pack them in your bag first.
 Lay a t-shirt face down on a flat surface. Fold its sleeves back onto the main body of the shirt. Make sure that you smooth out the wrinkles. Fold the shirt lengthwise once before rolling it up.
 Place the shirt face-down. Fold the sleeves back and down so that the cuffs are almost touching the hem of the shirt. Fold once lengthwise and begin to roll from the hem of the shirt.









For nice shirts, smooth and fold so that shoulders are almost touching. Fold up bottom third, fold top down so that it overlaps with bottom. Flip over and smooth out. place hand between fold and smooth bunched fabric, if any. Roll up by starting at the hem.
 Make sure to avoid bunching and wrinkles by smoothing them beforehand and as you're rolling. These are good to put on the bottom of your case because they will be more secure (and they are usually bigger than t-shirts and undergarments).









For nice trousers, place them on the flat surface and smooth so it's free of wrinkles. Fold one leg over the other, fold in half from the cuffs up. Smooth again. Begin to roll up from the folded knee.
Place non-trouser clothing (skirts or dresses) face-down on a flat surface. Smooth to avoid any bunching of the fabric. Fold the clothing lengthwise so that one half is covering the other half. Smooth again. Fold from the bottom, so hem touches the neckline. Begin to roll from the bottom.
For winter jacket, zip it and lay it flat. Fold each sleeve backward and fold the jacket in half vertically. Roll it from the edge to the collar, trying to squeeze air out of it. You can secure it with a string or large rubber band.
 If you hang up your clothes (or at least hang up the nice ones) it will ensure that they stay wrinkle-free. Typically the clothes in this method get wrinkly because you end up rooting around in your bag and messing everything up. Hanging up the clothes will avoid this problem.








