 If you don’t like what they’ve done to your hair, don’t be too shy to let them know that you’d like them to fix it before you leave the salon.;
, Some mistakes cannot be fixed immediately. For example, maybe the stylist cut your hair too short — there’s nothing to be done in this case but let your hair grow out. However, giving this feedback will let the stylist know that they should be more careful in the future about paying attention to the length their customers request. If you always go to the same stylist, it’s especially important to make them aware of your length preferences, so they’ll remember the next time you come in for a cut. There are some things the stylist will be able to fix immediately, though. Let them know if:


You’d like your hair cut shorter
You’d like the hair around your face framed differently
You’d like your bangs shaped differently
You’d like your layers shaped differently

, It’s best if you show them the picture of the cut and style you’d like before they begin the haircut, but sometimes the cut you get doesn’t match the cut you ask for. If that’s the case, show them the picture again and give them an opportunity to get you closer to your desired result.
 Think of the discussion as constructive feedback, not a customer complaint. Help guide the stylist toward the haircut you want., Make sure to speak to the hairdresser privately instead of making a fuss in front of the other patrons. Going back immediately raises the chances of getting the cut fixed free of charge, so don’t wait a few days and give them time to forget about you.
 It may be that the stylist has an attitude that makes you uncomfortable, or that you don’t trust the stylist’s skill level. Speaking to a manager can help get the results you need.


Remember to be polite. The words “can I speak to a manager” can strike fear into the heart of any employee, so try not to upset your stylist.
 Use specific examples of what you’d like changed about your haircut. The manager might have some better ideas for how to best fix the situation.
 If you’re unwilling to let the original stylist try again, ask the boss to do it! The manager is often the most experienced stylist in the salon, so they might be best qualified to fix a botched cut.
 Sometimes, there’s just nothing else to be done about your hair, but the good thing about a botched haircut is that hair always grows back! You’ll save yourself a lot of anxiety if you just remember that this is a temporary situation that your body will take care of on its own with time.
 You can make the best of a bad situation by trying to have fun and look cute while waiting for your hair to finish growing out.


See what it looks like when you change your hair’s texture. If it’s straight, try using a curling iron or diffuser to give your hair more body and movement. If it’s curly or wavy, try straightening it.
Style it with different products, like salt spray or texturizing cream for texture.
Try out a new color — maybe going darker or lighter is all you need to make your new work look.
 You might want to hide the bad parts of the cut, or maybe you want to emphasize what you like about your new cut. If your hair was cut too short and is distracting you by falling into your face, try pulling it back with cute bobby pins.Wear a cute headband or tie your hair back with a scarf. If the haircut is truly horrendous, you can always hide it with a cute hat.
 If your cut is distractingly short, extensions can add length that's both instant and temporary — a perfect fix! Make sure to choose extensions that match your hair color and texture as closely as possible. Spending a little extra money on extensions will ensure it looks like your natural hair.


Get the extensions professionally applied and styled if you want it to look as natural as possible. The stylist will cut overly long extensions to flow normally with the rest of your hair.

