 Use a generous amount of a commercial conditioner and massage it into the affected area. If a small mat isn't treated immediately, it can turn into a serious and painful problem. Coat conditioner helps to loosen the tangles so you can remove them more easily., Mats can be very hard, packed with dirt and hair, and can become jammed against your dog's skin. Even very small mats made of five or ten hairs can pull the skin under the dog’s arms and can cause infections from the transfer of bacteria around genital areas. Parasites like ticks and fleas also like to hide in mats, so you should always take care of them as soon as possible.Try to untangle the mat manually with your fingers before you begin with the comb.
Use the wide teeth of the comb first, holding the mat firmly in your fingers so you don't pull your dog's hair when you pull at the mat.
Use the finer teeth of the comb once you have broken up most of the mat.
 This is a difficult process for your dog, as well, and if he moves or jerks while you are grooming him you might accidentally hurt him. If you are rough or impatient while grooming your dog, it can erode the trust between you.Remember that most dogs will try to chew out a hair tangle when it starts to bother them, so the area may already be quite sensitive before you begin.
 If you can't remove the tangle you may be able to cut it out with scissors. Put the comb in your dog's hair between the tangle and his skin, then cut the mat out with scissors. This will help you avoid cutting your dog.
 When you finish your grooming session, always reward your dog with a nice to treat to thank them for being patient. This will encourage them to look forward to the next grooming session.
 With proper grooming, shaving any breed of dog is rarely necessary, and should only be done on the advice of your vet or a trusted professional groomer. You should never shave your dog if you have one of the double-coated breeds, like Pomeranians, Shetland Sheepdogs, Siberian Huskies, Samoyeds. The outer coat on a double coated dog protects them from extreme heat and cold, UV rays, and bug bites.


Groom your dog's undercoat more thoroughly in the Spring and other shedding periods. If the undercoat becomes matted, air can't circulate between the outer coat and the skin and your dog loses his ability to stay cool in warm weather.
Shaving the undercoat will not prevent shedding.
Some dogs, especially older dogs, will not regrow their top coat after being shaved. They will be left with a patchy, scruffy undercoat and no protective outer coat – permanently.

