 There are many natural, over-the-counter creams people use to reduce the appearance of stretch marks. These can be used throughout pregnancy and beyond to keep the skin supple and fade stretch marks. There is no conclusive research showing that any one ingredient can fade stretch marks. However, the following natural products are said to be helpful:


Aloe vera, which is said to reduce scarring and stretch marksCoconut oil or butter, which keeps skin supple when applied dailyShea butter, used around the world to help fade stretch marksEgg oil (Oleova) helps prevent stretch marks when applied twice daily over the entire abdomen from the first trimester of pregnancy until six months after delivery.;
, Hyaluronic acid is a substance naturally found in the body. When applied topically, it has the effect of reducing the signs of aging, such as fine lines and wrinkles. There is no research proving that hyaluronic acid drastically changes the appearance of stretch marks. However, some have found that treating stretch marks a gel containing hyaluronic acid may help to to fade them.Gels containing hyaluronic acid may be ordered online or purchased in specialty beauty stores.
Apply the gel according to the manufacturer's instructions., Retinoid is a substance that is known to stimulate collagen growth in the skin. When applied to stretch marks, it may help renew the skin and cause the stretch marks to fade in appearance. Retinoid cream is available by prescription. Talk with your dermatologist about whether it's a good choice for your skin.Retinoids may take weeks or month to have a significant effect on the skin. Even after that much time, they are unlikely to completely erase your stretch marks.Retinoids should not be used while you're pregnant or breastfeeding. There is not enough research to determine whether retinoids have a negative effect on a developing fetus or newborn. Physicians advise avoiding retinoids until after you've given birth and are no longer breastfeeding., Microdermabrasion is the process of removing the top layer of skin cells using a small exfoliating tool. Since stretch marks affect more than just the top layer of cells, many do not find that the treatment makes a significant difference. However, some believe that microdermabrasion can help fade the appearance of red stretch marks.Talk with your dermatologist before choosing dermabrasion. He or she may be able to advise you as to whether it's a good choice for your stretch marks.
Dermabrasion treatments are normally conducted at salons or spas. These treatments usually cost between $100 and $150 for one session.
 There is no conclusive research showing that laser therapy works to remove stretch marks, but many women have had satisfactory results.A high-energy ultraviolet laser is used to remove the thin layers of skin around the stretch marks. After the treatment, the skin is renewed and the stretch marks are faded in appearance.If you're interested in laser therapy, talk with your dermatologist about the risks before proceeding. In some cases, laser therapy causes scarring.
The healing process after laser therapy usually lasts about one week.

