 Lots of couples fall into predictable argument patterns. Think about the way you and your partner tend to argue, and identify those aspects of your communication patterns you’d like to improve.Start changing your own behavior immediately. Your partner will likely start acting differently as well.
Take care to use words and phrases that indicate your willingness to take part in a meaningful dialogue.
Watch out for tendencies to withdraw, criticize, convey contempt, and get defensive – in either your own behavior or your partners’.
Acknowledge any of these tendencies: Say something like “I want to make sure we both feel valued and heard” or, “We need to make sure neither of us are attacking or belittling one another.”

, When something comes up that needs to be addressed, bring it up amicably, as soon as it convenient to do so. Often, simply verbalizing a concern can avoid an argument about it down the line.Avoid harboring resentment or discomfort.
If something upsets you, ask yourself why you’re upset. Decide whether it was just a specific thing, or indication of a larger issue that needs to be discussed with your partner.
Acknowledge and address underlying issues to diminish the likelihood that insignificant annoyances – which are inevitable in all relationships – will lead to an argument., This seems much easier than it is, but people often vent their frustration on those they are closest to, perhaps especially their romantic partners.You may simply need more space to address your own needs – whether related to work, health, or anything else.
Address issues that arise outside of your relationship quickly. Prioritizing damage control in your own life helps prevent the harmful effects of any external stressors from damaging your personal relationships.
 Sometimes the trick to stopping arguments with someone is to recognize that it’s time to stop communicating with them altogether.Be honest with yourself about whether a relationship in which you are constantly arguing is bringing you happiness.
If you or your partner question the relationship during arguments or repeatedly threaten to end a relationship, you may want to consider whether the relationship is headed for trouble.
Neither emotional blackmail or uncertainty about a relationship are sustainable or healthy.
An important, simple question to ask yourself: Does this relationship lead more to joy and support, or to frustration and pain?

, Often, abuse may not seem like abuse, especially at first. Consistently shouting or acting out violently, even if only against objects, cannot be allowed to continue.Leave the house if your partner will not stop shouting or begins to break things.
If you are physically abused by your partner, you need to file a police report.
If you hope to continue a relationship that has been abusive, meet with a relationship therapist together.
If your partner refuses to get help controlling their anger or continues to abuse you, remove them from your life.

