 The more loosely you’re bound, the easier it will be for you to escape. Resist letting your captors tie you as tightly as possible. For example, if your wrists are being tied in front of you, hold your knuckles from both hands together, and pull your hands in towards your chest. Although it looks like you’re cooperating, this gesture will create a gap between your wrists.Alternatively, you can present your hands to be tied with both hands in front of you, crossed at the wrist. Rotate your lower wrist about 45 degrees while you’re being tied, so that, once the ropes are tight, you can straighten out your wrist and loosen the rope.Make a lot of noise. Most people deep down do not want to inflict more discomfort or suffering than necessary. Cry out in pain--even if you are not. Complain. Let the tears flow. Talk to them and try to manipulate them. Make it mentally more difficult to tighten those bonds tighter.
Make the task difficult. Most people are not experts in rope tying, knots, and techniques. Usually the average person without formal training (such as a person proficient in working with cattle) does not do an adequate job. If you are thrashing around, resisting, and generally being a physical challenge the task is all that much more difficult.;
, If more than just your wrists or ankles are being bound, this will help you escape. When your muscles are tensed, they expand and take up more room than when they’re relaxed. This will make your body larger, while your captors are tying you tightly. Consequently, when you relax your muscles, your body will shrink slightly and the ropes will be loser, giving your more room to move and eventually escape.


This is a technique used by most escape artists and allows the ropes to be slightly looser when you relax you muscles.
If captors are tying a rope around your chest, take a deep breath and expand your lungs as much as possible.If you can make a loose spot big enough to do so, slip out of it.
 Once your captors have turned their backs or left the room you’re in, rotate your wrists back and forth to loosen them. You can also use your teeth to pull on one strand of the rope to make it looser.As the ropes continue to loosen, you may be able to wriggle out of them.


If your hands are tied to your torso or sides, wriggle your hands until they’re at a narrower part of your body (such as directly in front of you). The ropes will be looser here, and you’ll be able to slip out.If your arms are pinned to your stomach, chest or torso, bend one arm upwards and try lifting the bonds. If the rope is at all lose, you may be able to slip it off over your head.
 You need your hands to untie any other ropes, so always begin by freeing your hands. Ropes (and also phone and electrical cords) can be cut through with friction, so you’ll need to find a hard object to rub the binding ropes against.Look for surfaces like an exposed corner of a cement wall, a table edge, or a granite countertop.


If you’re alone in a room, look around for a sharp object, such as a knife, scissor blade, etc. If you use one of these objects to cut the rope while your hands are tied, take care not to cut or injure yourself.
If you have a key or small knife in your pocket, try to get it out without anyone noticing. If you can cut the ropes quickly, you’ll be well on your way to escaping.
 If your hands are impossible to free, you may need to free your feet first. First kick of your shoes, as it will be easier to slip the ropes if you are just wearing socks. First see if the rope is loose enough to wriggle out of—if it’s not, bend over and try untying the knot with your teeth.


Once your feet are free, use your tied hands to pull the leg bonds down until they have gone off over your feet.
 Don’t plan to run out the door as soon as you’re free; you’ll need to make a tactical exit. You should bide your time and pick the best possible moment to escape. When your captors have turned their backs or left the room, make your break.Get far away as quickly as you can.


If you expect to be pursued by your captors, try to blend in or hide in your environment, and arm yourself (for example, with a piece of rebar) if needed.
Also, you can gather information about your captors that could help the police track them down. Pay attention to their looks and physical appearance, any tattoos and scars, and the sound of their voices.

