 Girls don't like guys who spend all their time on getting a girl, they might suspect a "player" rather than good friendship material.;
, Humor is an attractive trait for any person and it helps ease tension and awkwardness. It can also reassure a girl that you're not being overly confident and self-inflated.
 Don't try to be sporty, geeky, hipster, etc. if you're not. On the other hand, be as much of the person you really are so that she accepts you as yourself. Always be polite though––just because you like gross humor or practical jokes doesn't mean she deserves to be on the receiving end of those. Use your commonsense––making friends requires holding back on being silly, rude or just plain dumb.
 She is no different from you in worrying about being rejected, ignored or made fun of. Reassure her that you don't intend to do any of that to her and she'll be glad to spend time with you.
 It is almost impossible to get a girl to like you when you're not in her homeroom. Try someone who is in your homeroom, to make things easier.
 It's always best to be friends first, and after you take it slow, then you can tell her you like her, or ask her out if both of you are allowed to date or not.
 Ask her where she lives and walk home with her. She will like the company.
 She will probably appreciate the fact that you would like to know her better.
 If her friends have a negative opinion of you, she might think it's true. It's best to get to know her friends as well. If she does not have friends, be her friend.
 She will grow to consider you a safe person to be around and will want to be friends with you.
 Realize that at your age, friendship is more realistic and that if you are romantic together, it most likely won't last and you might lose her friendship for good if that happens.
 You guys have only known each other this way for less than a year. Give yourselves some time before you kiss, if at all. This part really isn't necessary and you might prefer just being good, solid friends.

