 For instance, if you are in the United States you can study the AKC or Kennel Club recognized breeds first. These are relatively common breeds and are easy to identify.


Study the dogs each for a group at a time. Go through each "breed type" in each group, this will make it easier to remember in your head.
First, for example, start with the sporting group (aka gun dog). Get familiar with each breed type in the group, the retrievers, then the pointers, then the spaniels, then the setters.
 Begin by checking out books on dog breeds from the library. You want to make sure that the author is an expert in the field. You should also be sure that the information contained inside will help you learn breeds names and identifying characteristics of dogs.


Also look for online sources. Just as with books, make sure the sources are coming from experts in the field. There are many organizations dedicated to specific breeds, so if you want specific information on a breed, an organization dedicated to them may have good information online.
 If you see a dog that you are particularly interested in, focus your attention on it. Learn all about the history of the breed and its characteristics. While some people like to know a little bit about a lot of breeds, some other people are better at specializing their knowledge.
 For example, after you get familiar with the recognized breeds, get into the Foundation Stock breeds. Foundation Stock breeds are rare breeds that the American Kennel Club keeps record of, but does not register.There are over 600 breeds of dogs in the world, so get familiar with the ones in your area first.
 This will make it easier for you to remember the breed. You can also learn the different breed colorings, coat types, and sizes. You can find the standards for the AKC recognized breeds at www.akc.org.


This will help you get familiar with the breeds, and find certain characteristics that will trigger your memory when you see a dog.
With diligent studying you soon will be able to tell your Keeshond from your coon hounds and become a mini-expert in dog breed recognition. For example, the AKC states that Yorkies should only be blue and tan, but, there are actually some piebald (black and white) Yorkies.
 This will help you familiarize yourself with common, popular breeds. If you need help identifying the breed, do key word internet searches to figure out what kind of dog it is. You can also ask the owner. Most owners love talking about their breed!

, Local dog and 4-H clubs hold pet shows every year in which they feature many breeds of dogs. State and regional dog shows, some specific for hunting dogs or working dogs, take place around the calendar year. Watch the breed rings, group rings, and if you can, best in show.


Look at the dogs in the breed rings, watch how they act, what they look like, and how they move. If you see the dogs in person, you will remember them faster.
Next, go to the group rings. See if you can identify each breed from memory.
 The crème de la crème in the U.S. is the Westminster Kennel Club dog show which takes place in New York City every February. More than 170 dog breeds compete in this show, which is broken down into the dog groups.


Each group competes against itself to choose the top dog; the top dog in each in group then competes in one final showing to choose the overall top dog.The show is also shown on TV every year. Dog breeds are discussed during the televised events, giving viewers a good overall education in dog breeds.

