 Aloe vera is a versatile remedy that helps reduce both the swelling and the burning sensation resulting from a swollen lip.After the cold compress therapy (see the step above), apply aloe vera gel over the fat lip.
Reapply as often as needed throughout the day.
 Black tea contains compounds (tannins) that help reduce swelling in the lip.


Prepare black tea and cool it.
Dip in cotton ball and place over the fat lip for 10 to 15 minutes.
You can repeat the treatment a few times a day for quick results.
 Honey acts as a natural healer as well as an antibacterial and can be used to treat a swollen lip in addition to many other remedies.Apply honey over the fat lip and leave it on for 10 to 15 minutes.
Rinse it off and repeat a few times a day as needed.
 Turmeric powder works as an antiseptic and has healing properties. You can easily make a paste with this powder and apply over the lip.Mix turmeric powder with fuller’s earth and water and make a paste.
Apply over the fat lip and let it dry.
Wash off with water and repeat as needed.
 Baking soda can help reduce pain and inflammation associated with the fat lip and can also help reduce swelling.


Mix baking soda with water to make a paste.
Apply over the fat lip for a few minutes, then wash off.
Repeat as needed until the swelling is gone.
 Salt water can be used to reduce swelling and, if the fat lip was associated with a cut, to kill bacteria that might otherwise cause an infection.Dissolve salt in warm water.
Soak a cotton ball or a towel in the salt water and place over the fat lip. If there is a cut, there may be a burning sensation but this should go away after a few seconds.
Repeat once or twice a day as needed.
 Tea tree oil has anti-inflammatory properties and is used as an antibiotic to fight bacterial infection. Always dilute tea tree oil with a carrier oil to prevent skin irritation.Dilute tea tree oil with another oil, such as olive oil or coconut oil or aloe vera gel.
Apply over the fat lip for about 30 minutes, then rinse it off.
Repeat as needed.
Never use tea tree oil in children.

