 Mash a ripe banana in a small bowl until it forms a smooth, lump free pulp. Add 1/2 a teaspoon of baking powder, and 1/2 a teaspoon of turmeric powder. Mix all three ingredients until they are blended thoroughly. Apply this mask to your face and allow it to sit on your face for about 10-15 minutes. After it has sat on your face, rinse your face off with some warm water, and pat your face dry with a towel.Since turmeric can stain very easily, consider applying this mask with a make-up brush. That way, the yellow color from the turmeric won’t dye your fingers.
You may feel a slight stinging from the baking soda, if you have sensitive skin. However, don’t worry the baking soda doesn’t warrant a serious concern. If you are uncertain how your skin will react to the baking soda, test a small, inconspicuous area of your face first before applying it all over.Try to spread out the use of this mask. Applying this mask 2-3 a week is sufficient. However, try not to go over 3 times a week since this mask is an exfoliating mask and you don’t want to exfoliate your skin too frequently.
 Combine and mash a ripe banana, 1 teaspoon of orange juice, and 1 teaspoon of plain yogurt. Use a fork to make a smooth and even, consistency. Massage and work this mask onto your face, and let it soak into your skin for about 15 minutes. Rinse off the mask after 15 minutes, and pat dry your face with a towel.The yogurt helps with shrinking the look of pores, and tightening pores. The orange juice helps with refreshing skin cells, and softening harsh skin lines.
Try to apply this mask over a sink, so if any spills or drips off your face, you have a convenient area to catch the mask.
 Mix 1/2 of a ripe banana with 1/2 cups of cooked oatmeal, 1 teaspoon of honey, and 1 egg yolk in a small bowl. Combine with your fingers or with a fork, until you get a smooth consistency. Apply this mask to your face and keep on for 15 minutes. Rinse the mask off with lukewarm water and pat dry your face with a towel.Be very cautious to not use this mask if you have any poultry or egg allergies.
The egg yolk locks in moisture, and helps give your skin a smooth texture.

