 Listen when your friend talks and see what he says about other men. Does he frequently refer to other guys as being attractive? Does he gush about his favorite male characters on television or the latest hot-topic celebrity? Does he get all tongue tied around the quarterback or the office stud? Things like this can be a cue that he likes them with a little bit more than basic admiration.


For example, if he says something like, "Oh man, I spent all weekend hanging out with Jacob. He was so nice and felt so natural to be around him."

, You might also want to look for language which shows a lack of interest in women or an absence of language that would normally show an interest in women. This can be another indicator that he's gay. Guys will generally get bashful and tongue tied around women that they like. If you're not seeing any of that, then he might be gay.


For example, does he get really reluctant or act uncomfortable when you offer to set him up on a date?

, When someone is closeted, they often have to hide a lot of things about themselves. Your friend might even be out, just not to you, which means they have to hide a whole other life. Watch for signs that they're hiding something or that they're ashamed or embarrassed about something, since this can be an indication.


For example, if you invite him to go do something else during the same weekend as the Pride festival and he says that he is busy, that might be an indication.
 One of the theories about why some people are born gay has to do with the hormones that they're exposed to before they're born. These hormone exposure levels may manifest in actual, physical ways which can be a vague indicator that a guy might be gay. Look for a feminine walk, body shape , or finger length . These can be signs that he was exposed to more estrogen than usual in utero, which may have an effect on brain development. However, it's incredibly important to remember that this is not a 100% fool-proof sign. There are lots of other factors that can contribute to these changes in the body, so don't point to this as your smoking gun.


In women, the ring and pointer fingers are the same length, while the ring finger is longer in men. Gay men are slightly more likely to have even fingers than straight men. However, there are factors (such as having a lot of older brothers) that can make this indicator completely irrelevant.
 You should also consider what other possibilities all of these different signs might indicate. It is possible that your guy friend is not gay but instead falls somewhere else on the Kinsey scale of unicorns and awesomeness. He could be:


Bisexual, meaning he's interested in men and women.
Asexual, meaning that he naturally has no sexual desire.
He may just not be interested in you, if you're wondering why he hasn't made a move on you.
 Although some people in the gay culture may put on a certain voice or a way of speaking, your friend talking in a similar or "effeminate" way is still not a very good way to judge. Some guys are simply soft-spoken or have naturally feminine ways of speaking.


For example, he may simply be shy or grew up around someone who talked in a similar way.
 What a guy enjoys is also not a very good way to judge if he is gay or not. Everyone can enjoy different things; just like a woman might enjoy watching football, guys can also enjoy things that are more commonly associated with women or the gay community.


Examples of activities he can like and still be straight as an arrow: figure skating, dance, and theater.
 The movies he watches and the music he listens to are also not fair methods to gauge if he is straight or gayer than Elton John and George Takei put together. You'll have to look for other indicators than his mp3 collection.


Examples of media that he can like and still be straight: Lady Gaga, musicals, and chic flicks.
 There's the stereotype that if a guy is a good dresser or if he spends a bunch of time on his hair,he's definitely gay. However, guys getting more invested in how they look is pretty common these days, making this a terrible way to judge.


Similarly, you shouldn't assume that just because he's super macho and wouldn't know the right end of the comb to use, he's definitely straight.
 Sometimes you might assume that just because a guy only hangs out with girls or just because his best friend also seems gay, then he might also be gay. These are not fair indicators, though. Different people look for different things in friendships and he probably just feels better around the friends that he has.
 Set aside some quality time for the two of you to talk. This is a very private matter and you don't want to put him in an awkward position in front of other people. You should also work your way up to this serious conversation by talking about other deep matters first. It's important to make him feel comfortable and set the expectation that you two can share deep, personal feelings with each other.


For example, talk about your family problems or maybe politics and your concerns for the future.
 Subtly bring up subjects that show him that you're okay with your friends being gay and that he doesn't need to hide his nature around you. You can talk about another friend that is gay or even just about someone hypothetically coming out if you don't know someone who's gay.


For example, you can say something like "I really admire people like Neil Patrick Harris. He does a great job of showing all those conservative people that there's more to gay people than all those offensive stereotypes. And he's clearly so happy now. I wish everyone felt like they could live as out and proud as he does."

, You can also talk about the experience that other people had with coming out. Show him that you're concerned that those same negative effects might plague him. This can show him that you're ready to be a support network if he needs one.


Say something like, "Before Andie came out I was so worried about her. She seemed to be so unhappy...like she didn't like herself very much. And then everyone was so mean to her after she did. I don't want anyone to have to go through that."

, Now that you've set the precedent and shown him that you are someone safe and accepting to talk to, give him the time and opportunity to tell you. He might not tell you in that conversation. He might not even tell you that week. But if he is gay, he will probably tell you once he's comfortable and feels like he really trusts you.


It is important to maintain an environment of trust if you want him to tell you. Don't spread any gossip about anybody, since spilling any kind of secret just tells him that you might spill his.
 Of course, if he doesn't say anything or if you would rather not make any assumptions based on his behavior, just ask him. It's okay to ask. This is really the best way to find out if someone is gay and much less offensive than making assumptions about them. It may feel awkward, but chances are, if you are trusted, this friend will tell you the truth.


Say something like, "You know you're stuck with me as a friend no matter what, but I just have to ask because I don't want to make assumptions and come to the wrong conclusions: are you gay?"
Do the bend and snap. Legally Blonde can solve many things when you use it in the correct way.

