 Watch for irregularities or hints that something is not normal. Here are samples of such emails:
Good day, hope you are good. Was going through your website and saw some of your artwork I really like. You are doing a great job. I would like to make the purchase of the artwork in subject field above if it is still available..i would also like to know what inspired the artwork. kindly get back to me asap.
Thanks and God bless,
Steve Leavitt.
Greetings!
My name is Senior collins from SC. I actually observed my wife has been viewing your website on my laptop and i guess she likes your piece of work, I'm also impressed and amazed to have seen your various works too, : )  You are doing a great job. I would like to receive further information about your piece of work and what inspires you.
I am very much interested in the purchase of the piece (in subject field above) to surprise my wife. Kindly confirm the availability for immediate sales.
Thanks and best regards,
Senior
, Copy a line from the email and paste it in the search box of your browser. If you search for "I actually observed my wife has been viewing your website" you will find others that have received the same art scam form letter.,, A scammer may call it "your piece of work" or "the item". A scammer may suggest buying any piece of art that you recommend.

A scammer may ask for a specific work or art by name. Be vigilant regardless.
,

Always give your bank enough time to clear a check. Be sure it is not a fake before you give up any goods.
Remember that a buyer can get PayPal to refund their money in spite of your objections.
 Firmly maintain your standard protocol as a reliable seller.

Do not change your policies because someone offers to pay you a high price.
Do not change your policies because someone is in a hurry.
 The scammer asks for a quick refund in cash or a money order, then a week later your bank calls to tell you that the buyer's check was no good.

Opening a new account with the scammer's check is a bad idea. The bank will charge back the fake check to you, holding you responsible for repayment of the full amount. The bank will not cover your losses.
Do not wire refunds through services such as Western Union or Moneygram. Sellers do not send money to buyers, they only send money to scammers.
Never agree to adjust your invoice for any reason suggested by the buyer, such as an additional amount to cover his agent's fee. The buyer must handle his own business. You handle your own business, including paying taxes on the invoiced amount.
 Do not provide your home address or phone number. Do not provide bank account information, credit card numbers, PayPal account number or social security numbers. Scammers can easily find much of your personal information. Don't help them or invite them. Here is a sample of a follow up email:
Dear seller,
Thanks for the message, Hope you are doing great. I actually observed my wife has been viewing your website (artwork) on my laptop and i guess she likes your artwork, Also I must tell you I am very much interested in the immediate purchase of that artwork to surprise my wife. Unfortunately, at the moment I am on training voyage with new hires, fresh from graduate school, I would have come to purchase the piece personally but won't be back for another couple of weeks, as I am a civil marine engineer and due to the nature of my work, visiting of website, phone calls are restricted during this period, but i squeezed out time to check this advert and send you an email regarding it:-). . Kindly email me the asking price asap.
If you'd like to know, I'm relocating to the Philippines soon and I'm also trying to gather some good stuff to furnish my new abode. I am buying yours (quickly before someone else grabs it) So, I'll arrange to send you payment ASAP.
However, you don't have to worry about shipment, I be appointing a secured shipping agent in Philippines whom are also moving my 1932 Ford ROADSTER and some personal effect to come over for the pickup of the painting at your place,and then deliver it to my new abode (Philippines); Courier service like FedEx, UPS are not worth it in the Philippines especially USPS all of them are not rendering good service there in the Philippines, they will never bring to ones house. I have had several bad experience with FedEx and UPS in the past and am not willing to pay additional fee at the delivery point in Philippines because the appointed shipper will deliver safely without paying any other money before collecting the goods unlike some other courier where it will not be delivered to your address rather you will have to go to their office to pick it up and when you get there you will be told to pay other money before collecting it.
Thanks and God bless,
Steve Scuba
PS:In the meantime, you could forward me your full name (you want the check payable to) cell phone no. and contact address so I can fedex a check to. as I MIGHT be delayed depending on how things goes.
Here is another sample letter:
Hello,Thanks for the details which Ive noted down and have also forwarded it to my shipper.He's due in the US sometime next week and will definitely be getting in touch with you for the pickup.The truth is,i would have handled this much differently if i would be at home but Im a bit pressed for time myself. Im moving to Cairo this month as im being transferred.As it is, I'm sending you an overdraft which will include my shippers fees as well.He has asked for an upfront before coming and since I have no access to a lot of cash, Im trying to kill two birds with a stone.So, once you've received and cashed the check,deduct your funds and PLEASE help me send the remaining funds to him(shipper).I'll forward his contact details to you once you've received the payment.Now I'm concluding you are a responsible person and I can therefore entrust you with this arrangement.Ill let you know Immediately the check is sent out to you so you should be looking out for it.P.S:I`ll require that a reconfirmation of your address is done for me now. I await your reply.
thanh Nguyen (mrknumb@gmail.com), A scammer may tell you that he does not have a shipping address because he is on a ship in the North Atlantic. A scammer may tell you that shipping is not required because he is moving to the Philippines using his personal shipping agent. A scammer may tell you that shipping to his home address is undesirable because it would ruin a surprise for his wife.

If a buyer is moving, ask for both the old and new addresses even if he does not want you to ship to either address. Explain that this is for validation and security, not only for shipping. Hey, if you want to know where I sleep, I want to know where you sleep.
Be suspicious if a buyer requests shipping to a different address.
Be suspicious if a buyer says he is at home with his wife surfing the web and also on a ship in the middle of an ocean at the same time. Watch for such contradictions as a sign of a scammer.
, People have died while doing this.,

If someone comes to your home or calls your phone, contact your local law enforcement agency, police or sheriff.
If you have been defrauded over the internet, file a complaint with the Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3). IC3 is a partnership between the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the National White Collar Crime Center (NW3C).
 It sounds entertaining and adventurous to bait a scammer for more information or to see how far the scammer is willing to go. However, it is safer and wiser to allow professional investigators to use their skills and training.