 Diabetic cats aren’t able to absorb and use glucose properly, which leads to abnormally high levels of glucose being filtered out through the urine. When this process occurs, extra water is carried out of the body along with the glucose. This means that your cat is losing too much water and will start trying to counter this by increasing their water intake.Watch your cat’s water bowl to see if the water levels are decreasing more quickly than usual.
You should also be mindful about whether your cat is searching for alternative water sources – like drinking out of the sink, the toilet, or other unusual locations.
A diabetic cat will seem to be constantly drinking water.;
, Because the glucose is being carried out with the water and the cat tries to make up for this by drinking more, a diabetic cat will also start urinating much more frequently. Clean your cat’s litter box regularly so you can monitor this symptom.Check your cat’s litter box for signs of excess urination compared to their regular usage.
And be mindful about whether or not your cat starts peeing in other places outside the box.
 There are many reasons why a cat may stop using the litter box for its bathroom needs (this is called inappropriate elimination). Feline diabetes is one of the major causes of inappropriate elimination. If your cat starts urinating or defecating outside of the litter box, you should take your cat to the vet to make sure it doesn’t have feline diabetes or another kind of urinary problem.Inappropriate elimination can also be caused by stress, overcrowding, the location of the litter box, or because the cat thinks the litter box isn’t clean enough.
 A diabetic cat may have a significant change in appetite. This can take several forms including eating too much or eating way less. So try to notice any change in appetite or eating habits exhibited by your cat.A diabetic cat may feel unwell, which could lead to a loss of appetite.
Additionally, a diabetic cat may feel the need to eat more because they aren’t getting the glucose that they need from their normal diet.
 Because the body of a diabetic cat can no longer handle the glucose within it, the cat will tend to lose weight rather quickly. Watch your cat carefully if you notice any weight loss. You can even try weighing the cat at home to regularly monitor your cat’s weight.Cat’s have such small bodies, relatively, that any noticeable change in weight is cause for concern and should be discussed with your veterinarian as soon as possible.
 Because feline diabetes can often affect the nervous system, some cats who suffer from this disease end up walking differently. Most cats walk on their paws, but diabetic cats often begin walking on their back hocks – this is the part of the leg above the paw that runs up until the first bend in the cat’s leg. If your cat is walking with its hocks touching the ground, you should notify your veterinarian immediately.This condition is called diabetic neuropathy.
 There are still more signs and symptoms that could be present in cats with feline diabetes. Since cats who are affected by this disease aren’t able to ingest and digest food in the proper way, they may also suffer from other symptoms as a result. Some of these related symptoms include:Vomiting
Weakness
Depression
Dull, unhealthy coat

, Just as in human diabetes, the single greatest risk factor for your cat developing feline diabetes is your cat’s weight. If your kitty is overweight, its chance of developing diabetes increases exponentially.If your cat is getting dangerously obese, your veterinarian may recommend a weight-control diet to help your cat lose weight and reduce the risk of developing diabetes.
 Elderly cats often are more prone to developing diabetes than younger, healthier cats. Watch your older cat for symptoms of feline diabetes to be sure that you catch it in the early stages and are able to treat it properly.Once your cat is about eight years old, they are more prone to developing health issues that could be potentially harmful and need monitoring.
 Because glucose is processed through the pancreas, a cat with a history of pancreatic problems is already at a greater risk for developing diabetes in their lifetime. It is important to monitor your cat’s pancreatic health if your cat has existing problems with its pancreas.Take your cat to regular yearly vet appointments (or more frequently if recommended by your veterinarian) so that your vet can monitor your cat’s pancreas and the possibility of developing diabetes.
 As soon as you start spotting the signs of feline diabetes, make an appointment with your vet so they can run some tests on your cat. To test for feline diabetes, your vet will most likely take a blood sample to check your cat’s blood glucose levels.Your vet will also be able to perform the necessary treatment for any possible side effects of the disease like dehydration.
You can Check Cats for Dehydration ahead of time so you have more information to give the vet.
If your cat is dehydrated, your vet might recommend switching your cat to wet food since there is more water content in this type of food.
In emergency situations, your cat may require an IV for rehydration purposes – administered by your vet.
 Understanding feline diabetes can be a difficult task but it is important for your cat’s health that you learn all you can about it. There are two types of the disease, aptly named Type 1 and Type 2 diabetes. Symptoms for both types are similar, and only a veterinarian can diagnose the difference.Type 1 diabetes occurs when the body does not produce enough insulin.
Type 2 diabetes is when the body cannot handle the insulin production that is taking place efficiently.
 One thing that is usually advised is that the diet of the cat must change and the weight must be monitored. Complex carbohydrates alongside high fiber content is usually advised and this is to not only ensure that the cat loses weight safely but also to keep a steady level of glucose in the body. A high protein/low carbohydrate diet is usually the best choice for a diabetic cat.Confer with your vet about what kind of food is best for your diabetic cat.
Your vet may suggest mixing some wet food into your cat’s diet since there is a higher water content in this type of food.
 Just like human diabetes, the feline kind of the disease can also be treated with injections of insulin as well as orally taken medications. Your veterinarian will discuss medication options with you and help you decide which route is best for your cat.It is very likely that you will have to give your cat daily insulin injections in order to keep your cat healthy. Your vet will demonstrate how to do this and you’ll soon be able to do it easily.
 In order to ensure your diabetic cat is receiving the proper treatment, you should keep daily records of their behavior. Your vet may also wish to do regular testing on your cat’s urine to check glucose levels. In your daily records, include observations about:Time of insulin injection
Amount of insulin injected
Amount of water consumed
Amount of food consumed
Weight of the cat

