 If you witnessed your dog get bitten by another animal, be it a dog or a wild animal, it is important that you wash out the cut. Doing this can help to kill the virus on your dog’s skin or in the surface of the wound.To do this:


Take protective measures and wear gloves so that you don’t come into contact with the saliva of the infected animal. Humans can also be infected by rabies, so it is very important that you take every measure to ensure that you do not become infected.
Disinfect the wound using soap and hot water. If you have antibacterial soap or gel, you may also consider applying that to the wound in an attempt to reduce the chance of infection.;
, As stated above, rabies is transmitted via the saliva of an infected animal. The saliva could potentially get into your system if it comes into contact with a mucus membrane like your eyes or nose.


If you think your dog has been bitten by an infected animal, make sure to avoid your dog’s saliva, even going so far as to wear a face mask and protective goggles.
 If your dog has been vaccinated against rabies in the past, the risk of him contracting the virus after getting bitten is lower. However, it is still very important that you get a booster shot for your dog because if the vaccine does not work and he contracts the virus, he may die without a booster shot.A booster shot is a single dose of rabies virus that works along with the vaccine to rid your dog of the virus., When you take your dog to the vet, the vet will need to see proof that your dog has been vaccinated for rabies. In many countries, it is a law that you must get your dog vaccinated as a puppy. When he is vaccinated, the vet will put a rabies tag on his collar, and give you papers stating that he was vaccinated.


Bring both the collar and the papers with you, as well as any papers documenting your dog’s medical health when you bring your dog to the vet for a booster shot.
 In most cases, your dog will also need to be re-vaccinated against rabies, along with getting the booster shot. The reason your vet will give your dog a vaccine after he has already been bitten is that the vaccine will cause an immune response in your dog where his immune system will attack the vaccine virus. That way, by the time the real virus reaches the nerves closest to the brain or spinal nerves, your dog will already have antibodies directed towards the virus.Post exposure vaccines are generally given directly into the wound site.
 Information about quarantining your dog will be covered in detail in Method 3. Regardless of whether or not your dog has been vaccinated previously, you will have to quarantine—keep him away from other animals and humans—for a period of time to make sure that he does not develop any rabies symptoms.

