 The key to this filtration technique is food safe activated carbon, which can be bought at your local pet supply store. Activated carbon is a substance created to have holes in it smaller than the eye can see, making it ideal for filtering out fine impurities from a substance. You'll want at least three cups (375 g) of this for filtering. It should be relatively cheap to purchase from your local pet store, or you can buy bags in bulk from online retailers for even less. In addition to your activated carbon, you’ll also need:


Cheap vodka
Coffee filters
Colander
Two bottles/containers (larger than the amount of vodka purchased)
Funnel
Strainer/colander, Straight from the bag, your activated carbon will have some dust remaining on it from processing and handling. You don’t want this residue getting into your vodka, so you should remove it from the carbon first by running your carbon under water while in a colander or strainer.Then you should:


Place your activated carbon in a coffee filter. Cone shaped filters that will roughly match the shape of your funnel will make the filtration process easier, but standard coffee filters will work as well.
Put about 2 inches (5cm) of food safe activated charcoal into your filter, and then place the filter inside your funnel.
 The colder your vodka is, the more easily the impurities will be soaked up by your carbon activated filter. You may want to chill your vodka in your freezer beforehand. For best results, you might consider clearing a space in your freezer so the vodka can filter in the cold., Place your funnel firmly into the mouth of your container so that it is stable and will not fall over. Then pour vodka into your funnel until it is ¾ of the way full, though you’ll want to keep the level of your vodka from going over the top line of your filter.If your vodka rises above the filter, there’s a chance that it will trickle between the filter and funnel without receiving the purifying effects of the activated carbon.
It may take a considerable amount of time for your vodka to drip filter through the carbon into your container.
 Filter your cheap vodka until none remains. When the level of your vodka begins to diminish in your funnel, you should add more to continue the filtration process. When finished the first filtered batch:


Move your funnel with its filter and activated carbon securely into your second container to prepare for round two of filtration.
Run your filtered batch through your carbon several times. The more times you pass your vodka through your activated carbon, the more impurities the carbon will soak up from it.
Since fresh activated carbon filters at a better rate, after your second or third filtration cycle, you may want to change your coffee filter and activated carbon.
Don’t forget to rinse your fresh activated carbon to remove any silt or dust from it before using it for filtration.
You should aim to keep your vodka exposed to the activated carbon for a minimum of five minutes to ensure the best results.