 Children often like to take on different characters. This could include fairy tale characters, superheroes and different professions, like doctors and firemen. Encourage your child to play dress up and pretend to expand their imagination and explore different ideas., Help your child be creative by asking them to tell a story that they know and love, but ask them to make up a whole new ending. You can repeat this game over and over, changing it up every time., This game will get your six-year-old moving and keep them occupied. The more clues they have, the longer the game will last, so take a little time to write down words or phrases for them to act out.Make sure the phrases you use are not too difficult for your child to understand or act out.
The player draws a phrase at random and reads it to himself.
Before starting to act out the phrase, they can indicate how many words it involves by showing that number of fingers to the people who will be guessing the phrase, then the player can hold up one finger to act out the first word, or two fingers to act out the second word, and so on.
The group can also agree on gestures which would indicate if the phrase is the title of a book, movie, song, etc…
The player must act out the phrase physically, without using any words, until the guessers figure out the phrase.
 Once kids have started making up stories, exploring different characters, and acting out phrases, they can put all of these skills together by creating a play. They can use puppets or costumes, or create sets. Give them some ideas and let them get to work on their own or with friends. Six-year-olds will likely spend a lot of time creating a show and you will only need to spend a few minutes to watch it.
 Your six-year-old may be beginning to lean toward certain interests. Allow them to explore these interest with toys which can teach them more and give them a chance to imagine their future. The more interest they have in a toy, the longer it will last. This goes for the day and the years they keep coming back to it.Allow your future architect to build with toys. Try building blocks, LEGOs, Lincoln Logs, and other construction toys. You can also try a tool kit and work bench.
Try science kits with your little scientist. You will likely need to help and supervise with experiments, but your child can play with things like microscopes on her own.
Provide art and craft materials for a tiny artist. Six-year-olds can move beyond clay and dough to paints and pastels. Buy an art or craft kit and allow your child to be creative.
Get cars, model planes, or electric trains for a child who is mechanically inclined.

