 You will need the gun dealer's license application (also known as the Federal Firearms License (FFL) application), and a Certificate of Compliance. Both forms can be obtained from the ATF website or from an ATF field office.


Go to the ATF website provided to you in the Sources section of this article, then click on the links for "ATF F 5310.12" and "ATF F 5330.20" on the right side of the webpage. These links will allow you to view and print the application and Certificate of Compliance forms.
If you want to receive the paperwork by mail, call the ATF field office closest to you in either Dallas or Houston and request that the forms be mailed to you. The phone numbers for the Dallas and Houston offices are 1-469-227-4300 and 1-281-716-8200, respectively.
If you live near Dallas or Houston, and want to obtain the paperwork in person at one of these field offices, visit 1114 Commerce Street, Room 303, Dallas, Texas, 75242 or 5825 North Sam Houston Parkway, Suite 300, Houston, Texas, 77086.;
, The fingerprint cards are required by the ATF for the purpose of the federal background check.


Obtain 2 fingerprint identification cards from the law enforcement office. Some police stations may require you to pay a fee for the cards.






Call the Texas Department of Public Safety at 1-512-424-2000 if you need help finding the nearest law enforcement office in your area.
 The photographs should measure a minimum of 2 inches (5.08 cm) in height and width and must be included with the paperwork you send to the ATF.


Use 2 photographs that clearly display your face and physical features. If you do not already have current photographs, you may need to have new photographs taken.
 The fee will vary depending on the type of guns and firearms you plan on selling at your gun or firearms business.


Gather 3000 dollars for the fee if you plan to sell a variety of guns and firearms that include destructive devices such as mines, bombs, and grenades.
Gather 200 dollars for the fee if you plan on selling only non-destructive weapons and handguns.
Your application fee can be paid by entering your credit card information on the gun dealer's license application or by obtaining a check or money order for the fee amount.
 The application will require you to enter information about yourself and your gun or firearms business; such as your contact information, business location, types of products you plan to sell, your criminal history, and more.
 The form will require you to indicate your current citizenship status in the United States, and will also require you to certify that you understand federal gun dealer's laws.
 The FFLC will then use the information you provided on the application to perform a background check. The FFLC will then forward your paperwork to the ATF field office located closest to you in either Dallas or Houston for review.


The paperwork you send to the FFLC must include your gun dealer's license application, the Certificate of Compliance form, your fingerprint identification card, pictures of yourself, and the application fee.
Place all the paperwork into an envelope and mail the envelope to: Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives, P.O. Box 409567, Atlanta, Georgia, 30384-9567.
 After the ATF field office in Dallas or Houston receives your paperwork from the FFLC, an IOI will call you to make an appointment for an interview. The IOI will then inspect the future location of your gun or firearms business and speak with you regarding federal gun dealer's laws.
 After the IOI has approved you for the gun dealer's license, you will be mailed your license within 60 days of initially turning in your paperwork to the FFLC.

