 Frequent hand washing is one of the best ways to stop the spread of fungal infections.Make sure that you wash your hands any time that you may have touched your own fungal infection or after touching objects and surfaces that may be infected. For example, if you use equipment at the gym, then wash your hands right after you finish.;
, If you have a fungal infection, then you should stay away from places where you may be more likely to spread the infection. For example, you may be more likely to spread a fungal infection if you visit the gym or go swimming in a public pool. Fungal infections of any kind are spread through contact. If you currently have a fungal infection, avoid going to any public place that might make it possible for your infection to spread to others.Do not visit any gyms, public pools, or public bathing areas until your infection is cured.
 You can pick up a fungal infection by walking around barefoot, so wearing shoes is a good way to protect yourself. If you have a fungal infection on your feet, then walking around barefoot will also increase the chance that you will spread it.


Make sure that you are always wearing some kind of footwear when you are out in public, especially in places like locker rooms where more people tend to go barefoot., Some jobs require a lot of physical contact with people, which may put others at risk if you have a fungal infection. If your job requires a lot of direct contact with others, such as a nursing position, then you should tell your supervisor if you have a fungal infection., Don't share any personal items with others, whether you have a fungal infection or not. Since fungal infections spread through contact, sharing personal items with another person increases the risk of spreading the fungal spores. Although it may seem kind to share something with someone, avoid doing so to decrease your risk of spreading or contracting a fungal infection.Do not share any personal items such as clothing, towels, shoes, socks, makeup, deodorant, or anything else that you use or wear on your body.
 If you currently have a fungal infection, you should cover it up before going out to a public place. Touching the infected area to another person or object by accident can cause the fungal infection to spread. Keep the area covered when you are in public until it has been treated.You won't need to keep your children home from school if they have a fungal infection. However, you will have to cover the area and inform the school.
Don't cover the area too tightly. It is important to keep the area cool and dry as you treat the fungal infection.

