 When it comes to creating a Parisian-style room, it’s all about contrasting lighter colors against black. Therefore, opt for a lighter wall color that will contrast with black furniture and accent pieces. A light color, such as pink or blue, is a great choice.You can create the same contrast by doing black walls with colorful bedding and accent pieces, but proceed with caution. Black walls can make a room look dark, small, and dreary, so it needs to be done very well!;
, This is useful if you aren’t able to paint your walls, such as in a college dorm or a rented apartment. Do a Google search to easily find removable wall art. Amazon is a great resource. Choose something like the iconic Eiffel Tower, a scene from a French café, French script, or all of the above. There are hundreds of options, and luckily they aren’t very expensive!


Hanging posters can add a bit of fun to plain walls as well.
 You can be creative with these. A faux fur rug can add a dash of glamor to your room, while a patterned rug can add an element of high fashion fun. A solid colored rug will let your Paris-themed accent pieces stand out, but a floral rug can add a soft, romantic touch to your bedroom. Be creative and choose a rug that fits the specific Parisian vibe you are going for!


These rugs will also help make your room much more cozy, especially if you have hard floors.
 This will be the centerpiece of your bedroom, so it’s important to find one you really love. Upholstered headboards look girly and romantic, while wrought iron beds look delicate and chic. If you’re unable to buy a new bed, don’t worry— the perfect bedding can turn any bed into a cozy little piece of Paris.


If your walls are painted a sweet pastel color, top your bed with a black and white patterned, or a plain white, comforter. This will create a beautiful contrast.
If your walls are a stark white or black, choose a colored comforter. Just make sure that, somehow, your bedding and your walls create a nice contrast between solid neutrals and color.
 You can certainly be creative with this. If you have a plain wooden night stand, paint it the same color as your walls for a pop of color that ties the room together. A delicate, wrought-iron side table can mimic the look of a Parisian café table, and would look ultra-sophisticated in your Parisian room.


If you don’t want to purchase a new Paris-inspired side table and aren’t able to repaint the one you have, consider draping a beautiful fabric over the side table, like a tablecloth. Voila— a perfect Parisian night table.
 Vanities are glamorous and sophisticated, and tie in perfectly with a Parisian themed room. You can find these online at stores like Pottery Barn and Crate and Barrel, but don’t be afraid to scout Goodwill, garage sales, and vintage stores as well. With a coat of paint and a little TLC, you can bring a cheap, rickety vanity back to life.


Set your makeup and perfume bottles on your vanity. This way the vanity serves a purpose and provides a spot for you to get ready, but looks chic and Parisian at the same time!

, Real flowers can make your bedroom smell delicious, but fake flowers look great and last forever. Roses are all over Paris in the springtime, and they will make your bedroom look stylish and elegant. Peonies, daffodils, irises, and tulips are also Parisian flowers, and would look great in a Paris-themed bedroom., Don’t underestimate how much the perfect curtains can transform a room. Choose something soft and romantic, like a sheer fabric or one with ruffles or lace. These add a touch of elegance to your Parisian room, while also blocking the light so you can get your beauty sleep.
 You can find Paris-themed accent pillows at various home décor stores, like Bed, Bath, and Beyond, Pottery Barn, WalMart, and Target. These are cheap accent pieces that can really bring together your Parisian theme. Opt for a mix of colored pillows and black and white pillows of different shapes and sizes. Romantic pillows like lips and hearts look great, especially mixed with pillows of French phases and images. Throw in a couple of black and white striped or polka-dotted pillows, and your bed will be looking very Parisian., This is the cherry on top of a Parisian bedroom. Not only do chandeliers add soft light to your bedroom, but they are a classic and stylish fixture. You can find miniature chandeliers meant specifically for bedrooms on various home décor websites. Just make sure that the bottom of the chandelier is no lower than seven feet, so adults avoid bumping their heads!, A fashion bust to hang your jewelry on will make your room look very high-fashion and classy. Hanging little twinkling lights along the perimeter of your ceiling will cast a soft, romantic glow over your whole room, a la the “City of Lights.” Hanging a small clock on your wall set to Paris time is a sweet accent that will make your bedroom feel like a little French nook. Get creative! Your room is your oasis, and it should be exactly as you like.

