 This will be determined by how much money you have to put down and what kind of loan you get. Some loans require a 20% down payment, while others will allow you to put down much less.Shop around for a loan that will work well with the amount of money you have to put down.


If you pay less than 20% down you will need to pay monthly for mortgage insurance, the first installment of which will be added to closing costs. The cost of mortgage insurance can vary widely but will generally cost you over $100 per month. When you get your loan make sure that once you have paid 20% of the cost of the house, meaning you have 20% equity in the home, that your mortgage insurance will end.;
, This pays for the time and effort involved in gathering and consolidating the paperwork and supporting documentation, as well as for creating a client file.


Some lenders may also charge for providing a specific interest rate. This charge is a set percentage of the loan amount and therefore is referred to as the number of "points" the lender will charge. A charge of 1 point would be equal to 1 percent of the loan amount., The title company makes sure that there are no other claims on the property and title insurance protects the lender against any future legal problems.It helps to ensure that the title to your property is free and clear at the time of the sale. The cost for these services vary by location and company. On a $100,000 loan, the title company could charge anywhere between $175 to $900 dollars, if not more.The title company used is usually determined by the lender. If you have a strong preference, however, ask your lender if they would be willing to work with the title company you want to use.
 It will most likely be between $300 and $400 dollars.An appraisal of the property is required by the mortgage lender in order to ensure that the loan amount is in line with the property's value. The lender will hire the appraiser and let you know how much the appraisal will cost.


This appraisal is likely different from the tax assessor's appraisal

, Some lenders may charge you for fees incurred in pulling your credit report from the three major reporting bureaus.


You can request a copy of your credit report, complete with score, for about $15 per bureau. Question your lender if their charge greatly exceeds this amount.
 Local property taxes can vary wildly due to the area where your house is located. You can get a history of the property taxes on the house from your real estate agent or from your city or county tax office.
 It's required when your mortgage payment will include an escrow account for property taxes and homeowner's insurance. This fee will be set by the lender but the fee is to pay for a third-party tax professional.
 Your auto insurance agent may be able to give you a package discount if you add homeowner's insurance but be sure to shop around.


Make sure, when you are comparing insurance policies, that you consider all the terms in each proposal and not just the annual cost.
Homeowner's insurance should include coverage for loss of the building, personal possessions and contents and liability.
Ask about provisions for loss of use and the cost to rebuild any and all existing structures.
 Every property sale is different, so there are a lot of variables to consider. If you are unsure, ask your real estate agent. They are working on your behalf and should let you know what is in your best interest.


Government recording fees also vary by location and are paid to record your title with the appropriate government offices as part of your buyer closing costs.
A flood certification is required by lenders in some cases, adding to the buyer closing costs. Your lender may require additional flood insurance if it reveals that the property in question lies within a flood zone.
A property survey is required for some real estate transactions. The survey shows you exactly where your property lines are. Most lenders and brokers can recommend reputable survey firms or professionals.
There are a variety of other tests you can do on a house, once your offer has been accepted. While most of these, such as radon tests or sewer scopes, are paid for by you upfront, some others may be negotiated into the closing costs.
 Some of these are one time costs and some will just be the first installment of a fee that you will pay monthly in your mortgage payment.


Your initial escrow deposit should include enough to pay for any taxes that will come due in the current year (the seller will pay you for unpaid taxes for the part of the year you did not own the house, if any, so this will be reimbursed to you), two months of property taxes, and two months of homeowner's insurance.
Taxes are paid in arrears, meaning that you pay after the charges are incurred, but homeowner's insurance is paid in advance.
 The lender must provide you with an accurate list and estimate of these charges, called a "Good Faith Estimate."If you don't understand any of the charges outlined in the Good Faith Estimate you should feel free to ask your mortgage lender about them.
Some of the fees that go directly to the lender, such as the origination fee, may be negotiable. It doesn't hurt to try to lower it, the worst that can happen is that the lender will say no.

