 Your community may offer a variety of different types of preschool programs. Having an understanding of what types of preschools are available will give you a better idea of what to look for in your area. Most communities will have public and private preschools, which may differ in terms of expense, scheduling, and the types of curriculum they offer.


Public preschools, also called prekindergarten programs, are offered by your local public school system. Typically, public schools offer half-day or full-day preschools. There are no income restrictions. However, there is a residence requirement. You must live in the municipality where the public preschool is located.
Private preschools are independent, for-profit, or may have a religious affiliation. Generally, private preschools have a smaller number of students than other types of preschools. In addition to teaching the basics, these schools may include religious teaching. Private preschools may offer a variety of schedules (full-day, half-day, full-time, or only a few days a week). Some private schools may have more strict admission policies than public schools.;
, Head Start programs provide free education for low-income families. Head Start programs may be based in schools or child care centers, and some areas offer home-based Head Start services. Check out the website for the national Head Start office: https://www.acf.hhs.gov/ohs/about/head-start. If you are interested in applying for a Head Start program, this website provides general information, and can help you locate programs in your area.
 Before you start looking at preschools, it is good to have an idea of how much you can afford to spend each month on school-related expenses. Some preschools require tuition, application fees, or fees for supplies and meals.


Some private preschools may offer financial aid.
Consider other possible sources of financial support, like help from a relative, your school or employer, or child care assistance programs offered by your local government.
 Depending on the work or school schedules of people in your household, you may need to find a preschool that offers a full-day schedule. If someone is able to stay home with your child at least some of the time, you may only need a half-day or part-time program.
 Some preschools will accept new students at any time of the year, but others have strict enrollment periods. Some schools may have waiting lists for applicants. If you want your child to begin preschool at a particular time, it is a good idea to plan in advance.
 If your child has any special needs, you may need to find a preschool that can accommodate them. These can include health, dietary, or behavioral needs.


If your child has food allergies or dietary restrictions, some preschools may be able to provide meals that conform to your child’s dietary needs. When you are looking at potential schools, you may wish to find out if the school follows the Center for Disease Control’s guidelines for preventing and managing food allergies in school settings.Many preschool programs are designed to accommodate children with special physical, developmental, and behavioral needs in an inclusive manner. If your child has a disability or other special needs, look for preschools that are designed to be inclusive and allow special needs children to participate fully in the school experience., Do you want a preschool closer to your home, or near your workplace? Note that if you end up choosing a public preschool, you may be limited to the school nearest to your home address.
 Smaller class sizes allow teachers to have more one-on-one time with children and offer a more individualized approach to teaching and learning.


Compared to children in larger classes, most children show stronger developmental gains and experience fewer health problems in classes with twenty or fewer students.Some of the drawbacks of larger class sizes can be offset by a higher adult-to-child ratio. For example, if two teachers work together to teach a larger class, the children can still receive more one-on-one attention than they would in a large class with just one teacher.
 Some preschools are more play-focused, while others offer a more structured approach and focus on academic readiness.Study up on different approaches and decide which approach will work best for your child. These are a few of the most popular preschool teaching philosophies:The Montessori approach focuses on independent, child-centered learning. Kids are encouraged to learn at their own pace in a Montessori setting, and children of different ages and developmental levels interact in the same classroom.
Waldorf schools provide a creative, play-based, but carefully structured experience.
Reggio Emilia schools offer highly individualized project-based learning based on each child’s interests. This approach is all about cooperation and problem-solving.
 Once you’ve figured out what you want and need from your child’s preschool experience, putting it all down on paper will help you stay focused as you begin looking into your options.
 There, you should be able to find information on public preschool programs in your area, application instructions, and useful links to other resources.
 A general search will bring up websites for private preschools near you as well as public schools that offer preschool programs. Keep a list of preschools that look promising, or bookmark their websites so that you can explore them further.
 If you know people in your area who have children in preschool, they may have some good insights into what the local schools have to offer.
 Once you have an idea of what preschools are in your area, you can begin to take a closer look. Most preschool websites will have information on tuition, application processes and requirements, curriculum, and class schedules. They will also provide contact information so that you can ask questions or schedule a school visit.
 Pick four or five schools that seem the most promising. Write down their contact information, and make a few general notes about what you like or dislike about each school.
 Ask any general questions you may have (about tuition, financial aid, the application process, scheduling a visit, etc.), but also address any specific concerns you may have about the individual school. This may help you eliminate schools that are not a good fit before you go to the trouble of making a visit. Some preschools will ask you to fill out an online form expressing interest, and then a member of the administration will contact you. In other cases, you can simply call or email the school directly.
 Once you have decided which schools you are most interested in, contact the school and set up a time to come by for a meeting or tour. Some schools offer regular tours or visiting hours, while others will require you to schedule a time in advance. Discuss whether you should bring your child or other members of the household.
 Even if you already addressed some of your concerns and questions during pre-visit calls or emails, the visit is a good time to get more detailed answers. Ask school teachers and administrators any questions you might have about curriculum, school policies, facilities and accommodations, or teacher and staff qualifications. You will probably have lots of questions, but here are a few things you might want to ask about:Find out about teacher turnover. You want to know how long teachers have been teaching at the school.
Ask about the lesson plans and what educational goals the schools have for their students.
Find out how the school keeps you informed on your child's progress. For example, find out if they provide you with daily or weekly progress reports.
 Bring something to write with. If there is anything that stands out about your visit experience, good or bad, write it down so that you can remember it when you are making your final decision.
 Make a note of teachers who engage students in a conversation while teaching. For example, they may ask students open-ended questions that help them comprehend what they are learning. Try to get a sense of what kind of rapport they have with their children, and how excited they seem about their work.
 Do they appear happy and engaged? Are they all working together on the same projects, or are they given freedom to choose which activities to engage in? Do they have plenty of opportunities to play and explore? Try to picture your own child participating in these activities, and consider whether they would thrive in such an environment. , Try to get a sense of whether the school has adequate, age-appropriate supplies. These might include the following:Picture books.
Toys that encourage the development of gross motor skills (riding toys, balls, climbing equipment) and fine motor skills (beads for stringing, small objects for sorting, puzzles).
Toys that encourage dramatic play, like dress-ups, dolls, or farm sets.
Supplies for making arts, crafts, and music.
 Make sure the environment is clean, safe, and up to safety codes. Ask about escape plans in case of a fire or other emergency.
 If you child has special health, dietary, or behavioral needs, make sure the school personnel are aware of these issues ahead of time and are ready to accommodate them.
 Preschool applications can be expensive and time-consuming. Wait to start the application process until you are feeling sure that you’ve selected the school that works best for your child and you. Ask ahead of time what kinds of materials and information you will need to complete your application (e.g. medical records, proof of residency, etc.), and try to get an idea of how long the application process will take.

