 Use roleplaying to help your child understand the family’s morning routine. For instance, you could use stuffed animals to show how a parent and their child go through their morning routine. You could make the juvenile stuffed animal start by waking up. The parent stuffed animal might say, “Wake up, sleepyhead.” Continue in this way until the whole morning routine is complete.Don’t spend the actual amount of time necessary to complete each morning routine task. That would be tedious for both you and your child. Instead, play through each task briefly, but long enough that your child understands what each step entails.
Play this morning routine act out during the evening before starting the morning routine.
 Some people learn better when presented information and plans visually than they do when just being told. Draft a morning routine chart on an erasable marker board and place it in a prominent location like the front door of the fridge, or in the hallway where everyone in the family – especially the kids – can see it. The chart should list all the morning routine tasks and the exact time they should occur. Your chart should include things like:waking up
brushing teeth
eating breakfast
getting dressed

, Use verbal feedback to keep your kids motivated. For instance, if your daughter is getting dressed, comment on what she is wearing. You might say “Wow, I noticed you’re wearing a blue shirt today. Great choice. It looks really nice.”, If your child is a laggard and does not readily conform to the morning routine, find ways to make doing so more enjoyable. For example, you might ask your child to play a game with you. The game requires them to do one morning task by the end of one song on their favorite album. For instance, they might brush their teeth when the first song is finished, get dressed when the second song finishes, and so on., If your kids repeatedly fail to meet the requirements of the morning routine, consider instituting punishments. For instance, if your kids don’t wake up on time, they should not be allowed to watch TV for the rest of the day.On the other hand, you could provide positive reinforcement for kids who conform to the morning routine. For instance, if your child is ready for breakfast at the exact time they are expected to be, you could reward them with a neat sticker or a special blueberry muffin.
If your partner does not conform to the morning routine, talk with them about why they are not conforming to the morning routine. Say, “I’ve noticed you aren’t conforming to the morning routine for the whole family. What can I do to help you conform to the morning routine?”

