 As many as 70% of men and 50% of women have an affair at some point in their marriage. This indicates that the desire to live a double life, especially in the romantic sense, is extremely common. However, having an affair can be incredibly hurtful, not only to your partner, but to other members of your family, and even yourself.Before entering into an affair, think about the potential negative effects that doing so could have on the people you care about.
Remind yourself that there are alternatives to having affair behind your partner’s back.
 Tell your partner you’re interested in having another sexual and/or romantic life outside of your relationship. Admittedly, this may diminish the rush derived from having an affair, since part of the allure is the emotional aspect of doing something you’re not supposed to do. However, it is disrespectful, manipulative, and hurtful to cheat on someone. You will also likely regret doing so. To prevent this, tell your partner about your desire to live a double romantic life.Say something like, “I’ve been thinking about seeing other people. I care about you, and I don’t want to hurt you, but I am frequently tempted to be with other people. Can we talk about having an open relationship?”
If they are receptive to the idea, make sure you discuss the parameters regarding appropriate vs. inappropriate behavior. Once these parameters are established, you can go about living a double romantic life.
The ability to keep specifics secret about your extra-marital rendezvouses may up the intrigue. That said, always your partner is okay with the fact that you’re engaging in romantic or sexual encounters without their knowledge.
 If you find yourself in a situation where your putting yourself or other people at risk, it may be time to address your behavior. If you’re engaging in multiple affairs without your partner knowing, you need to re-establish your perspective on life. This may be possible on your own, by reminding yourself that your actions can affect other peoples’ lives.If you wake up regretting what you did the night before, reflect on the reasons you feel poorly. This may help you re-evaluate certain behaviors, and start to try and find a healthy balance between your interests.
If you start to develop a problem with addiction to drugs, alcohol, sex, gambling, or anything else, don't hesitate to get help. In particular, there are likely support groups for people dealing with whatever it is you're struggling with.
 Psychologists are trained to help you address negative behaviors or emotions before they have dangerous or hurtful consequences. Often, people are not willing to get help until they are forced to do so by circumstance. Head any negative behaviors off by talking to someone who can help you recognize that your behavior is within your control. While your double life may seem to have taken on a force of its own, you have the power to control your future course of action.Talk to your doctor about mental health professionals they'd recommend. Similarly, search online for psychologists in your area with experience working with people in situations similar to your own.

