 If you have dark-colored floors, the quickest fix is to buy a brightly-colored throw rug to cover them up. However, investing a little more time and money to put in new flooring or refinish what you have might be worth it in the long run. If you really want to brighten up your room, consider the following:If you have painted hardwood floors, refinish the floors to expose the light wood underneath. You might also consider painting the floors a brighter color, like pearl gray.
Concrete floors are sturdy and practical, and they come in many different colors. The finished concrete is polished until it's smooth and gleaming.
Brightly-colored tiles are a good choice for kitchens and bathrooms.
 Both internal and external doors offer opportunities for more light to enter the room in question. If possible, replace your doors with glass french doors. You could also consider getting a door with a large window to let in more light. If these options aren't practical, simply painting your doors a lighter color will help brighten the room.
 Your room might have a closed-off, dark feel if there's an extra wall blocking the light. If possible, consider taking out the extra wall to open things up a bit. This is commonly done where a wall blocks a room from a hallway, for example. If the wall doesn't contain beams that are holding up the ceiling, knocking it out shouldn't be a problem.


You'll want to hire a contractor to take a look at the room before deciding to knock out a wall by yourself. In some cases the wall might be serving a structural purpose. In old houses and apartments, it's also important to make sure the wall doesn't contain lead or asbestos before attempting to knock it down.
 This is the ultimate fix for a dark room, and it might be easier than you think. Before you rule out the possibility as being too much of an undertaking, have a contractor do an assessment of the room to help you better understand your options. If you're living in a place you plan on keeping for some time to come, it might be worthwhile to make it over into the bright, cheerful space you desire. Widening existing windows and doorways can also let in more light.
 Skylights let in natural light, and lots of it. There are skylights that can be installed right between rafters, making it a relatively inexpensive project. Reflective tubes that require little more than a good-sized hole in the sheetrock and the roof are another possibility. Some skylights can even open for ventilation.

