 While we naturally associate yawning with sleepiness, it is actually an evolutionary trait meant to help keep us awake by increasing oxygen intake and heart rate. As to why yawns seem to be contagious, the reasons are up for debate — but you can use that to your advantage as well.Practice making deep, convincing fake yawns without going to cartoonish levels by opening your mouth too wide or making excessive noises while doing so.
Just thinking about yawning may be enough to stir a real one up. And, once you yawn, odds are good that some of those around you will do so as well, which may convince them that it is time to call it a night.;
, Parents of small children quickly learn to spot eye-rubbing as a sign of sleepiness, and it carries on throughout our lives. Pair it with a good yawn, and you’ll really be on to something when it comes to faking sleepiness.Our eyes tend to dry out when tired, so rubbing them is a natural response to help stimulate moisture production. It also stimulates them to stay open, at least for a short time.
As with fake yawning, less is more when it comes to eye-rubbing. Watch how someone who really is tired does it, or take note of your own manner of doing so.
 Sleepy people never look at their best, and even a convincing yawn and eye-rub won’t work if your face looks chipper and radiant. If you want to get the job done, you need to show vanity the door.Sleep-deprived people tend to have red, puffy eyes, dark circles under the eyes, and turned-down corners of the mouth, to name a few obvious examples.
Rubbing your eyes will help bring on the redness.
If you normally wear makeup, skip it in order to give your face a pale, more weary look. If anything, perhaps smudge a tiny bit of eyeliner beneath your eyes to give the look of dark circles.
Practice drooping the corners of your mouth without making it look like a manufactured frown. Likewise, work on your “heavy-eyelids” look as well. You want to relax your face into a tired look, not contort and freeze it into a clearly-fake one.
 We’ve all experienced episodes of “microsleep,” a momentary nod-off that is a signal from our bodies that we need to get some immediate shut-eye. Remember that it is important to respond to real episodes of microsleeping — for instance, when driving, pull over and take a quick nap.While it’s a common experience for everyone, it’s best to practice your microsleep acting. Your goal should be a subtle, gentle process of closing your eyes, letting your head and extremities go slack for just a second or two, then noticeably jerking awake (without “milking it” with flailing arms or yelping).
Try pairing your dozing with an apology for added effect: “Sorry, I dozed off for a second there — I had some trouble sleeping last night.”

