 Keeping some snacks to chew on throughout the day in your purse or your locker can keep you from crashing and will give you small boosts of energy at the right time. Sometimes you can go over six hours between breakfast and lunch, and grazing on snacks throughout the day will keep you from falling asleep because your body is drained of energy. Here are some snacks to keep around:


Nuts, such as cashews, walnuts, or almonds.
Fruit, such as apples, bananas, or grapes.
Veggies, such as carrot sticks or celery. You can carry a little bit of peanut butter in a container to dip the fruit in.
A granola bar.
Unless your school has a super-healthy vending machine, avoid taking a trip there. Most vending machines are stocked with foods that are too sugary or salty to have a positive effect on your energy level.
 Take advantage of your lunch break and give yourself the fuel you need to make it through the rest of your day. You should eat a healthy and balanced lunch. Your snacks should keep you from getting so hungry that you overeat and then immediately feel tired again. Here's what you should do:


Pack your lunch, if you have time. This will ensure that you can eat something healthy, and it will also give you time to digest your food instead of spending half your lunch period waiting in the cafeteria line.
Avoid greasy, sugary, or high-fat foods.
Have a healthy salad with fruit and nuts, or a sandwich with whole wheat bread. Have a yogurt or banana on the side.
If you need more caffeine, have some black tea.
When you're at lunch, try to interact with your friends as much as possible so that your mind is engaged. Take the time to laugh and be silly and to help your mind relax.
 Though you may not have a lot of time in between your classes, you can make the most of the time you do have by moving around as much as you can in between classes. Being physically active is a way of telling your body that you're not ready to go to sleep yet. Here's what you can do:


If you get to school early, take a lap or two around the hallways to get your blood flowing and your heart rate up. Or you can even walk a lap around your school to get some fresh air.
If you have time left over when you move between classes, take the long way or walk up and down the hallway.
Take the stairs whenever you can.
If you get to the cafeteria early, take a walk around the room — just don't annoy your teachers in the process.
If you're in gym class, don't complain about it. Instead, make the most of whatever sport you're playing that week. Not only will this boost your grade, but it will boost your energy level as well.
 When you're passing in between classes, you should focus on getting some extra physical exercise, but there are a few other things you can do to make the most of your time away from the classroom. Here are a few of them:


Strike up a conversation with a friend. The more excited you are by the conversation, the more alert your mind will be.
Take a quick trip to the bathroom. Splash cold water on your face.
Get to your classroom early and get some fresh air from an open window.
Open your locker. Even if you only need one book, opening your locker will keep your hands busy and your mind alert.

