 There are several theories that emphasize the need for balance to produce wellness in our lives. An aspect of that theory includes spiritual wellness. Spiritual wellness promotes tranquility and harmony within yourself and within your life and is essential for mental wellness.This does not mean that you have to become religious if you aren’t; it means you must find something bigger than just yourself with which to connect.Try connecting to the awe of nature or outer-space, or in the bonds people form with each other. Finding something outside of yourself to connect with will help bring peace to your mind.;
, Spiritual wellness can also help you build on your understanding of your purpose in the world. This will help you find meaning in your everyday life.If you feel fulfilled with your contribution to the world, your mind will be more at peace.


Actions that could help you build your understanding include connecting with others through volunteerism or finding other ways to help and serve others.You may also find meaning in other activities, such as taking care of your family or loved ones, or doing the best job you can at your place of employment.
 Another way to build spiritual wellness is by acting in ways that support your values and beliefs. To check this, take stock of your current activities and ask yourself if they are in line with what you value. Ask yourself if what the things you do bring joy and meaning to your life.Some practices that can help you to reflect on your values and purpose include meditation and prayer. Start learning and practicing meditation through group classes, books, online resources, or guided meditation recordings.To try simple meditation, sit or lay somewhere comfortable and visualize a wise, loving, and caring presence surrounding you. Anchor your mind to the feeling of being cared for and having complete trust in the presence.If you pray, try visualizing your higher power around you and communicate feelings of trust, love, and care.

