 Your child may need therapy or special needs programs for learning disabilities or delays in intellectual development. This may include speech therapy to help with language and pronunciation skills, occupational therapy to help with everyday tasks, or developmental therapy to help with social behaviors.Your child may need a special education program at school — these special educational programs are required by law. Teachers should be made aware of your child’s condition.
 Some children with Prader-Willi Syndrome need to be under the care of a psychologist or psychiatrist in addition to doctors. Some children suffer from OCD behaviors, such as skin picking, or have severe behavior disorders.Your child may be able to take medications, like selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, to help with behavior problems and OCD symptoms.
Cognitive behavior therapy (CBT) may be an effective treatment for skin picking.
 Children with PWS do well when they have structure and routines in their daily lives. Each day should follow a routine. Meal routines should be strictly enforced. Times should be put into place for exercise, play, homework, hygiene tasks, and family time.If the routine is going to change, let the child know ahead of time to help them come to terms with the change.
 Due to physical mobility problems and developmental delays, your child may take longer to complete tasks than other children. Let them complete tasks at their own pace without pressuring them to go faster than they are able.If a task needs to be completed within a specific time frame, such as getting dressed, you should ensure they have plenty of time to complete the task.
 If your child has tantrums, you should learn how to manage them. You should eventually learn how to identify the signs that your child is about to have a tantrum so you can avoid it before it starts. Try to distract the child from the oncoming tantrum by doing something completely different than what you are doing at the moment. Start talking about something they like or doing something different.Suggest that your child go to another room to play, listen to music, or do breathing exercises.
Stay calm. Getting upset may feed your child’s tantrum. If you are unable to help your child, get a partner or other person to handle the child.
Talk to your care team about restraint techniques if your child’s tantrums cause self-harm or harm to others.
Refrain from rewarding tantrums by giving the child what they want. Never give food when the child throws a tantrum. You don’t want the child to think tantrums are a way to get a treat.
 Most people with PWS cannot live on their own and need supervised care. People often live with their parents or live in group homes or residential facilities that help manage their condition, offer work and recreational activities, and help with health conditions.Residential care helps adults with PWS manage compulsive overeating and avoid severe obesity.