 After about seven weeks, you should have a fully developed tarragon plant. At this point, you will need to begin pruning it regularly to prevent flowering. This will help keep the plant from getting too large. It will also help more leaves grow. If you are growing your plant indoors or in a window planter, you will want to be particularly diligent about maintaining your plant. Make sure that it stays around two feet (60cm) tall; otherwise, it may get too heavy and fall over.You can use a pair of pruning clippers or scissors to maintain your plant.
You can also cook or dry whatever leaves you prune.
 Tarragon generally does not require much fertilizer. In fact, it can easily be killed by an over application. However, if you do need to fertilize your tarragon, do so in the early spring when the plant is coming back after winter. It may need the extra nutrients.You may also want to fertilize it again in late summer after you have harvested its leaves.
 The right amount of water is essential to maintaining your plant’s health. If it is outside in the summer months, you will want to water your tarragon plant daily. Ideally, you will want the soil to go almost dry between watering, followed by a thorough soaking. This is true of indoor tarragon plants as well.Avoid over-watering your plant and letting the soil get soggy. This will kill your tarragon.
 If you live in a more temperate climate, you may be able to winter your tarragon plant with a little mulch in the fall. Simply cover the roots with about one inch (2 ½ cm) of mulch. If you live in a colder climate, your plant will die back after the first frost. To protect the roots and ensure that the plant grows back in the spring, you will want to cover the roots with mulch and trim off brown stems in late fall., Regularly check for weeds growing underneath and around your tarragon plant and be sure to remove them early. The weeds need to be removed before they are able to grow large and get entangled with your tarragon plant’s roots. The less you have to bother your plant’s roots, the better.You can also put a ½-1 inch (2-3cm) layer of mulch over the roots to prevent weed growth.Weeding should not be an issue if you grow your plant indoors.

