 Your hair needs proper nutrients to grow and be strong. Protein is a big component of hair, so eat foods (e.g. beans, peas, meat, poultry, seafood, eggs)that are rich in protein for strong hair. Also drink plenty of water to keep your hair hydrated from the inside out. Dark leafy vegetables, citrus fruits, shellfish, chicken, turkey, and salmon are also good for hair., Blow-dryers, flat irons, and curling irons are very damaging to the hair. Air dry your hair when you can. If you plan to use heat, apply a heat protectant before you start.If you must use heat, use the lowest heat setting you can to get the job done. It may take you a little longer to finish your hair, but it will be worth it.


Use flat irons and curling irons with adjustable temperatures. Do not use temperatures greater than 375°F/190°C., Perms, hair straightening treatments, bleach, and hair dyes are the most damaging things you can do to your hair. These treatments change the actual chemical structure of your hair making it weaker and more likely to break.If you do any of these treatments, make sure they are done by a professional. Limit chemical treatments to only two or three times a year.If a chemical treatment is being reapplied to your hair, the stylist should only apply the products to your roots that have not been previously treated., UV rays from the sun can cause your hair to become dry, brittle, and damages the outer layer of your hair. This can lead to split ends and breakage. If you are going to be out in the sun, wear a hat or use a leave-in conditioner that contains zinc oxide. Zinc oxide will protect your hair from the UV rays.Protecting your hair from the sun is more important in the summer months when your hair is exposed to UV light. Adjust your hair care regimen to the weather.
 The products you use on your hair should be moisturizing and be formulated to improve the condition of your hair. Look for shampoos and conditioners that impart moisture.Products that are for dry and damaged hair are more moisturizing.


You should also deep condition your hair every 2 weeks.
 Pools contain chlorine and bleach that causes dryness and breakage. Some pools also contain copper which is damaging as well. A swim cap can protect your hair from contaminants in the water. Shampoos and conditioners that contain trisodium ethylenediamine disuccinic acid will remove copper from your hair.You probably will not know if your hair has come into contact with copper unless you have light colored hair. For example, if you are blonde, your hair may have a greenish hue after its been exposed., Excessive brushing and combing or rubbing when shampooing and towel drying your hair can cause damage as well. Detangle your hair from tips to roots and go slowly. Your hair is more susceptible to damage when it is wet. Use a leave-in conditioner or detangler to prevent damage.


Detangle wet hair with your fingers before you use a comb or brush.How you style your hair can also cause damage. Tight ponytails, braids, and cornrows, can lead to hair loss and breakage.Your hairstyles should never give you a headache or put stress on your hairline. If it feels too tight, it probably is.
Wearing your hair in the same style all of the time can also cause breakage. For example, if you always wear your hair pulled back, change the position of your ponytail.