 The wedding ceremony is about both of you. Work together to decide what tone and genre(s) you would like for your wedding music. Consider whether you want your music to be traditional, trendy, or something entirely unique to you as a couple.


Even if you are more involved in the planning than your future spouse, help them feel included by asking them about their opinion. For example, you could say, “How would you feel about classical music during the ceremony?”
Write down any ideas you come up with while you brainstorm together, so that you don’t forget them later.;
, You may find yourselves at an impasse if you have strongly different preferences in music. However, remember that you will need music for several different parts of the ceremony, so you may be able to compromise by selecting different styles for different moments.

For example, one of you might select more traditional music for the prelude and processionals, while the other picks contemporary music for the recessional.
If you disagree, acknowledge your future spouse’s feelings, and let them know that their opinions are valid.
You could say, “I know how important it is to you to keep most of the music traditional, but it would also mean so much to me if I could walk up the aisle to my favorite Norah Jones song.”

, Different types of weddings have different structures and different vibes. Select the kind of music that you think fits best with the ceremony you have in mind.

For example, if you’re having a low-key beach wedding, contemporary pop music or romantic oldies might be a good fit.
For a very traditional or religious ceremony, you might want to stick with hymns or classical music. Speak to your officiant if you have any doubts about what might be appropriate., The venue that you select will have an impact on what kind of music you can use. Before putting together a setlist, check with your venue to find out if they have any rules and restrictions regarding wedding music.Other things to consider include:


Is your venue big enough for the kind of ensemble you want?
Is your venue indoors, or outdoors? For example, a beach wedding might not be an ideal setting for a grand piano.
Does your venue already provide instruments or musicians? E.g., if you are having your wedding in a church, an organist might be provided by the venue.

