 Keep in mind that the collection agency probably bought the debt from the original lender for a fraction of what you owed.


If you offer anything, offer the lowest possible amount, such as 10 or 15 percent of what you owe, and move up from there.Most states have laws that limit the amount of interest or fees a debt collector can charge on your debt. If there's a big difference between the amount the collector is saying you owe and the amount the original creditor reported as "charged off" on your credit report, check your state law to see if the collector is attempting to collect too much., Collection efforts cost the company time and money, so the debt collector probably will be willing to accept a lesser amount if you agree to pay it sooner.
 Debt collectors want you to pay as much as possible as soon as possible, but don't agree to this payment plan if it will put you in jeopardy of not being able to pay your other bills such as electricity or rent.


If you are willing to pay off the debt, tell them how much you are able to pay and ask if they are willing to settle for that. The worst they can say is "no.", The amount of money is not the only aspect of the deal you can make with a debt collector – you also should consider how that payment will affect your credit report and credit score.


A pay-for-deletion deal means the debt collector will call the credit bureaus directly and have the debt completely removed from your credit report once you've paid the agreed amount.
This deal is highly advantageous for you and could greatly improve your credit score. It's not illegal, but credit reporting agencies generally are reluctant to do it and the debt collector may refuse, but it's worth a try., Although you may want to get rid of the problem debt as quickly as possible, don't agree to payments that will cause you to get behind on other accounts you've been paying on time.


As with everything else, make sure you get all payment agreements in writing. Pay with certified checks rather than personal checks or direct debits, so you have proof of the transaction and are not potentially paying more than was agreed.No matter what the representative says, don't give out bank account numbers or any other financial information over the phone. As a general rule, you shouldn't give out any personal or financial information to anyone who called you, and this includes a debt collector – you have no way of knowing he is who he says he is. He could be an identity thief collecting Social Security or bank account numbers.Write down all of your monthly expenses and create a budget. Then prioritize those expenses so you know which ones you must pay each month, such as rent or utilities, and which are less important., If you're unable to negotiate a payment plan that works for you, or if you have several different accounts in collections, you might consider getting help from a credit counseling agency.


These agencies negotiate on your behalf to reduce or eliminate your debt and come up with low monthly payments that you can afford.
Check the website of your state's attorney general office or national organizations such as the National Foundation for Credit Counseling to find a reputable agency near you.