 Even though the last thing you may feel like doing is working out, even a short sweat session can help decrease bloating and rid your body of excess fluid.



Choose cardio or aerobic exercises to increase your heart rate and breathing pace, and cause yourself to sweat. Perspiration can help reduce fluid retention.Also, as you perform cardio and your muscles are contracting, fluid gets circulated more quickly throughout your body. This may help your body process excess fluid more quickly.Even if you don't feel like spending a lot of time working out or don't have enough time, try to fit in a shorter, more intense cardio session. Try to get the heart rate up to 70 – 80% of your maximum heart rate, even if only for a minute or two. This will help get everything circulating.
 Inadequate sleep or lack of sleep can cause your kidneys to retain more fluid.Making sure you hit the sack and sleep soundly will help minimize any fluid retention.


It's recommended to get at least seven to nine hours of sleep each night.To help get a more restful sleep, turn off all lights, TVs, computers and phones before going to bed. It's also recommend to stop using these items about 30 minutes prior to your planned sleep time., In women, hormonal changes often cause bloating beginning seven to ten days prior to menstruation. Higher levels of estrogen and progesterone during that part of the cycle cause the body to retain fluid.Keeping track of your menstrual cycle will allow you to plan ahead to make adjustments in your diet to minimize water weight gain.


Nearly 90% of menopausal women will gain weight from a shift in hormones; however, some of this weight is just due to water retention and bloating from decreased progesterone levels. If you know you typically experience some mild water retention and bloating around the time of your cycle, you can starting modifying your diet and lifestyle to help minimize those side effects.
You may want to consider taking medications to help decrease these symptoms. Many PMS medications have a mild diuretic to help minimize bloating and fluid retention., Very often water retention is harmless and caused by dietary changes or lack of exercise; however, some forms of water retention are signs of serious health problems and should be addressed with your physician.


If you feel like your body is retaining large quantities of fluid or you're having other side effects, it may be a good idea to visit with your doctor.
Side effects of edema or more serious fluid retention include: shiny, tight skin, skin that retains a dimple after pressing on it, shortness of breath, difficulty breathing or chest pain.

