 Being hyperaware of time slipping through your fingers can drive you mad. One clear sign that your work-life balance needs readjusting is the feeling that you are racing the clock.For instance, you may have grown to accept a full voicemail or having dozens of unanswered emails in your inbox.
You might also stay at work long after everyone else leaves and still not get everything done. In fact, it seems no matter what you do, you never have enough time.;
, Chronic stress from being overworked can impact your cognitive functioning. You may find yourself constantly forgetting where things are or missing appointments. You might struggle with decisions, big or small. You might also find yourself not being productive due to a lack of concentration.Forgetting things and being unable to concentrate can point to lack of adequate rest and a much-needed break or vacation.
You might also find that you’re spending more and more time on social media or internet browsing as a way to avoid work, due to burnout or your inability to concentrate.
 If you catch yourself snapping off at your kids, partner, or coworkers, you may need to take a chill pill. Patience is often one of the first things to go when you are low on self-care. You might get angry over the slightest inconvenience or frequently be accused of “waking up on the wrong side of the bed.”

For example, if you often have to walk away to calm down in various situations, you may need a break.
 All work and no play make you a very dull boy or girl. Long hours at work without breaks or social connection can leave you feeling quite negative. When you are around people, you might come off as a killjoy. You complain often and beat yourself up for not being perfect.Alternatively, you may notice a total lack of interest in your job performance. Once you were motivated to grow and advance, but not any more.
 Falling asleep at work or during family TV time is one sure-fire sign that your work-life balance needs a reset. When you do go to bed, you may have trouble getting quality rest because you’re worried about tomorrow’s presentation or checking work emails on your phone. When you wake, you never quite feel fully rested.Instead, you may have developed poor coping habits to sleep – staring at a screen until you pass out, drinking alcohol, or becoming reliant on various sleep aids.
 Keeping long hours at the office may slowly expand your waistline over time. When you’re off from work, you don’t think about going to the gym or getting outside for activity. Because you’re chronically low on energy, all you want to do during your downtime is watch TV and eat junk food, which only further complicates your health.Have you noticed yourself becoming out of breath during typical activities or experiencing joint pain? You might need to schedule in some much needed exercise and clean up your diet.

