 To become a child psychologist, you will be expected to complete at least a Master’s Degree, preferably a PhD or doctorate. The first step to this career is to prepare yourself to focus on your education.


Make sure you have the financial means to go to school. This may involve taking out student loans.
You can offset some of these costs by looking for scholarships. The United States offers scholarships based on good grades in high school.Talk to your school counselor or your preferred undergraduate school to see what financial assistance they offer. In many cases, colleges have a dedicated financial aid department to help you with this.;
, In preparing to go to college, it is important to stand as a strong candidate for college. To do this, you should focus on:



Developing good study habits to do well on tests and homework. This includes taking good notes and having a good rapport with your teachers and mentors.
Stay on top of your homework. Homework is often an important part of your grade. Make sure you do all of your homework for each class.

Develop good time-management strategies. This is an essential skill that will help you be effective in the real world as well as your job. Establishing a good routine in high school will help you develop good habits that will carry over to your future.
 Before you invest a lot of time and effort into education, make sure you are looking at careers realistically. A high-paying child psychologist job may seem glamorous, but be sure of the good and the not-so-good aspects about a job.


Think about the amount of time you want to work. Do you want to work a 40 hour a week, or an 80 hour one?
Do you want a job where you will travel or stay in one spot?
Do you want to work with a team or alone?
Do you think you can handle a stressful job situation where you may have to talk to children who have suffered some terrible things?
How will you handle the stress of this career?

, You should acquire skills and keep practicing them. These will most certainly help you in a future career. In fact, one of the tests you must pass in order to be a practice child psychology requires testing some of these skills. Consider the following: Analytical skills — learn by practicing logic puzzles and solving problems.
Communication skills — take a speech class or practice public speaking in front of a mirror.
Observational skills — write down an idea log which helps you reflect on what you have observed throughout the day. This has been proven to improve observational skills.Patience -- Remind yourself to take your time. Make this a habit.
People skills — Try and get to know people and work well with them.

Trustworthiness -- Try and be as honest as possible so you can be someone a patient can trust.

