 Some restaurants will allow you to bring in your own alcohol, and will only charge you a small fee to have the waiter serve it. Many restaurants mark up a bottle of wine by 300 to 400 percent, however, making the fee you would pay to bring your own wine considerably cheaper than what you might pay for a glass of theirs.
 Many restaurants make a large portion of the profits through alcohol sales, and one cocktail could cost you almost as much as one entrée. Skipping the alcohol will trim a large portion from your bill.
 Soda and other non-alcoholic drinks may seem fairly cheap on their own, but the price can add up quickly. Most restaurants do not charge for tap water, however.
 If the restaurant you go to serves notably large dishes, as many do nowadays, order one dish for two people.
 Many restaurants include half portions on their menu, but some restaurants may be willing to prepare a half portion for half the price even if they do not list the offering on the menu.
 Many sit-down restaurants may place age restrictions on the kid's menu, but some do not, and most fast food joints allow you to order a kid's meal at any age. The kid's menu usually serves smaller portions and offers less selection, but the discounted price may well be worth it.
 Restaurant desserts are often pricey, but you can stop by an ice cream stand on your way back for a sweet treat at a significantly cheaper price. Eating dessert at home, whether store-bought or homemade, will save you the most.
 Even restaurants that do not allow you to split meals will usually allow you to share a dessert. This way, you can try a luxurious option off the dessert menu for a fraction of the price.
 Eating a small snack before dinner may "ruin your appetite," but it will also save you money in the long run. The less hungry you are, the less likely you are to experience "eyes bigger than your stomach" syndrome. Instead of ordering too much food, you can order just the right amount.
 Ordering for pick-up saves you the price of a drink, and you can get away with leaving a smaller tip (usually 5 to 10%, as opposed to 20%).
 Prices are usually their highest at dinner. Many restaurants offer lower prices during breakfast and lunch, and a few others offer lower prices just before closing. Dine out during a time of day when you know a restaurant's prices are at their lowest.

