 Part of being supportive is acknowledging ways that you may have contributed to the weight change. If you're encouraging your partner to be less active, this can be contributing to their weight change, too. Buying a lot of junk food or being slothful can sabotage your partner’s weight, even if your weight isn’t noticeably affected.Remove all obstacles at home like junk food. This helps remove the temptation to eat excessive amounts of unhealthy foods.
 Are each of you making time to sit-down and eat home-cooked family dinners? Are each of you exercising every single day? Is health a priority for your entire family or is everyone running around too busy to make time for their own health? Answer these questions, and rearrange the schedule so that healthy meals and exercise become a priority.
 Make it your priority to get healthy too. If you already eat a clean, lean diet and exercise at least five days a week, share your habits more obviously with your partner by engaging them in the cooking, shopping, or other elements that will help bring about a better understanding healthier eating.Learn about portion sizes and what is a healthy, normal amount and what is outrageous. In the USA, MyPlate is a great place to start and similar initiatives are available through many other government health departments around the world.
Instead of having three big meals, consider preparing six or seven smaller meals to keep blood sugar levels even and cravings at bay. This doesn't work for everyone but if it helps your family, then it's a great way to stretch out healthy eating during the day. If diabetes or other health problems are an issue, talk to your doctor before changing your diet drastically.
 Exercise outside or at the gym by walking, jogging, or taking up another sport. You might also consider team sports leagues in your area if you and your partner prefer a more social exercise routine. Introduce your favorite fitness routine to your partner––they may love it as much as you.


If you have a mobile electronic device, download a fitness app and a food diary. These can be easy and fun ways for you and your partner to track your food and exercise. Plus, you can offer to do the same activities and share results and updates regularly.
 Have the whole family sit down and select favorite healthy lunch options that can be made at home and taken to work, college, school, etc. Then ensure that the ingredients are always available and have a shared lunch-making session every morning to speed things up. This will spare everyone from the temptation of fattening take outs at lunchtime.


Cut back on eating out. While convenient, eating in restaurants more than once a week can contribute significantly to unhealthy weight since you don’t know how the food is being prepared or the exact nutritional value it holds.
 Don’t forget to celebrate even the smallest victories. If your partner gains or loses two pounds toward their goal weight, go to the movies together or treat your partner to a manicure or massage. Mark each victory with a celebration so that they know that you're truly rooting for their success. Other ways to celebrate include:Take the family to the beach or the park for the afternoon.
See a play or go to a concert.
Write your partner a love letter telling them how proud you are of their success. Or simply tell explain how much you love them.
Purchase a new piece of (smaller sized) clothing for your partner from a favorite brand.
Bring them home flowers, a favorite author's new book or other non-food treats.

