 Sure, auditions can be intimidating, but here are some pointers to help take the stress out of the process and to help you nail it.If you're interested in getting involved, but not into acting, skip ahead to Method 3 for tips on how to get involved off-stage.


Some pre-work goes into arranging for an audition, and being organized with your schedule is always a good initial start.
If you have to call ahead to place an audition time, do so early to make sure there will be space for you.
Make sure you write down the correct time and place for the audition, plan to arrive 10 minutes earlier than the appointment time. Early arrival looks professional.
 Think about taking a couple of basic acting or improve classes before you dive into auditions. How to Prepare for a Theater Audition


If you are supposed to prepare a song, scene, or monologue do so. Regardless of whether you have to prepare something or not, do familiarize yourself with the play or musical you're auditioning for. Nothing looks worse than walking into an audition knowing nothing about the show!
If you weren't told to prepare anything, chances are you'll be doing a “cold read.” This means you will be given a song or scene and a few minutes to look over it before you have to perform it for the casting directors.Chances are you won't feel comfortable with the material. This is normal. Directors are testing how well you work under pressure. Just do your best and know you don't have to be perfect!

, Be fearless and do your best! How to Audition for Local Theater


Dress professionally, but also with personal style. Part of what you're "selling" on stage is yourself and your own unique personality. Show it off with your clothing!
Sing loud and proud, even if you don't think you sound good, confidence can speak just as loudly as talent. Read the lines with emotion and feeling, and if you are dancing, smile and sell it, even if you don't know all the moves.
Always be respectful to everyone at the audition, even if you're just waiting to go audition. Be nice to the directors, especially. Your attitude may determine whether or not they want to work with you and cast you in the show.
 A few days after auditions, there may be callbacks, or a second round of auditions. If you are called back, congratulations!, the directors want to see you again and may be interested in casting you.


You will be reading for specific parts during callbacks, so try to act as if you think your character would. If you are not called back, it’s okay, there’s always another play.
Check the cast lists when they're ready. A few days after callbacks, cast lists are usually posted. This is a list setting out who is playing each part. The list may be emailed to you, you could receive a call, or it might be posted somewhere at the theater.
If you have been cast, congratulations!, getting cast in a show is very excited, so give yourself a pat on the back. Be sure to let the director know in a timely fashion that you accept the role so that they don't give it to someone else! If you haven't been cast, don't worry, there will always be other plays, or maybe consider joining the crew.

