 Order them from websites like eBay or Amazon, or just buy them from a local store. Make sure they are high-quality plushies - you don't want one with no head and stuffing coming out of it!


Make sure all of the plushies are the sizes that are the most natural. If your dragon is smaller than your frog, then you might need to get a smaller frog plush or a bigger dragon plush.;
, Use a video camera or an iOS device and get editing software for your computer. Windows Live Movie Maker is a good choice for simple videos, but you may need other programs for more complicated editing.


Don't shake the camera too much! This is a problem many beginners have.
 Which of you plushies do you want to use? Which ones will be the main characters? What are their personalities like? Do they get along, or do some of them love or hate each other? Answer questions like these to flesh out the characters for your series.
 While making it up as you go can be fun, you'll end up with plot holes and loose ends all over the place. Write down your ideas, sketch out the major storylines, and plan out the plot for each episode.


Make sure the plot is original! There are tons of "Peach is kidnapped by Bowser" and "Sonic has to defeat Eggman" videos. Why not a series about something different?

, Make sure your plot will be able to support as many episodes as you want to make. Each episode can attack one small part of the main plot, or each episode can be about something completely different. They can all use the same cast of characters, or each episode can focus on a different character.
 Make sure you have all the characters and props you'll need. You can even memorize the script to make filming easier, if you want.
 Find a place with good lighting and not too much background noise. This will help your videos look and sound as good as possible.
 Edit it to make sure it looks good, add music to fit the mood if you'd like, and then post it on your YouTube channel.


Make a playlist for your series so that all the episodes can be found in the same place.
 For each new episode, write a script before filming. Each should have a different plot and focus, but they should all fit cohesively into the series.


If you don't like the way a series is going, make a series finale. If you don't want anything to do with a series anymore, than just announce the cancellation of the series.
 You shouldn't be stressed when making an episode. Take a break if you aren't in the mood to make plush videos.

