 If you're feeling overwhelmed by your friend's emotions and problems you may need to take a break. It can be draining to be the constant emotional support for someone else. Make sure that you aren't their only means of support. There is a difference between being supportive and being a caretaker to a friend. Know the difference, and be prepared to set limits.If your friend is always calling and wanting you to do things for them, be prepared to say no. It's ok to acknowledge your other responsibilities. Say: "I know you are hurting and would like a friend. I care about you and want to help you. I need you to respect my time, too and tonight is not a good time for me. Let's find time this weekend".
Don't let your life slip. Keep engaging with other friends, going to the gym, and doing other regular activities. Don't let your friend take over all of your time.
 Sometimes people can't deal with emotion and events on their own. In that case, as a friend, you may need to recommend that she get professional help. There is nothing wrong with needing a little extra help, especially with things like marriage break-ups, the deaths of loved ones, and illness.


Watch for signs of depression: difficulty with concentrating or remembering details, difficulties with making decisions, decreased energy, insomnia or excessive sleeping, sad anxious or empty thoughts, physical pains and issues that do not go away with treatment, thoughts or discussion of suicide, feelings or worthlessness or helplessness.When you're discussing the idea of seeking professional help, don't tell your friend that she is sick and needs to go into therapy. Say something like: "I know that you're really hurting and I think it might be a good idea to talk to someone who can really help you. Remember that I'm here for you."

, If your friend is in a violent or abusive situation, or if she is threatening to commit suicide, the best thing you can do as a friend is to call emergency services. This is a situation that you are not equipped to handle, and it is best left to experts. Being a friend means prioritizing safety. Make sure your friend is safe and that her life is not in danger.


If you suspect abuse, you can call The National Domestic Violence Hotline (1-800-799-7233) or live chat online with http://www.loveisrespect.org/.
If you believe your friend is suicidal, you can call The National Suicide Prevention Hotline (1-800-273-TALK).

