 When you pick out your clove oil, make sure you buy high quality oil. You should get 100% pure oil. Look for organic if you can. You don’t want anything lower than pure oil because you won’t get the same benefits from the ingredients.


Clove oil can be found at most health food stores.;
, Clove oil can be used directly on your tooth to help ease the pain. Grab a cotton swab and dip one end in the clove oil. Apply it directly to the tooth and around the gum where you are experiencing pain. Leave the oil on your tooth and surrounding gum for 20 minutes. When this time is up, rinse your mouth out with a salt water solution, which is just ½ teaspoon of salt in six ounces of warm water.


If the nerve of the tooth is exposed in your mouth, make sure you are extra gently in the area.
This oil does not taste the best. It may take some getting used to.
Try to swallow as little of this oil as possible., If you don’t want to put straight clove oil in your mouth, you can try a diluted compound and make it into a compress. Pour ½ teaspoon of olive oil into a bowl. Add two to three drops of clove oil to the bowl. Mix it together. Next, soak a cotton ball in the mixture. Then take the soaked cotton ball and place it directly over the painful tooth and gum area. Gently bite down on it, holding it in place.


Leave the compress on your tooth for 20 minutes. Remove the cotton ball and rinse your mouth out with a warm salt water solution.
 In addition to clove oil, you can also use clove in its whole herbal form. Take one to three whole pieces of clove and place them on the tooth right next to the painful one in your mouth. Wait a few minutes for the clove pieces to soften, then gently bite down on them, releasing the clove oils. Leave them in the area for 20 minutes.


Afterwards, rinse your mouth out with a warm salt water solution.
The cloves can taste really strong and cause tingling in your mouth. This is normal. The taste should disappear in your mouth about 10 minutes.You can buy whole cloves at most grocery stores.
 In addition to its whole form, you can also use ground clove as well. Measure out ⅛ teaspoon of ground cloves into a bowl. Mix in ¼ teaspoon of olive oil and stir together until mixed. Take a cotton swab and dip it into the mixture, then apply the clove infused oil to the painful tooth and the surrounding gum.


Leave it on the tooth for 20 minutes. After this, rinse your mouth out with warm salt water.
You can also just add a pinch of the ground clove directly in your mouth on the area of your painful tooth. Your saliva will mix with the clove and help your tooth.You can buy ground cloves in the baking section of most grocery stores.
 In addition to clove oil, clove infused water can also help your tooth pain. Put 10 to 15 whole pieces of clove in a pot of water. Let it simmer on the stove for 15 minutes. Remove from heat and let it sit until it cools to room temperature. Strain the cloves out and pour the infused water into a cup. Rinse your mouth with it, swishing it around your teeth for a minute or so. Spit the rinse into a sink.


You can use the remaining mouth rinse for days after you make it. Keep it in a sealed bottle and use it every time you feel pain in your teeth.
It will also help kill bacteria and leave your mouth feeling refreshed.
If the taste is too much, you can add sage or thyme to the mixture.

