 All three seem to be on the shortlist for things college students do least. If you want to succeed in college, however, and learn how to balance work, play, and a thousand different things in between, you'll need to start getting serious about your health.


The optimal diet for a college student is the same as it is for everyone else: eat lean meat or protein, fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and stay away from sodas, candy, simple carbohydrates, and saturated fats.Not only will you feel better, but you'll also be in better shape to avoid the infamous freshman 15.

Exercise is a miracle drug, except that it's not really a drug. Exercise helps us burn fat, build muscle, lower cholesterol, ease stress, and sleep better.Join an intramural sports team, do laps in the gym pool, or simply take the stairs instead of the elevator. If you do nothing else, try to get in 30 minutes of walking a day.
Get enough sleep. One of the best ways to maximize academic performance on tests is getting a good night's sleep.In fact, students who pull all nighters, students with sleep disorders, and students who routinely stay up late on weeknights all perform worse in college than students who get regular, comfortable, lasting sleep., The university health center will have all sorts of information about staying healthy on campus, in addition to housing the university's best doctors. Take advantage of the free amenities your health center offers: free vaccines, condoms, and counseling are among the most common.
 Many colleges and universities will have a public safety department that looks after the safety of the university population. Public safety officers will routinely:


Escort you to your home or dorm if you feel unsafe.
Give you valuable safety tips about living in your area (especially applicable in an urban setting).
Investigate crimes that happen on campus. If you've been a victim of a crime, especially robbery, rape, coercion, or assault, please notify the campus security and/or local police.
 College is a time when kids start behaving like grown-ups. Part of being a grown-up is having a budget. To make a budget, take an inventory of the money you'll have during any given month. Look at your past expenses, and budget out how much you'll allow yourself to spend during that month. The expenses should not exceed the amount of money you have. A sample budget might look like this:


Total amount of income per month: $1300.

Housing: $600

Food: $250

Books and school supplies: $100

Gas: $200

Discretionary spending: $150



, Apply for federal student aid, or FAFSAbefore going to college, and check back routinely for new financial aid opportunities. Check with your college's student aid department to find out if you apply for any financial aid or merit-based scholarships. There's a lot of financial aid floating around out there if you know how to find it.
 Your college or university needs employees to function, and it probably knows that giving its students a chance to work is a winning bet. Check with your school about work-study opportunities. Much of the time, you'll get paid to do a mindless, nominal task like man the library entrance. This should also give you opportunities to study while you earn a paycheck.


Other times, the college or university will pay you to perform research with a teacher or department. This is where having a mentor (see above) becomes important. Letters of reference are necessary to convince the department that you are a qualified candidate for the research position. Such positions are extremely competitive, require an excellent academic background and strong letters of reference, and require a great deal of work.
 If you're getting a scholarship or financial aid, or your parents are helping you out with expenses, try as much as possible to save money while you're still in college. After you leave college and become the arbiter of your own life, you'll have to start paying bills. Those bills will be a lot easier to pay if you stored away a little nest egg while you were still in college. Other reasons to save money in college:


Study abroad costs money. Lots of it. If you want to study in Florence, Italy or Shanghai, China, or virtually anywhere else, it's going to cost you a pretty penny. There are scholarships and aid, but you can't always count on them.

Student loans take time to pay off. If you're like most college students, you'll have a lot of loans to pay off once you leave college. Getting them (and the interest payments) paid off can play a huge part in what your budget looks like after you graduate.

