 You can find international exchange rates by searching for currency converters online. For example, you could search "convert Nepalese rupees" to find the rate of that soft currency. Do some calculations and become familiar with what the foreign currency equals in your home currency.You should carry some of the local cash on hand, but be sure to use an ATM or visit a bank, rather than paying exorbitant fees at conversion centers in the airport.It’s also a good idea to see how much things you may need or want (like coffee, a newspaper, a hotel room, a bottle of wine) cost in your destination country so you aren’t surprised upon arrival.
 Do an Internet search to determine if you may need a plug adapter and a converter. Many online travel sites list the type of plug you need.Things that heat up, such as a hair dryer, may not work correctly on the volts and cycles of a foreign country, even with a converter.
Computer batteries and handheld devices may also be affected by electrical conversion.
 Some banks or credit card companies may decline your card if they aren’t aware that you are in a foreign country. Call the customer service center and let them know where you are going and how long you will be staying in order to avoid and delays or declines., Many mobile phones will not work in locations other than your home country. Contact your service provider and inquire about international calling plans as well as data rates.Alternatively, you can purchase pre-paid calling cards before your trip and use a landline phone, such as in your hotel, to contact friends and family members back home.
You can also use free communication apps, such as Skype, FaceTime, and/or WhatsApp that use the Internet for phone and video calls as well as text messages.
 It’s a good idea to make color copies of your passport, plane or train tickets, hotel reservations, etc. If you only have digital copies of your itinerary, you may have trouble accessing them without an Internet connection.Keep copies of all your travel documents in your luggage. It’s also a good idea to provide a friend or family member with copies in case your luggage gets lost or stolen.
 Research the weather, terrain, and airline weight regulations before you travel. Overpacking for international travel is a mistake many people make, but lighter luggage is better. Choose items you really like, and plan on wearing them several times in different combinations.


Don’t forget to bring any medications you may need.

