 If you don't, the bacteria and oil from your fingers can get in your pores and create infections and breakouts. It may seem like a simple task, but it may also be easily forgotten. Think about all the things you come in to contact with during a day, and the times you subconsciously touch your face. Always keep clean hands when doing any facial cleansing so you aren't being counter-productive.Wash with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds. Sing “Happy Birthday” while washing to ensure you scrub long enough.Remove any hand or arm jewelry so no soap is caught underneath.
Don’t forget to wash underneath your fingernails and in between your fingers.
Dry hands with a clean towel or with air, but don’t dry too vigorously because this can damage the skin.;
, With your fingertips, rub cleanser on your skin in an upward circular motion. Rinse the cleanser with warm water and/or facial sponges.









There are a variety of cleansers to choose from. Some are foaming cleansers and are gentler on skin, while others contain micro-scrubbing beads for a light exfoliating.
If your skin is prone to blackheads, then consider a noncomedogenic cleanser. These cleanse your skin with a low risk of clogging your pores. The benefit of this is that your pores stay clear without the risk of residue, which could lead to clogs.
Do not use soap. Soap has an alkaline pH and will strip your skin of its natural acidity leaving your skin dehydrated and vulnerable to bacteria. Most foaming cleansers will do this, especially Cetaphil because of its sodium lauryl sulfate content.
Don't use anything that makes your skin feel tight after rinsing. Use warm water that is not too hot. Sudden temperature changes in the skin can permanently dilate capillaries.
 Toners prevent any infections or re-absorption of bacteria. Take a cotton pad to wipe toner over your skin to remove any cleanser residue. Use an alcohol free, hydrating toner and let it air dry on your face.








After a wash, your skin is deprived of important properties that give it is natural elasticity, glow, and smoothness. Applying a toner is an extra boost to get these levels back to normal.
Always go for water-based toners. These are loaded with antioxidants without any other interfering chemical properties to hurt your skin or dry it out.
Avoid alcohol-based toners. They usually contain an astringent, which can irritate your skin and hurts the skin’s ability to repair itself.
Avoid fragrant toners. These do little more than make your face smell good. Also, just like cologne or perfume, people can run the risks of having an allergic reaction. If this happens to you, it can cause irritation or damage to your skin.
 Only if you are very oily or acne-prone is it necessary for you to use oil free moisturizers. Use an SPF of at least 15 or 30 in your daytime moisturizer. Do not use an SPF at night. Night moisturizers are a good time to use something very nourishing or targeted to a specific skin issue.









Try to moisturize at least twice a day: once in the morning after washing your face, and at night before going to bed.
Go for oil-free moisturizers. Your body already produces enough oil on its own to keep your skin healthy. Any excess oil could run the risk of only worsening your skin problems.
Try moisturizing with Jojoba oil, which is close to your skin's natural sebum in consistency. It will also help to fade marks/scars.
 Do not be afraid of oil! It is lubrication for your skin and protects against wrinkles. There is no use in drying it up as it naturally carries debris out of pores. When you dry up oil from your skin, you dry up the water too. Your skin will produce more oil and it won't be able to get out because of cellular build up of dehydrated sticky cells on the surface.









If your skin is very oily and breaking out, you may need to have further tests done, so consult a dermatologist or esthetician for advice.
If your skin is still very dry, look into using a serum after toners and before moisturizing, and consult a dermatologist for advice
To counter extremely bothersome oil that creates an annoying shine, you can buy oil blotting paper to gently dab around your most noticeable area. Do not wipe with these; only blot.
 You can do this in several ways, so choose methods that feel most comfortable on your skin. Some people may find the feeling too rough, while others may need a harsher exfoliating method. On days when you exfoliate, do it after cleansing.









Use a scrub. Choose a gentle scrub (often creamy with rounded sloughing beads instead of jagged particles like nut shells) that does not leave your face feeling tight.
Exfoliate after you wash and use toners.
Be careful not to over-exfoliate as it can worsen skin problems. Rubbing skin with micro-cleansers or natural materials can be abrasive and damage pores if done too much.
 Items like broccoli, spinach or drumstick leaves can begin naturally cleansing your skin from the inside out. Keep in the mind that the more colorful a vegetable is, the better it is for your skin.


Most vegetables that are rich and vibrant in color have antioxidants, which naturally counter the aging process. Consuming regular amounts of antioxidants can help fight wrinkles and inflammation while protecting skin from the harmful effects of UV rays.Eating healthy looking vegetables results in healthy looking skin. The vibrant coloring found in vegetables is due to a special antioxidant (carotenoid). Eat vegetables such as peppers, tomatoes and carrots so your body can naturally absorb carotenoid to give your skin a natural radiant glow., Many fruits are loaded with antioxidants and necessary vitamins to maintain healthy looking skin. You can also make fruit smoothies, mixing different kinds to get multiple benefits in one easy snack. There are many fruits to choose from. Here are a few that are especially known for their skin care properties:Berries
Papayas
Avocados
Bananas
Aim for five portions of colorful fruits a day. This ensures you are getting a regular intake of antioxidants, but also that you are maintaining it.
Make sure to get your Vitamin C. This not only combats cold, but the vitamin is crucial in synthesizing collagen, which is vital in healthy looking skin.
 Too much sugar in your diet increases the amount of insulin, which leads to the growth of cells that can clog your pores. Fight unclear skin from the inside out with a less sugary diet.Tweak your diet to be more balanced. A little bit of something from all food groups cannot only benefit your skin, but your overall lifestyle.
Eat small meals more often. Instead of sitting down three times a day to have large meals, spacing smaller portions every two and a half or three hours will keep your blood-sugar level manageable.
Test yourself for dairy tolerance. Some claim that the testosterone in milk stimulates oil glands to overproduce oil, thus clogging pores. This may not be true for everyone, but you can try cutting out dairy products for a week or two to see if there are any results. Take caution and consult a doctor before removing dairy from your diet to see where else you can get your vitamin D and calcium.
 Dehydration causes skin problems. Without it, your skin loses its elasticity, becomes dry, and reduces your body’s ability to function to the best of its ability.Water clears toxins from your body. By removing these toxins in a natural way, there is little risk. Plus, your skin isn’t the only thing that is benefiting.
It boosts blood-flow. A good circulatory system means that nutrients, and waste, are moving smoothly and properly throughout and out of your body. Strong blood-flow in your skin also gives it a healthier look.
The addition of more water contributes to the natural synthesis of critical chemicals and other biological compounds your body needs. It is a natural bonder found in nature, and having more of it inside you only gives your body that extra helping hand to create compounds such as vitamin D.
 The main reason for going to a dermatologist is that they can tailor products and skincare routines specifically to you and your concerns.


Research in to potential dermatologists you want to see. Read reviews and articles on the company and actual doctors to see if they are legitimate, and suited for your needs.
Professional help on stubborn skin is help you may not be equipped to provide on your own.
Consider seeing a dermatologist as a last resort. Try using home remedies and changing your diet for at least two months to see if your skin clears or improves in ways you want it to. If this fails, then find help.
 Scar removal can be a priority for those who want healthier looking skin. These procedures can be expensive so make sure to look in to local professionals who can administer them at a price reasonable for you.This is a quick fix for visibly different looking skin. It can be done on your own with at-home with bleaching creams, or scrubbing brushes.
Look for microdermabrasion or dermabrasion procedures to remove top layers of damaged skin.
Removing scars can also even out the pigmentation of your skin.
 If you suffer from stubborn acne or other issues, a dermatologist can either recommend the perfect product(s) or procedures to get your skin back to its healthy looking self.A dermatologist can help you understand your own skin, why it is the way it is, and how you are perpetuating the problem or starting new ones.
Even if you don’t have a chronic skin issue and you notice something isn’t quite right about your skin, it doesn’t hurt to go in for a consultation with a dermatologist just to see what’s happening.

