 In most cases, a dinner that involves five ingredients will cost less than one that requires ten. Search for recipes that only use a few ingredients and do not require anything too exotic.;
, Plenty of people are interested in learning how to cook inexpensive meals, and cookbook publishers know it. Budget cookbooks can provide you with a plethora of low-cost meal ideas.
 Before you plan out your meals, look at the ingredients you already have at home. Comb through your spice cabinet and your pantry. If you have any product nearing its expiration date, plan a meal that will allow you to use it. Likewise, if you have an excess amount of any given product, plan a meal using that, as well.
 You can grow a number of herbs, vegetables, and fruits even with limited space. If you plan on cooking budget meals for a long time, starting a garden now is a good way to save on produce costs later on.
 Once you decide on your meals for the week, make a detailed list of everything you need. Mark down every ingredient you do not already have in your pantry, and jot down sizes and quantities as applicable. Do not go shopping without a list, since you may forget some items or walk away with something you do not need.
 Look through junk mail, magazines, and online for coupons that offer you savings on the products you need. Be careful about what coupons you use, though. Some brands may cost more than others even with a coupon. Always compare prices instead of assuming that the product with a coupon offers the best bargain.
 Most chain grocery stores have weekly sales. Many stores have pamphlets that they send out via mail or keep inside the store. Flip through these sale pamphlets to learn what products are on sale this week and plan meals that could use those products., If there is a certain product you cook with frequently, such as vegetable oil or salt, consider buying large quantities of it to save on the cost per serving. Compare prices of the bulk amount with the smaller amount to ensure that you receive a bargain. Also make sure to only buy bulk products you can actually use before the expiration date.

