 The shoelace length depends on the number of eyelet pairs on your Converse shoes. This pattern works for shoes with both even, and non-even eyelets.For two pairs of eyelets, choose laces 28 inches (71 cm) long.
For three pairs of eyelets, choose laces 32 inches (81 cm) long.
For four pairs of eyelets, choose laces 36 inches (92 cm) long.
For five pairs of eyelets, choose laces 40 inches (102 cm) long.
For six pairs of eyelets, use laces 44 inches (113 cm) long.
For seven pairs of eyelets, use laces 48 inches (123 cm) long.
For eight pairs of eyelets, choose laces 53 inches (134 cm) in length.
 Thread the lace along the underside of the Converse, bringing both ends up through the bottom set of eyelets. There should be a straight horizontal bar connecting the two bottom eyelets. Make the length of each end as even as possible. 








This is the most traditional, common lacing style for shoes of all types. It is both simple and comfortable.
 Pull "Side A," presently on the left side of the shoe, through the left bottom eyelet and into the right eyelet second from the bottom. This creates a diagonal line connecting the two eyelets. The shoelace should be pulled over the left bottom hole but pushed through the second-to-bottom hole on the right from the underside of the eyelet. Pull the lace through the right eyelet so that it comes out and over the top once more.
 Pull "Side B," currently on the right side of the shoe, through the right bottom eyelet and into the left eyelet second from the bottom. Another diagonal line connecting the two eyelets should be created. Pull the shoelace over the right bottom eyelet but push it through the second-to-bottom eyelet on the left from the underside. Pull the lace end through the left eyelet so that it pokes through and drapes over the top once again.
 Continue alternating "Side A" and "Side B" back and forth, criss-crossing the two laces until you reach the top pair of eyelets. Each end should be pulled through its eyelet and laced into the eyelet on the opposite side one row up.
 Pull the two ends together as they come out and over the top eyelets of your Converse shoes. This should create another horizontal pathway, similar to the one at the bottom. Tie a normal shoelace knot when slipping the shoes on your feet. You can also tuck the laces underneath the cushion of the shoe if you don't want the laces showing.







