 Make sure you get rid of those smelly gym clothes, rotten tuna fish sandwiches, mold, and anything else that looks unappealing. Also organize your papers into folders, folders into binders, etc. Get it looking clean and without clutter.;
, Take a wet cloth or sponge and rub out all of the grime, dust, and sweat. A locker has to smell nice for you to feel good about it.
 It can be something like a musical theme, a graffiti theme, a wildlife theme, a sports theme, or anything else that suits you.
 You will need a liner or wallpaper. The best way to do this is to use scrap-booking paper or buy some locker wallpaper from the store.You can also use thin fabric, that works well too. Stick up the wallpaper with tiny magnets; they to use clear or see-through ones. You can also use tape (depends on if you are using paper or fabric) or glue magnet sheets on the back of it.(Be careful, though. Sometimes the magnet sheets will be to heavy for paper and wrinkle it or not hold it up.)

, You can get some carpeting squares or some type of fabric from a craft store. Wondering how is will not slide about? Easy, just buy some grip mats, usually found under bath mats or carpets. Glue the grip mat to the fabric, but you might want to cut it so it will fit in your locker first.
 This includes magnetic accessories. Pick things such as dry erase boards, magnets, and bins. You can get a bulletin board to post pictures of your friends, boyfriend/girlfriend, pets, and family.


For dry erase boards, you can get different colored markers and write short notes or draw pictures.
Get little magnets that have pictures or words to match your color theme and your personality.
Get little bins to hold a cell phone, pencils, pens, dry erasers, etc.
Get other little magnetic things of your choice such as mirrors, notepads, and little magnetic shelves.
 If your locker is one that has vent slots or three underneath-openings at the top, you can use them for messaging. Get a magnetic bin and put it on the inside, right underneath the slots. Now you have a mailbox at school.Y our friends can leave you notes between classes. You can get a piece of paper and write "MAILBOX" on it and put it above the slots, again on the inside. Get your friends to do the same and you will have a spot to receive mail every day.

