 Once this is done, only then should you remove the light fixture. This can be tested by flipping wall switches or using a circuit tester on the actual light fixture. If there is a pre-existing fixture, remove it and disconnect the wiring. A fan presents a dynamic physical load that is usually much heavier than typical ceiling fixtures that present a static load. Because of these two qualities, if a fan rated box is not already present, the old box will need to be replaced with one that is.
 Fasten the new fan rated junction box directly to the nearest joist.


Snap diagonal chalk lines from opposite corners of the room. The lines will cross in the exact center of the room. (Much easier.)
Use a tape measure to measure the walls, and find the halfway points. (If you really can't get hold of a chalk line.)

, It will likely be best to buy the old work (not new construction) style if you do not have access to the ceiling from above. There are two types of old work boxes; one fan rated box is designed to straddle an existing joist; this style can be easier to install, but requires that you find the joist rather than avoid it. The other type has an adjustable bar that expands to span between two joists, it can be a little more involved to install but allows more mounting location choices. Either type works equally well.;
, See the tips section below for some ideas for a power source. Adjust this location as needed. Next, cut a hole by hand with a sheetrock saw; just large enough to feel around with your fingers to check for potential obstructions for the box. This small opening will make patching easier if it is an unsuitable location.
 trace the fan rated junction box to be installed on the ceiling and cut it out with the sheetrock saw.
 Regardless of the location, if your power source is via #12 wires, you must use #12-2 or #12-3 instead of #14-2 or #14-3 where indicated below with " * " (A general rule is to never connect different size wires together).
 If your fan has a wireless remote, you may wish to feed directly from a 120 volt outlet plug. Better yet, install a new switch box and run a wire cable from the outlet and fan, wire nut the white wires together and the ground wires (green or bare) together with a wire connector and then connect the two black wires that would connect to the switch together - that would in turn feed the fan. If you ever decide to remove the fan and replace with a light fixture, there will be a wall switch to control it.
 B) power the fan and/or light on and off with an RF remote included with the fan or purchased separately.
,,, All fans vibrate when running. Your mount must be able to withstand this constant stress, this why the National Electrical Code (NEC) mandates the use of fan rated boxes. Many people have been injured due to mount failure prior to this NEC change. Use of fan rated boxes significantly reduces this risk.
 When mounting to a beamed or angled ceiling, some fans require specific mounts for pitch that may or may not be included with the fan. Most fans however, include a universal mount that will support a fan from "normal" horizontal through most common roof pitch angles. Select the one that best fits the application. Down rod extensions may be added to lower the fan to the desired level.
, Attach the wires to the fan by connecting switch cable white to fan white, switch cable bare (or green) to fan ground / green, switch cable black to fan black and switch cable red to fan blue.
 The green screw or green wire on each switch should be connected to the ground wire bundle. Wirenut this connection and push towards the back of the box. Connect the power source cable white to fan cable white, wirenut and push towards the back of the box. With switches oriented to read ON and OFF (single pole switches), connect a 6–8 inch (15.2–20.3 cm) black wire power source cable black (or hot) to the bottom screw on each switch. Connect the fan cable red to the top screw on switch #1, and fan cable black to the top screw on switch #2. If all is wired correctly, switch #1 will operate the light & switch #2 will operate the fan. If you want to vary fan speed from the switch box, you should substitute a fan speed controller for switch #2. A dimmer may be used in place of switch #1 to dim the lights.
 Connect the power source cable black (hot) to the bottom screw of the switch. If you wish to control the light via wall switch: connect the fan cable black to the power source and the fan cable red to the switch, since power is always available to the fan, it can be operated independently of the switch position by the pull chain and the light will operated by the wall switch. Reverse the wire connections to the switch and power source to control the fan by the switch and light by the pull chain.
 Wire the remote receiver as per the instructions included with it - most likely power source color to remote input color (black to black, white to white) and fan / light color to remote output color (black to black, white to white, blue to blue).
 Keep extra wiring out of the way by pushing it into the electrical box. While working on the fan wiring, use the “wiring hook" that is provided to hang the fan.
 Most fan blades have a two-pronged attachment, using screws that come through holes in the blades and into the prongs. These need to be drawn up securely, but not so tightly that the threads are damaged or the laminated blade material is crushed.On many fans you'll find the prongs also need to be mounted to the motor housing. If this is the case, mount them before the prongs are mounted to the blades themselves.
,, To do this:

Fasten each blade to the speed ring, then attach the assembled ring to the motor unit using rubber grommets and fastening screws.
Attach the cover over the speed ring and install the decorative cover plate.
 If no lock washers are supplied, you should purchase some as they prevent fan vibrations from loosening the screws over time. The hanger bracket may accept either a half-ball hanger or a hook-type hanger, depending on your fan. Either way, the hanger is carefully slipped into the bracket. Twist the half ball type hanger until the hanger bracket's tab aligns with the groove in the ball hanger.
 If you have high ceilings, you may also want to attach a hanger pipe.
, Be sure to connect the black house wires to the black fan wires, and the white house wires to the white fan wires. Connect the ground wires from the box, the fan and the power supply together with a wire nut. Tuck all wires inside the canopy and secure the canopy to the mounting bracket.
, Turn the power back on and make sure the connections are good - remember to have both the wall switch and the pull-cord switch on the fan in the "On" position.
 With the cap removed, you'll see a bundle of wires. Of these wires, two will be labeled for use with the light kit. One will be white (neutral) and the other will be black, red or blue (hot). Some fans and light kits make use of a plug and jack instead of individual wires.
 The adapter serves as a reducing ring for the lamp housing. Attach the adapter ring with the screws provided.
 Join the two white wires with a wire connector and the two black, red or blue wires with a wire connector to the remaining labeled wire bracket. If the fan and light have a plug and jack for a connection, simply join them by inserting the plug into the jack. Fasten the light kit to the fan with the screws provided.
 Check for wobbling.

