 There are three meals traditionally served on Shabbat: a full Friday night dinner, a full Saturday afternoon lunch, and a comparatively lighter Saturday evening dinner (Seudat Shilisit in Hebrew; literally "the third meal"). If you are having guests for one or all of the meals, shop and prepare even earlier, or have them bring a dish or two to ease the workload.;
, It is considered a praiseworthy mitzvah (good deed) to prepare your home for Shabbat. In addition to cleaning, this means using your best dishes, using your best linens, and wearing your best clothes. Traditionally, meals held in celebration of Shabbat should be fit for a queen., Typically, there are two candles lit on the dinner table just before sunset on Friday to mark the start of Shabbat. These candles represent observing and remembering the Shabbat. To properly start Shabbat, you need to:


Light the candles and cover or close your eyes.
Recite the candle lighting blessing, which can be found at: http://www.reformjudaism.org/shabbat-customs


, The blessing of the kosher wine, or grape juice, is called Kiddoush. The wine is a symbol of joy and relaxation.To properly bless the wine, you need to:


First, read aloud Genesis 1:31-2:3 from the TorahLift the cup of wine and bless it. Go to http://www.aish.com/sh/ht/fn/48967396.html to get more information on this blessing.
Bless Shabbat. This blessing can be found at: http://www.reformjudaism.org/practice/prayers-blessings/shabbat-evening-blessings-kiddush-blessing-over-wine


, Like the candles, you should have two loaves of braided Sabbath bread known as Challah. The blessing over the bread is called HaMotzi.The purpose of blessing the bread is to show gratitude for the meal that God has provided. To properly bless the bread, you should:


Uncover the bread and say a blessing over it. Information on this blessing can be found at: http://www.reformjudaism.org/practice/prayers-blessings/shabbat-blessings-hamotzi-blessing-over-bread-meal.
Slice, salt, and eat the bread after the blessings.This can be in forms other the traditional braided loaves. Some prepare garlic pita bread, while others incorporate cinnamon and raisins to make a sweeter challah., Try making a Mediterranean dip, a unique salsa, or gefilte fish. These dishes are common to serve at the beginning of the meal.
 The next part of the meal typically includes serving and eating soup, salad, or both.


If serving a soup, try chicken soup, beef and mushroom barley, or ginger carrot soup.
If serving a salad, consider a mandarin-orange beet salad or a romaine pepper steak salad., For the main course, there are many different options to choose from.


For the main dish, consider making meatballs in a mushroom sauce, apricot chicken, or brisket.
For the side dishes, try kugels, ratatouille, or green bean almandine., Finish the last course strong with a tasty and sweet treat. Some different desserts you may want to make include: apple crumble, peanut butter ice cream pie, or double chocolate fudge brownies.