 If you are new to yoga or not especially flexible, prepare yourself to perform side plank pose, or vasisthasana, by starting on all fours. Make sure that you are on a yoga mat to make the position more comfortable. You can also place a folded blanket under your knees for some extra padding.


Position your hands directly beneath your shoulders and your knees directly beneath your hips.Take a few breaths and hold this position.
 Keeping your hands in the same place, push your seat back towards your heels. Keep your hands palms down on the mat in front of you. This position is called child’s pose, which is also known as balasana.Stay in this position for three to five breaths.
 From child’s pose, inhale and hinge forward at your hips back onto your hands and knees. Then, get into a regular plank pose, or kumbhakasana.Take a few breaths and hold this position.








Remember to keep your abs engaged and your spine long. Don’t let your bottom stick up. Keep it aligned with the rest of your body.Keep your feet hip width apart and flexed, with your weight resting on the balls of your feet.Keep your chest open by pulling your shoulders down towards the mat., Exhale and roll your body to the right while lifting your right arm and placing your right foot and leg over your left foot and leg. Your left arm and left leg should be supporting the weight of your body.Hold the side plank, or vasisthasana, for three to five breaths. Maintain proper alignment to build muscle and minimize the risk for injury.









Your supporting hand should be straight and slightly in front of your shoulder.Keeping your palm firmly placed on the floor and engaging your triceps muscle can help stabilize you.Your left arm, hand, and fingers should be extended fully towards the ceiling.Make sure to engage your core and your back muscles.It may help to imagine that you are pressing against a wall that is behind your body as you hold this pose.
 After you’ve held the side plank for three to five breaths, inhale and roll yourself back into plank pose, kumbhakasana. Stay here for a breath or two to give yourself a rest before performing side plank on your left side.
 Exhale and roll your body to the left, so that your right arm and right leg are supporting your body weight.Follow the same procedure as you did for your right side and hold this pose for three to five breaths before finishing your side plank practice.
 If you’ve mastered side plank pose, you can attempt more difficult variations of side plank. Remember to practice these asanas only when you’ve mastered side plank to help minimize the risk of injury.In a simple side plank, you can push your lower hip upwards to engage your obliques more. This will also stretch your right flank more deeply.You can also do side plank with one leg by raising the top leg slightly off of the bottom leg. Do this for one to two seconds., Once you’ve done a couple of rounds of vasisthasana, end your practice by returning to plank pose and then to child’s pose. You can finish either in child’s pose or on your hands and knees like you began your practice.








