 Most cafeterias have a salad bar. If you add lean proteins, like chicken or turkey slices, to a salad you can make a full meal. This can be a good choice for a light lunch or dinner, especially if the cafeteria is serving something like pizza or burgers for your main meal; however, avoid stocking up on certain ingredients. Croutons and high fat meat options like bacon bits can result in weight gain. When it comes to dressing, go for a light vinaigrette over creamier options that tend to be high in calories.If a salad isn't super filling, add a smaller portion of the main meal. If you're craving the mac and cheese the cafeteria is serving that night, for example, try having a big salad first and then a smaller helping of pasta. You'll fill up a bit on vegetables before indulging in a less healthy option.;
, Many items you'll find your college's cafeteria may be high in sugar. Sugar is a major culprit when it comes to weight gain. Try to be conscious of your sugar consumption if you want to avoid the freshman 15.


Many cafeterias offer a lot of sugary snacks for dessert. It can be easy to indulge, especially if you're stressed and craving a treat; however, too much sugar can lead to weight gain. If you want something sweet after your dinner, go for a piece of fruit or a bowl of low-fat yogurt.Sugar and high fructose corn syrup are a common ingredient in juices and sodas. Many school cafeterias offer soda and juice as a beverage option. Try to avoid these choices, as such drinks are often high in added sugar. Go for water if you're thirsty — it will hydrate you and won't cause any weight gain. If you want your water to be more flavorful, try adding a wedge of lemon or lime. If you're craving a sweet drink once in awhile, try diet soda or fruit juice without added sugar., Most cafeterias serve breakfast, but this meal is commonly skipped by college students due to late nights studying. While the extra hours of sleep may seem tempting, breakfast is important. When you wake up in the morning, you've gone 5 to 9 hours without food. Breakfast helps jump start your metabolism for the day, can help you feel full longer to avoid overeating later, as well as help your brain work more efficiently — and lets face it, college is a time when this is needed in full force.Go for a healthy breakfast option in your cafeteria. Try whole wheat toast and fruit, whole grain cereal, oatmeal, or hardboiled eggs. Avoid sugary breakfast options, like french toast or pancakes.
If you have an early morning class and want to avoid the cafeteria altogether, try to pack a breakfast the night before. A whole wheat bagel and some fruit can make a nutritious breakfast you can eat on the go.
If you're really pressed for time, try to grab something small from your cafeteria. Even a piece of fruit is better than nothing.
 Many cafeterias have a sandwich bar where you can choose ingredients. Make a sandwich with whole wheat bread, lean protein, and lots of veggies. Avoid calorie-heavy condiments, like mayonnaise. This can be a healthy dinner or lunch option.


Even if you are choosing lean meats or low-fat cheeses, don't go overboard on these items. You still need to be conscious of how many calories you consume, even when eating healthier items.

