 Many medications can cause dry mouth, including drugs for pain management, depression or physical disorders in general, allergies, urinary incontinence, and high blood pressure.If you are on the medication long-term, ask a doctor about alternatives or a lower dosage.


Your label may use the medical term for dry mouth: xerostomia.
 Try to go without these substances for a day or two and see if your symptoms improve.If you only have these occasionally, there is probably another cause for your symptoms. Still, lowering your intake may make your condition less severe.


Follow these links to get advice on how to quit smoking, stop drinking, or stay away from caffeine.
 If you think you might be dehydrated, start drinking plenty of water or any other liquid even when you are not thirsty. Drink sports drinks as well to ensure you have enough electrolytes, which are vital for healthy fluid levels.If your dehydration is caused by vomiting, diarrhea, blood loss, severe burns, or excessive sweating, visit a doctor.
 If your dry mouth is worse when you wake up, it could be caused by snoring. A humidifier may help by keeping the air moist at night, but consider talking to a doctor to find the cause of the snoring. Keep in mind that only an otolaryngologist will be able to examine in detail any potential cause, so you may want to ask your doctor for a referral to a specialist.


If you wake up feeling irritable or tired after a full night's rest, you may have sleep apnea. This is characterized by a long pause in your breathing, followed by a gasp or snore.
 If none of the lifestyle changes above improve your condition, visit a doctor. Dry mouth can be a symptom of a serious medical condition.


If you have dry eyes as well, you may have Sjögren's Syndrome, a serious condition. Ask for medical tests to confirm this or find a different diagnosis.Let your doctor know if you are at risk for high blood pressure, diabetes, anemia, cystic fibrosis, arthritis, any head injury that might have caused nerve damage, or HIV/AIDS., Sjögren's Syndrome or radiation therapy for cancer in your head or neck can damage the cellular structure and functioning of the salivary glands. Scientists have managed to insert new genes into these glands, improving their function.This treatment needs more study and may not be widely available. Ask your doctor whether there are any clinical trials you can join, or other options that may improve the flow of saliva, such as medication.

