 The symptoms of anemia can vary depending on the specific cause or your specific case. However, in general, the symptoms of anemia include:


Constant fatigue or a feeling of weakness that is not well relieved by rest or sleep
Pale skin and cold hands and feet
Dizziness
A rapid or an irregular heartbeat
Difficulty breathing or shortness of breath
Chest pain
Confusion and memory loss
Headache, If you are experiencing any of these symptoms, make an appointment to see your physician to determine the cause. There are four main causes of anemia, which lead to multiple types of anemia.


The most common type of anemia is a result of a nutrient deficiency, which causes your body to not make enough RBCs. This is generally caused by a lack of iron or B vitamins in your system.
Anemia can also be caused by chronic disease, which lowers the production of the RBCs. These include arthritis, HIV/AIDS, kidney failure, and leukemia.
Anemia can also be caused by microbleeds or microhemorrhages, which are microscopic internal bleeds that cause blood loss that the RBCs cannot keep up with. These are often in the intestines.Anemia can also be caused by autoimmune issues, which are often genetic. Hemolytic anemia, sickle cell anemia, and thalassemias are genetic anemias that cause your immune system to destroy your RBCs., There are many risk factors for anemia, some which can be prevented and others that you cannot. The most common risk factors for anemia include:


Nutritional deficiencies, such as a diet lacking in vitamins and minerals, such as vitamin C, riboflavin, B12, folate, iron, and copper, needed to produce RBCs.Intestinal conditions that prevent the absorption of nutrients, such as celiac disease, irritable bowel syndrome (IBS), irritable bowel diseases (IBD), and leaky gut syndrome.Menstruation
Pregnancy
Chronic disease
Chronic blood loss from a bleeding ulcer or the use of certain medications
Family history or genetic conditions
A history of alcoholism, certain viral infections, liver disease, exposure to toxic chemicals, and a history of certain medications, Your doctor will perform a physical exam, which means he will listen to your heart and breathing. He or she will also check for physical signs of anemia as well as ask you about other symptoms. Your doctor will also likely draw a small amount of blood to check your blood count. This is a test that counts the number of RBCs and other cells in the blood and check the quality of your RBCs.


If the underlying cause of the anemia is not clear, other tests may be ordered., You have to get the correct diagnosis in order to find the best treatment that is designed for that type of anemia. You will likely be referred to a hematologist, a doctor who specialize in blood disorders, to get the best treatment. The treatment for anemia depends on the type, cause and severity of the anemia.


Medical treatments include dietary treatments and supplementation, hormones, immunosuppressant drugs, erythropoietin, chelation therapy, blood transfusions, bone marrow transplants, or surgery.