 How can you possibly win him if you don't know him? This will be 99.9% easy if he's in your class. Crack a joke in class or say something about him. Be sure that it's something that will get his attention.;
, At least hang out with the people he hangs out with. If he prefers to hang out by himself sometimes catch up and ask him questions, like "what are you interests?" simple things that will get him to notice you.
 Guys don't go for shy girls, because they know they are hard to meddle with. Remember to be always out there! Pop out! Like a pretty pony! Make others laugh, look cool, even be silly near your friends, all these things can pull attention. If he's serious, then be smart and act cool.
 Don't try to get into drama with him for attention, guys don't like that. Agree with him as much as you can, if he asks for your opinion, a yes or no question, nod and smile. There's no need to talk, that's the better way!

, Humans are very physical. We all like hand shakes, hugs, kisses and all other kinds of contact. You need to be able to make contact. But always remember to stay in your comfort zone, don't let a guy make you do something you don't like!

, How must you win a guy you like if he is already taken? This is a warning, if he is taken he will not like your flirts and things that seem to be "sweet." Ask him if he's had any girl friends in the past, you can make someone up to make sure it's not like an odd question, and add your experiences too.
 Don't always talk about yourself, tell him some things you like and do. But also hear him out, no one likes to listen all the time!

, This is a big one, all girls sometimes act dumb and stupid near a boy they like, but this isn't going to help! You know what stupid means near a boy, as in too goofy.
 Does he have a Facebook? If he doesn't suggest him to make one, if he does add him, and don't constantly post posts about him. Remember he can see what you post and to many things about him will seem a little obsessive.
 Ask how he is, or what's going on in his life.
 See if he replies, if he doesn't he might not have seen, but don't overdo it, he might be ignoring it for a reason.
 There's a guy I like and I always said "hi!" He always said out loud or quietly, "hi." and waved, and at times where he couldn't talk, he smiled and waved while looking back!

, You want this guy to really like you and you like him so of course you're not going to sabotage it by being a brat.

