 It's easier to get the feel of how to hold and manipulate the hook if you don't have to worry about starting off or the flimsiness of a first row or round.


Granny squares are a good choice. They're not too repetitive, so they stay interesting, they end so quickly that it's easy to teach them the complete pattern, how to start, and how to tie off, and most of the granny square patterns are pretty easy to memorize.
Whatever pattern you pick, be sure you have a printed/photographed pattern for it, to teach them how to read it. It's great if you have symbol and written notation for the same pattern, but as long as you have one or the other you can just teach them that.
It's great to be able to show them on a project that you were actually working on, instead of creating a new one just to show them. This has the benefits of working on something that you want to finish (instead of something that'll sit around in a closet) and making the kid feel excited and useful.;
, Hold your project where they can see it, and slowly make two or three stitches.


This is where it's good to have a project where most of the stitches are the same.
 Help them hold the hook properly, and verbally coach them through the process.


They may not be able to hold the yarn, old the other side of the project, and make a stitch all at the same time. If so, hold the yarn in position for them, and if necessary hold one side of the project.
 Most stitches are simple enough that they'll be able to get the right number of wraps, and pull the yarn through the right number of loops, but there are a few common mistakes with technique, such as:


Not turning the hook when they're trying to bring it through the loops. After catching the yarn, many people don't realize that they have to turn the hook towards themselves in order to get it through the holes.
Holding everything too stiffly. Because it's a new skill, and a new way of moving their hands, they may be holding everything too stiffly. Not only is that not a particularly easy way to crochet, it's probably going to hurt in the long run.
Putting the hook through the wrong hole. Once they wrap the yarn around the hook (if necessary) and need to stick it into the top of a stitch in the row/round underneath, they may skip a stitch or put it in the same one they made the last stitch in. Show them how to tell where each stitch is, and if they've already put a stitch in it.
Making every stitch with different tension. Once they start going, you may notice that the whole project looks wavy. This is probably because they're adjusting their hands and tension after every stitch. Tell them what's wrong, and why consistent tension is important.
 Crochet a few more stitches (this will help balance out the new, erratic stitches they make) and offer it back to them.
, If you've been teaching them on a project in the round, show them how to do a magic circle. If it's been in rows, show them a slipknot.
, Tell them what all the symbols mean, and show them where to start and how to read the pattern.
 Help them find a simple pattern for it, pick out some yarn and hooks, and show them how to read this new pattern. If they can read it by themselves already, or with minimal help, that's the best way to learn, but others might need you to teach them again.


If you decided to teach them granny squares, and a pattern you're actually making, you can use the square they made for your own project (if it's not too shabby). Some kids might want to keep it, some might want to make more to actually make something, but others will just not care.
 Maybe this one's in rows instead of in the round, or has increases or decreases. Maybe they'll need to add on another ball of yarn, or they want to change colors.

