 A young toddler has little to no ability to control urges, impulses, and behavior. While they may demonstrate some it will be inconsistent at best. Expecting your very young children to have self-control when it is not age appropriate sets parents up for frustration when it is, in fact, completely normal and natural., The attention span of a toddler is very short, only a few minutes. Although a child can be very persistent in achieving an objective, once sidetracked a toddler is unlikely to remember their original goal.


By the time they're two years old, most toddlers can pay attention to an activity for 3 to 6 minutes., As a child grows older, they will be less able to be distracted. As a child develops, they need to have limits, consequences for negative behavior, and so on.


Eventually, you'll need to guide your child's behavior directly. Try to directly confront their desires and curiosity. This may mean exploring a similar (but safer) item together., A toddler generally understands more language than they can verbalize, but toddlers vary a lot in verbal comprehension. Too much reliance on language by adults will often lead to frustration on everyone's part. Keep in mind that small children will pick up on the rhythm and tone of your words, so be firm when speaking to your toddler.The younger the child, the simpler the language. A very young child will understand "No! Ouchie!" better than "Sharp knife! That's dangerous!"
Use simple language first, then follow up with a short explanation for older toddlers: "No! Ouchie! Knives are sharp and dangerous!" This builds vocabulary and the idea there is a reason behind the "no"-- you are not just saying no without a reason.
 Whatever is present in front of them has attention. Although toddlers can hold a "mental image" in memory it is not as strong as whatever is going on in front of them. As your toddler grows, they may become irritated or upset when the object is removed."Out of sight, out of mind" is extremely true of toddlers. The cookie package on the counter will draw the interest of a young child, while the cookies put away in the cabinet will not--even if he or she was at the store when the cookies were purchased.

