 Most people have experienced an emotional reaction to a piece of music. It might be hearing a favorite song from high school, your wedding dance song, or an old family favorite that provokes a very real mental and physical reaction in people. Certain pieces of music can transport an individual to a different time and place. In other words, music can temporarily remove us from reality. Music can create euphoric reactions in individuals. And like everything relating to music, it's all about your personal tastes., Want to feel dizzy and disoriented? Kids are the experts! Think back to your younger years. Remember the exhilarating feeling you got from spinning around and around in circles until you fell down? Why not try it again! You could also turn somersaults, or grab your friends and head to the local park or playground. Find a hill to roll down, or go as high as you can on the swings.
 Fear can elicit many of the same feelings that being drunk can cause. One of the common denominators is feeling a loss of control. When done responsibly, this feeling of being out of control can cause a rush of adrenaline--and excitement. Also, after your mind logically realizes that you are not actually in any danger, a sense of giddiness and light-heartedness can set in. Which makes the fear worth it!There are lots of ways to scare yourself. Grab a creepy book, or watch a thriller on tv. Better yet, grab your friends and have a camp out in the backyard. Have a competition to see who can cause the most shrieking with the scariest ghost story.
 Feeling groggy is one of the most common reactions to drinking alcohol. You can try to mimic that by making yourself as tired as possible. Push yourself to stay up later than normal, and read or watch television until you are forcing yourself to keep your eyes open. This will feel like you've had too much to drink. It's not a good idea to try this one when you have an important day at school or work coming up.
 Or a lot of any kind of caffeine. Too much caffeine in any form is going to produce the jitters, and might give you the anxious feeling that you could get while drunk. Caffeine can also make you much more talkative and more willing to be social. Just be careful, too much caffeine is not good for your health--mental or physical.