 This will help prevent red bumps, and will help keep your skin moisturized. Coconut oil works especially well, and will make you smell good too. If it is solid, rub it between your hands to warm it up before applying it to your legs.


To get extra smooth skin, exfoliate your body before shaving.Remember, when shaving your legs, shave against the grain; when shaving your bikini zone, shave with the grain.
You will probably want to keep your bikini zone close to hairless, so it may be better to skip shaving and get it professionally waxed.
A little oil goes a long way. Don’t use too much., Washing your face is an important part of anyone’s routine if you want to avoid breakouts or oily skin. It is especially important, however, if you tend to wear a lot of makeup.


Wash your hands first. You can’t get your face clean with dirty fingers.Use makeup remover to ensure you skin is totally clear.Exfoliate gently. Scrubbing aggressively can damage your skin, rather than cleaning it.Rinse with warm water.Dry your face with a clean towel.Use a cotton ball to apply toner to problem areas., You want your presence to be alluring and intoxicating. People should want to be near you. That means you have to smell good.


Wear perfume. Find something subtle and sweet. Most importantly, it should be something you like. You’ll be inhaling more of it than anyone else, after all. That said, pay attention to people’s responses. If you get a lot of wrinkled noses, retire that perfume.
If you are allergic to perfume, or just plain don’t like it, moisturizing with coconut oil and washing your face with a fragrant soap will give you a more subtle sweet smell. Make sure not to overdo it with the scents, as this can be incredibly off-putting., This is a surprisingly important part of your overall presentation, and it can make a big difference.A stripper with sloppy nails will seem much cheaper than one with well-manicured nails.


Leave it to a professional. Unless you are very good at doing your own, go out and have a professional work on your nails.
Remember your feet. This is especially important if you wear open-toe shoes.Treat yourself to a pedicure every so often. If you are a real stripper, however, make sure not to let them remove the callouses on your feet—you need them!You don’t need to go crazy; you don’t want your nails to be a distraction. A neutral color with French tips will do just fine.

