 Maybe you went up to camp not knowing anyone, chances are so did someone else! They are just as nervous as you and the people who are veterans can be quick.;
, These can be pop songs everyone knows, or ones you made up at a get-together. Make them your theme songs while at camp. You will sing them a thousand times every day, and during the year you can sing them for some good memories.
 Find shapes in the clouds and patterns in the trees. Take some time at night to stare at the stars and tell stories. Look for a constellation or a planet. Watch the sun set and the moon rise.
 Chances are there is a deer living behind your cabin, raccoons on a hiking trail, birds' nests up in the dining room rafters, or a snake tanning on the rocks by the lake. You can observe and draw or take photos, but remember to not scare any of them away. It is their home too!

, Paint a chair or decorate a doorway, or sign your name on a bench or your bed. There's nothing better than coming back to camp and seeing your artwork being shown to the world; it will bring back so many memories for you and others.
 There's nothing like a nice campfire and some marshmallows after a long day of busy camp games. Make sure to pick a safe place to do this. You may start a competition to see who can build a fire and roast their marshmallow first, or gather everyone around to share some food and good memories. This is also the ideal time to lean in and give a dramatic re-telling of the camp ghost legend.
 Chances are your mom will ask what you ate every day or what games you played. If you have it recorded there is no worries of forgetting anything, and years later you can see things you wrote about that you may have completely forgotten.
 Everyone knows how to play cards and it's a great way to bond. A fun round of cards in the cabin is great for a rainy day.
 You may make some really great friends and learn some amazing things. Who knows, maybe your bunk mate will be the next superstar someday!

, Write a couple letters. They will love to hear from you and know that you are having fun. Families may get worried if they don't hear from you, and friends may miss you most of all. Find the time to send something to them to let them know how you're doing.
 They are the closest thing to family you have because they have lived with you, yet are also undeniably great friends who you can depend on. It's great to have a laugh every once in a while of that great prank you pulled, and just let each other know how you're doing.

