 Your garbage disposal unit will be attached to a pipe called a P- or S-trap. These are the pipes that look like a “P” or “S” behind your disposal unit, which connects to the trap arm on the back wall of your cabinet. Oftentimes, when removing debris and plunging doesn’t do the trick, it’s because there is a lot of sludge buildup from coffee grounds and grease in the trap. This buildup prevents new material from properly breaking up and draining.
To get your disposal to work properly again you’ll have to remove and clean this pipe.
 Also, sponge up any water in your sink to avoid the water dripping out of the open pipe.


Before you go ahead and remove the P-trap you’re going to want to prep the area so that you create as little a mess as possible. If there are grounds and other waste clogging your trap, a bucket and towels will minimize any mess.
 Your trap will be connected by nuts to two pipes which you will have to unscrew. Once you have loosened the nuts, you can wiggle the trap free from the pipes. The trap arm is the small pipe extending from the back of your cabinet and looks like a faucet.
The waste tee is the pipe above the trap. It looks like a large golf tee and connects the trap to the disposal.
 When you remove the trap, you will most likely find it full of grime and other materials such as ground coffee.


Some traps have a clean-out plug in the base that allows you to clean without removing the trap. If your's doesn't, you'll have to remove it. Keep your bucket under the trap so that any debris that falls out goes into the bucket.
You may have to pull out a lot of debris by hand before you can rinse the trap with warm water. You can also use a coat hanger to remove debris.
When rinsing your trap, keep the bucket under the trap, especially if you rinse it in the sink. If you are rinsing your trap in your sink you want to prevent the material from going back down. As well as any water pouring through your open pipe.
Once the trap is cleaned out, reattach the trap carefully. Make sure not to over tighten and crack any of the components. Plastic parts will easily snap – just tighten them snugly.
If your trap is clean, but you still have draining problems, you may have to snake your drain.

