 Remember that size matters. Depending on the nature of your convention, you may or may not be able to fully control the size of your convention. However, it will be essential to estimate some numbers, as you will need to book arrangements based on estimated attendance.;
, With so much to do and so many details to manage, it’s far too easy for important steps to fall through the cracks. Plan your work and work your plan. This will also help you keep track of delegating and maintain timely follow ups.


List the number of people required to assist the running of your event in regard to things like camera operators, lighting operators, sound controllers, ushers, security, ticket booth assistants, car park assistants, caterers etc. It is a good idea to seek out from your organisation any doctors or nurses who may be prepared to answer a medical call should the need arise.
Create a budget. This step will need to be completed rather early, in order to ascertain sponsorship needs and set a ticket price for attendees.
 This may be the single most important decision you make regarding the planning of your convention. Choose a location that suits your estimated group size, with clean, well-appointed facilities, and the ability to provide food service to your group in a fresh and timely manner. Consider whether or not your participants will want to come early or stay late, which may mean you’ll want to assess nearby attractions. 


Save the date.  Once the venue is booked, it’s never too early to encourage potential attendees to save the date – even if it’s a year in advance.
 Nobody said you had to plan the entire convention on your own, did they? Enlist help, create a committee, and surround yourself with helpful, hardworking, committed enthusiasts. Plus, it pays to run key ideas across a small focus group, to avoid any major oversights.


Make sure the overall coordinator has no other task for the event than coordination. The overall coordinator should chair all planning meetings prior to the event and work with the managerial assistants to bring the event together in the planning stage to ensure successful outcomes are attained.
Appoint a suitable person to act as Master of Ceremonies. In many ways this is the most important task of such an event; if the Master of Ceremonies fails the whole programme can be in jeopardy.
Appoint someone to deal with anything out of left field that might crop up during the event. This person may require assistants and should be free to appoint these as needed.
Appoint either one person or perhaps a married couple to act as convention hosts for your convention speakers and presenters. This host person or host couple will be commissioned to look after guests from the time they step off the plane on arrival until they go back through the airport after the event is all over. These hosts must be people of high calibre as they represent your event in the eyes of the guests coming.
Split your event into workable categories (video, sound, catering, security etc) and nominate one person (managerial assistant) to take charge of each category.
 Audiovisual support is one of those things that most people won’t notice unless it’s missing or malfunctioning. Effective audiovisual support should be seamlessly integrated with the main stage.
 Conversely they need to visit the bathroom from time to time. Make sure your program is structured so that attendees have time to eat their snacks and/or meals during breaks and visit the bathroom also; should that be necessary.
 Don't get caught out, ask. Once you know what is required make sure everything is covered in your planning. It would be a good idea to put someone in charge of this area of the event.
,