 Set a timer on a personal device or have your parents remind you to get ready an hour or two before practice. Coming late to practice will make your teacher think you're unorganized and don't care about figure skating.
 Put on a pair of skating tights and a pair of skating pants, a skating dress, a skirt and a tank top, or a pair of tight fitting pants. It is important to wear something that shows of your line, but is comfortable so you can move around in it. Grab a comfy, yet tight fitting jacket to put over your skating clothes. Make sure you wear tennis shoes you can warm up in, you wouldn't want to get an injury! Remember, people judge you on how you are dressed. If you come to the rink in a baggy sweatshirt and jeans, other skaters and coaches with think you are not serious about the sport., A ponytail or bun is acceptable. Don't have any hair in your face! You can also try braiding your hair in one or two braids. Add clips or ribbons to spice things up. Make sure the clips or ribbons match your clothes., Pack your ice skates with soakers and guards, a cloth (preferably cute with your name embroidered or a pair of ice skates with sequins), gloves, the music you are skating to, and a notepad and pen to copy down coaches notes. Pack some healthy snacks that won't make a big mess such as almonds or fruit if you're going to be at practice for a long time. Also make sure to bring a reusable water bottle with you since you'll be pretty tired from all that skating., Prepare an easy quick snack before you leave, don't eat a heavy meal you'll feel sick when you go to practice. Have a snack such as a smoothie, apple slices with peanut butter, carrots with hummus, a banana, a small salad, banana peanut bagel etc. Eating a healthy snack before practice will give your body the energy it needs to function properly., Once you're done getting ready, have a parent drive you or if the figure skating lesson are nearby, walk instead. Schedule enough time to arrive at the rink a half hour early to warm up or you could get an injury. Make sure to also stretch afterwards to loosen your muscles.