 Becoming visibly upset as a result of your boss’s racist words or behaviors will usually make the situation worse. If you’re the target of the racist remark, you might feel like lashing back. If you’re not the direct target, you might have a desire to defend whoever was the intended target. But if you’re looking for a way to handle the situation tactfully, you’ll need to calm down first.Take a deep breath, and count to 10 before saying anything.
If you still feel like you’re unable to calm down, make an excuse and walk away from your boss if you can.;
, If this is the first time you’ve ever heard you boss make a racist comment, it might be easiest to simply ignore it. Change the topic to a work-related concern. For example, following the offensive remark, you can simply look at your boss with a blank expression, pause, and then resume talking about the job.There’s a chance he’ll get the message that his humor or comment wasn’t appreciated without your having to say so.
Try to remember that it’s not your responsibility to educate your workplace about racism. Your primary goal is to get your boss to stop making racist comments around you.
 If your boss persists in saying racist things around you, you may need to be more overt about your disapproval. You can do this tactfully, as long as you’re able to keep your cool. When your boss says the offensive thing, look at him blankly, and say something like, “Wow.” Or, even, “Wow, that was racist.”Don’t follow your statement with an explanation about how the statement was racist. Instead, redirect the conversation immediately back to a work topic.
Make sure your attention is directed towards the remark rather than the person. Your boss is more likely to respond positively if told that his statement was racist than being told, “Wow, it sounds like you’re racist.”

, Asking your boss, “Why did you say that (racist thing)?” may result in his recognition that his statement was inappropriate. Or, it might reveal a misunderstanding of your own. If your boss reiterates the statement with additional racist clarification, you’ll have a better understanding of the situation.Asking your boss to explain why he made the statement also allows you time to gather your thoughts and calm yourself.
If there are other people present, you’ll have more witnesses.
 Asking him to repeat the racist remark highlights the fact that he said it in the first place, and may make him feel ashamed without any overt accusations on your part. Repeat the process as often as you need to, so that you’re making it clear that you’re refusing to engage in racist conversation.For example, after your boss says the racist thing, pretend that you didn’t hear him. Say, “Excuse me?”
If he repeats it, you can pretend not to understand. “”I’m sorry, I don’t get it.”
Eventually he’ll get the message that either you’re asking him to explicitly explain his racist comment, or that he should move on in the conversation.
 Even if this is the first time you’ve ever heard your boss use a racist statement, you’ll want to keep track. Write down exactly what was said, who was present, where you were, and the time and date. Be specific.Written documentation will be required if you ever decide to take your concerns about a racist boss to your company’s human resource office or consult a lawyer.
Make sure to keep your written notes in a place where others won’t find them at work.
 Racial jokes and comments can constitute a hostile work environment if they occur enough to affect a person’s employment. If these comments and jokes are pervasive enough that they interfere with an employee’s ability to do her job, then this is an act of illegal job discrimination.Harassment can be difficult to prove. The primary considerations are whether or not the comments were unwelcome, and the extent of the severity of the racist words or actions.
Realize that racist comments constitute harassment, even if you aren’t of the race being referred to negatively. As long as you make it clear the comments are unwelcome, and the comments or actions continue to impede your ability to do your job, then it’s a hostile work environment.
 Practice healthy self-compassion. When you leave work, prioritize activities that make you feel good about yourself. Finding meaningful and fulfilling activities will help keep you on an even keel, despite your racist boss.


Talking to close friends, a counselor, or a religious mentor about your difficulties at work may help relieve your stress.
If you have an exercise routine, keep it up. Exercise can help relieve your tension and stress. If you don’t have a current exercise practice, consider starting one.

