, Find a shallow baking sheet that is suitable for roasting your beets. Covering the baking sheet with aluminum foil is not necessary to prevent the beets from sticking, but beet juice may leak out, and a lining could make cleaning up easier when all is said and done.
 Make sure that the beets are still moist from being washed. If they have dried, rinse them once more to slightly moisten to exterior. Loosely wrap the foil around each beet. It does not need to be form fitting, but the foil should stay on without further assistance. You can wrap small beets together, but wrapping them individually works best.


If you want to skip this step, you can put oil on the beets instead to keep them from burning. Drizzle the beets in olive oil or vegetable oil (about 1 tablespoon of olive oil or 2 tablespoons of vegetable oil per pound of beets will do). Then, generously season them with salt and pepper to taste. You can also quarter them to make them finish cooking more quickly; quartered beets can be cooked for 45 minutes, instead of whole beets, which will take a bit longer.
 Place them on the prepared baking sheet and put them in the oven for roasting.
 Check the beets every 20 minutes as they cook. If they start looking dry or if you notice scorch marks on the bottom, gently pull the foil away from each beet and pour 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of water onto the beet. Return the foil to its previous position and continue roasting.
 The beets will be fully roasted when you can stick a fork into the center and slide it out without any resistance. This will mean that the beets are cooked through. At this point, you should remove them from the oven. The smaller beets will cook more quickly than the larger beets.
 Wait at least a few minutes for the beets to be cool enough to touch.
 When the beets are cool enough, peel the outer layer of skin. Hold each beet in a paper towel and gently rub the skin away with the edges of the towel. The skin of a fully roasted beet should peel away without any difficulty. You won't need a knife or another sharp object to do this. You can consider wearing gloves to avoid getting beet juice over your hands.
 You can enjoy these tasty roasted beets whole or hold on to the grip and slice them. These roasted beets can be enjoyed on their own or can be perfect for a salad.

