 This will serve as the base for your lip balm.Try to use the original, plain, unflavored kind of petroleum jelly. The kind that is already tinted and colored is actually lip balm!






;
, Heat the petroleum jelly for 30 seconds. Give it a quick stir, then heat it for another 30 seconds. Keep heating it at 30-second intervals, stirring between each one, until the petroleum jelly is liquid.The petroleum jelly should be clear, with no lumps or clumps. This will take about 3 to 4 minutes total.
 This step is completely optional. It can make you lip balm double-up as a lip stain or lip gloss. Choose one of the additions from the list below, then stir it into your lip balm base.









Use crushed blush or eye shadow to add color.A smidge of lipstick will also work.Add color and shimmer with cosmetic-grade glitter or mica powder.You can also use edible shimmer dust meant for cake decorating.Add color and flavor with powdered drink mix. Be aware that it may not dissolve very well., You don't have to do this, but it will help make the lip balm more nourishing. It will also give the lip balm a nice, subtle scent and flavor.
 Again, you don't have to do this, but it's a nice way to take your lip balm to the next level. Add in a few drops of essential oil or extract; peppermint and spearmint are great choices! You can also try a flavored drink mix or cocoa powder instead.








If you are using a powdered drink mix or cocoa powder, keep in mind that this will change the color of your lip balm.
 Choose a small, plastic jar with a screw-on lid. You can find such jars online in stores that sell soap-making supplies. You can also find them in art supply stores and supermarkets along the travel-size cosmetic items. Choose something that is about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) in diameter. You have enough melted mixture to fill several such jars.









Mini mint tins work especially well for this as well!

, Set the lip balm down someplace where it won't be bumped. Leave the lid off, and wait for it to harden. This may take 1 to 2 hours, however.If you are in a hurry, you can stick the lip balm into the fridge or freezer for 10 to 15 minutes instead.

