 In Zoey's room, there are 2 shades of purple. Paint all your walls a light purple colour. As a rough guide the words lavender or lilac should be on the paint can. Then, paint the bottom of the walls a darker purple (Royal Purple or another colour close to it is a good colour). Only paint up about 4 feet (1.2 m), and then stop.;
, Gloss it clearly and put silver handles on each side of the door. Then, buy a whiteboard and write "______'s Room" like it does on the TV show. Decorate it with badges, buttons, etc. Also, buy some big butterflies and put them on the back of your door as well as some posters.
 If you want to make the bedroom exactly like Zoey's, buy a silver bunk bed and a silver twin bed. This works perfectly if you have 3 people sleeping in the room. If you don't have 3 people in the room, you probably shouldn't buy an extra bed. If you got a bunk bed, put it in the top left corner against the wall. If you got the twin bed, put it in the bottom right and have it sticking out from the wall.
 Each girl has different sheets/blankets/covers/pillows. Follow the directions below to get exactly what you want!


If you want Zoey's blankets (Zoey sleeps on the single bed), you need to find a comforter that has small white, hot pink, light pink, and orange dots on it. Try to find a couple toss pillows with the same pattern. Grab a couple hot pink toss pillows too. Then, buy a fuzzy orange toss pillow and an orange pillow sham for the pillow you'll actually be sleeping on. Top it all off with a big stuffed animal (Zoey's is a blue octopus).
If you want Lola's blankets (Lola sleeps on the top bunk), you need to find a comforter that has hot pink, light blue, green, purple, and white stripes with big white flowers on it. Then buy a few hot pink toss pillows, light pink toss pillows, light blue toss pillows, and purple toss pillows. Try to find toss pillows with sequins and/or ones that are silky, since Lola has lots of those.
If you want Quinn's blankets (Quinn sleeps on the bottom bunk), you need to find a dark green comforter with big, light green dots as well as tiny blue dots on it. Then you'll need a bunch of light green, dark green, and blue toss pillows.
 They have a cool silver one. If you have a computer/laptop, put it on your desk. Buy a cool silver spinny chair for the desk. The desk goes on the left side of Zoey's bed.
 They have a yellow and green couch that has some green and yellow toss pillows on it. They also have a matching, square, green and yellow storage ottoman. The couch goes to the left of the desk, pressed against a wall.
 Zoey has a silver and black bedside table on the right of her bed. It has a light pink table lamp and a hot pink alarm clock on it. They have a rectangular glass table in front of the couch. They also have a funky glass table on the left of the couch.
 The girls have a few different beanbag chairs. They have a fuzzy orange one and a fuzzy yellow one, and I'm sure that they've had purple, pink, and blue ones too.
 This dresser is green and yellow. There's also a black and yellow dresser pressed against the wall opposite the couch.
, The girls have long, flowy, orange curtains as well as long, flowy, yellow curtains on their windows. They also have multicoloured beaded curtains over each window.
,, Buy some in hot pink, yellow, orange, etc.
 They have some pop-art pictures with vibrant colours, as well as posters of bands, and even one of a monkey. Pop-art pictures are very popular in their rooms.
 Fill the dressers with your own stuff. As some ideas, the Zoey 101 girls have some science stuff (Quinn), some makeup, jewelry, CDs, colourful boxes, books, wallets, picture albums, little plants, and some little trinkets covering their dressers.

