 Diaphragm breathing is a breathing ritual in which you practice breathing in a way that increases overall oxygen flow in your body. Doing diaphragm breathing exercises on a daily basis can help lessen excessive yawning.


Get into a comfortable position. Place one hand on your chest and one hand on your lower stomach.Breathe in through your nose. Breathe in such a way that the hand on your stomach rises while the hand on your chest remains stationary. Hold for four counts and then exhale through your mouth.
Repeat five to ten times. Try and engage in diaphragm breathing at least once a day., Your body runs on a 24 hour cycle known as the circadian rhythm. If you keep a somewhat set schedule, your body will be able to regulate itself so you feel energized when necessary and sleepy during bedtime.


Try to get up and fall asleep at roughly the same time each day, including weekends. Your body will adapt to this sleep/wake cycle and you'll feel more energized in the mornings. Also, aim for 7 to 8 hours of quality sleep a night.
Stick to a daily schedule. Take breaks around the same time each day. If you work out, do so around a certain time. Your body will adapt to the schedule you set and begin regulating your energy levels to suit your needs., Being too sedentary can increase feelings of fatigue. Try to take short breaks throughout the work day to walk around. Even if you're just getting up from your desk and running to the water cooler, this can help keep you alert. If possible, walk outside. Getting fresh air can sometimes be especially invigorating., Being healthier overall can reduce feelings of fatigue. If you're feeling excessively tired, try eating better and exercising.


Exercise. Studies show just 20 minutes of physical activity a few times a week can eventually pay off. In about six weeks, you'll begin to feel less fatigued.Eat healthier. Processed carbs and sugar can cause a dramatic dip in energy levels, leaving you suddenly exhausted. Work on eating more fresh fruits and veggies as well as whole wheats and grains.