 Once you have positioned yourself correctly, you can try standing in the stirrups. Lift your weight so that you are not sitting on the saddle. This position will resemble a crouching position. It will automatically put you in the proper position for balanced riding. After a minute, try lowering yourself while carefully maintaining the proper leg position., Once you have gotten the hang of standing in your stirrups, you can try riding in this position as well. Trot the horse around the ring while crouching in the two-point position. This is a very good exercise for building leg muscle and improving your balance. Start with five or ten minute sessions, and work your way up to thirty or forty minute sessions.You can alternate your exercises by alternating a two point form with sitting. Try doing seven paces sitting and seven paces in two-point., By riding without stirrups, you will automatically learn how to balance yourself on a horse. It will teach your muscles how to grip the horse without additional aids. Hold your feet the same way you would in the stirrups, with the heels pointed down. Practice sitting in this manner before you start moving.You don’t need to remove the stirrups in order to do this. You can achieve the same effect by crossing the stirrups over the saddle to the opposite side.
When you are starting out, you can have someone hold the horse on a long line. If it helps, hold onto your saddle with a few fingers, and practice riding around a ring for ten minutes at a time.If the horse is not yours or if you do not know the horse you are riding well enough, you may want to try riding with stirrups first before removing them.
 This exercise can promote mobility on the horse’s back while still keeping you balanced in the saddle. While sitting in the saddle, try reaching forward to touch the horse's ears. Next lean back and touch your horse's rump. Now lean side to side, and just touch the horse as you go. Keep on talking to the horse, and experiment with leaning in different directions.


Once you have start building up your balance, you can try this exercise while in two-point position., Once you have finished your exercises on your horse, don’t forget to stretch. While still sitting in your saddle, point your toes in the ground to stretch your calves and thighs. If you were using stirrups, be sure to drop them before doing this stretch.You can also stretch out your arms, and rotate them in circles to relieve tension and help you relax.