 Hippies are all about being themselves. If you don't agree with something, voice your opinion! Don't just agree with things to seem "cool" or "like everyone else." Hippies aren't like that.
 Hippies are usually laid back and aren't stressful. If you have something that is stressing you out, take deep breaths and sit back for a few minutes. If you have tendencies of being stressed out, begin practicing transcendental meditation.Transcendental meditation was popular in the 1960s and currently it is becoming a well-respected practice that holds many health benefits.Seek out a meditation center that specializes in transcendental meditation.
Another combatant to stressors is to practice yoga and philosophies of yogis.
 Are you again the prison industry underpaying inmates for mass goods? Let your voice be heard. Against the war? Share your opinions! Hippies in the 60s to 70s protested the Vietnam war. Engage with contemporary struggles against social justice. Don’t feel limited to “hippie” issues. There are plenty of communities that need to be fought for.


Become involved with Amnesty International to become informed on events and contemporary issues that you can get involved with.
Amnesty International campaigns against issues like arms control, corporate accountability, discrimination, freedom of expression, refugees, LGBTQ rights, and much more., Get some fresh air and feel the sun on your skin. Old school hippies believed that nature itself contains the answers to life’s most important questions. The old mentality was to show respect to mother nature and be in contact with our natural animal essence that is repressed through culture.Take time off to go on hikes.


Try your hand at backpacking. Go for days or weeks living off a limited amount of supplies and the wilderness.
 Know that you don’t need to get into drugs because you want to be a hippie. Hippies have always been known for experimenting with drugs. Today we know more about the dangers, long-term effects, and the costs of addiction from practicing recreational drugs. Don't start just because you want to look more like a hippie. Many modern hippies are focused on getting a "natural high" through meditation and spirituality.


Many hippies from the past and today connect strongly to eastern religions like Buddhism and Taoism.
 Accept other people's beliefs and accept that not everyone is going to have the same view on an issue that you do. If someone is bothering you with their opinion, try to see the argument from their point of view. There are two sides to every opinion and you should try to listen to everyone without becoming angry.
 Read as much as you possibly can. If you’re still in school, pay attention in class and strive for good grades. True hippies are very intelligent and aren't ignorant about issues going around them. Branch out to subjects like philosophy and environmental science. Here is a quick list of books you should read:


Howl by Allen Ginsberg
Be Here Now by Ram Dass
On the Road by Jack Kerouac
The Bhagavad Gita
The Stranger by Albert Camus
Operating Manual for Spaceship Earth by R. Buckminster Fuller
Siddhartha by Herman Hesse
I Ching
Back to Eden by Jethro Kloss, Recycle as much as possible. Never throw trash onto the ground. As a modern hippie, or a granola, your mentality is to save the planet, not to pollute it. Plant flowers and trees instead of cutting them down. Reduce on your water and paper consumption. Practice the three R’s of environmentalism:


Recycle
Reduce
Reuse