 Prior to the holiday break, sit down with your kids and plan out some activities for their vacation time, allowing them to give their input and feel in control of their time off. Brainstorming and planning things to do will also give your kids specific things to look forward to, which will result in happier, more relaxed children. Ask, "What would you like to do during your break?" and have kids come up with 2-3 ideas for discussion.To make planning activities fun, make big, colorful notes on a calendar for the time they will be off school so they can keep track of it clearly.;
, Coloring is an activity that kids can get bored with quickly, so make the experience more interesting. Purchase a bulk roll of brown kraft paper or use the inside of wrapping paper to create a large surface for kids to color on freely. You can also try taping coloring sheets to the underside of a table to allow them to try upside-down coloring, or purchase washable markers specifically-made for coloring on windows and let your kids get creative.Look in art supply stores, toy stores, or online for fun, non-toxic coloring tools for your kids.
 The promise of cookies alone will be enough to get your kids interested in baking, but the process can be made even more fun by making things festive. Get kids of any age involved in various steps of baking (like measuring, mixing, sifting, kneading and rolling out dough); use food coloring and cookie cutters to make fun cookie designs. Once the cookies are out of the oven and cooled, allow your kids to decorate them with icing, sprinkles, chocolate syrup, mini marshmallows, or any other fun ingredients you might have on hand.To simplify the activity, buy pre-made dough from the grocery store.
 To harness your kids' holiday spirit and creativity, make homemade decorations with them. Instead of buying craft supplies, use household items like paper, old CDs, and kitchen ingredients for inventive projects. Some fun decorations to try making are:


Painted dough Christmas ornaments
3D paper snowflakes
CD ornaments
Cinnamon ornaments

