 You may not be having as much fun as you want because you feel like you're doing the same old thing day after day. Well, finding a new hobby is a great way to spice up your routine, pick up a new skill, and provide something to look forward to on a daily basis. Finding a hobby will also force you to carve out some personal time for yourself and will make you less stressed; more open to fun.


Explore your artistic side. Learn how to sketch, paint, or take professional-quality photos. Photography will change the way you view the world and will make your everyday life a bit more fun.
Try to be a wordsmith. Write a poem, play, or short story and revel in the feeling. You don't have to be a Hemingway or Steinbeck to feel happy and fulfilled.
Pick up a new solo sport. Try running, swimming, or power yoga. Whatever you do, make sure you commit to doing it at least once a week so you know you can have a great time on your own.
Learn a new skill. Picking up a new skill is always a lot of fun, whether you learn how to knit, speak Japanese, or fix a car.;
, Conventional wisdom suggests that music helps reduce stress and kills a bad mood. Listen to music you really like when you feel stressed, then make music a part of your life, a habit.


Take the stress as a 'cue' which will remind you to bring music into your life.
Stress(cue) leads to listening to music (routine) which, in turn, creates a better mood.
 Being a positive thinker is a great way to put a new spin on the same old thing and to, therefore, open the door to having more fun. Your whole life will brighten: daily routine, friends, and goals will be more attractive once you learn to embrace the best in every situation. So, stop obsessing over all of the little things that can go wrong and think more positively:


Recognize everything you're grateful for. Write down all of the things you love about your life and the people in it. This will make you feel more upbeat as you go on with your day.
Think of the best-case scenario instead of the worst-case scenario. Whenever you catch yourself worrying about the worst thing that can happen, fight your negative thoughts with more powerful positive thoughts.
Avoid nagging or whining. It's okay to complain once in a while, but if you whine about every little thing that went wrong, you'll be ruining your own fun as well as the fun of everyone around you.
 Another way to have fun on your own is to get out of your comfort zone. Instead of doing the same old thing day after day, do something completely unexpected that you never thought you would do, no matter how silly or out-of-character.


Commune with nature. If you're more of the indoors type, spend an afternoon taking a long walk or even going on a short hike. You'll be surprised by how much fun you'll have.
Watch a movie that you're convinced you'll hate. No matter how silly it is, you'll be guaranteed to have a good time if it's something completely new.
Pick up some food of a cuisine that you would normally never try. You'll be surprised by how fun it is to give your taste buds a completely new treat.
 You won't be able to have fun if you're stressed out over the little things that come your way. If you're busy worrying about when you'll get all of your work done or walking around like a sleep-deprived zombie, then you'll never have any fun. Here's how to reduce the stress in your life and have more fun as a result:


Relax your mind. Spend some time meditating, doing yoga, or taking long walks to think about the day ahead.
Relax your body. Just 30 minutes of exercise a day or a good massage once or twice a week is guaranteed to release tension.
Make time for fun. No matter how stressed out you may feel, you should plug "fun time" into your schedule every single week. (Every single day is even better. Just making time for fun for a few hours a week can help improve your state of mind enormously.
Get enough sleep. Going to bed and waking up around the same time every day is guaranteed to improve your energy levels and make you feel more capable of handling your responsibilities.

