 This is especially helpful for dyshidrotic eczema, which tends to occur on the hands and feet. Choose a moisturizing cream formulated for hands or feet.


Petroleum jelly can also help keep your skin moisturized.
You may also be able to find a barrier cream, such as Tetrix, that can help reduce your exposure to skin irritants. This can be helpful if you handle irritating substances, such as water, cement, or nickel, during your work.
 Corticosteroid creams are effective for pretty much any kind of eczema. Your doctor can prescribe you one that will help treat your flare-up.Use the cream after bathing, or try putting it on before you go to sleep. In fact, you can apply it at night and then put on cotton gloves, which will keep the cream on your hands., Scratching makes the rash worse. In addition, bursting the blisters also makes the rash worse. If you can let them heal instead of bursting them, your skin will likely heal faster., Unlike other types of eczema, water can irritate this rash. Try to keep your hands out of water as much as possible.Sweating can also contribute to flare-ups. If you sweat a lot, your doctor may prescribe a treatment for this to help your eczema.
Additionally, make sure to dry your hands thoroughly when you do get them wet.
 Metals such as nickel, chromium, and cobalt may also cause flare ups. You may be exposed to these metals if you work with concrete.Other chemicals from work or environmental exposure may also cause a flare-up.


To keep your hands from this irritant, try wearing gloves.
 Calamine lotion can help sooth your rash. It can also calm the itching.You can also apply this lotion after washing your hands or bathing.
 You can find witch hazel at the drug store, usually near the rubbing alcohol. Witch hazel is an astringent. Soaking your hands in a bath of witch hazel can provide you with some relief and help the healing process., This type of eczema can flare up when you're stressed out. Try to keep your stress levels down by incorporating calming routines into your life, such as a daily meditation regiment.Identify what causes you stress. Whether it's your job or even the evening news, identifying what makes you stressed out is the first step in dealing with it. Avoid or change what you can, such as skipping the news, and try to change your attitude about the rest.Try meditation. One simple way to meditate is pick a mantra. A mantra can be any simple phrase that calms you, such as "Life is good," or even just "om." Close your eyes, and repeat the phrase, letting your mind fill up with it. Continue until you feel calmer., Because this type of eczema is an immune response, immune-suppressing creams or pills can be effective. Some drugs in this class are tacrolimus and pimecrolimus.Your doctor will decide whether creams or oral treatment will be more effective for you.
 This type of light treatment can help decrease the severity of a flare-up, especially when used in combination with medications to help you absorb the ultraviolet light used.Usually, this treatment is only used when others do not work.