 To start your practice of retraining your breathing you will need to rest comfortably on your back and relax your body. Relaxing the entire body will help you focus entirely on your breathing and let you get the most out of your breath training.Take off any tight or restrictive clothing such as a belt or tie.
You can try putting pillows under your knees or back for extra comfort.
 Breathing during an episode of hyperventilation is generally shallow, at the chest level, and rapid. You will be working to retrain your breathing to have more rhythmic and complete inhalations using your stomach and diaphragm. By placing an object on your stomach you help keep the focus on this area and provide resistance to strengthen the muscles responsible for abdominal breathing.You can place something like a telephone book on your stomach while you retrain your breathing.
Avoid any items that are too heavy or are an unusual shape. These can either cause injury or be difficult to balance on your stomach.
 After you are comfortably laying down and have a suitable object placed on your stomach you can begin to retrain your breathing. The goal here is to raise and lower the item on your stomach, using your abdomen like a balloon. Keep the following in mind as you practice this new way of breathing:Breathe through your nose when practicing. If you can't breathe through your nose you can purse your lips and breathe through your mouth.
Take comfortable and rhythmic breaths.
Breathe smoothly and try to avoid pauses on the inhalation or exhalation.
Only your abdomen should be moving. Keep the rest of your body relaxed.
 In order to get the most out of this new method of breathing you will need to get regular practice. By practicing you will become more comfortable using this method of breathing, allowing you to avoid hyperventilating during a stressful time.Practice for at least five to 10 minutes a day.
Gradually slow your rate of breathing during your practice sessions.
Begin practicing this way of breathing while sitting up or walking.
Eventually you will want to use this method right before you expect a panic attack or during one.

