 Turn a square of origami paper (with the colored side up) so that it looks like a diamond. Take the top of the diamond and fold it all the way down to the bottom and crease., Your paper should now resemble a triangle with the longest side at the top. Take the left tip of the triangle and fold it over so that it lays on top of the right tip. Crease the fold., Now your paper should look like a smaller triangle with upper and lower flaps. Take the right tip of the top flap and push it toward the bottom tip. To do this, open up the flap as you push, and then fold the paper down flat so that the tips touch.Turn the paper over, and repeat this step on the other side with the lower/left flap.
 You’ll now have a smaller square with upper and lower flaps. Take the left and right tips of the upper flap and fold them toward the center. Crease the folds, then unfold the tips again., Take the bottom of the upper flap, and raise it upwards. Gently push it down flat. The sides of this flap should fold inward along the creases you previously made on the sides of the upper flap.Flip your paper over, and repeat this step on the other side.
 Your paper will now look like a narrow diamond, with upper and lower flaps. Fold the left and right tips of the upper flap of the diamond from the bottom tip, moving them toward the center. Crease the folds. Turn the paper over and repeat on the other side. You should now have an even narrower diamond, with the bottom tip at a narrower angle than the top one.After narrowing the diamond, take the right flap of each side and fold it over the left flap.
 Take the upper flap at its bottom point, folding it upwards. Crease the fold about three-fourths of the way from the bottom. Flip your paper over and repeat on the other side., If you hold your paper in your hand, you should now feel narrow pieces on the left and right in between the upper and lower flaps. Gently pull these apart until they look roughly like a bird’s neck and tail with wings sticking up between them. Crease the folds to hold them in place., Choose which point you want to be your bird’s neck. Push down slightly on the fold near the end. Keep pushing until the fold goes inward and the tip forms roughly a right angle with the neck, forming the bird’s head. Crease the fold., Now your paper should look like your bird’s wings are pointed straight up. Fold them down on each side of the bird’s body, and make a horizontal crease. Lift them up slightly, and the wings should now stick out at the sides, so that your crane looks like it is in flight.





