 Anger is a powerful emotion, but it can be tamed. Don't overreact to minor things that don't matter. When you feel yourself getting upset, stop and take 10 seconds to think about your response before you do or say anything. This will keep you from things you regret and will help you become a more mature communicator.After you stop, ask yourself what’s really going on. What’s the real problem here? Why are you upset? You may find out that you’re really mad about something that happened two days ago, and actually not about having to clean your room.
Think of potential solutions to the problem. Run through a couple of ways you might react before you pick one. What will address what’s going on?
Consider the consequences. This is where a lot of people may stumble. “Doing what I want” is often the most attractive solution, but will it really fix the problem? Or will it make it worse? Think about what the result of each option is likely to be.
Pick a solution. After you’ve considered the possible consequences of each option, pick the one that seems best for you. Note that this won’t always be the easiest or the most fun! That’s just part of becoming more mature.
If you must say something, use a calm voice and give some reasonable arguments to justify how you're feeling. If the person just wants to argue and doesn't want to listen, walk away from the conflict. It's not worth it.
When you're enraged or about to overreact, take deep breaths and count to 10. You must maintain self-control and not let wrath get the better of you.
If you have a temper, people may enjoy provoking you. When you control your temper, they will lose interest in making you angry and will start leaving you alone.
 When adults want to communicate maturely, they use assertive techniques and behaviors. Assertiveness isn’t the same as cockiness, arrogance or aggression. Assertive individuals express their own feelings and needs clearly, and they listen when others do the same.Arrogant and selfish individuals don’t care about others’ needs and are focused on getting what they want, when they want it -- whether or not it makes others miserable. Learn to stand up for yourself without being arrogant or aggressive, and you’ll definitely feel more mature. Here are some ways to communicate assertively:Use “I”-statements. “You”-statements make other people feel blamed and shuts them down. Keeping the focus on what you’re feeling and experiencing keeps the way open for productive, mature communication.

For example, instead of telling your parents “You never listen to me!” try using an “I”-statement like “I feel like my perspective hasn’t been heard.” When you say you “feel” a certain way, the other person is more likely to want to know why.


Recognize others’ needs too. Life isn’t all about you. It’s great to communicate your feelings and needs clearly, but remember to also ask others about theirs. Being able to put others first is a true sign of maturity.
Don’t jump to conclusions. If you aren’t sure what happened with someone, ask! Don’t prejudge -- remember, you don’t have all the information.

For example, if your friend forgot that you were supposed to go shopping together, don’t assume that it’s because she doesn’t care or is a terrible person.
Instead, use an “I”-statement and follow it up with an invitation for her to express her feelings: “I felt really disappointed when you couldn’t make it shopping. What’s up?”


Offer to collaborate with others. Instead of saying “I want to go skateboarding,” ask others for input: “What would everyone like to do?”

, Many people and cultures have expectations that mature communicators won’t curse or swear. Swearing can shock others, or even make them feel as though you’re disrespecting them. Swearing can also cause others to think that you’re incompetent or bad at communicating.Instead of swearing, try expanding your vocabulary. As you learn new words, use them to express yourself.


If you frequently swear when you’re upset or when you hurt yourself, try making it a game to come up with creative exclamations instead. Instead of swearing when you stub your toe, it’s a lot funnier (and more impressive) to say something creative like “Fudge monkeys!”

, If you raise your voice, especially when you are angry, you’re likely to make people uncomfortable. They may even decide to tune you out.Screaming is what toddlers do, not mature adults.


Use an even, calm tone of voice, even when you’re upset.
 Your body can say as much as your words. For example, crossing your arms in front of you can tell others that you’re not interested in what they’re saying. Standing slouched over communicates that you’re not really “there” or you want to be somewhere else. Learn what your body is communicating, and make sure it’s what you want.Hold your arms relaxed at your sides instead of crossing them in front of you.
Stand up straight, with your chest out and head parallel to the floor.
Remember that your face communicates too. Don’t roll your eyes or stare at the floor.
 Examples of mature topics include school, the news, life experiences, and life lessons you have learned. Of course, you can take some time for being goofy with your friends. It’s all about considering your audience. You probably won’t talk about the same topics with your best friend as you do with your math teacher.


Ask questions. One of the signs of maturity is intellectual curiosity. If all you ever do is talk at someone, you won’t seem very mature. Ask others for their input. If someone says something interesting, say “Tell me more about that!”
Don’t pretend to know something you don’t. It can be hard to admit you don’t know something. After all, you really want to appear mature and informed. But pretending to know something only to have it come out that you don’t could make you look (and feel) foolish. It’s much better to say something like, “I haven’t read much about that. I’ll have to look into it!”

, If you can't say something positive, don't say anything at all. Immature people constantly criticize things and point out flaws about other people, and they don't hesitate to say hurtful insults by all matters. Sometimes, they justify cruelty by stating that they're just "being honest." Mature people choose their words carefully, and they don't hurt people's feelings in their quest to be "honest," so remember to watch what you say, and don't say things that hurt other's feelings. Treat people the way that you want to be treated.
 No matter how conscientious you are, you're going to say the wrong thing or inadvertently hurt people from time to time. We all do stupid things once in a while, because nobody on earth is perfect. Learn to swallow your pride and say, "I'm sorry." A genuine, honest apology when you've done something wrong demonstrates true maturity.
 This is a really difficult skill to master, but thinking about whether you would want someone to say something to you can help you figure out what to say. In Buddhism, there’s a saying: “If you propose to speak, always ask yourself: is it true, is it necessary, is it kind.” Consider it before speaking. Those around you will appreciate your honesty, and your compassion will show that you truly care about others.For example, if a friend asks you if her dress makes her look fat, consider what would be most helpful. Beauty is very subjective, so offering an opinion on her looks isn’t likely to be helpful. However, telling your friend that you love her and she looks just the way she is could be the confidence boost she needs.
If you really think your friend’s outfit is not attractive, there are tactful ways to say this if you think it will be helpful. For example, “You know, I like the red dress better than this one” doesn’t judge your friend’s body -- nobody needs that -- but it does answer her question of whether she looks her best.
Behavioral scientists suggest that some types of dishonesty are actually “pro-social,” little lies you tell to help others avoid embarrassment or hurt. It’s up to you to decide whether this is something you want to do. Whatever you decide, choose to be kind in doing it.