 Although traditional braces are less bulky than they used to be, they continue to be made of metal that contrasts strongly against white teeth. Ask your orthodontic whether ceramic braces might be a feasible alternative for your orthodontic needs. Ceramic braces are made from a tooth-colored ceramic material. They are often referred to as "clear" braces because the ceramic provides such effective camouflage. Some ceramic braces even utilize tooth-colored wires to further minimize your braces' appearance.


Ceramic braces are not quite as strong as metal braces. This means your orthodontist will need to make more gradual adjustments and your treatment time may be lengthened.
Your orthodontist will attach wires to your ceramic brackets using clear or tooth-colored ligatures, or rubber bands. These may become slightly stained over time, reducing the "invisible" quality of your ceramic braces, but as they are changed each visit staining should not become a serious problem.
Ceramic braces are generally more expensive than traditional metal braces. To minimize the extra cost, consider requesting ceramic braces just in the areas of your mouth that are most visible when you smile -- your upper front teeth, for example.;
, Lingual braces, sometimes called hidden braces, are placed behind your teeth. Your orthodontist will take an impression of your teeth and then send it to a laboratory to have custom brackets manufactured. These brackets are then cemented to the back of your teeth. Lingual braces then function similarly to traditional braces, applying gentle, continuous pressure to correctly align your teeth.


Because they are completely custom-made, lingual braces are considerably more expensive than traditional braces.
Lingual braces sit along your tongue and palate, which means they can sometimes irritate these areas of your mouth. Applying wax can help eliminate this problem. Adjusting to the presence of something near your tongue can also produce a slight lisp in your speech. Over time, most wearers adjust to their lingual braces and can speak normally., Aligners, sometimes called "invisible braces," are a series of clear, customized, removable appliances that are generally worn for about two weeks each, as close to 24 hours a day as possible. Each aligner incrementally shifts your teeth toward their ideal position.


Aligners, too, are more expensive than traditional braces.
Aligners are generally used only for minor corrections. Significant orthodontic work will likely require traditional braces.Consider whether you'll have sufficient self-discipline to wear your aligners properly. Aligners should only be removed to eat or to brush and floss your teeth.