 As a general rule, the insurance industry suggests that you carry life insurance in the amount of ten times your annual salary.Some factors to consider in calculating your insurance needs are,


the age of your children
the amount of your mortgage
the amount of car payments
the amount of debt owed by your family
whether your spouse works
whether you need to pay for education for your children
the amount of other sources of income and insurance
the amount of your dependents’ financial needs
the amount of life insurance you can afford;
, You may want to speak with a reputable insurance agent to discuss which type of insurance works best for you. Generally, there are five types of insurance: term, whole, universal, variable, and universal variable.Term life insurance provides coverage for a specific amount of time, typically has the lowest premiums, but those premiums will increase as you get older and renew the policy. This policy may be a good choice if you are looking to provide limited protection until your children are grown and able to support themselves.Whole life insurance covers the insured for the entirety of their life so long as they pay the premiums. You may be able to borrow funds against the accumulated cash value of the policy but this type of insurance typically costs more than term life insurance. This insurance may be best for you if you want coverage for your entire life, you can afford more expensive premiums and you want the ability to withdraw cash value from the policy.Universal life is similar to whole life in that it has whole life coverage as well as a cash value. However, the investment is tied to current market rates, which may impact the amount of your premium payment. A universal policy may be best for you if you want full life coverage, a guaranteed death benefit and a guaranteed interest amount but also the ability to choose how often you pay your premiums and the amount of your premiums.Variable life insurance is also tied to investments such as stocks and money markets, which means your premiums as well as your death benefits could be positively or adversely impacted depending on the state of the investment. If you want the flexibility of a universal policy and a guaranteed death benefit but are open to having the cash value of your policy subject to market changes (i.e. the stock market does well so you have a higher cash value or the market does poorly and you have a lower or no cash value) then variable life insurance may be a good choice for you.Universal variable provides you the payment flexibility of a universal policy but does not provide a guaranteed amount for the death benefit. If you want to control where your premiums are invested and you are not adverse to risking the cash value and death benefit payout of your policy on the fluctuations of the stock market then this may be the right policy for you., After determining the type and amount of life insurance that best suits your needs, you should obtain several quotes to determine the lowest rates and the price range for your life insurance plan. You can search online for life insurance sales websites, you can use an insurance broker or salesperson, or you could purchase a policy directly from the insurance company. Whichever method you choose, you should compare the rates of different policies from a variety of reputable companies and insurance brokers., Insurance companies are graded on their financial stability by four independent agencies, including Moody’s Investor Services and Standard & Poor. These companies also assess whether an insurance company is vulnerable or secure. You can locate these ratings companies online and search for the ratings of individual insurance companies., Every state has a division of insurance that is meant to protect the rights of consumers and regulate the insurance marketplace. Some states require that insurance companies be licensed for their state, which provides insured some protections if the insurance company collapses.When choosing an insurance company, contact your state division of insurance and ask whether the insurance company had any complaints filed against it.
 You may feel more comfortable purchasing an insurance policy through a sales agent who works for an insurance company or an insurance broker who helps you assess your insurance needs and choose an insurance policy. When choosing an insurance broker, consider:


asking family and friends for referrals
check that the broker is lessened in your state
check the broker’s credentials
ask the broker for references
check with your state division of insurance to see whether any complaints have been lodged against the broker, One type scam entails creating a fictitious insurance company. An insurance sales person provides you with policies and takes your premiums but there is no actual insurance company. This insurance fraud may not be detected until a family member tries to collect on a policy.In order to avoid this type of scam be wary of the following:


insurance companies with unfamiliar names
insurance policies that are significantly less in price than comparable policies
agents who ask you to pay your premiums in cash or by check written out to the agent
agents who refuse to answer questions or provide only vague answers, Some insurance agents will collect your payment but never turn it over to the insurance company. This type of scam is called premium theft. If you insurance company does not use direct deposit, you should occasionally confirm receipt of premium payment directly with the company., Seek a second opinion from a different broker if your agent advises you to change policies, purchase more expensive policies or renew policies that may no longer benefit you. Some unscrupulous agents try to run a “churning scam” by which they convince people to purchase unnecessary policies in order to generate a commission for themselves. By seeking a second opinion before changing policies you can determine whether your agent is giving you sound or questionable financial advice., Similar to churning, some agents will attempt to sell more expensive polices or add in extra provisions that you don’t need in order to boost their commission. You must carefully read all of the details contained in your insurance policy, ask questions about any provisions that you do not understand, and question your broker on why each provision is necessary and what it provides. If your broker is unwilling or unable to answer your questions, you should seek a new broker that will protect your interests.

