 If you want advice about a specific topic, you should write down people you know have experience or knowledge with that topic. For example, if you want advice about how to deal with health issues, you might write to a nurse or doctor that you know.


If you want to work as a nonfiction writer, you might write the names of accomplished writers, agents, or publishers that you could write to.
You should include the names of people you know personally as well as people you don’t know as well, this could include past teachers, former bosses or colleagues, well-known people from the area in which you are seeking advice, or even advice columnists.
Don’t forget family members. People, such as your grandparents, have had many experiences in life. This makes them well-qualified to give advice. If you’re having trouble thinking of someone, try going through your family members.
Although you can certainly try writing to famous people, your chances of receiving a response are small. If you do get a response, it probably won’t be written by that person. For example, though might want advice from the President of the United States, any response you get will likely have been written by an intern or other public relations employee. Furthermore, these responses will usually be generic responses that aren’t able to address your needs specifically.
 Before you decide who to write to, you will need to decide what it is you really hope to get out of the letter. Do you truly just want their advice, or are you perhaps hoping to do a bit of networking and get yourself acquainted with people in a particular area?


For example, an advice giver may be able to introduce you to others, connect you with specific resources or people, teach you how to do something, or they may just be able to provide a written response.
Some people on your list may have more connections and ways of getting you started on something than others. If all you want is advice and nothing else, you can write to someone you know personally or to an advice column.
 If you are writing to someone you already know well you don’t need to do this, but if it is someone you don’t know, find out about their background to make sure they would be able to help you.


For example, if you are looking for relationship advice, see if the person you want to write to has had education or experience working with couples before.
You can avoid wasting your time by doing this research. For example, although you might think writing to an advice columnist might be a good way to get advice, different columnists often specialize in certain topics. Some specialize in relationship advice, some focus on do it yourself advice, while others might focus on giving practical life advice.
 Whereas a guidance counselor's job is to provide advice, others to whom you write may not be accustomed to giving advice on a daily basis. Think about why this person should be willing to help you, and what you can do to make it worth their while. You might appeal to the advice giver's sense of paying it forward or offer an exchange of services.For example, if you know the person you could say, “I know it is not your job to answer requests for advice; however, I believe you are the best person to help me. I would be happy to offer you a home cooked meal in return for your time.”
If you don’t know the person, you might offer to compensate them for their time, if you can afford to do so.

