 Calm down and just face the facts coolly.;
, Sure, you had some great times over the summer, and no one wants those days to go away. But remember: you've always got next summer, too. Besides, Christmas break and spring break are good, too.
 Title the first list "Clothes for school", and the second "Supplies for school".
 Do you need more pants? Shirts? Shoes? Socks? Underwear? Jewelry? Belts? Whatever you need, think about how much you'll need of it. (Example, Two pairs of pants, five shirts, several pairs of socks, some jewelry.)

, Chances are, you're not going to have a sturdy binder or a sufficient amount of paper left over from last year. Think of all the supplies you're going to need for school. You can pick up most things at Walmart. Most schools (if not every school) have supply lists, so it'd probably be a good idea to pick one up.
 For clothes, you can go to the mall, an outlet store, or even the supermarket. Try to go get your things early; that way, the stores won't be picked over and you can get what you want.
 If you can choose your own classes, find out which ones are available to you and think about the ones you want to take. If you can't choose your own classes, simply get a schedule. These can be very helpful in preparing you for the next year.
 Most of the time, the teachers will have good information for you. That way, you can have a slightly better grasp on what you'll be doing.
 It's true; the last week of summer, everyone wants to go to bed as late as they can and sleep until they just can't. Although this is a tempting idea, try to decide when you go to bed during school and when you wake up. Practice this. If your sleep schedule is off and you can't fall asleep until midnight, trying taking a mild sleep aid to help you get back on track. Set your alarm.
 This is one more year to get out of the way, and then only a few more (or maybe none) until graduation, right? You'll get to see the friends you never saw over the summer. If you look at things on the bright side, the school year will go much more smoothly.
 Exercise can help clear your mind and rid your body of stress. Taking a moderate run or jog can help you feel better and more confident about taking on another year.
 Follow these steps and have a great year!

