 Some companies will have a special account for each employee where a portion of the company earnings will go in towards a retirement fund, or a pension plan. These retirement savings plans may require your company to deduct 5 percent of your gross salary, or they may use company earnings to help you save for retirement.Some companies will match employee donations dollar-for-dollar or a percentage of their salary, known as a 401(k). 401(k) plans can help you build a tax-deferred nest egg for retirement. The 401(k) may kick in as soon as you start working for the company or within a certain time period after your start date.
 As part of your employee benefits, you may be able to get profit sharing, where you receive a portion of the annual profits of the company. This is often offered by companies who plan to be fiscally stable and as an incentive to keep people employed with the company for a long period of time.


You may be able to get stock options as part of your employee benefits. Or you may be offered an ESOP, or Employee Stock Ownership Plan. ESOPs allow you to buy company stock at below market value.
 Many companies will offer a certain number of paid days off in a fiscal year for vacation, such as one to two weeks per year. You may be allowed a certain number of days during your first year of employment and then accumulate more days over time. There may be a maximum number of days you are allowed to accumulate for your vacation.There should also be a note about sick days in your benefits package and how many you are allowed as an employee. There may be restrictions, such as only using sick days with a doctor’s note or only taking personal days if there is a death or serious illness in the family.
Check that there is information about holiday pay. Employers should offer paid days off for statutory holidays.
 If you are being offered a salary based position, you may not get overtime pay as part of your employee benefits. However, some companies will offer compensation for time that goes above the expected standard, usually forty hours of work a week. You may get a bonus or overtime pay. Or you may get comp time paid, where you get hours off for extra time that you work.If there is no information about overtime or comp pay, talk to your employer about this information, especially if you know the job will require long hours and overtime work.
 Look through the employee benefits for information about any reimbursements you may get that relate to your job. You may have an expense account that you can use when you entertain clients or travel for business. You may also be offered compensation for daily transportation costs, such as gas costs, to and from the office, especially if you have a long commute.Read over the employee benefits for information on a mobile reimbursement, such as a cellphone that you use for your job. You may also be able to get reimbursement for parking costs as part of your benefits, especially if the company is short on free employee parking.
 Some companies will offer health and wellness benefits for employees like free memberships to a health club. You may also be able to get fitness classes covered as part of your benefits.You may also be offered academic compensation, such as all or a portion of your tuition paid for as an employee of the company. Some companies will pay for you to take continuing education classes if they relate to your position at the company.

