 If you want to make your girlfriend feel special, then you can't just say, "You're like, super hot." You've got to put a bit more effort into it to show her that you really care and that you're aware of the things that make her really unique. You can compliment her looks, an aspect of her personality, or just something about her. Just remember not to force it; if you're complimenting her just to get her to like you more, she'll be able to tell. Here are some examples of great compliments you can give that sound natural:


Compliment an aspect of her personality. Say, "I love how you're so good at keeping your cool in a stressful situation. I need to learn how to do that."
Compliment her looks. Say, "I just love the color of your hair. It's so pretty and unique."
Compliment something else about her. Say, "You have so many friends who really care about you. You're so good at maintaining your friendships.";
, If you want to make your girlfriend really feel special, then it's about more than just telling her the color of her eyes reminds you of the ocean. You have to show a real interest in who she is as a person, what she does on a daily basis, and her worries and fears. She has to feel that you don't just see her as your girlfriend, but as a human being with her own worries, interests, and ideas. Though you shouldn't interrogate her, you should ask questions naturally throughout your time together. Here are some things you can ask her about:


Her childhood
Her day
Her goals for the future
Her friendships
Her relationship with her family
Her fears
Her hobbies
The things that make her happiest

, You don't want your girlfriend to feel like an object. You want her to feel like you actually respect her intelligence and value her opinion about a variety of subjects. Let her see that you really do care about her thoughts and opinions and that you value what she has to say when you make a big decision. Here are some things you can ask her opinion about:


Books
Life decisions you're making
Current political issues and situations
A movie or concert you both saw

, It's important not only to say the right things, but to listen in the right way. If all you're doing is talking and talking and worrying about saying the right thing, chances are that you're not taking the time to really listen to your girlfriend. You have to make eye contact, give her your full attention, and make sure that she feels like you really care about what she has to say instead of just waiting for her to stop talking so you can say what's on your mind.


Don't interrupt her. Let her finish what she has to say before you say anything.
You can nod and squeeze her hand from time to time to let her know that you're really listening.
Part of really listening is remembering what she tells you. So, if she's telling you about a fight she got into with her sister, you can ask her how things are going with her least favorite sibling when you see her next.
 It's hard for guys to know what to say when a girl is upset. Sometimes, you may feel like anything you say will only make things worse and will end up making her even more upset. While there are no perfect words you can say to make every girl feel better, you have to get to know your girlfriend to see if she's the type who feels better just from telling you everything on her mind or if she needs you to comfort her and tell her a million things to make her feel better. Here are some things to keep in mind:


Don't try to "solve" her problem right away. She may just need to vent for a little while before you two can talk about what she should do next.
Don't say things like, "I know exactly how you feel" and then compare her situation to your own experiences when she's trying to tell you something. This will make her feel like you only care about yourself.
Know if she needs to be left alone. If everything you're saying is making her feel worse, then she may just need some time to herself. Don't force her to talk about her problems if she's not ready.
 If you want your girlfriend to feel really special, then you have to encourage her to achieve her dreams, feel good about herself, and to go about her life in a positive, fulfilling way. Let her know that she's awesome before her big tennis match; tell her she's the smartest person you know before she takes a big test or goes in for an interview; make her feel important when she's feeling like nothing is going right for her. Though you don't want to give her false confidence, you should make it clear how awesome you think she is so that she always feels special and ready to face whatever comes her way.


Say things like, "I know you're the right person for the job. You're so smart, talented, and great with people."
Say, "Don't let the other team intimidate you. They know you're the one who's a real force to be reckoned with."

, If you want to make your girlfriend feel special and like you really care about her, then you can't just go MIA if you're not together. While you don't want to smother her by calling her every five seconds, you should check in with her every once in a while if you're spending some time apart. If you're apart for a day or two, just one phone call or a few cute texts each day should do the trick.


It's okay if you're not a phone person. You don't have to force yourself to have long conversations when you'd rather just talk in person. However, if she does like to talk on the phone when you're apart, take a few minutes to let her know you care and to see how she's doing.
 You don't have to be Prince William to sweep your girlfriend off her feet. Just follow a few gentlemanly rules and your girlfriend will be feeling special in no time. Being a gentleman is about treating your girlfriend like a lady and paying attention to her needs and wants. And, of course, about making her feel special. Here are some things you can do:


Hold doors open for her
Pull out her chair before she sits down
Offer her your coat when she's cold
Let her order first
Check in to see that she's feeling happy
Avoid being overly vulgar
Have good manners

, Don't just take her to Papa John's and bowling every Friday night. Make an effort to plan regular date nights that are special, fun, and exciting. Though you can't go skydiving during every date (unless you're on The Bachelor), you can make an effort to keep your relationship feeling fresh and exciting by doing new things while also making time to do the things you love to do most together. Here are some great date night ideas:


Inviting her over and cooking a meal for her or cooking a meal together
Taking a stroll through your town and window shopping on a nice evening
Eating a type of cuisine she's never had before
Seeing a romantic movie and going mini-golfing
Taking a painting class together
Going for a run together
Picnicking
Mini-golfing

, You don't have to try to do everything perfectly in order to make your girlfriend feel special. In fact, if you're so obsessed with planning the perfect date nights and being the perfect gentleman, your girlfriend may even get bored or feel like you're not being yourself. While it's great to make your girlfriend feel special, if you try too hard, she may feel like you're putting on an act.


It's okay to make mistakes sometimes. If you do, though, just make sure to apologize. Nobody's perfect, and it's better to apologize than to try to act like nothing went wrong.
 To make your girlfriend feel special, you have to be there for her, and not just during the fun times. You have to be there to help her with her homework, give her rides if her car breaks down, or to bring in the groceries if she needs a hand. Though, like many women, your girlfriend may be strong and independent, there will be times when she needs your help (just like you will need hers), and you have to be there to deliver.


You also have to be able to tell when she means it when she says she'll be fine on or her own, or if she's just too proud to ask for help.
 There's a difference between making your girlfriend feel special and in making her feel like she can't breathe. Make sure to give your girlfriend space to hang out with her friends, pursue her own interests, and to do her own thing while maintaining your relationship. Sure, sending her flowers every week will make her feel special, but so will recognizing that she's her own person and letting her do what she wants without feeling threatened or jealous.


If you know she's having a girl's night, don't text her every five seconds to see if she's having a good time. You don't want to sound needy and this is likely to make her feel annoyed, not special.
 Giving your girlfriend love and affection will definitely make her feel special. Give her passionate kisses on the lips, or softer, sweeter kisses on her forehead or cheeks. Put your arm around her, hold her hand, or just take the time to cuddle or snuggle with her when you're alone. You don't have to be all over her to let her know that she's special to you with some physical affection. Not everyone is into holding hands or kissing in public, but you have to figure out what level of affection will make your girlfriend feel special.


If you really hate holding hands, link arms with her when you're walking.
Brush her hair out of her face or gently run your fingers through it.
Put your hand on the small of her back if you're walking into a place together.
 Think you've found the perfect formula to make your girlfriend feel special? Then think again. If you want to keep making her feel special, then you have to keep mixing things up and make your relationship feel fresh. Even if you've found the perfect date night scenario, you have to keep trying new combinations so your girlfriend doesn't feel like you're getting bored and complacent. Here are some great ways to keep things spontaneous:


Plan a surprise trip or date when she doesn't expect it.
Write her a sweet love note on a random Tuesday.
Serenade her in public.
Send her a text message that makes her laugh in the middle of a stressful day.
Don't be afraid to act like a little kid sometimes. If you feel like running around a park or jumping into the ocean, go for it! (As long as you're staying safe.)

, Though finding a routine that works for your relationship is great, you can also make your girlfriend feel special by continuing to find new activities that can define and reinvent your relationship. Here are some great things you can do together:


Start a book club for two
Take a dancing class
Learn to cook one new recipe a month together
Teach yourselves a foreign language
Train for a half-marathon together
Volunteer in your community together

, Another great way to make your girlfriend feel special is to check out some new places together. You don't have to have the budget of a sultan to explore something new together. You can start by checking out a new restaurant, and then work your way up to going to a museum you've both had your sights on, and then take weekend trips to other cities or even plan an exciting vacation to get out of your usual routines. Make an effort to travel together as much as you can and you'll see that your girlfriend feels special because you continue making an effort.


Make a dream bucket list of places that the two of you want to go to. Cross them off together, one by one, even if it takes years!

, Another way to make your girlfriend feel special is to always make her feel like she's a priority. That means that you should always make time for date nights, for conversation, and just for decompressing together. Once you stop making time for each other, the love and fun will stop, too.


If both or one of you is having a really busy week or month, talk about making that sacred couple time in advance.
When you are together, give her your full attention. Don't check your phone, zone out, or invite other friends to join you if you're really trying to connect with your girl.
 Don't take her for granted and think that things are going great in your relationship so you don't have to keep trying so hard. A relationship is never either "great" or "not great," and you need to always keep working on it, even if you feel like everything is perfect. Always remember to compliment your girlfriend, to tell her how special she is, and just to keep the love going no matter what.


When you see her, notice her appearance and compliment her. Don't make her think you don't pay attention to her looks any more.
Continue to check in and ask her about how her day, her job, her classes, etc, are going. Don't just assume that she'll bring it up if something is bothering her.
Check in about her feelings. Make sure she's happy and talk about it if she's not.
 If you want to make your girlfriend feel special, then you have to keep things romantic, whether you've been together for five months or five years. Dress up for date nights. Always be a gentleman. Light some candles when you're cooking dinner for her. Keep the chase going -- play hard to get sometimes. Don't just settle in to your relationship once it's obvious that you both like each other, but work to keep her hooked and make her do the same.


Keep the romance alive by trying new things, being adventurous together, and always having something to look forward to as a couple. If there's something romantic or sexy on the horizon, then your girlfriend will always feel special in her relationship, and you will always feel satisfied.

