 The bass drum's tone and volume are 2 things that you should consider, keeping your desired use of the drum in mind.


If the bass drum will be used primarily in a practice setting, it may be important to keep the volume to a minimum to avoid disturbing neighbors and housemates. This can generally be accomplished through a smaller drum size with a thinner shell.
If the drum will be used in a performance setting, you should consider the tone and volume appropriate for the style of music and size of venues played. A large, thundering bass drum would be inappropriate for use in a jazz combo, for example.;
, The dimensions of the bass drum--both diameter and depth--influence the drum's volume, pitch, and ease of use. Larger drums produce loud, low-pitched tones; they can also be difficult to play due to the excessive movement of the drumhead. Smaller bass drums produce a punchier, more articulate sound, and tend to be quieter.


By far the most common diameters are 20 inches (50 cm) and 22 inches (55 cm). The 20 inch bass drum is well-suited to jazz, pop, and other general applications, while the 22 inch drum works well for louder rock playing.
Smaller bass drums, with diameters of 16 inches (40 cm) or 18 inches (45 cm), produce a high-pitched, controlled, punchy sound. They are ideal for very quiet performances in small venues.
Larger bass drums, with diameters of 24 inches (60 cm) and above, produce a huge, thundering sound that works well for loud rock music.
The depth of most bass drums will be 14 inches (35 cm) or 16 inches (40 cm). Longer depths will deepen the pitch of the drum, while shorter depths will raise it.
 There are many types of wood used in drum construction, each with their own tonal characteristics. Maple, by far the most common wood used, lends a balanced tone to the drum. Birch drums have a bright, punchy sound, while mahogany drums have a warm, vintage character. Poplar and falcata are 2 low-cost woods used in budget drums.
 After deciding on the characteristics that are important to you, you can purchase a bass drum from a music store or an online retailer. Searching online allows you to narrow your search based on the characteristics you want in a bass drum.

