 Everyone has their own ideas of what is pretty and what isn't -- and these ideas even change amongst different countries.When reading this article, you should consider what you think is pretty. If you think that wild, curly hair is pretty, then go for it. Don't be afraid to be yourself and set your own standards.


Remember that true beauty comes from the inside, and uniqueness is also beautiful. If you've only believed that beauty was physical before, redefine this idea and contemplate the possibilities.
At the same time, try to set realistic expectations. For example, instead of drastically trying to change your figure, skin color, or hair, try to accept the way you look first. Take good care of your hair and skin and focus on the parts you do like about yourself (such as your eyes or your curly hair).;
, Sometimes, people can be their own worst critics. Take a moment and treat yourself like a friend -- would you be as harsh on yourself? What are your best qualities (both inside and out)?


Maybe you value certain features about yourself because they are inherited from a loved one. Accept yourself as you are, and recognize that you are not perfect -- but no one is, it's human.
Appreciate your uniqueness, develop the qualities you want that you have control over (such as your personality, intelligence, and health), and trust that your beauty will grow day by day.
 Even the prettiest girl can lose friends if she is mean, manipulative, or uncaring. At the same time, the plainest girl can find many friends if she is kind, fair, and thoughtful. This section will give you a few tips on how to let your inner beauty shine through.
 A scowl or frown can make anyone look unpleasant and intimidating. A friendly smile, however, can make any face look brighter and approachable.
 Make sure to say "please," when asking for something, and "thank you," when you get it. Also, if you need to get past someone, say "excuse me."

, If you notice your friend or classmate looking sad, ask them what's wrong or if they'd like to talk about it. If they do start to talk, listen to them attentively. Even if their problems are not ones you may be able to connect with, they will recognize that you care. They will see this as a beautiful quality about you.


You can also show that you care by volunteering at homes for the elderly, soup kitchens, or animal shelters.
 The more positive and supportive you are, the better you will feel about yourself. You may even stop focusing on your flaws (such as that annoying pimple that keeps popping up) and start seeing the good things about yourself. Here are some ways you can be more positive:


If something doesn't turn out the way you liked, try to find something good about the situation. You can also consider what you can do to improve the situation next time. Oftentimes, the lesson you take away will be more valuable than a favorable outcome. By focusing on the benefits, you can strengthen your perspective.
In unforeseeable circumstances, see if you can adapt to the situation and make the most out of it. For instance, if it rains on the day of the picnic you spent all week planning, see if you can bring it inside. You could even set up a movie or bring out a few board games to play with your friends.
If your friend is really excited about something, try to share their excitement. You can also ask them questions about it to show that you are interested.
If your friend is really good at something, try to encourage her/him. For example, if your friend is good at drawing, tell her/him that their drawing is really good and that you really like their style.
 Putting someone down will never make you feel better about yourself or accomplish anything worthwhile. In reality, the more you make fun of others, the worse you will feel about yourself. Sometimes, the bullying might even come back to you. You could really hurt someone, and make them feel really bad about themselves.


Instead, ask yourself what it is that would make you consider bullying or participating in it -- are there internal issues you may need to work through? Are you trying to feel accepted by the bully? Is the person being bullied or their actions symbolic of something or someone that you dislike? Perhaps they reflect a quality about yourself that you neglect or wish could be better.
 Even if you don't get good grades or score the most goals on your team, people will notice if you try hard. They will appreciate your efforts and look up to you. Developing your intelligence will also open many doors (such as opportunities) for you.


Try to do well in school. Find a subject that you really like or are passionate about, and try to do the best you can in it. You might even get people asking you for help in that subject. Even if there is a subject that is not your strength, give it attention. You may be noticed for your diligence and/or find people that want to help you or work together.
 If you like to draw, then consider taking some art classes. If you like to sing and dance, consider trying out for the school play. Building an arsenal of skills will help you cultivate who you are as a person.
 Look around the familiar and see if you notice anything new or different today - was there something you weren't aware of before? Try to explore different places, cultures, topics, and look for similarities and differences. Being curious and building your knowledge is not only a fun thing to do, but you will find a treasure trove of intrigue that will connect you with others in ways you would never imagine possible.


Read more. Read the news (both domestic and worldwide) and see what you can learn. Read literature, poetry, or non-fiction, and take a dive into someone else's life or ideas.
Listen to what other people have to say. Listen to the radio, podcasts, and listen more closely to the people around you. Every person has knowledge that they can offer that can help you grow.
Ask questions. "Why" is one of the best questions and can often help you find the heart of the issue in many cases. Don't be afraid to ask questions, because questions (when asked correctly) can also make another person feel important. Furthermore, it will make you look and feel confident, but also help you gain knowledge.
 Don't brag about the things you are good at, but don't try to hide your talents either. When you walk, try to keep your chin up, your back straight, and your shoulders tilted back. This will help you look and feel more confident. Many people find confidence attractive, but moreover, confidence will encourage you to nurture your personal growth into becoming the person you want to be.
 Staying clean will not only help you look your best, but it will also help you feel better too. Here are some things to keep in mind:


Brush your teeth twice a day. If you wear braces, you might want to brush your teeth after your eat something. Consider bringing a toothbrush and toothpaste with you to school. Also, take care of your teeth by flossing.
Take a bath or shower once a day. Try not to do this more than once a day, because it will dry out your skin. This will help you stay healthy; it will also help you feel fresh.
Wear deodorant to keep body odor down. This may also help increase your self-confidence. You don't have to smell like a rose to feel good about yourself. A fresh, natural scent is okay too.
Consider using perfume. Use on wrists, elbows, neck, and upper body. Try to use only one spritz because otherwise you will smell to strong! Natural fragrances are good, and refreshing or sweet are too. Just use whatever is right for you!

, Plan on sleeping eight to nine hours a night. Your body will be healthier, and your skin and hair will look better too. You may also find your mood to be lighter, and that you are feeling less stressed., Things like pizza, french fries, candy, chips, and hot dogs aren't great for your health. They can cause weight gain, wreck havoc on your skin, and influence your mood. They also lack the nutrients your body needs. Foods like fruits, vegetables, fish, nuts, and lean meats, however, are packed with nutrients and vitamins. They are not only good for your body, but for your skin and hair as well. Try to include more of these in your diet and see how it affects you on a long-term basis.


You could also try doing exercises​​ to become more toned, especially abdominal-benefiting ones! This will not only make you feel the sports-happy-rush, but you will start to feel generally better with yourself.
It is perfectly fine to treat yourself to something sweet, such as a chocolate or cookie, every once in a while.
Oftentimes, this lifestyle change can be difficult if you are accustomed to a certain diet. Junk food can be addictive and even inhibit the desire to change what you eat.Adjust slowly starting with things you can tolerate, or find creative ways to incorporate the foods that are difficult for you. For instance, you can often throw various greens into a smoothie and completely mask the taste with complementary fruits.
If you are determined, consider setting small goals to start. For example, you can make it a goal to experiment with a new vegetable, nut, or fruit each week to figure out what it is you like or different things you can do with it. Another idea is trying to substitute a healthy snack for an unhealthy snack for 5 days a week within a month.
 Most popular sodas have a lot of sugar, and even most juices have substantial sugar.Coffee is actually dehydrating and can significantly affect your skin, so much so that estheticians have suggested drinking two cups of water for every 1 cup of coffee on top of your daily 8. Even tea can be dehydrating, though not as much as coffee. Aside from minimizing calories, drinking more water produces numerous other benefits, including (but not limited to): better skin (flushing out toxins and helping blood flow), lowering stress (which can be caused by dehydration), and giving you more energy (also a side-effect of dehydration).Drinking less soda and coffee may require time, as the two can be habit-forming. Start off with a few cups of water a day, and increase over time. Consider adding ice and/or fresh lemon to make it taste more refreshing. You can also infuse water with fruits or cucumber to get that extra taste you are looking for.
If you prefer carbonation, you can consider sparkling water without additives. While it is a mild acid (like juice) and can erode the teeth over time, there is no evidence at this time that it can be harmful otherwise., Exercise is not just for those who want to lose weight; it also helps reduce stress and increase the hormones responsible for causing happiness. Even if you have a small frame, taking a long walk every once in a while will help keep you in shape.


This may require a lifestyle change, which always takes time to adjust. Feel free to go at your own pace, and start by thinking about what you enjoy. If you've always wanted to try a yoga class, check your local listings to see if any of them offer a free trial or discounted trial period. Simply dance around to your favorite song at home, because why not?
Involving a friend is often helpful. For instance, you can substitute your weekly coffee catch-up sessions with a leisurely stroll around a local track. Check deal listings and find one or two new activities to explore with a friend or two periodically, or until you find something that you like.
Setting weekly goals or having a set day and time per week can really help your efforts. Consider adding and marking it off a calendar, since this will give you a sense of accomplishment.
 Every body shape is beautiful, but if your figure really bothers you and makes you unhappy, there are a few things you can try to lose some weight. Keep in mind, however, that losing weight will take some time. Don't overwork yourself just to lose your weight faster. You will get very sick instead.


Eat well, but eat healthy. Do not starve yourself or skip meals. Instead, try to eat normal-sized, healthy meals. These will include things such as fruits, vegetables, fish, nuts, and lean meats. Try to avoid eating unhealthy foods, such as sweets and fast food.
Skip on the sugary drinks, and drink more water. These are easy calories to lose as you get used to it over time. Also avoid drinks that may be dehydrating, such as coffee.
Exercise a few times a week. Try swimming, jogging, or doing some sit-ups. If you haven't exercised before, or have not done it in a while, start with small, easy sessions first.
Get enough sleep. Try to get to bed early, and get around eight or nine hours. Studies have shown that going to bed late and not sleeping enough is tied to weight gain (and stress).
Consider enrolling in a weight-loss program or bootcamp. It might be more fun and motivating to do it with other people.
 Try not to use body wash or hand soap; they are too harsh and will dry your skin out. You also don't want to wash your face too often, even if it is very oily. This will also cause your skin to dry out. When your skin becomes too dry, it will start producing extra oils to make up for it.
 Soak a cotton ball with some toner, and sweep it across your face, focusing on the nose, forehead, chin, and cheeks. Avoid the sensitive area around your eyes. Follow up with some moisturizer. If you have oily skin, try to find a light-weight or gel-based moisturizer.


The toner will help restore your skin's natural pH. It will also help tighten your pores.
Moisturizer will hydrate your skin. It will make it appear smoother and less flakey.
 This doesn't mean that you have to avoid the sun. Instead, try wearing sunscreen each time you go out. If you don't like wearing sunscreen on your face, try using some foundation or moisturizer that has SPF 15.
 Everyone gets them at some point in their lives. Some people get them sooner than others. If you find yourself burdened with acne, there are a few things you can do to make it less severe:


Try not to pick or pop your pimples. This will cause them to bleed, and you may get scars.
Wash your face twice a day. This will help get rid of acne-causing bacteria. If you wear makeup, be sure to wash it off before you go to bed.
Buy some pimple cream from the drug store. Keep in mind that these creams may take some time to work. Don't use more than directed; this won't make the pimples disappear faster.
Ask your parents if you can see a dermatologist if you have severe acne. Most pimple creams will do the job, but some people might need something stronger. A dermatologist may help you find the right product, or give you a prescription.
Consider covering some pimples up with concealer. Everyone gets pimples, but if they really lower your confidence, you can dab on a little concealer over them to make them less noticeable.
 There are many types of hair, and therefore, there are various solutions for various hair types. If your hair looks frizzy, matte, or just not that great, take a look at your shampoo and conditioner bottles. Are you using a shampoo that matches your hair type? If not, try to get a shampoo that says it's for your hair type (such as curly, dry, colored, and so forth), and see if that helps.


If you have dry hair, look for products that say "hydrating" or "moisturizing." Try not to wash your hair every day. Instead, wash it every two to three days.If you have oily hair, look for a clarifying shampoo, or something that says its meant for oily hair. Try leaving the shampoo on your scalp for up to five minutes. When it comes to conditioner, only use it on the ends of your hair.If you have thin, limp hair, look for a volumizing shampoo. It will make your hair appear thicker and give it extra body.
If you dye your hair, get a shampoo that says it's for "colored hair." It will help your dye job last longer. It will also take care of your hair and help keep it soft; most hair dyes are very harsh and drying on hair.
 How you wash and brush your hair will affect how it looks in the end. Here are some tips on how to get your hair to look its best:Wash your hair no more than three times a week. The more often you wash it, the more oil it will produce.
Use warm or lukewarm water instead of hot water. Hot water will cause your hair to lose moisture and frizz. Consider rinsing your hair with cool water; this will seal the hair cuticle, reduce frizz, and make it shiny.Make sure you are leaving the conditioner in your hair long enough. Most brands needs to be left for three to five minutes, but you might want to check the label on the back of the bottle.
Brush or comb your hair when it is almost dry. Start from the ends first, and work your way up towards the roots. Wet hair is very stretchy, and snaps easily., Curly hair can be beautiful, but it can also get frizzy and unruly. It tangles easily and gets in your face when you are trying to work. Here are some things you can try to bring out the natural beauty of your curls:


Don't use a hairbrush. This usually is what causes frizz. Instead, use a wide-toothed comb when your hair is dry. If you must brush your hair, do it only when it's wet.
Try adding in a little bit of Argan oil or coconut oil to your hair.
 There is no way to permanently seal the split ends together; however, you can temporarily seal them with a split end mending cream. Simply apply some of the cream to your split ends. The only way to get rid of split ends, however, is to trim your hair. If you don't do this, the damage will continue to creep up the hair shaft.Try not to over-brush your hair. Also, try to use less heat-styling (such as straightening or curling). If you must straighten or curl your hair, be sure to use a heat protecting spray.
 When you are using a hairdryer, use a medium-heat setting instead of a high one. Hold the nozzle 6 to 8 inches (15.2 to 20.3 cm) (15.24 to 20.32 inches) away from your head.Also, be sure to use a heat protecting sprays if your are going to straighten or curl your hair. There is nothing wrong with straightening or curling your hair, but it is very important to use a heat protecting spray on your hair before doing so. If you don't, you will fry your hair, and make it brittle and dry.
 Everyone gets one at some point of another, and they can be pretty embarrassing. If your hair just doesn't want to behave, no matter what you do, try putting it in a braid or wearing a hat over it. It will look chic and cute, and keep you from feeling too embarrassed or self-conscious., There are a few things you can add to your hair to make it look glossy and shiny. Here are some ideas:


Use a smoothing cream or oil if your have frizz. This will tame your hair, and let your natural curls or waves show through.
Use a small amount of hair oil, such as Argan oil or coconut oil, if you have dull hair and want to add some shine back to it.
Use some gel or mousse to bring if you have curly hair, and want to bring out your spirals and ringlets. The gel or mousse will help your curls keep their shape and texture.If you have straight hair or want to blow dry your hair straight, spray your hair down with a heat protecting spray. Use a nozzle attachment on your hairdryer, and aim the nozzle downwards when drying., Your hair frames your face, and can also highlight certain features. Play around with various methods of styling to see what you like. There are at least 15 Ways to Have a Simple Hairstyle for School.


Find out what type of face shape you have. This can help you determine what sort of haircut might look best on you.
 Steve Urkel,a fictional U.S. television character in the 90s, was famously dressed in unpopular fashion at the time. However, in 2011, his style would have been considered the epitome of cool. Similarly, following the history of a single style alone can be very telling. Bell bottoms were initially from the 1800s, re-introduced as high fashion in Europe the mid-60s, and went mainstream in the US and Europe in the 70s. There was a revival in a varied form in the 90s, which is now known as "boot-cut",though styles similar to the 70s have been seen in recent years. Furthermore, boho-chic (bohemian) styles popular in the 60s-70s have also come into popularity again in recent years. Style can also be seasonal -- with lighter and brighter colors trending in the Spring-Summer, and medium to darker hues in the Fall-Winter (this is applicable across clothes, hair, and makeup).


Ultimately, trends recycle, reuse, and rotate. What's popular now, may not be tomorrow, and vice versa -- but at the same time, style can live on eternally in the world of high fashion and couture. For example, Alexander McQueen is worshipped in the fashion realm, but considered gothic. Even if a style is not recognized where you live, it may be celebrated across the globe. Such as steampunk, which has been gaining momentum within Japanese subcultures in recent years.At the end of the day, clothes are also a practical means to an end. This is something visionaries such as Steve Jobs and Mark Zuckerberg have accepted in an effort to be more efficient -- they wore/wear the same thing everyday.Some people do unfortunately tend to use looks as a way to gage a person. Forgive those people since they may not know any better, whether they were raised that way or influenced by societal cues, but also notice if you have these thoughts and feelings. Focus on yourself and what you like. Even if it is not preferable to others, it is always respectable. More importantly, it will allow you to learn more about yourself.
 You can still dress goth, skater, scene, or emo and still look pretty. You can even try on some vintage dresses for a chic, feminine look. If you are adopting a new style that may not be widely accepted it may take time for you to feel comfortable and confident.


Consider talking to your guardian(s) and friends about your interests first. If they do not support you, know that there are people that would (there are many examples of dads supporting their son's choicesfor instance). If you are not ready yet and you want to put it off until a later time, that's OK too -- it's never too early or too late (consider Baddiewinkle) to express yourself through your personal style. Know that there are always other people that share the same interests as you, they just may not be accessible to you yet.
 For instance, as a high-schooler, Kyemah McEntyre became an internet sensation by going forth and creating her phenomenal vision of an African-inspired prom dress despite being bullied.Style can be a means to change perception and/or perspective, and not everyone is receptive to change or something different in any situation (including those closest to you). Accept that there will be challenges along the way, and try to find people, or a community of like-minded people, that will support you.
 Even not caring is a style (the Parisians, for instance, are famously known for their love of effortless-chic). Choose a style that you feel comfortable in. If you don't feel comfortable in your outfit, don't wear it. Part of looking pretty is feeling comfortable and confident in your clothes.


Note: The steps below may not be applicable to all styles, so if the suggestion is not inline with what you actually like, go with your personal preference, whether that's grunge, baggy clothes (which were popular in the 90's and always comfortable), minimalist, or you simply don't care.
 You definitely do not have to be thin to be pretty -- remember, beauty varies from person-to-person and country-to-country. Curvy girls and large girls can be some of the most beautiful and fabulous people you ever meet. Models, such as Robyn Lawley and Ashley Graham, continue to defy current standards while building their own. Also, keep in mind that your body is still changing. Many teenage girls experience changes in weight. Also, know that a friendly smile is most attractive.
 Dirt, stains, and tears can detract from any outfit, no matter how well put together it is. Most shirts need to be washed after being worn once or twice. Pants and skirts can be worn a few times before needing to be washed.


If something gets torn, try to mend it by stitching it together.
If something is stained, you will need to use a stain remover on it before putting it into the laundry., Know how to make unflattering outfits flattering. Loose, flowing tops can look graceful and pretty, but they can also get in the way. If you have one, try securing it around your waist with a cute belt. A tank top may look cute, but it may also make your shoulders look too big or too small for your tastes. If this happens, try throwing a cardigan over it for a quick, chic look.


You can also learn more about how to Dress for Your Body Type.
 Make sure that you are buying your size. Tight-fitting clothes can be uncomfortable and difficult to breathe in, while baggy clothes can be difficult to move around in. If you find something that you really like, but you can't find your size, ask the cashier if you can order the outfit in your size. You can also get it altered, or find creative temporary ways to alter them yourself. Pants should fit comfortably around your waist. The shoulder width of a shirt should match your own shoulder width. You should feel comfortable in whatever you wear.


Some stores sell jeans that come have short, normal, and long leg lengths. If you are really short or really tall, this is something you could consider.
Just because your friends were low-waist jeans does not mean that you have to. If you find high-waist jeans more comfortable, and if they look great on you, then go for it.
 A cute belt or a simple necklace can take your outfit to the next level. It can make it look as though you spent a lot of time putting your outfit together., Every face is pretty in its own way, but makeup can help bring out certain features, such as the eyes or lips. It may also help you feel good about yourself. This section will give you some basic makeup tips for a more natural look. You don't have to do all of them, however; you can just wear some lip gloss or mascara.


Instead of trying to cover up the parts of your face that you don't like, try to focus on parts that you do like. This may help you feel less stressed about your looks. For example, if you don't like your nose, don't worry about trying to change it. Instead, focus your makeup on a part of your face that you do like, such as your eyes or lips.On the other hand, if you enjoy experimenting with makeup or want to create more dramatic looks to highlight your style, go for it. You should do what feels best for you, regardless of what other people may say. The tips below are not a one-size fits all solution. Only you know what works best for you.
 Be sure to use some toner and moisturizer. This will help give you a nice, clean canvas to work on. To get some skin-care tips for your face, click here.
 Foundation can be a little heavy for daily wear, but a tinted moisturizer is a great way to even out your skin tone while keeping it fresh and moisturized. You can apply foundation with your fingers, a makeup sponge, or a foundation brush—just be sure to blend it in, especially around the sides of your face and along your jawline.


Make sure that your foundation matches your skin tone, even if you are not happy with your skin color. If you use a shade that is too light or too dark, your makeup won't look very natural.
If you spend a lot of time out in the sun, consider getting something with 15 SPF in it.
Consider using some concealer to hide blemishes. Pimples are a part of growing up, but they can be embarrassing. If you have a pimple that really bothers you, don't pop it. Instead, dab a little concealer over it. Blend the concealer with a makeup brush into the rest of your skin, and then set it with some loose setting powder., Use a powder brush to dust on some blush or onto the apples of your cheeks and across your forehead. This will give you a healthy glow. You can also add color to your lips with some lip gloss or lip balm. This is also a great way to keep your lips looking smooth. Consider adding lipstick on special occasions.
 You can use mascara just by itself to enhance your eyes, or you can use it with some eyeliner and eyeshadow. If you have light-colored hair, use a dark brown eyeliner or mascara. If you have dark-colored hair, you can get away with a darker color, such as black or charcoal. For the eyeshadow, try to stick with neutral colors, such as browns and creams. Save the brighter colors for special events.
 Most perfumes are too strong for daily wear. If you want to smell like a flower or cupcakes, try getting some body spray. It is much lighter and less expensive, but it still smells great. Don't over-do it, however; one or two squirts is enough.
 Just because you wear glasses doesn't mean that you have to skip out on the makeup. If you like wearing makeup, there are a few things you can do to make your eyes stand out even more. Here are some tips:Put some concealer or light-colored eyeshadow on the inner corner of your eyes. Be sure to blend it well. This will help get rid of any shadows cast by the glasses.
Define your eyebrows. You don't have to pluck them, but try to keep them well-groomed by combing over them with a brow brush.
Go easy on the eyeshadow. Glasses tend to cast lots of shadow on your eyes already. If you like to wear eyeshadow, try using lighter or softer colors. You can also use neutral colors as well. You might want to skip on the dark colors; however.
Do some winged eyeliner. The will help make your eyes appear even larger. You can also use a little bit of eye liner on your lower lash line.
Try adding some mascara. This will help define your eyes.
 Sleeping with your makeup on can be extremely detrimental in the long-term, aging you as much as 10 years if done every day for a month.