 Use spray paint to color the basket frame.


Make sure to use spray paint that is approved for use with metal.






White, black, silver, gold, and bronze paints have the most traditional appeal, but you can use any color that matches with the décor of your room.
 Cut a 36-in (91-cm) piece of parchment paper and three 18-in (46-cm) pieces of wax paper. Lay the parchment paper out on an ironing board and place the three pieces of wax paper inside. Fold the parchment paper over the wax paper to sandwich the pieces in.


The parchment paper helps the wax stick together and stay within the layers of paper. It also creates a smooth, finished surface on the wax paper.






If you do not have an ironing board, you can lay this out on a clean dish towel in the middle of a hard floor or table.
 Use a low setting on your iron. Pass the iron over the paper sandwich several times to melt the layers of wax paper together.


Remove the layered wax paper from the parchment. The wax paper should stick together, but it should not stick to the parchment paper.
 Continue creating stacks of three-layered wax paper until you use an entire roll of wax paper.


For large planter frames, you may want to use half of a second roll, as well.
You do not need to use new parchment paper for each layer. The parchment paper can be reused.
 Use a circle cutter to cut 2.5-in (6.35-cm) circles out of each layered sheet of wax paper. Cut as many circles as possible.


If you do not have a circle cutter, you could use a cookie cutter or other circular stencil that measures roughly 2.5 in (6.35 cm) in diameter. Trace around the stencil using a craft razor or blade.






Cut the circles out over a cutting mat. It may help to tape the wax paper to the mat as you work to prevent it from sliding around.
 You will need to cut out anywhere from 90 to 120 strands of ribbon.


You can either attach the ribbon in single or double layers. The method you use will determine the needed length of each strand.






Single-layer ribbon should be about 7 in (18 cm) long and double-layer ribbon should be 16 in (41 cm) long.






Use a hot glue gun to glue the end of a single-layer strand of ribbon over the horizontal bar of the basket.






Fold a double-layer strand of ribbon in half. Knot the ribbon over the horizontal bar of the basket.






Attach your ribbons to each horizontal bar of your basket frame, starting from the bottom and working your way up. There should be very little excess space in between ribbon strands.
 Use a small dot of hot glue to attach the top of each shell to the ribbon.


Only attach the shells to every other ribbon and alternate between two and three shells per ribbon.






The shells on each strand should overlap by about 1/4-in (0.635-cm).






Start with the bottom layer and work your way up to the higher layers.






Continue until the layers of ribbon on each tier have been decorated with the capiz shells.
 For best results, choose a simple light fixture that extends low enough to sit in the top of the planter basket.


The light from the existing fixture will appear to "glow" against the paper capiz shells.

