 Alternatively, if you have had one first degree relative with pancreatic cancer diagnosed under the age of 50, you are also categorized as high risk. Being "high risk" makes you eligible for screening tests for pancreatic cancer that are not currently made available to the general population.


You may also be categorized as high risk, if you test positive for a genetic syndrome that has been linked to a heightened risk of pancreatic cancer.;
, This person would can help you individually and your family understand their test options and results. Your doctor would need access to a lab that does genetic testing, if you suspect this may apply to you.

Approximately 10% of pancreatic cancers are linked to genetic causes, and individuals who fall into the high risk category due to these causes are eligible for screening.,).The CT or MRI method of screening is available for high risk individuals. The challenge with a CT or MRI scan is that it can be very hard to detect early and/or very small lesions on the pancreas or spreading to the duodenum, gall bladder, liver and such with imaging techniques alone. However, it is better than nothing, and they are the best imaging options currently available. It is also a quick and non-invasive test.
 Instead of a CT or MRI scan, you can choose an ERCP (endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography) or an EUS (endoscopic ultrasound).Both of these rely on tubing being inserted into your digestive tract through your mouth while you are sleeping under anesthesia to closely examine the pancreas and surrounding areas first without contrast and minutes later with it (iodine "dye"). They are internal tests that involve some risks of bleeding or infection -- and are more complex to perform -- but can provide your doctor with a chance to see first-hand how your pancreas looks, and whether there are any suspicious or concerning lesions or tumors present there or nearby (that may indicate potential cancer).
 In the future, there will likely be medical guidelines and recommendations/protocol; however, since screening is relatively new, it will currently be a decision made between you and your physician/care team.

