 You have to know everything about the Cullen vampires, Bella and even Jacob and the La Push werewolves, because if anyone tries to quiz you, you need to know all the details.;
, Preferably, one that says "Team Edward" or "Team Jacob", but any shirt with a Twilight reference will do. Twilight shirts can be found at places like Hot Topic, Cafepress and Spencers. You can also find less expensive t-shirts of Twilight at stores like Walmart or Target.
 Go to Stephenie Meyer's website, and read the backstory to Twilight, New Moon, Eclipse and Breaking Dawn. Try to learn about Stephanie Meyer also. Here is the link. http://www.stepheniemeyer.com While you are on Stephenie Meyer's site, look at the playlist for each book, learn the songs and put them on your iPod.
 It is important to have a favorite.
 It will show others how addicted you are to Twilight. They will also remind you how much you love and adore Twilight. Try hanging them somewhere is the open- somewhere everybody can see.
 It can be the official one, The Twilight Saga, or any other website that is dedicated to the series. There is a list of fan websites on Stephenie Meyer's page.
 Be sure to watch them at least once. Try to compare the books from the movies. Be prepared, some people get disappointed that the movie wasn't as good as the books.
 Try explaining Twilight to other people who have never heard of it. If you come across a Twilight hater, try to explain to them why they should love Twilight. Another Twilight Addict is a great person to talk to about Twilight. Be careful though, people who don't enjoy Twilight might get annoyed by you.
 If you are ever bored, reading a Twilight book is the first this a Twilight Addict should do. Did somebody insult you, because they dislike Twilight? Act offended. You are addicted to Twilight, after all.
 Understand that this was only a draft, and it is not even close to being finished. Try to see what Twilight is like from Edwards point of view. Here is the link. http://www.stepheniemeyer.com/midnightsun.html

