 It’s always a pleasant surprise when you open a card to find a bit of money inside. Give your recipient this treat, but create a little pouch to hold the gift card, gift certificate, or bills! It’s a very simple addition, but it can really make your card look polished and customized.


Decide how big the pouch needs to be in order to hold the money or gift card. Measure out a square of felt that size, adding about 1/4 an inch on the sides and bottom.
Once you’ve cut out the square of felt, apply a line of glue to the bottom and the sides. This is why you made your felt square larger than the actual. Then, firmly press it onto your card.
Allow your glue to dry, and slide the money or gift card into your new pouch.
 If you’re hand delivering your card, you can make the entire envelope out of felt! This will make your greeting card even more special, and your recipient can keep or even reuse the adorable envelope. To create your envelope, you’ll need a full sheet of felt (the size of a sheet of paper), a button, and some string, plus any decorations you want to add!Fold your piece of felt in half widthwise. It should now form a rectangle.
Cut the folded felt in half. To make sure you cut it at the halfway mark, measure the length of the folded rectangle and make two marks on the top and bottom, exactly at the halfway mark.
Grab one of the felt halves. Unfold it and cut three inches off of it at the top or bottom.
Fold your felt in half lengthwise, so that it forms a long, thin rectangle. Now, you want to create a point on one end. Cut diagonally from the bottom corner (where the fold is) up to the other side. The felt that you’re cutting off should be in the shape of a triangle.
Unfold your felt. Position the pointed end at the top. Then, fold the bottom half upwards, forming the pocket of the envelope. Fold the pointed end overtop, forming the flap of the envelope.
Use your glue to seal the sides of the envelope closed.
Thread your button from the back and going through both holes. The two ends of your string should both be coming out of the back of the button. Then carefully make two slits on the front of the envelope pocket, thread your string through the holes, and tie it in a knot inside the envelope pocket. This will secure your button to the envelope pocket.
Create another slit on the envelope flap, where it hits the button. Carefully push your button through that slit. This creates your envelope closure!

, After all, nothing pairs better with a sweet card than a few flowers. You can glue these flowers to your card or decorate your envelope with them. Grab a piece of your desired color felt, and trace a circle in it. You can trace a CD, the base of a cup, or anything circular to get the perfect circle. Cut out your circle, and you’re ready to construct your flower.Once you have your circle, start cutting it from the outside in a spiral pattern. To do this, simple cut a strip off circle around the perimeter, slowly moving inwards so eventually you’ve cut the entire circle into one, long strip.
At the outside end of the strip of felt, start rolling your felt like a burrito. As you roll along the length of the felt strip, focus on keeping one end of the roll tightly wound, with the other end a bit looser. If this step is confusing, visualize the flower you’re creating. One side of the roll is tight, where it would attach to the stem. The other side is loose and open, showing the “petals.”
When you reach the end of the felt strip, add hot glue or felt glue to the tightly rolled end. This will secure the shape of your felt flower.

