 As many cultures do, the Japanese Dietary Guidelines recommend eating well balanced meals. The concept is very similar to that in the US; however, the Japanese guidelines suggest emphasizing certain foods.


It's first recommended to make sure you have a "staple food" at each meal. This is in the form of a grain like noodles or rice.
There's also an emphasis on combining fruits, vegetables, dairy, beans and fish in the diet. The combination of these foods helps you to meet your daily needs and helps balance meals.
The Japanese guidelines do allow for beef or pork, but many Japanese people do not eat these foods often. Most of their protein is coming from seafood and legumes.;
, The Japanese guidelines use a spinning top to show how many servings of each food group should be eaten every day. It's similar in concept to the Food Pyramid in the US.


The biggest food group is the grain group (because it's a staple food). It's recommended to have at least one serving of grains at each meal and aim for five to seven servings daily.Each serving size should be 40 grams (or about 1/4 cup of rice).
The next largest group is the vegetable group or vegetable dishes. The Japanese guidelines suggest eating five to six servings of a vegetable dish daily. Each serving size is 70 grams (or a little over 1/3 cup or chopped vegetables).
It's recommended to only have three to five servings of fish and meat daily with the portion size being 6 grams a serving (about 2 ounces). Again, most Japanese people eat fish and legumes over pork and beef.
The smallest group on the spinning top is a combination of fruits and dairy foods. It's only suggested to have two servings of these foods everyday with the portion size being 100 grams for both (2/3 cup of chopped vegetables or under 1/2 cup of milk).
 The Japanese guidelines recommend drinking an adequate amount of fluid each day. This is featured at the top of their spinning top food guide to visualize its importance.


The fluids that are primarily emphasized are water and tea. Tea traditional is served unsweetened and without added sugar.
Similarly to the US, the Japanese guidelines discourage the intake of sweetened beverages. It's recommended to limit your intake of sweetened beverages like sodas, fruit juice cocktails or alcoholic beverages.
 There are foods that are discouraged in the Japanese Dietary Guidelines. Those that are overly high in sodium or fat should be limited in the diet.If you eat foods that are high in sodium and fat regularly or in large quantities your weight may increase. In addition, your risk for high blood pressure and stroke increase as well.Although the guidelines do not recommend avoiding these foods altogether, make sure to limit foods like: chips, fast foods, fried foods, processed meats (like hot dogs or salami), frozen meals and canned foods.
 The Japanese Dietary Guidelines are not only about eating specific foods or eating certain quantities of foods. They also emphasize the importance of nutrition and health knowledge.The Japanese Dietary Guidelines emphasize the need for Shokuiku. This is the need to continue to learn and educate yourself about good nutrition and eating habits.
The Japanese government has educational programs that help individuals, families and communities learn about and implement sound dietary habits.
In your local area, search for nutrition programs. You might find them through community centers, churches or fitness centers. In addition, the US government has a variety of educational resources online that can be used to further your nutrition knowledge.
 Eating mindfully is not something that has been emphasized significantly in the US Dietary Guidelines; however, mindful eating is something the Japanese guidelines recommend you implement in addition to good nutrition.


One technique that is used in Japanese culture is known as Hara Hachi Bu or "eat until you are 80% full."In order to stop eating at 80% full, it's recommended to take your time, eat slowly and chew slowly. This allows you to realize when you are satisfied and not full.
In addition, when you're taking your time, you have the opportunity to fully enjoy your foods and your meal as a whole. This can also help you be satisfied with less.
 The Japanese guidelines also stress the importance of eating regular and consistent meals. They suggest developing an eating schedule and sticking to it.It's important to make sure you eat regularly. You want to eat a meal or snack every four hours or so. You may eat three main meals plus one snack or end up eating five smaller meals daily. This will vary based on your schedule and preference.
If you skip meals, you generally feel more fatigued, may get a headache, are more likely to skip an afternoon workout and are also more likely to overeat (especially higher fat foods).Develop an eating schedule for yourself. You might want to draft up a meal plan with times so you can see when each of your meals and snacks are.
 An interesting emphasis of the Japanese Dietary Guidelines is the suggestion to take advantage of local or cultural foods. This is something you may not expect in dietary guidelines; however, doing so may help support a varied diet.If you try to focus on local foods or cultural dishes, you open yourself up for an increased variety of different foods. You may try new foods or dishes that can help you meet the daily recommended intakes of each food.
Try going to local farmer's markets or farm stands if they're available. These locally grown foods may be less expensive and more flavorful than store bought.If you live in a city, try going to different ethnic restaurants. Or if there is an area in your city that features different cuisines, visit some of those restaurants. You'll be able to try new things or foods prepared in new ways.
 Another unique focus of the Japanese Dietary Guidelines is the suggestion to try to reduce food waste. They emphasize the need to think through your meal planning, cooking and food usage during the week.Start by planning out your meals for the week. Having a plan in place can help you buy a limited amount of groceries and avoid purchasing things you don't need or won't use.
Also plan to keep leftovers. If you cook larger quantities of something, make sure you have a plan for those leftovers. You can pack them for lunch the next day or freeze them for a quick meal later in the month.
Keep an eye on your foods during the week. If there is a food that will spoil more quickly, make sure to cook that first so it doesn't go bad during the week.
 The Japanese Dietary Guidelines do not only focus on eating habits and nutrition. Like the US guidelines, they also provide guidance and recommendations on physical activity.


The Japanese exercise guidelines are overarching. It's suggested to be active for at least 60 minutes a day (a much higher amount compared to the US); however, it doesn't specifically say how much time should be spent on different types of activities.These guidelines do give recommendations to those people with chronic diseases like high blood pressure. It is thought that physical activity is a beneficial lifestyle remedy for some of these chronic conditions.
Any type of activity can be done to reach your 60 minutes daily. The Japanese guidelines suggest anything from housework, gardening, water aerobics, walking or running.
 The Japanese Dietary Guidelines do not have a specific recommendation for strength training. These exercises are done as part of your 60 minutes of activity each day.Strength training exercises that are suggested include: calisthenics or weight lifting exercises.
These guidelines do give recommendations if you have experienced loss of muscle mass or strength. It's advised to focus on strength training activities to help support your body as you age.
 The Japanese Dietary Guidelines emphasize making leisure time more active. In addition, it's emphasized that physical activity can be used to add meaning to life.The Japanese guidelines stress the importance of giving meaning to everything you do (like being mindful while you eat). In regards to physical activity, it's recommended to choose exercises that enhance self-satisfaction and support social interactions.
This type of focus on activity can help making exercising more fun and enjoyable. If you're actually enjoying your exercise, you're more likely to stick with your routine.
The Japanese guidelines give examples of such activities and they include: shopping with a family member or friend, gardening with a family member, walking together, playing a sport or dancing.

