 Keep a notebook of when your dog relieves himself, when his symptoms occur, when he eats and drinks, and so on. This helps to establish a pattern to the symptoms. It can also be a very useful tool for the veterinarian to diagnose your dog’s illness. If your dog is mildly sick (not eating the best for a day, restless, vomiting once or twice, a bout of diarrhea) you can carefully observe your dog at home and phone your vet for advice.;
, There are several severe symptoms that require immediate medical attention.Never wait on these symptoms and call your vet right away:


Unconsciousness
Profuse bleeding
Known ingestion of a toxic substance
Unrelenting vomiting and diarrhea
Broken bones
Breathing difficulties
Seizures that don’t stop within one minute
Unable to urinate or not producing urine
New or recurring symptoms in a dog with a medical condition (diabetes, Addison’s disease, etc.)
Large swellings around the face, eyes or throat

, Some symptoms of illness can be uncomfortable for dog and may indicate conditions that need to be treated. Call your vet to get advice on treating the following symptoms:


Isolated seizure that lasts less than one minute
Occasional vomiting and diarrhea lasting longer than one day
Fever
Lethargy lasting longer than one day
Not eating for more than one day
Difficulty defecating
Limping or acting painful
Excessive drinking
Swelling that comes on gradually
Lumps or bumps that suddenly appear or current ones that grow
Any other odd symptom or behavior (shivering or whimpering)

, For puppies and dogs older than 6 months who have previously been healthy, you can withhold all food for up to 24 hours if the primary symptoms are vomiting or diarrhea.


This also includes treats and rawhides.
 Never withhold water from a sick dog, unless he vomits it up. If this happens, contact your veterinarian for advice.
 After you withhold food for 24 hours, and your dog is behaving more normally, you can gradually introduce a bland diet for 1-2 days. A bland diet for a dog includes one part easily digested protein and 2 parts an easily digested starch.


Typical protein sources include cottage cheese or chicken (no skin or fat) or boiled hamburger.
A good starch is plain cooked white rice.Feed your dog one cup daily (split into 4 servings 6 hours apart) per 10 pounds of weight.
 Make sure your dog gets plenty of rest by restricting how much exercise and play time he gets. Take him out on a leash to relieve himself, but don’t let him play while he feels poorly. This is especially important if he is limping.
 Pay attention to how much your dog is defecating and urinating while he is ill. If you normally let him outside by himself, use a leash while he’s ill so that you can watch how much he urinates or defecates.


Do not punish your dog if it has an accident inside the house—stool, urine or vomiting. They cannot help it if they are sick and may hide from you if they are punished.
 Make sure you keep a very close eye on your dog, in case the symptoms get worse. Do not leave your dog on his own. Do not leave him alone for the day or weekend. If you must leave the house (for example, you need to go to work), have someone check on your dog every 2 hours.


If you can’t arrange this, call your veterinary clinic to see if they do monitoring in the clinic. Symptoms can worsen quickly, or new or more serious symptoms can occur rapidly.
 If you’re unsure about your dog’s symptoms, or if he seems to be getting worse, call your vet for advice.
 Don’t leave the dog outside or in the garage. The dog may have trouble regulating its temperature and you won’t be able to close observe it for a change in symptoms.
 Provide a dog bed with blankets in a spot where you can easily and frequently monitor your dog. Choose blankets with your scent on them so that your dog will feel comforted.


It’s a good idea to choose a spot with easily cleaned floors, such as in a bathroom or kitchen. Then, if your dog vomits or has an accident, you can clean it up easily and quickly.
 While your dog is sick, keep the sound down and lights low. Think about how you like the environment when you are sick. Your dog will appreciate similar ambience. Limit visitors and noise from vacuums, children, and the television. This will allow your dog to get the rest he needs.
 It is a good idea to keep your sick dog away from other dogs. This will help prevent any transmission of diseases. This quiet time will also give your dog some time to rest.
 Foods that are safe for humans can be deadly to dogs. Products like xylitol are especially dangerous for dogs. This is present in sugar-free foods and tooth care products.


Other toxic foods include bread dough, chocolate, avocados, alcohol, grapes, raisins, onions, garlic, and other foods., Never give your dog human medication unless you have checked with your veterinarian. These medications can be toxic to dogs and they may make illnesses worse.
 Always monitor your dog when he is outside. Keep potentially toxic substances out of his reach. These can include pesticides, antifreeze, fertilizers, prescription medications, insecticides and other items.These items can be poisonous and potentially lethal to a dog.

