 First, download DVD Flick by heading to this link: http://www.dvdflick.net/download.php.


You will be taken to the download page for DVD Flick. Click on the yellow “Download DVD Flick” button, and you will be taken to a Sourceforge window. The download will then automatically start.;
, Once you finish the download, click on it at the bottom of your browser window. This will launch the installer. Just keep clicking “Next” until the installation initiates.


Make sure to read all the instructions and information in the installation wizard.
 Open DVD Flick once it’s installed by double-clicking on its icon in the desktop. It is the film icon with the four yellow squares in the left.


Once the software is open, you will be greeted to an extremely straightforward user interface.
 You will want to make sure that the settings are right before you begin. So click on the icon in the top labeled “Project Settings.” A window should pop up, where you can tweak the settings to your liking.


Under General, you can set the target size of your media (in your case, DVD). Leave it at DVD.
Under the Video category, you will be able to set the format of your DVD player. For US regions, use the NTSC format under target format, and PAL for everywhere else.
Under Encoding, you can set it to “Best” if you think that the quality of your video can use some improvements, but if you’re happy with the quality and want quick processing, choose “Normal.”
Click on “Accept” to set your preferences, and you can begin making your DVD.
 Simply drag and drop the video to the DVD Flick window.


You will see a yellow bar in the left side, which indicates the amount of space you have taken up relative to the target size you set earlier.
 You may want to add things like titles and chapters to your flick, so select the video in the main screen and click on “Edit title” in the right panel. Here you will see a window with a few categories in it.


Under General, you can set the name for the video, as well as the target aspect ratio of your output.
You can add chapters by clicking on “Chapters” in the left panel. You can set DVD Flick to set chapters every few minutes, as well as specify the number of chapters you wish to include in your DVD.
You can also insert audio and subtitle tracks in the remaining tabs in the left.
Click Accept when you are happy with your configuration.
, Make sure you have enough space in your hard drive to house the transcoded DVD file, as well as a DVD in your DVD drive inserted. Click on “Create DVD” in the top of the DVD Flick window to begin the burning process.


Now, you can sit back and do other things while waiting for your DVD to finish burning.

