 Choose a pretty color for the fabric. It can be baby or nursery-themed, or something that you find pretty.


If you can't find any pre-folded cloth diapers, you can use another type of absorbent fabric, such as terry cloth, minky fabric, or flannel. Cut it down to 11 by 16 inches (27.94 by 40.64 centimeters)., Do not use dryer sheets; some people find that they reduce the fabrics' absorbency. Once the diapers and cotton fabric is dry, iron them out. They will have shrunk a little in the wash, but the ironing will help length and smooth them out again., If the fabric is much later than the diaper, trim it down until the edges align.



If you are making your burp cloth from scratch using you own fabric, use a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance instead.Consider using a piece of masking tape to remind you where to leave the gap. Pull the tape off when you are done sewing., Snip the corners as close as you can to the stitching without actually cutting through the thread. This will help reduce the bulk. ref>http://takingcareofmonkeybusiness.com/blog/2015/11/05/diy-burp-cloths/</ref>


Use a chopstick, knitting needle, or some other blunt, pointy tool to help turn and shape the corners.
 Be sure to tuck any excess fabric into the gap first, so that the edges are neat and even. If you need to, keep the edge down with sewing pins.
 Turn the burp cloth so that the diaper cloth side is facing you. Sew all the way around it, as close to the edges as you can. Be sure to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing to prevent the thread from unraveling. If you used any sewing pins, be sure to pull them out as you go.


Use a thread color that matches your diaper cloth, typically white.
Use a bobbin color that matches your patterned fabric. You can either match it to the background or to the pattern.
 Most pre-folded cloth diapers will have a set of two lines running down the middle. Topstitch straight down the diaper, ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) to left of the left-hand-side stitch line. Next, topstitch ¼ inch (0.64 centimeter) to the right of the right-hand-side stitch line.Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing to keep the thread from coming undone.


If you make your burp cloth using your own fabric, you can skip this step. You can also simply topstitch two vertical lines down the center of your burp cloth, about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) away from the long edges.

