 Carbo-loading the night before will never hurt - have a pasta party with your team the day before a race. Make sure you wake up early enough to have a full breakfast before the race and drink lots of water up until about 45 minutes before your start, when you should start tapering off. Don't worry about how much food you consume on race day until about an hour and a half before your start - just eat however much you want and use the bathroom whenever necessary. Stay away from anything sugary. Taper off your food consumption around an hour and a half before your start. A protein or granola bar or two is fine after that. If you are having problems with digestion, try to eat foods with a lot of fiber like prunes, cranberries, and some cereals (like Grape Nuts).;
, Before your first race ensure you apply yourself with liberal amounts of baby oil to reduce friction during the race, top up in between races to keep a plentiful amount of oil on your skin.
 ALWAYS get a full night of sleep before a race day, but make sure you wake up in enough time to eat and digest breakfast before the race. This means you may have to go to bed early in order to wake up early. If your category is not a straight final, or if you are racing in multiple categories, you may want to take a nap in between races. Naps can be great for you. However, you will want to make sure you do not nap in a location or in a position that will make you sore or stiff when you wake up. Stretch before you nap. If you want to eat before your next race, get most of your eating done before your nap. Set a timer for an hour and a half before your start. This will give you time for your body to wake up, time to use the facilities (such as they are), and time to rehydrate. Do not sleep through your race.
 Different psychological race prep methods work for different people. You might want to listen to music to pump or or to calm down, or you might want to talk with your crew to do the same. You may want to be alone or you may want to be with other people. It's probably best not to be too pumped up (don't burn out) or too calm (it is a race, after all). You may want to put together a pre-race playlist a few days before if you like to listen to music. If you prefer a longer warm-up than your team, hit the erg or take a short jog, but DO NOT tire yourself out. Nothing more than 25% effort.
 If your boat has a race plan, know it. Talk with your coxswain about the race if you need to. You may also want to consider making a personal race plan to keep your mind on something during the race. On the other hand, "get in front; stay in front" is still a legitimate plan. Figure out what works for you.
 Check your seat on the boat. Make sure your stretchers are tied and your slide is rolling smoothly. If you've rigged the boat that day, check to make sure the riggers are on the right seats - this makes a big difference in the set of the boat! Be sure you have all the clothes you need and a little water. Warm up with your team.
 Give it all you've got.

