 The best way to do this is to transfer the wrapped chicken from your freezer to your fridge 24 hours before you want to cook. If you are on a tighter schedule, there are other methods to defrost chicken that take less time.






;
, Hold your chicken under cold running water. Make sure that you do not use warm or hot water because hot water can lead to bacterial growth.
 There is a limitless number of ways you can flavor your chicken. Get creative and try new combinations of seasonings and marinades. If you are following a specific recipe, add your seasonings now. Don’t forget salt and pepper!








Oil and season your chicken. Rub cooking oil such as olive oil on the chicken to get a crispier outside texture. Add seasonings like thyme, oregano, lemon, garlic, or any other herb or seasoning to add some pizzazz to your poultry. You can also use a store bought rub like Cajun or spicy chili rub. To most thoroughly coat the chicken, pour the oil and seasonings into a plastic, sealable bag. Put the chicken inside, seal the bag, and shake.

Marinate your chicken. Pour your marinade into a bowl and let the chicken soak in the marinade for two to eight hours. Make sure to keep the chicken and marinade in the fridge while it soaks. Leaving it for eight hours or more will ensure the most flavorful results.

Brine your chicken. Brine gives chicken an extra salty flavor and can be combined with many different seasonings. Mix coarse salt into warm water and add your desired seasonings. Some people also add sugar to their brine. Let the chicken soak in the brine for two to eight hours (keep it in the fridge while it is soaking.)

, Make the chicken as flat as possible before broiling to help ensure an even cooking. Butterfly the chicken if you’re using a whole breast or bird.
 Do this before you place the chicken on it. The foil will catch any drips from the chicken and will make cleanup easier. Do not line the grate itself with aluminum foil, as this will prevent the drippings from falling away from the element.
, Do this if your broiler is at the top of your oven. Set the oven rack approximately 5 to 6 inches (12.7 to 15.2 cm) below the element so the chicken is right beneath the element if using an oven broiler.









If you do not have a broiler tray you can use a baking sheet instead.
If using a slide out broiler beneath the oven, set the broiler tray directly on the bottom rack.
 Broil thinner cuts for 10 minutes and thicker cuts for 15 minutes.
 Turn it over and rub a little bit of cooking oil (such as olive oil) on the uncooked side. Doing this will ensure that the chicken browns and gets a little crispy.









Use a spatula to turn the chicken over, rather than a fork. This will prevent the juices from escaping the meat before it's done.
 Keep in mind that if the chicken broils for too long, it could become very dry. Leave the chicken in until it has browned.
 Use a meat thermometer to determine whether or not the chicken is done. The internal temperature should be 180 °F (82 °C) for chicken thighs and drumsticks, 170 °F (77 °C) for breast meat and 165 °F (74 °C) for patties.








If you do not have a meat thermometer, take the chicken out and make a small cut in it. If the chicken meat is pink or shiny and grayish looking, it is not done. Your chicken should be white and opaque.
You should also check the color of the juices. The chicken juices will run clear when it is cooked all the way through.
 Remove the chicken when it is cooked through.
 After you take the chicken out of the broiler, you can give it a little extra flavor by adding sauce. Apply the sauce to the chicken with a cooking brush, butter knife, or spoon.








