 There are a couple of options for where to measure a dog's blood pressure. No location is necessarily better than any other; it's largely a matter of what the dog will allow and what is easiest for you to stabilize.The cuff of an automatic device is usually administered around one of the dog's limbs or around the base of the tail.
If using a limb, it's best to measure on the dog's right side at either the forearm (antebrachium) of the front limb or the outside of the hind leg.;
, Before you perform the test, you'll need to make sure the blood pressure cuff fits your dog correctly. A cuff that is too large often produces falsely low blood pressure readings, while a cuff that's too small will yield a falsely high reading.The ideal size for a blood pressure cuff is approximately 40 percent of the dog's appendage circumference.
When you lay the cuff flat against the leg or tail, the edges should be between 25% and 50% of the appendage's circumference.
 Once you've determined that the cuff is the correct size for your dog, you can attach the cuff and proceed in taking a measurement. The cuff should be snug and secure without being too tight. It should be just snug enough that you cannot insert a finger between the cuff and the dog's appendage., Once the cuff is in place, the rest of the test is very similar to that of a human blood pressure measurement. You'll simply activate the automatic device, allow the cuff to inflate, then take the reading that the device gives you. The cuff presses against the dog's artery while inflated, and the pressure inside the cuff gets above the dog's systolic pressure. As the cuff deflates, the machine measures both systolic and diastolic blood pressure.Hold the cuff (attached to the dog's appendage) at chest level on the dog, which should be approximately the height of the dog's heart.The normal systolic blood pressure range is between 110 and 160 mm of mercury (Hg). Normal diastolic blood pressure lies between 60 and 90 mm Hg.A dog has high blood pressure if its systolic blood pressure is consistently above 180 mm Hg.

