 When you are deciding on people to be friends with, choose someone who has similar interests as you.Even though you have a tic disorder, you still want to befriend people who have similar interests. This may mean someone in drama club who shares your love of theater or someone in one of your classes who likes comic books.Look around at the people you interact with on a daily basis. This may include people in your classes, at your job, or in your neighborhood. These people are already familiar to you, so they are all potential friends.;
, You probably have a lot of acquaintances. These are people you interact with on a regular basis, like at work or school. You may exchange small talk or say hello to one another. One way to make friends is to start talking more to these acquaintances.Ask the acquaintance what they did over the weekend or what they like to do in their spare time. You may discover that you share common interests.
Offer a bit of yourself to the other person. Tell the person about an activity you’ve done recently you’ve enjoyed, or a movie you’ve seen or book you’ve read that was good.
One way that some people with tic disorders break the ice with people is to make a joke about their tic disorder. It may be a way to see if the person will be kind and worth being friends with, and help the other person be more comfortable about your tic disorder., Some people might not know how to deal with their own uncomfortable feelings and avoid people who have a disorder. It helps to read the signals the other person is giving off to determine if they are interested in becoming friends despite your disorder. Pay attention to how the other person acts when you talk to them. Are they interested, or do they quickly move on to another person or activity?Does the person ask follow up questions to you? Do they offer information about themselves?
Does the person seem happy to see you when you interact?

, If you want to meet people who have similar interests as you, you may consider joining a club or a group. These groups contain people who are interested in the same thing and can help you get to know people in a safe, low-stress environment. For people with a tic disorder, it may offer you a more inviting place to meet small groups of like-minded people who may be more accepting of you as a person instead of just as your condition.For example, you may want to join an art club or find a board game meetup. You may also look into intramural sports. Engaging in activities with people with similar interests can help you start building friendships.
 Before you approach someone, think about how you will introduce yourself to him or her. You don't need to do anything fancy to make an introduction. You can simply plan to say something like, "Hi! My name's Janet. What's yours?"


It can be helpful to ask a question to get a conversation going. Try to think of an open-ended question that you can ask to get the person talking. These are questions that do not result in a short answer. Instead, they get people talking.For example, at a book club meeting, you might plan to ask someone, "What did you think of the ending?" or "How did you like the main character?"

, Before you approach someone it might help to decide if you want to mention your tic disorder or not. This is up to you. You may choose not to mention it, or you may choose to bring it up.


If you decide to mention it, you can say something like, “You might have noticed my tics. I have Tourette’s syndrome…”
You may also decide to make a joke about it or treat it lightly; that may help show the other person it isn’t a big deal.
 Once you have found someone you want to potentially be friends with, you can introduce yourself. Make eye contact and smile. Then tell the person your name.If the other person notices your tic disorder, understand that many people may never have met someone with a tic disorder before, so it may be new for them. That doesn’t mean it bothers them or they won’t like you. It just means the other person, like you, is experiencing something new.
If your tic disorder is apparent when you introduce yourself, like through a verbal outburst or physical tic, make a joke about it, address it, or let the person know that you don't mean to offend but you can't help it because of your tic disorder.
 After you introduce yourself, or if you have already been introduced previously, you can casually ask the other person questions. This is a great way to start a conversation and let the other person know in a subtle way you are interested in talking to and getting to know them. By asking questions and talking to the person, you show that you are interested in being friends with them.Don’t ask too many questions at once. Ask one question at a time, and stick to one or two questions related to the situation you are in.
For example, if you are in class, you may ask, “What did you think of last night’s reading?” or “What did you think about that lecture?” If you are at a club meeting, you might ask about the person’s interest in art or drama, or ask them when they started playing the sport.
Making friends can be a slow process. Start by asking a few questions one day, then leaving the person alone. The next day, ask another question or two. Slowly build a relationship between you and the other person. You want to be able to show the other person that your tic disorder doesn't make you that much different than them.
 Unfortunately, not all people you may want to be friends with will want to be friends, and this holds true for anyone. The person may not be understanding of your tics, which is not your fault. People might not feel comfortable around you, or maybe they are not looking for any new friends, which has nothing to do with your tic disorder. You should notice the way the other person acts to decide whether you should pursue a friendship with them or not.If you ask a few questions and they give you short, clipped one-word answers, the person may be having a bad day, so try the next day. If you try again to have a conversation and the person answers in short, one-word answers or doesn’t respond with any questions of their own, you should try to make friends with another person.Observe people carefully to see how they interact with other people. For instance, that person who gives you short answers could simply be shy, so you might observe that the person communicates like this with everyone. Being observant will help you tell the difference. You could in this case take a softer approach with the person, or you could step back and say something to the person occasionally, or simply smile at the person.
Watch the other person’s body language. Are they making eye contact with you while you talk, or are they on their cell phone? Are they smiling and nodding like they are listening? Are they giving you detailed responses or asking you follow up questions?
You should also notice if the person is genuinely interested or if they act like they are mocking you or being mean to you. If the person seems to be treating you poorly or mocking you, then do not waste your time on this person.
 Some people may notice your tics or be surprised or distracted by them at first, but after they get used to talking to someone with Tourette’s syndrome, they won’t pay attention to them anymore. If you experience this, and the person seems interested in you, then the person is worth pursuing a friendship with. Any person who you like, who seems interested in talking to you, and who is nice is worth being friends with.Even if it takes a few weeks to become friends, as long as the person continues to be nice, interested, and friendly towards you, keep talking to them.
If the person does not seem interested, is unfriendly, or seems annoyed when you speak to them, they are not worth pursuing. If the person seems turned off by your tics, or they seem like they are amused or making fun of you, they are definitely not worth pursuing.
 Because of their own personal issues, people might feel uncomfortable or not understand how to approach you. If you want to make new friends, take the first step in initiating contact with a person you want to be friends with. Not everyone will respond well, but you will never know until you try.


When you talk to the potential new friend, ask them to go see a movie with you, ask if they want to have coffee, find out their phone number or email address so you can talk to them, or just simply say hi. This can help break the ice and let others know that, despite your disorder, you still do the same things that everyone else does.
Start small if you are afraid to make a larger leap at first. You can work up to more direct contact as you become more comfortable with yourself and the act of making friends., If it doesn't work out, that's fine. All people experience rejection from time to time, or even more than that. There are lots of reasons why. By not always placing blame on your tic disorder, you'll learn that not everyone makes connections with other people for many reasons.
 Try to avoid getting attached too quickly to a new friend. Don’t come on too strong or act clingy when you are in the early stages of your friendship. This may upset your new friends or scare them away.


In order to not come on too strong, give your friend space when you first meet them. Make sure you don’t call or text too much so your friend doesn’t get overwhelmed by your presence. Go enjoy a hobby on your own or spend time with your family if you feel like you want to contact your friend too much., If you have been isolating yourself, then getting out more often can help you to encounter more potential friends. You will not be able to make friends if you are not around people. If you want to make new friendships, try your best to get out a little more and socialize. Look for little opportunities to socialize more in your daily routine.


For example, you might just try going to a coffee shop once a week. You could strike up a conversation with someone who you have seen there often by saying something like, “I love this place too. What’s your favorite drink?”
Or you could try visiting a local dog park with your dog and strike up a conversation with another dog owner by saying, “Your dog is beautiful! What’s his/her name?”

, If someone you start getting to know isn’t the kind of friend you want or you don’t get along that well, don’t try to force the friendship to happen. Friendships should feel natural and somewhat easy as the friendship progresses, so if it doesn’t feel right, it’s ok to stop being that person’s friend.


Try to find quality friends who you enjoy being around. You don’t have to have a lot of friends, just a few people who you like spending time with., To make new friends, it is helpful to like yourself and feel confident. This is easier said than done, but you can work with your family and therapist to get to a place where you find yourself worthy.


Tell yourself every day that you are a person worthy of friendship and love.Try saying something like, "I am a wonderful person and I deserve good friends who care about me."
If you find this difficult to do, create a list of your positive attributes to read over every day. You can include things like you artistic abilities, your kindness, and your awesome hair. List all of the positive aspects that you can think of and read over this list at least once per day.
You can also make up a personal mantra to remind yourself how great you are, such as "I'm smart, I'm cool, and nobody has my style.", If you want to meet people who have had similar experiences, look into joining a tic disorder support group.You will be able to meet others with a tic disorder, and you might find that you connect with some of them.


Being around people who understand your experience may also make it easier to relax around the person.
 Having to deal with your own disorder may cause you to feel more compassion for the struggles that other people are facing. Try volunteering for a cause you are passionate about. Not only will you be helping others, but you will also be able to meet people that care about similar things to you.


If you aren’t sure a cause to help, look for opportunities in your area to see if any of them seem interesting.For example, you could volunteer your time at a local homeless shelter, become a dog walker for an animal shelter, or help organize a fundraising event for a good cause.
 Attending public events is a great way to meet people who might become new friends, especially if you attend events that interest you. By talking with people at events that interest you, you will already have something in common that you can bring up.


Start at events where you feel comfortable and relaxed.
Good events to try are gallery openings, art shows, public lectures, music recitals, or book clubs.For example, you might strike up a conversation with another book club member by saying, “I loved this book! What did you think of it?”

, When you work, you are often with the same people while you are there. This is a great place to try to make friends. These people will already know about your tic disorder, so you will not have to help them understand or explain your condition in order for you to be friends. Try to talk to your coworkers more and get to know them.


See if your coworker would like to go for dinner after work or go for a walk in the park at lunchtime.
Don’t let worry or fear get in your way. Your coworker already knows you somewhat since you see them every day. Just make the first step towards being their friend.