 A kitten is adorable and it can be really hard not to want to take care of them. But raising a kitten (especially one that is still nursing) and socializing it to be a pet is a difficult and long process. You need to be sure you’re ready for that type of commitment.Also keep in mind that a stray kitten will need veterinarian care at some point. Standard care (e.g. vaccinations, spay/neuter, flea treatment, deworming, etc.) can cost several hundred dollars. Non-standard care (e.g. emergency visits, treatment of parasites or ringworm, upper respiratory infections, and more) can be very expensive and it can be hard to predict which kittens will need such treatment.
If you aren’t able to take on such a commitment, you might be able to find someone else who can. Start with animal control and your local humane society. Also try local cat rescue organizations and other rescue organizations. You can also call veterinarian offices to inquiry if they know of someone who can help.
 In order to ensure the kitten is growing, weigh her every day. You might want to get into a schedule of weighing the kitten before every feeding, or at the same time every day. Record the kitten’s weight on a chart so you can keep track of it over time.A kitten should double her weight in the first week of her life.
 Once a kitten is 4 weeks old you can start teaching them how to use a little box. If a kitten starts looking for a place to go to the bathroom before 4 weeks of age, you can try putting out a little box even earlier.Use a very shallow box for kittens. Many shelters and rescues use the box canned cat food is packed in.
Use non-clumping litter for kittens. Do not use paper or towels to train a kitten as this may cause them to develop bad litter box habits that a future owner may not appreciate.
After the kitten has eaten, place them in the litter box to encourage them to use it. You can also put a used cotton ball or tissue in with them to give them the idea of what they’re suppose to do.
 Unfortunately kittens, especially those who were born outside, can have a variety of health problems when they’re young. Watch for these problems while you’re taking care of them and take them to a veterinarian if you notice any of these problems developing.Upper Respiratory Infections (URIs) are very common in kittens. If a kitten has yellow discharge coming out of their nose, or they’re having trouble breathing while they eat, they may have an URI. Depending on the severity of the infection, they may need to be given antibiotics.
Fleas can also be quite common on cats that have come from the outdoors. For a kitten fleas can be deadly. If the kitten you’re caring for has fleas, start by combing them off with a flea comb, then give them a warm bath. Do not use flea shampoo on a kitten or a parasite medication like Revolution.
Parasites can also be found in kittens from the outdoors. Parasites usually cause poo problems. If you notice this, take the kitten to your veterinarian who can provide you with a deworming treatment for a kitten as young as 10 days old.
 As your kitten gets older, you need to take her to the veterinarian for a wellness exam and vaccinations — assuming you haven’t already taken her to the vet due to illness. Vaccinations are usually given in multiple doses over several weeks or months.