 If care is taken to do regular upkeep checks, this can be balanced out and problems dealt with and removed. Windows PCs tend to slow down as applications are introduced and utilized. Whether you are utilizing a processor, a spreadsheet, surfing the web, playing games or whatever else, hard drives loaded up with makeshift documents that don't generally get evacuated when no longer required will slow down considerably. Hard drives can succumb to wear and tear over time as well.
 Filling up almost the entire hard drive with what amounts to junk will cause your computer to crawl. Over time, this compromises the function of the computer. While you can increase the RAM and maybe upgrade the CPU and GPU for the best performance, cleaning out the system is a good starting option, as junk has no place on your computer.
 Keeping junk files in the computer can decrease the speed dramatically. Disk space is required for installing new files. Always clean your history, recycle bin and temporary files (see next).
 Physically cleaning out the temporary filw organizer is a fundamental maintenance step. Check to see whether the Windows XP Disk Cleanup utility is doing its job or not. Deleting temporary documents is a simple task that can help free up drive space and keeps your PC free of document mess.
 If you have decided to stop using a program, always remove it from your Add or Remove Programs function in the Control Panel.


Force Uninstall: When you uninstall any program, there will be some files left over after that, so you need to force install that program.
 Your browsing history records the website addresses that you visit, temporary Internet files, cookies, and information that you have entered in certain websites such as your name and address. Cookies are tiny data files that store information about your custom website settings. Cleaning them out often can help free up space and improve speed.
 Defragmentation is one of those words that sends most user’s heads spinning but it’s very easy to understand. Often, a tech will leave this function running after they’ve completed servicing a PC. The software for doing this is included in Windows and it only takes a button press to start it. Basically, the function cleans up the hard drive so that files are more quickly accessed.
 For example, CCleaner can delete temporary or potentially unwanted files left by certain programs. The program also includes a registry cleaner to locate and correct problems in the Windows registry.


Periodically conduct scans for viruses, spywares and the registry errors.
 Viruses are constant. There is always the chance to get infected from them if you use the internet. Always have a good antivirus installed on your computer.
, If your system is affected by a fatal error always use the services of a trusted computer repair service provider. Do not rely on advertisers claiming to correct PC errors with a magic wand. It is always better to spot the errors from the beginning. It is possible through self maintenance which also saves time and cost.
 Adblocker is the best way to get rid of annoying ads, online tracking and to protect your computer from malware and phishing.
 A driver is software that allows your computer to communicate with hardware devices. Without drivers, the devices you connect to your computer would not work properly. You can automatically update. Windows can automatically check if there are drivers available for new devices that you connect to your computer.
 If your computer suddenly starts operating very slowly, check to see if the case feels overly hot. Especially in hot climates, make sure that the computer has adequate airflow around it. Overheating causes myriad difficulties and the computer bays in most work desks do not provide sufficient airflow.


Overheating can result in genuine problems. It can harm key inner parts, including the processor, battery, and hard drive. Running at high temperatures for a lengthy amount of time can cause drive failure. Hard drive failure rates increase somewhere around 20% and 30% for each 10 degrees above recommended working temperatures.
 Errors do happen with systems. Note them down. Search for their solution on wikiHow or through the website of the affected program. You will find answers to most of the errors on this site or on the manufacturer's/creator's site.

