 Zinc has long been believed to have immune boosting properties. Research on the precise effectiveness of zinc has produced mixed results, but zinc may be able to reduce the likelihood of becoming sick. If it is safe for you to take zinc given your current health and any existing medications, taking zinc in the form of syrup or lozenges may reduce your risk of contracting the flu.It's best to take zinc in the form of lozenges and syrups. Too much zinc in the diet can cause health problems, such as anemia or a copper deficiency, so talk to your doctor about how much zinc you can safely consume each day.
Some zinc comes in the form of nasal sprays. Such sprays can cause major health problems, such as the permanent loss of smell, so avoid them. Go for safer lozenges and syrups instead.
Zinc can come with side effects, especially if it's taken in lozenge form. You may notice nausea or a bad taste in your mouth after taking the zinc.;
, While vitamin C does not necessarily prevent colds or flus, it may decrease their duration if your diet is high in vitamin C. Also, vitamin C may prevent the flu in very athletic people, like marathon runners or skiers. If you are very physically active, a diet rich in vitamin C could potentially help you prevent the cold or flu.Vitamin C is found in many fruits and vegetables. Citrus fruits are a great source of vitamin C, as are kiwis, mangoes, papayas, strawberries, pineapples, cantaloupes, and watermelon. For vegetables, foods like broccoli, Brussels sprouts, cauliflower, spinach, cabbage, turnips, sweet potatoes, and green and red peppers contain vitamin C.
They do sell vitamin C supplements at most health food stores and drugstores. However, vitamin C can cause health problems if you have too much in your system, such as anemia, bleeding gums, and easy bruising. You should talk to your doctor before using a vitamin C supplement to make sure you're not getting too much vitamin C.
 Echinacea is the roots, seeds, and other parts of the echinacea plant. Echinacea is sold in a variety of forms, like oils and supplements, at drug stores. Evidence on the precise effectiveness of echinacea has been somewhat inconclusive. While there is no significant evidence showing echinacea can help prevent the flu, it has been effective for some in the past. It may be worth a try if you want to avoid the flu this season.Talk to your doctor about how to use echinacea. If you're taking supplements each day, it's especially important to talk to your doctor about a safe dose for you.
Echinacea is also sold in the form of a tea, so you cry drinking echinacea tea.
If you get echinacea oil to do something like aromatherapy, always dilute the oil prior to use.
Never use echinacea on children younger than 12. This can be dangerous.
 Garlic may help reduce your risk of certain infections, such as upper respiratory infections. You can add garlic to your meals, or add minced garlic to water or tea, throughout the year. This may boost your immune system and reduce your risk of coming down with the flu when flu season hits.If you are on blood thinners, talk to your doctor before you adopt a diet rich in garlic. Garlic can increase your risk of bleeding.
If you are pregnant or breastfeeding, do not take garlic supplements before discussing this with your doctor.
Garlic interacts with many different medications, including medications for ailments like HIV/AIDS. It's very important you check with a doctor or pharmacist before upping the amount of garlic in your diet if you are on prescription medication.
 Astragalus is a herb used in traditional Chinese medicine. Research does show astragalus has anti-viral and antibacterial properties. It may be able to boost your immune system if you use it regularly, reducing your risk of contracting the flu.The dried root of the astragalus plant is usually used medically. You can take it in the form of a capsule, tincture, or topically on your skin.
Talk to your physician about how to take astragalus. How you take astragalus depends on a variety of factors, including your age, weight, and current health. In most cases, you can safely take astragalus as a supplement, but only your doctor can determine a safe amount to consume.

