 Many times people spend time devising comebacks or arguments instead of actively listening to another. Use your listening skills twice as much as your desire to talk, and honestly absorb the intent., By repeating the criticism, you placate them by displaying the fact you heard their opinion, respect it, and are willing to work on the reason for the criticism.Try the following strategies to get their attention and gain their approval.


Replace the pronouns, repeat their words, and provide an affirmation. If they say, “You're doing it slowly!” reply with, “I’m doing it slowly. Got it.”
Write the criticism down while it’s being given to you. You’ll have their words verbatim and there will be no confusion about what they desire.
 If the criticism is directed at your actions but delivered harshly, try not to internalize the negativity of it. Try rewording what was said to you to get to the actual meaning. A few examples:”Your laziness is ruining the timeline of this project!” – “Put in some overtime.”
”You don't have a clue, do you?” – “Your training is inadequate.”
”Do it my way, because you’re screwing up!” – “I’m more in tune with company vision – follow my lead.”

, Nobody is perfect. Owning up to the reason for the criticism – particularly if it’s warranted – could very well defuse the situation and appease the critic., There is a distinct possibility, despite the acerbic nature of the criticism or your antipathy to it, the criticism may be helpful. Take it all in and see if you can use the criticism to your advantage.There is a distinct possibility the criticism possesses a fresh perspective you hadn't considered. Try to soak in the criticism and implement the new approach.
Picture the critic as someone you respect or love, like a parent or church leader. If the criticism were from them, you may receive it differently.
Imagine the criticism is from someone with vastly superior knowledge and skill than you.
 There is a fine art to giving praise instead of criticism, and many lack the subtlety. Disarm the source of criticism by asking for opinions on what you should do, how you should improve, or any other recommendation on your actions.


”Could you show me how to fix the issue?”
”I need your expertise to work through this the first time.”
”I’d appreciate your advice and input on this difficult challenge.”

