 Most leather leggings are actually made with faux leather instead of the real deal, but you can go with either option.Most faux leather is made from stretchy fabric, like spandex, coated with some form of black polyurethane.
Faux leather is generally cheaper and easier to care for. You can usually wash faux leather in your washing machine without damaging the material, but real leather tends to be more temperamental.;
, Leather leggings are available in both matte and glossy finishes, so it helps to know which type you're interested in before shopping.


Matte leggings are more subtle, which may make them more versatile additions to your wardrobe. They're a good choice if you want to ease your way into the style rather than jumping in head first.
Gloss leggings, also called "liquid" leggings, are shiny and loud, so you'll undoubtedly attract plenty of attention when you wear them. The extra attention can be great if you have the shape and style to live up to it, but if not, gloss leggings might not be the best choice.
Snake print leggings are another option. The texture gives the material more visual interest without making it as loud as a high-gloss finish, making it a good choice when you want something bolder than matte leggings yet more subtle than gloss leggings.
 Black leather leggings and dark brown leather leggings are the easiest to find, and with good reason. These two options are the most versatile and easiest to style well.


That being said, you can find leather leggings in white, red, and a range of other colors. Like glossy leggings, though, brightly colored leggings tend to be loud and may even seem obnoxious if you don't pair them with the exact right pieces.
 It should go without saying, but it is absolutely crucial that your leather leggings actually fit your body well. When in doubt, go with a size larger rather than a size that feels a little snug.


Leather and faux leather are both pretty unforgiving fabrics with regards to body shape. If the material stretches taut over your legs and waist, expect to see every fold highlighted in an unappealing manner.
 Leather leggings are more structured than many other types of leggings, but ultimately, they're still leggings. As such, they look best when worn with slightly longer tops that cover the waist and crotch.


Avoid cropped tops and tops that must be tucked into your bottoms. If you absolutely must wear these types of pieces with leather bottoms, leather pants would be a much better option than leather leggings.
 On its own, leather can look tough or seductive. Pairing it with soft materials and loose shapes can cut down some of this inherent edginess. Your casual top will look more chic, and your leather leggings will look more practical.Try wearing a fluffy sweater during colder weather or a printed t-shirt during slightly warmer weather. Tunics and casual blouses can also work.
Balance the color as well as the shape. Soft pastel colors create a feminine tone, while muted colors can look simple and urban-chic.
 If you want to create something more sophisticated, try pairing your leather leggings with well-cut classic pieces. These bottoms may never be fit for the office, but pairing them with "business casual" tops can give your weekend look a major style boost.


Try wearing a long button-down shirt or collared blouse. Throw on a structured blazer to give the look a firmer touch, or slip on a cardigan to soften it up a bit.
Some sweaters can also look more formal than others, so while they won't work for the "cozy" look, they might work for the "classy" look. The right black sweater, in particular, can make your ensemble slightly sultrier without getting too carried away.
 Pairing leather leggings with a leather top or leather coat can easily overwhelm your ensemble. As a general rule, other materials and textures usually look much better.


If you do decide to wear leather with leather, make sure that you break up the look in some other way. Choose two different colors of leather—for instance, black leather leggings and a beige leather coat. Break it up further by mixing other materials into the the look, too.
 Since leather leggings are quite bold and sexy, you need to avoid tops that are equally bold and seductive since they'll likely compete with the leather instead of complementing it. Too much of a good thing can become very bad, very quickly.


There's nothing wrong with showing off the curves of your body, but you should generally avoid tops that are severely tight-fitting. Adding different shapes and layers will create a much better sense of balance.
Similarly, you should probably avoid bold prints or other loud textures. While those clothes may look fantastic when paired with other bottoms, they'll probably make your ensemble seem too busy when matched with leather leggings.
 Know what sort of style you're going for before picking out shoes to wear with your leather leggings. The right shoe can give your look an entirely new tone; likewise, the wrong shoe can throw everything off.It's usually easier to pick your top first and your shoes second, but do what works for you. Either way, the two pieces should coordinate with one another.
Most shoes will give this outfit the same tone they'd give any other outfit. In other words, casual shoes will make your leggings look more casual and sophisticated shoes will make your leggings look more sophisticated.
 Most shoe styles can work well with leather leggings, but there are a few that tend to clash.


Flip-flop sandals and cork wedges tend to clash. These shoe styles scream "summer," but leather leggings are generally restricted to the autumn, winter, and spring months.
Strappy high-heel dress shoes only work if they look relatively plain. Ones that are decorated with glitter, rhinestones, or other loud elements will likely compete for attention and throw off your style.
 Both stiletto heels and chunky heels can work well with leather leggings, but try to avoid heavy platforms and strappy numbers.


Closed-toe pumps and open-toe pumps are both classy enough options. Strappy stilettos can take the "sexiness" of leather leggings over the top, though, and not in a good way.
Thin stiletto heels can make your outfit look chic and sophisticated. Chunky heels, on the other hand, will amp up the "rock n' roll" overtones of your leather leggings.
 Ballet flats and sneakers are your best options when you want to tone down your look while still appearing chic and trendy.


Ballet flats are the easier option to pull off. Most flat styles have a simple, classy appeal that can keep your ensemble looking polished without becoming too formal.
Sneakers can look great if the rest of your style matches, but it's easy to go wrong. The right sneakers can create a sporty-chic style, but the sneakers themselves must be in "like new" condition and should be fairly stylish on their own.
 Ankle boots are the easiest to pair with leather leggings, but knee to thigh high boots can also work. Tall boots need to look classy, though.


In other words, avoid tall boots with thin stick heels and severely pointed toes. These boots tend to look a little too "sexy," and when paired with leather leggings, they could make your outfit look trashier instead of trendier.
Consider choosing a boot color that matches your legging color. Doing so can give your leg a seamless look, which may make you look taller and leaner.
 Like your top and shoes, your makeup should complement the leather leggings instead of competing with it. Light, natural makeup usually works best.


If you want to try using bolder makeup, focus on one facial feature and opt for bright colors rather than dark or glitzy cosmetics. For instance, red lipstick can work under some circumstances, but deep burgundy shades are more likely to make you look goth. Similarly, a sweep of bright eyeshadow can bring out your eyes, but heavy eyeliner will only weigh your appearance down.
 Leather leggings are so bold that they'll usually act as the focal point of your outfit. You can wear accessories, but these accessories should balance out your bottoms instead of competing for the spotlight.


Stick with accessories that draw attention to the upper half of your body and avoid those that create more weight on the bottom. Belts, bracelets, and rings will sit too close to the leggings and may end up clashing as a result. On the other hand, the right hat, scarf, earrings, or necklace can add a little visual interest to the top of your outfit without overwhelming the bottom half.
 Look in the mirror and do a style check after putting your entire outfit together. Leather leggings are naturally bold, so you'll need to wear them with confidence. As with any clothing item, though, you need to wear this piece in a balanced way that accentuates your natural beauty instead of burying it.

