 Be specific and concrete about what you expect your students to consider good writing. For example, have them write paragraphs of 7-10 sentences each. Show them examples of structured papers. For example, a sample paper might include an introductory paragraph, followed by the body of the paper, closing or summary paragraph.Vary the guidelines for different papers, to teach different methods of writing.
Teach transition words, such as "for example," or "in conclusion."

, In standard writing, informal word choices are less effective than formal word choices. To improve your students' writing, circle words like "kids, mom, dad," and suggest replacements, i.e., children, mother, father. Encourage use of the active voice over the passive.Circle less effective words and ask students to replace with stronger words. If the student doesn't know what stronger words are, offer suggestions.
Most formal writing avoids the first-person. If the paper relies on the use of pronouns such as I, we, our, or my, suggest that the student revise in favor of a more objective voice. The objective voice is typically written in third person and uses pronouns such as his, her, or their.
 Focus is established by the student in response to the assigned material. During the course of writing about a topic, each student's focus may vary. The focus of each paper should be clear to the writer, however. If the focus is clear to the writer, it will become clear to the reader.If the reader doesn't understand the writer's conclusions, the writer hasn't established a clear focus.
If the reader is interested and understands the material, the topic's focus is clear.
 The more difficult the subject is, the more concrete and clear the student's writing should be. Encourage students to provide examples that can be easily understood by others.Avoid using overly academic jargon or unnecessarily formal language.
Use a software program to help rid students' writing of unnecessary language.
 Sentence fluency refers to the auditory quality of words at the level of individuals words, phrases, and sentences. Sentence fluency means that the readers' attention flows from word to word, and phrase to phrase, without interruption.Avoid using too many short, choppy sentences. Overly-long, run-on sentences can also distract the reader's attention.
Sentence fluency encourages variety in the length of each sentence. Too much of any one length sentence will become dull. Too much variety becomes overwhelming.
 Ask students to review each others papers during class. You may want to have students review one another's papers in small group activities.Peer review will help students better understand that the purpose of the writing is to share knowledge of a topic.
Having students read each others' writing helps them to become better editors of their own writing.
Teach students to highlight areas that they would change, and state why they would make these changes. Encourage their critiques to be positive, practical and purposeful.
Have students identify components of their peers' papers, such as topic (or thesis) sentence, transitional phrases, conclusion, etc.
 Provide many examples of good writing during your classes, and encourage students to find other examples on their own. Show them why writing is effective: how does the author use language well to convey her point? What methods does she employ to focus her topic? How does she introduce her topic, or develop it? How does she vary her sentence lengths?Offer a written list of discipline-specific standards to help address writing challenges that may be unique to the subject matter. For example, someone who can write informational papers well may need further instruction in order to write persuasive papers.
Share examples of both positive and negative papers to further students' learning. Showing what not to do can be informative.
 Provide resources for students to learn the use of conventional grammar required for the discipline in which they're writing. If you have a writing center or tutoring center, see if you can get a one-page list of resources from them. There are several good online writing sites as well. Understanding the conventional uses of grammar will help your students' improve their writing.Grammatical conventions vary based on subject matter. Be specific and explicit in your expectations regarding the format in which your students are writing.
Point out the use of grammatical conventions used in examples of writing you share with your students.

