 Straightening hair--particularly hair that’s naturally curly or frizzy--is hard on it, so you’ll need to prepare it with a gentle shampoo and a rich, smoothing conditioner.Use gentle, sulfate-free shampoo to avoid stripping your hair of its natural oils. It’s going to need them for protection against the heat styling you’re about to do.
Use a rich, hydrating conditioner, and then, for extra protection, use a leave-in conditioner.;
, If at all possible, avoid drying your hair with a blow dryer until your hair is damp or nearly dry to minimize damage.Dry your hair using either a cotton t-shirt or a microfiber towel using a squeezing, blotting motion, not a rubbing motion, which causes breakage.
 You’ll only need a dime-sized amount at most--any more will weigh hair down and leave it limp.


Look for products that protect and moisturize hair, like blow dry primers, frizz-control sprays, or smoothing balms.
 Use a round bristle brush to pull your hair straight as you dry it.Direct the nozzle down as you dry to help prevent hair from frizzing.Get hair completely dry before moving on to flat ironing.Be patient. This step may take some time, particularly if you have very curly hair.
If your hair is too curly to make the conventional brush-and-blow-dry method workable, you can try setting your hair in large rollers and sitting under a hooded dryer (if you have one) or setting the curlers before you go to bed at night and straightening with a flat iron in the morning., Once your hair is completely dry, pull the top layer of hair into a temporary ponytail or bun, then begin straightening hair in 1-2 inch sections.If you have a temperature setting on your flat iron, use the following as a guide: for fine or damaged hair, 250-300 degrees; for medium or average hair, 300-350 degrees; for thick or coarse hair, 350-400 degrees.Use a comb to pull your hair taut and away from your head with one hand. With the other hand, iron the section of hair in one fluid motion from root to end.
Repeat if necessary until the section of hair is straight.
After you’ve straightened the bottom layer of hair, undo the bun or ponytail holding the top layer of hair. Then begin straightening the top layer, using 1-2 inch sections.
Don’t use a flat iron on wet or damp hair--it can literally break your hair., Use a finishing serum to smooth hair and add shine.


Serums are generally best for coarser or thicker hair, while sprays are best for fine or normal hair.

