 To make this pie, you will need one ready-made nine-inch pie crust in a pie plate, your ingredients, as well as:


Fork
Aluminum foil
Dried beans (to weigh down the crust)
Small and large bowl
Whisk
Saucepan
Spoon;
, Preheat your oven to 350 F (177 C). Place a sheet of aluminum foil or parchment paper on top of the crust and weigh it down with pie weights or dried beans. This will ensure the pie shell keeps the right shape and doesn’t get puffy during the baking process.Bake the crust for 15 minutes, then remove the beans and the foil and cook for another five minutes. The crust is done when it has dried out and is starting to get a little brown.
Set the pie crust aside to cool while you make the filling.
 In a bowl, whisk together the sugar, cornstarch, and salt. In a small bowl, whisk together the egg yolks and the milk.Pour the wet ingredients into the dry and whisk it all together until there are no lumps.
 Transfer the mixture to a saucepan and heat it over medium heat, whisking frequently. Heat it for about six to eight minutes, until the mixture starts to bubble and take on the consistency of pudding.Remove the mixture from the heat immediately when it starts to thicken.
 While the mixture is still hot, add the chocolate, vanilla, and butter. Continue whisking until the chocolate is melted and all the ingredients are combined.Depending on how finely chopped the chocolate pieces were, this will only take a couple minutes.
 Use a spoon to get all the delicious chocolate filling out of the saucepan and into the shell. Spread the filling around so it’s evenly distributed in the pie shell.


If there is any leftover pie filling, dole it out into small bowls or ramekins and place them in the fridge to set as well.
Loosely cover the pie filling with a piece of plastic wrap to prevent a film from forming.Place the pie in the fridge and let it chill for at least four hours. This will give the pie time to set.
 When the pie has had time to chill and set, cut it into pieces, place each piece on a separate plate, and garnish the top with whipped cream.Place leftovers in a container with an air-tight lid and store it in the refrigerator for up to a couple days.

