 While some vaginal infections can be cured without the use of medications, it’s important to consult your OB/GYN or primary physician before beginning any treatment. Effective natural remedies may vary depending on the type of vaginal infection you have and the severity of the infection.


Since some symptoms are common among multiple types of vaginal infections, self-diagnosis is both difficult and risky. An official diagnosis from your doctor is the only safe way to identify the type and degree of vaginal infection you have.
Tell your doctor if you have a strong preference for natural remedies. Some doctors are willing to work with you to accommodate this preference, and they should be able to guide you on which remedies would be best to try for your specific needs.
Note that trichomoniasis is technically an STI. Natural remedies will not be sufficient to cure an infection caused by trichomoniasis; you will need medication to treat it., While many natural treatments are safe for women with BV or yeast infections, you should avoid most home treatments if you are currently pregnant or may become pregnant, or are currently breastfeeding. Some treatments can inadvertently harm your baby.


That being said, if you have a vaginal infection during pregnancy, you should still ask your doctor about treatment. Active yeast infections, in particular, can pass to your baby during birth and result in thrush., Some treatments are only effective against certain causes of vaginal infection. To avoid possible complications, you should only try a natural remedy promoted for use against your type of infection; do not use a home remedy suggested for treatment against another type of vaginal infection unless instructed to do so by your doctor.


As a reminder, douching can be used sparingly if you have BV. It is not recommended for vaginal infections caused by yeast or trichomoniasis. Similarly, periodontal gel and garlic cloves should only be used for BV.
On the other hand, a yogurt suppository or probiotic suppository might be effective for both yeast and BV.Boric acid suppositories are only recommended for use against yeast infections.
 Abstaining from sexual activity may not be necessary for all treatments, but you should check with your doctor or do some thorough research to determine if the remedy you’ve chosen is safe to you and your partner before engaging in sexual activity during treatment.


In particular, exercise extreme caution when taking boric acid suppositories. Boric acid is toxic when ingested, making oral sex especially dangerous., Natural home remedies can cure vaginal infections in some cases, but if your symptoms don’t respond to consistent treatment, contact your doctor again. It is possible that your type and degree of infection can only be cured with medication.


Vaginal infections—especially those caused by yeast—that won't go away or continually return may suggest a more serious underlying cause, including diabetes, cancer, or certain STIs. While this won't always be the case, it's important to rule out the possibility by asking your doctor to test you.If your symptoms worsen or do not improve after three days of treatment, contact your doctor.
It's important to completely get rid of your vaginal infection. If left untreated, you may suffer from future complications, including pelvic inflammatory disease, an increased risk of pre-term deliveries, and an increased risk of contracting STIs.Even if you think you cured your infection naturally, consider asking your doctor to re-test you to make sure.

