 Spending time alone is scary for many people. In our modern era, we're more interconnected than ever. If you want to take some time to be reclusive, there will be an adjustment period. You may feel scared or confused when you first begin spending time alone.


Try to push past any negative thoughts as you begin transitioning into spending more time alone. Remind yourself that you may feel some discomfort at first. However, also remember the benefits of alone time. You may be able to effectively work through certain problems or focus on certain creative pursuits if you give yourself time alone. These benefits are probably worth the initial adjustment period.If you feel very afraid at the notion of spending time alone, consider the root of this fear. Are you afraid of loneliness or is there something deeper at play. Bad past experiences can sometimes make a person hesitant to spend time alone. You may not want to let your thoughts wander to negative aspects of your past.;
, Use your alone time wisely. It's easy to fall into a rut if you're choosing to keep your free time all to yourself. Instead of binge watching TV shows or sleeping all day, try to take up some new hobbies. Choose hobbies you can do by yourself.A lot of your initial aversion to alone time may stem from boredom. If you don't have a lot to fill your time, you may feel very bored or frustrated when you're alone. Taking up a hobby can help combat boredom. You'll have something to do with your newfound free time.Remember, a hobby does not necessarily have to constitute a passion. Many people are wary to try solitary hobbies like drawing, painting, music, or writing. However, you're not trying to be a concert pianist. You're just trying to play the piano in your free time for your own amusement., Many people choose the life of a recluse to fuel their own creativity. Without the distractions of socialization, you can focus more on your own creative work. If you're a writer, painter, sculptor, or any other creative type, use your reclusive nature to better your work.


Alone time forces you to think deeply. The most interesting art, writing, and music asks difficult questions about the nature of human existence. If you're constantly filling your time with distractions, this can inhibit your creativity as it stops you from considering deeper aspects of existence. If you're alone, you'll have more time to ponder.You can also take your alone time as an opportunity to learn things that will enhance your work. If you're writing a memoir, for example, learning from other authors is important. If you've never had time to read all of Proust's work, your newfound life as a recluse can allow you to do so.
 If you want to be reclusive, you need to disconnect significantly. This means avoiding your phone and computer, as these devices allow you to connect with others. It's a bad idea to completely cut yourself off. If there's an emergency, for example, it's important to be able to get help. However, try to consciously disconnect from technology for a bit each day. Set aside a few hours each day to turn off your smart phone and power down your laptop. Take this time to simply be alone with your thoughts., Part of what makes being alone hard is that troublesome, unwanted thoughts can creep in if we're alone for too long. You need to have some ability to self-soothe. Thinking back to your childhood can help. As children are frequently navigating new and difficult thoughts for the first time, they often have better self-soothing rituals than adults.Try to remember how you relaxed as a child. Even silly rituals, like daydreaming, can be helpful to relax if you spend a lot of time alone.
If you had a happy childhood, you're more likely to be good at self-soothing. If your basic needs were met as a child, you viewed the world as a mostly safe, trustworthy place. However, if your needs were not met as a child, you feel insecure in the world. You may have a need to bring others into your space in order to soothe yourself.If your childhood was unstable, consider seeing a psychiatrist to talk through these rituals. It may be harder to be reclusive if you lack the ability to soothe yourself.
 Many reclusive people have a fondness for nature. The free space of nature enhances your ability to be alone with your thoughts. It can remove certain temptations, like modern technology, that prohibit your ability to embrace solitude.Many people enjoy activities like hiking and camping alone. As long as you're experienced enough to understand safety precautions, look into taking an occasional weekend hiking or camping trip by yourself.
However, if you're not an experienced outdoors type, camping alone may be dangerous. Instead, try going for long walks in the woods by yourself. If you live in a rural area, just sitting in your backyard can help you feel alone in nature.

