 Before you complete a guarantor form, it is important that you understand your obligations. By cosigning for a loan or an apartment, you are guaranteeing to meet the financial obligations of the person you are signing for. If they fail to make their payments, the responsibility falls on you.Because you have a better credit score, the lender or landlord may sue you first because you will be more likely to pay.
For many loans, there is no way out of a cosigning agreement. Once you sign, you have agreed to pay the debt until it is gone.You may also be charged for any court or attorney fees as well as late charges.
 Because most people cosign with close friends or family members, it may be hard for you to say no. You will need to consider whether you are comfortable supporting this person’s debts. If you assume their financial obligations or are sued, you may develop hard feelings towards this person, which could cause a rupture between you. Determine if cosigning is worth the risk of destroying this relationship.If you would not be willing to loan this person money, you should not cosign for them.
 If you cosign with someone, you are taking on a lot of risk for very little reward. Your credit score may receive a small bump by cosigning the loan. However, if the other person defaults and you are stuck with their debt, this may seriously damage your credit score. Ultimately, the small benefit of cosigning is not worth the much larger hit your credit score could take., Because cosigning a loan can be so financially dangerous and complicated, you may want to consider helping in another way. Although loaning money is also fraught with issues, it does not carry any of the legal obligations that cosigning does. If the person defaults or fails to make their payments, you will only be out the money that you loaned them and not have to face the possibility of being sued or paying a much larger sum.


If you feel comfortable with it, you might offer to let the person stay with you instead of cosigning for an apartment.
You might also offer to help them find a loan with a more accommodating interest rate.

