 When you're ready to start the process of adopting your dog, start by checking regulations in your country. Requirements in terms of veterinary exams, fees, and quarantine periods vary greatly between countries.If you're working with an international adoption agency, someone there should be able to walk you through the process.
You can usually find the information online through a website associated with your government. Organizations like the Centers for Disease Control provide information on overseas adoption for many different countries.
 Most countries require a health certificate at the airport. When your dog travels through customs, a veterinarian or customs worker will need to view this certificate to assure your dog is healthy and will not bring any contagious diseases into your country.Locate a reputable local vet to perform a basic exam on your dog. Have them fill out any required paperwork assuring your dog's health.
If you're working with an adoption agency, they may have their own vet that provides exams and health certificates.
Always check requirements in your own country in regards to paperwork. Some countries may not require a veterinary exam, or may require more than one exam before a dog may enter the country.
 Rabies is still a problem in the United States. While rabies has been more or less eradicated in countries like Australia, there are still cases of rabies in the US each year. When bringing a dog into the United States, you are required to get your dog a rabies vaccination.If your dog has never been vaccinated before, it needs to be vaccinated at least 30 days before arriving in the United States.
You will need a certificate that includes information regarding you and your dog, such as your name and address, a description of your dog, the date of the vaccination, and so on. The vet that performs the vaccination can fill out this certificate.
Puppies cannot be vaccinated until they're at least three months old. Therefore, a puppy will have to be at least four months old before it can enter the United States. If you're trying to adopt a puppy younger than this, you may need to wait before officially completing the adoption.
 Screwworm is a parasite that is an issue in certain countries. If you're bringing a dog into the United States from a country where screwworm is an issue, you will need a certification stating your dog is screwworm free.Screwworm is present in countries such as Kenya, Iraq, Jamaica, Peru, and Nigeria. You can find a full list of countries where screwworm is an issue on the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention website.You need to have a certificate filled out by a full-time salaried veterinarian stating your dog has been inspected for screwworm and is screwworm free. This certificate should be filled out at least 5 days before your dog has been shipped to the United States.
 Microchips are small chips embedded into your dog's skin that provide identification in the event your dog gets lost. Not all countries require microchips. For EU countries, however, a microchip is required for all dogs entering the country.Your dog will need to be microchipped before you travel into an EU country. You will also need documentation verifying your dog has been microchipped.
Check specific regulations for the country where you're traveling. Some countries will accept any type of microchip while other countries require specific brands of microchips for entry.

