 Given your career path and the type of people you are trying to attract with your LinkedIn profile, you should know what readers will be looking for and you can give the audience what they want.


For example, if you are a writer, your audience will be looking for your creativity and to remain engaged throughout your profile by your choice of words and correct grammar.
If, however, you are a sales representative, your audience will be looking for your stats and your ability to sell yourself throughout your profile.
 Just as in a resume, you must keep your sentences concise (brief) and powerful by using effective wording to get your point across.


This means using action words such as: drove, reduced, increased, created, initiated, trained, developed, won, and acquired.
 Using keywords in your profile is extremely important because these keywords will be used by others who are looking to make connections. The more keywords you add that are related to your experience and field of interest, the higher your profile will rank when searched.


For example if a recruiter is looking for someone with “sales and lead generation” experience they will add these keywords to the search field.
To find the best keywords for you to use, browse job openings for various companies and pick out common words and phrases. If you have experience in these areas, use these keywords in your profile.
If you have the experience but do not use the keywords, your profile will not appear in the proper search results.
 LinkedIn allows you to get creative with your profile. For each job or education listed, you have the option to upload a document or file to further illustrate your experience. Adding these types of files is great for someone who produces work of a visual nature.


For example, professional presentations, photographs, videos, ads and graphics.
Be sure to add only files that are relevant to your personal experience and accomplishments, and not something about your company or school.
For example, do not add a recruiting video about the company you work for.
 Having recommendations in your LinkedIn profile is important, because instead of you telling the reader how great you are, they get a chance to hear it from someone else who has worked with you. Once you have made connections with those who you believe will write you a good recommendation, send them a message by clicking on the “Ask to be recommended” link under your profile edit page.
 You can use special characters to make your profile stand out by creating bullet points or breaking up a section and creating lines. However, not all symbols are accepted and translated into LinkedIn.

