 Drinking water can keep your body from retaining water, which will help you avoid bloating during your period. Drinking hot or warm water can be even better for your period than cold water, because hot liquids can increase the blood flow to your skin and can help relax your cramped muscles. Make sure to get at least 10 8-ounce glasses of water in your diet, if not more. You can also add additional water to your diet by eating foods that are water-based. Here are some foods that you can make sure to eat during your period to increase hydration:Lettuce
Celery
Strawberries
Cucumbers
Watermelon;
, It’s important to have enough calcium in your diet, regardless of whether or not it’s your time of the month. That said, it’s especially important to pay attention to your calcium intake during your period, because having enough calcium can reduce the cramps you may feel during menstruation. Try these foods, which are rich in calcium, to ease your pain:Dairy products such as cheese, yogurt, and milk
Sesame seeds
Leafy green vegetables, such as spinach, turnips, or kale
Almonds
Soy milk

, If you have poor nutrition, then you’ll be suffering from deficiencies that get worse during your time of the month. It’s important, therefore, to have plenty of foods that are packed with important vitamins so your body stays strong during your time of the month. Here are some foods that you can try:Brown rice (full of vitamin B6, which helps reduce bloating)
Almonds, walnuts, and pumpkin seeds (contain manganese, which helps with cramps)
Olive oil and broccoli (rich in vitamin E)
Leafy greens, fish, and chicken (they have iron, which can help make up for iron lost during your period).
Cinnamon is also rich in iron, and so are papayas.
Add some ginger to your diet. It has the potential to alleviate menstrual pain.
Avoid foods with fake sugar and eat foods with natural sugars, like strawberries, instead.
 You’re likely to already feel a bit extra bloated when you’re on your period, so this would be a good time to avoid foods that cause you to retain water and feel extra bloated. These include fatty foods, grains, and carbonated beverages, so you should ease up on the following foods and drinks:Soda
French fries
Burgers
Beans
Whole grains
Lentils
Apricots
Cabbage

, Cutting down on your caffeine intake can help you relieve the tension that you’re feeling and minimize your cramps. Instead of your usual coffee, have a small cup of tea, or even replace your black tea with non-caffeinated tea such as ginger tea or chamomile. Caffeine can also make you dehydrated, which can lead your body to retain more water and can make you feel more bloated.If you’re really addicted to caffeine, you shouldn’t do away with it during your time of the month all together or you may experience headaches or other pain from withdrawal.
 The foods associated with Vitamin D include the following:Fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, or mackerel
Orange juice
Soy milk
Cereal
Cheese
Egg yolk

, There is more and more research that suggests that herbal remedies may have real medicinal benefits. One of these studies, performed by the American Chemical Society, showed that women who drink chamomile tea during their periods have higher levels of hippurate, which is a natural anti-inflammatory that has the power to ease the pain associated with period pain. If you’re looking for a way to ease your menstrual pain without taking over-the-counter medication, then chamomile tea may do the trick.This tea can also be soothing at night and can make you get to sleep more peacefully.
 Applying heat to your lower abdomen or lower back can help relax the contracting muscles in your uterus, which cause much of the pain associated with your period. You can use a regular water bottle or thermos filled with hot water, or you can invest in an over-the-counter heating pad or patch that can help alleviate your menstrual pain. They may cost over $20, but the investment can be worth it if you’re in a lot of pain.Just spending 5-10 minutes applying heat to your body twice a day can make a big impact.
 Taking a warm bath may also provide some of the same relief you may feel when you apply heat to your lower abdomen and back to ease menstrual cramps. You can try taking a warm bath in addition to treating your body with heat in order to ease your menstrual pain. At worst, it will at least help you relax, which can help ease cramping throughout your body., When you’re on your period, then exercising may seem about as appealing as putting your hand in a beehive. However, making an effort to exercise, even if you’re just going for a short walk, while you’re on your period, can actually reduce the cramps and pain that you’re feeling. This is because aerobic exercise makes your body pump more blood, which lets it release endorphins to counteract the prostaglandins in your body, reducing your cramps and pain.In fact, having a steady exercise routine throughout the month can make your period less painful when that time of the month comes.
 Though any moderate exercise can help relief your menstrual pain, you may want to try some specific exercises that may help ease your pain. Here’s what you can do:Sit on the floor with your legs as far apart as they will go. Reach for your toes and ankles while keeping your back straight, while holding in your diaphragm. Take a few deep breaths and bend toward the floor when you exhale for the last time.
Sit with your knees open and bent at the sides, with the soles of your feet together. Place your hands under your toes or place your hands around your ankles. Press the soles of your feet together while breathing in with your back straight, lifting your head a bit as you breathe in and out 4-5 times. You may know this position as the butterfly.
Lie on your back with your legs straight out, and bend one knee and pull it up to your chin. Hug your knee with both hands and hold the position for 1-2 minutes; then, repeat on the other side.
 Not emptying your bladder when you feel the urge to urinate can cause pain in your bladder, and can make your cramps feel even worse. Even if you’re in a significant amount of pain and don’t want to leave your bed for the afternoon, making sure to empty your bladder regularly can help you ease your menstrual pain. Since hydrating is an important aspect of staying healthy during your period, you may even have to empty your bladder more frequently than normal., Medication can also ease the pain associated with your period. While you don’t want to get in the habit of regularly taking it unless you really need it, it can prove to be a powerful antidote to your period pain. Make sure you talk to your doctor if you plan on taking these medications regularly so you can make sure they are right for your body. You can consider taking the following over-the-counter medications to ease your pain:An acetaminophen, such as Tylenol
NSAIDs (Nonsteroidal Anti-Inflammatory Drugs) such as Ibuprofen such as Advil or Motrin, or Naproxens, such as Aleve or Naprosyn
Aspirin, such as Bayer or Bufferin

, A study with 944 participants showed that acupuncture may potentially ease the symptoms of dysmenorrhea, which is commonly known as period pain, which include vomiting, nausea, and cramping. Though further research needs to be done with a larger number of participants, the study does suggest that acupuncture may ease the pain of period pain and has no adverse effects. If you’re looking for an original and innovative solution for your pain, this treatment may just do the trick.Even though there’s no guarantee that this will work, it’s worth giving it a shot, especially if you feel like you’ve tried everything else.
 Birth control has been proven to reduce cramps in many women. If you’re not on the birth control pill, you may want to consider talking to your doctor about taking it. You may think that they are only for sexually active women, when in fact, birth control can be taken to reduce cramps and other menstrual pain, as well as to regulate your period. If your menstrual pain is very severe, then you may want to consider this option.There are some risks associated with the birth control pill as well, such as a small increased risk of cancer, and raised cholesterol levels and blood pressure.
 Though you may have heard a rumor that tampons cause more cramping than pads, there is absolutely no proof that this is the case. If tampons are hurting you, then there may be some other reason, and you should talk to your doctor about it, but the fact that pads cause less pain than tampons is just a plain myth.


You can see for yourself. Try wearing a pad instead of a tampon for a day and you’ll find that there’s really no difference.

