 These kinds of questions can help a shy guy open up and talk about himself and can also lead to him feeling known, liked and comfortable with you. Avoid asking questions that can be answered with a quick “yes” or “no” because these may create awkward pauses and make the conversation feel forced. Good examples of open-ended questions include:"How did you get interested in carpentry?"
"What brought you to live in San Francisco?"

, When you ask about all of his favorite things, such as sports, movies, books, and more, you’re showing him that you’re interested in getting to know him better. Once you’ve talked a bit about each others likes and dislikes, you’ll most likely find some commonalities that you can discuss further and bond over.Make sure to show interest in him and not just his role or activities. Hobbies and interests are good, neutral places to start, but when you're both ready, be sure to look deeper.
 If you hang out together, make sure to tell him you’d like to see him again when you part ways. Verbal clarity will make him more sure of your feelings and wants, which will ease his uncertainty and draw him out of his shell. Also, pay attention to his reactions when you say things that directly communicate your interest in him. If he smiles or agrees enthusiastically, you can assume that he may be interested in you too., Making physical contact releases oxytocin, the bonding hormone, so initiating touch may quickly start making him feel liked and close to you. Touching him breaks through a kind of barrier that may lead him to feel less nervous or unsure about holding your hand or putting his arm around you later on.Ask permission first, and make sure he's open to that sort of attention and affection.
Try lightly and briefly touching the outside of his arm to communicate assurance while you’re having a conversation with him.
If you aren’t interested in him romantically, be cautious with physical contact. Giving him frequent hugs, for example may be friendly to you but he may interpret it as a romantic gesture.
 People love to hear others say their own name because it brings a personal touch to an otherwise general situation or conversation.Not only will saying his name strengthen the bond between you and the shy guy, but it will also quicken the bonding process. You can also give him an endearing nickname to make him feel especially liked and noticed.If you give him a nickname, make sure that it’s positive and that he’s comfortable with being called that name.

