 One of the best ways to prevent a schizophrenia relapse from occurring is to stick to your treatment. This includes taking your medicine as prescribed, even if you are experiencing no symptoms. You should also go to all therapy appointments and keep up with any psychotherapy treatment.If your symptoms are better, you may want to discuss what the lowest dose of your medication is with your doctor.
You shouldn’t stop therapy even if you are managing your schizophrenia. Discuss reducing your therapy sessions with your therapist.
 A support group is a great self-management technique you can use to help prevent relapses. Support groups are informal gatherings run by others who also suffer from schizophrenia. Support groups offer you support and understanding, along with a place to be honest about your feelings and experiences.Support groups can help you figure out ways to manage your schizophrenia or approach problems. You can ask questions and speak with others who have gone through what you have.
 Knowing how to spot the early signs of a relapse can help you do something before the relapse takes hold. The relapse symptoms let you know that something is wrong before you go into a psychotic episode. You can monitor yourself or get help from a trusted family member or friend.You may want to turn the relapse symptoms into a self-assessment checklist. Every day or every few days, you can read through the questions to help determine if you are experiencing early warning signs.
For example, you may ask yourself if you have been experiencing insomnia, social withdrawal, a lack of interest in hygiene, anxiety or depression, problems in concentration, or forgetfulness.
 If you think you are experiencing or are in danger of experiencing a relapse, you should go see your doctor immediately. Tell your doctor about your symptoms. Be honest about any specific risk factors, such as forgetting medication, taking drugs, or being under stress.Talk to your friends or family members about what to do in case of a relapse. They may have to take you to the doctor or help get you hospitalization.