 You can either buy an aloe vera plant or you can buy pre-made aloe vera gel. An aloe vera plant should be available at your local plant store and pre-made aloe vera gel is available at most pharmacies and grocery stores.


To extract the gel from the leaf you will need to cut a good sized leaf from the aloe vera plant. It should be about 5 – 6 inches long. Wash the leaf well in water and, using a knife, cut it in half lengthwise. Use a spoon or a knife to scoop out as much gel as possible.;
, You should always try a small amount of gel from the plant or a commercial product on a small area before applying all over. You need to make sure you don’t have an allergy or sensitivity to the plant. It is in the same botanical family as lilies, onions and garlic, so if you react to those plants, you will likely react to aloe.Either way, try the gel on your wrist, allow it to dry, and then rinse it off. If there is no reddening, itchiness or swelling, you can try it on your face.
 Take 2 teaspoons of aloe vera gel and add two to three drops of lemon juice. The lemon juice helps maintain the pH of the skin. Mix well.


Use a Q-tip to apply the mixture directly on the acne. Let this stay on your face for at least 20 – 30 minutes or overnight.
Rinse off with lukewarm water and cleanse as usual.
Repeat daily.
 Cut one to two leaves about 6 inches from an aloe plant and trim off the spikes along the sides of the leaf. Cut the leaves open and scoop out the gel.


Add 1 teaspoon of honey (honey has additional antibacterial properties) or five to seven drops of lemon juice to the aloe vera gel.Mix any additives into the gel thoroughly.
Apply the gel all over your face or use a Q-tip to apply the mixture directly on the acne.
If you can, leave the gel on overnight, but for at least 20 – 30 minutes.
Rinse off with lukewarm water and cleanse as usual.
Repeat daily.
 It may take some time for the healing effects of the aloe vera to help your condition. If these treatments don’t improve your acne in three to four weeks, make an appointment with a dermatologist to determine what your best course of action is.
 Wash your face once in the morning and once before bed. If you sweat during the day, such as during exercise or from being out in hot weather, wash your face as soon as possible to remove the perspiration., Look for a cleanser labeled as “non-comedogenic” This means that the product does not promote the formation of comedones, blackheads, whiteheads, or pimples.Examples include products from Neutrogena, Cetaphil and Olay. There are many store-brand products that are non-comedogenic. Read the label to be certain.
There are oils that are used to clean the skin and many of these utilize very non-comedogenic oils. Using these is based on the principle that “like dissolves like.” In other words, oils can be used to dissolve and remove excess skin oils.
Also use alcohol-free products. Alcohol dries and damages the skin.
 You want to be very gentle when cleaning your skin. Using a washcloth or sponge can irritate the skin and cause more problems., Do not pick, pop, squeeze, or touch acne. This can also cause flare-ups, cause scarring, and will cause a longer healing time., Sun (and tanning beds) can damage your skin cells because of damaging UVB radiation. If you are using certain acne medications or certain other types of medication, you should know that some medications can make your skin even more sensitive to the sun.These drugs include antibiotics such as ciprofloxacin, tetracycline, sulfamethoxazole and trimethoprim; antihistamines like diphenhydramine (Benadryl); drugs used to treat cancer (5-FU, vinblastine, dacarbazine); heart drugs like amiodarone, nifedipine, quinidine and diltiazem; Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs like naproxen, and the acne medications isotretinoin (Accutane) and acitretin (Soriatane).
 This can cause permanent scarring and the skin will take longer to heal. Exfoliation is popular, but vigorous exfoliation often does more harm than good.Exfoliation can cause micro-scarring (tiny scars that can’t be seen without some sort of magnification), obvious scarring and it can often make acne worse.The “scrubs” which perform the exfoliation may also be pulling off skin that is not yet ready to fall off. It is a bit like pulling off a scab that isn’t ready to fall off on its own.
 While diet doesn’t directly cause acne, despite the stories you may have heard about milk and chocolate, for some people certain foods increase the risk for acne. Some foods, including dairy products and diets high in processed sugars, can increase inflammation and provide an environment in which acne can flourish.


Specifically, high-glycemic index foods, which are carbohydrate-rich foods, are linked to acne., This will help you ensure that you are getting the appropriate nutrients to keep your skin healthy. The vitamins that appear to be most important for the skin are vitamins A and D. In addition, consuming enough omega-3 fats can benefit those with acne.Try to make at least half of your plate is made up of vegetables, particularly at dinner.Foods high in Vitamin A include: sweet potato, spinach, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, romaine, kale, red peppers, summer squash, cantaloupe, mangoes, apricots, black-eyed peas, beef liver, herring, and salmon.
Foods high in Vitamin D include: cod liver oil, salmon, tuna, milk, yogurt, and cheese. Many foods are fortified with vitamin D, but the single best way to get Vitamin D is to expose your skin to the sun 10-15 minutes a week, as sunlight triggers Vitamin D production by the skin.Food high in omega-3 fatty acids include: flax seeds and flaxseed oil, soybean oil, canola oil, chia seeds, butternuts, walnuts, salmon, sardines, mackerel, whitefish, shad, basil, oregano, cloves, marjoram, spinach, sprouted radish seeds, Chinese broccoli and small amounts of meats and eggs.

