;
, There you'll find all the state's pages for a more-localized view.
,,, You'll find it at the far right end of the screen, and in the bar, just below where you found "Gas Prices" button earlier.
 The box that contains these items is labeled "Search The List For Your Station". You'll need to know the city, station name, and street.


If your city or station is not shown in their lists, you'll need to click the "(Other)" (verbatim) link for the station.
,


If the answer to your query gets returned with a result of "We could not find a station which matches the criteria that you specified.", you can then properly click on "CLICK HERE TO ADD A NEW STATION" link below to add your station.



Type the station's street address into the "Exact Street Address" box.
Type the street address that corresponds to the station you'd like to add. Use the street address that would normally be provided on the station's receipts (now you know why people should really save their receipts for an intended purpose).
As you type, the map in the "Station Marker Map list below" will update to the area in real-time.
If the station is located where two streets join (completely at a corner), click into the "Cross Street" box (two boxes down), and complete the next step. If not, skip only the next step and check the box stating "This station is not at an intersection". Type the Cross Street's name or, in the case of the station not being completely in a cross-street situation, the name of the "Nearest Cross Street".
 Use any form of printable material that contains this information. This may include a receipt from a previous purchase or some other form of gas-station material from this exact station. Web queries can help, but if you don't know what you're doing, they can also hurt your database entry.
 Click the "Update Marker" button from the area to the right of the Station Marker Map area.
 Don't just select the grade you used when filling up your vehicle. Select the types of fuel the station provides. Your choices are Regular Gas, Midgrade Gas, Premium Gas, Ethanol E85, Diesel, and Propane. Click the checkboxes to the left of the appropriate designations.



Fill out as much information as you can possibly remember. You shouldn't need to actually call the company to request this information.
,