 Ensure the appraisals are anonymous, so the employees have no fear of reprisal. A 360-degree appraisal has the benefit of accurately assessing a manager’s ability to manage and lead.Something similar to one of the following items could lead subordinates to open up about their supervisors:


”Do you feel your supervisor does a good job leading the team?”
”Give an example of where your supervisor could improve his or her leadership style.”
”Provide an instance where your supervisor excelled in his or her job.”;
, Self-appraisals are a great option. Employees are given the opportunity to appraise themselves. An employee is likely to look at their own strengths and weaknesses differently than others. Most will overstate their performance. The major benefit to the 360 evaluation is that the self-appraisal is complemented by the mix of ideas from other evaluations. Leading questions like the following can help an employee delve deeply into their performance:


”What situations have you excelled at in the past?”
”What are some examples of when you could have used time more wisely?”
”What will your fellow employees, from supervisor to subordinate, say about your performance?”

, Feedback from your peers helps you improve at your job because they know the type of dedication and work that is required for the position. Colleague assessments are particularly adept at helping an employ who is analyzing their positives and negatives”Where does your colleague rank in comparison to others with a similar position?”
”How can your peer improve his or her performance?”
”Provide an example of how your peer has shown job competency.”

, Superiors typically provide an overhead view of employees’ roles, responsibilities, and work quality. They also assess employee production. They would best know whether an employee is ready for a promotion or demotion, based upon their quality and output. Questions similar to the following may work well from a supervisor perspective:


”Do you feel the employee performs satisfactorily?”
”In which way could the employee improve their job performance?”
”Why or why isn’t the employee ready for advancement?”

, 360-Degree feedback methods are very subjective and responses generally depend upon the relationships between the appraiser and appraised. Accordingly, you should never use a 360-degree appraisal as your only appraisal method.