 Being tired is often the straw that breaks the camel’s back in a stressful situation. Being tired and grumpy on top of experiencing the stress and anxiety that flying brings can make you experience rage you wouldn’t normally otherwise. Getting a good night’s sleep before your flight, especially if it takes off in the early morning, can stop you from seeing red.


Improve your own sleeping habits by increasing the comfort in your bedroom at home. Use blackout curtains, lower the temperature, and ensure that your mattress is comfortable and supportive. Turn off electronic devices at least 30 minutes before bed to fall asleep easier.If you’re taking an overnight flight, try to bring the comforts of home with you on the plane. Place ear plugs, a sleeping mask, and a comfy blanket into your carry-on bag, and wear them when you are trying to sleep. Doing so may make the rest of your night more enjoyable.;
, Sometimes, just talking with someone can help to quell your feelings of rage. Chances are, the person sitting near you might welcome a distraction as well. Instead of flying off the handle, start talking to someone around you about something positive. Choose a general topic that you think might be of interest to both of you. Doing so will make you feel better and could prevent air rage.


For example, you could ask the person about the purpose of their visit to your destination city and share your reason for the flight as well. Try saying something like, “Hi. My name is Rick. What’s yours?” “So, are you traveling for business or pleasure?” and “What are your plans for your visit?” After getting to know each other, this could lead to other conversation topics, such as hobbies, pets, family, etc.
Opening up a line of discussion in this way will likely make the person laugh and feel comfortable with you. Then, you may have the chance to talk off your stress and feel better in the end., Part of the reason people get so stressed when flying is because something they weren’t prepared for occurs. Delayed flights, lost luggage, a lack of rental cars, and long check-in lines can start your trip out on the wrong foot. By taking care of what you can before you step into the airport and arming yourself with as much information as possible, you may be able to avoid the extra stress.


Do what you can to avoid having to deal with employees by checking in online and using a kiosk for your luggage. Also, signing up to receive text updates about your flight status and booking your rental car ahead of time can leave you feeling prepared and confident about what lies ahead.