 In a closed adoption, the birth parents have no right to communicate with the adopted child or the adoptive parents. There are some benefits to closed adoptions, including the following:Adoptive parents never have to worry about the birth parents interfering in their lives.
Birth parents can move on with their lives without being contacted by the adoptive parents.;
, There are also some disadvantages to a closed adoption, which you also need to carefully consider. For example:The adopted child won’t be able to find or communicate with their birth family.
Adoptive and birth parents can’t get information from each other.
Adoptive parents aren’t involved with selecting the child. Instead, in many cases, your adoption agency will select the child.
Adoptive parents must generally wait longer for a child because most birth parents tend to choose open adoptions these days.
 However, you should also consider what will happen when the child reaches adulthood. It is very common for adoptees to want to find their birth parents. You need to understand that a closed adoption makes that difficult.


For example, Arizona seals adoption records and will unseal them only in very limited situations. In order for an adoptee to find a birth parent, the birth parent has to register with a mutual consent registry.If he or she doesn’t, then the child won’t be able to get identifying information about the birth parents.
Accordingly, you might want to choose an open adoption so that the child will be able to find his or her birth family later in life.
 In an open adoption, birth parents and adoptive parents stay in contact. The birth parents may visit the child or write them letters. There are many advantages to an open adoption:The child will have contact with the birth family when he or she grows up.
Adoptive parents can be more open that the child is adopted.
Adoptive parents can get more information from the birth parents. For example, many diseases are genetic. If the child becomes sick, then the adoptive parents can get family medical histories from the birth family.
A birth mother is less likely to change her mind since she knows the adoptive parents.
 Open adoptions also carry some negatives. You should consider these along with the positives. For example, the following problems sometimes arise with open adoptions:Adoptive and birth parents might want different amounts of communication. For example, the birth mother might want constant visitation, or want to visit at inconvenient times.
Some birth mothers aren’t committed to giving the child up and might see an open adoption as a chance to maintain a “halfway” parental relationship.
The child might not want any contact with his or her birth family. Also, the birth parents might not want the child to find them.
Some adoptive parents don’t see themselves as the “real” parents if the biological mother or father is involved.
 Not all open adoptions are the same. Instead, birth parents and adoptive parents agree to the types of information they will share. For example, you might agree to the following:Use a third party to exchange information. This is called a “semi-open” adoption. You might choose a third party intermediary to act as a go-between in case you have questions or want to share information. However, neither side has the other’s identifying information.
Exchange names and email addresses. This way, everyone can contact each other.
Share your mailing address and phone number. Adoptive parents and birth parents might want to share pictures, letters, or phone calls. Birth parents might also write letters to the child.
Fully open the adoption. In this situation, the birth parent can visit the child in-person. Sometimes, adoptive families also allow extended family, like grandparents, to visit.
 You should take some time to consider whether or not you want an open adoption.Make some time to think through the following issues:


Do you want the birth family (or adoptive parents) having contact with you? Can you handle the other side being intrusive?
Are you prepared to follow through on your promises? You shouldn’t choose open adoption if you can’t meet your obligations to keep the birth parents informed.
Are you prepared to get legal help? In Arizona, open adoptions are considered contractual. This generally requires that you get legal assistance

, Ask your adoption agency if they could put you in contact with people who have undergone an open adoption. They should be able to give you one or two references. You can call them up and ask your questions. For example, you might ask the following:


Have they had any problems with the birth parents or adoptive parents? If so, what kinds of problems? How were they resolved?
Does the child like being in contact with the birth parents, or is the child confused or unhappy?
If they could adopt all over again, would they still choose an open adoption? If not, why not?
Can you call back later if you have more questions?

, You might need to talk over open and closed adoption with a lawyer. Only a qualified lawyer can provide the detailed information you need to make the right decision. You can get referrals in the following ways:


Ask other people who have adopted a child if they would recommend their lawyer.
Ask your adoption agency if they can recommend someone. Often, they have a lawyer on staff or contract regularly with a lawyer.
Get a referral from the Arizona Bar Association, which has a “Find a Lawyer” feature.Type “adoption” in the “Your Legal Need” box.
Find free legal aid. If you don’t have much money, you might be able to qualify for legal aid. You can find legal aid providers near you by visiting the Legal Services Corporation’s website., You should schedule a consultation with the attorney once you have a referral. Ask how much they charge for the consultation and also ask what you should bring with you, if anything.
 At the consultation, you should analyze whether open or closed adoption is more appropriate for your situation. You should also write down your questions ahead of time so that you can be sure to ask them. For example, you might want to know the following:


What kind of open adoption arrangements are available?
If your child has a medical emergency, is there any way to get medical information from birth parents if you choose a closed adoption?
If you choose an open adoption, can the lawyer help you draft a contract? How much would that cost and what pay arrangements are available?
Does the lawyer have strong feelings about open adoptions?Since he or she has handled many adoptions, you should ask for their perspective on open adoption.
 Your lawyer should not pressure you to choose any type of adoption. However, some adoption agencies have preferences.The agency may prefer open or closed adoptions and try to persuade you to choose the one they prefer.


Because this is an important choice, you shouldn’t let an adoption agency influence you. Instead, you might need to pick a different agency.
Ideally, you should research agencies ahead of time and find out if they have a preference. You could then avoid them and pick an agency that is happy to do either an open or closed adoption.

