 Start by going for leaner cuts of red meat to cut down on the fat content. Buy lean cuts of beef like the round, chuck, sirloin, or loin. Opt for lean cuts of pork like tenderloin or loin chop. Get leaner cuts of lamb that come from the leg, arm, and loin. When you shop for red meat at the grocery store or your local butcher shop, select cuts that have minimal visible fat.Chat up the butcher and ask them to recommend leaner cuts of red meat. For example, you may ask them, “Do you have a leaner cut of pork?” or “What do you recommend for leaner cuts of beef?”;
, “Select” or “choice” grades of beef contain less marbling than “prime” grades of meat. They will have less visible fat and are a leaner cut of meat. “Choice” grades of beef are considered higher quality than “select” grades of beef. Both grades will have a lower fat content than “prime” grades and are a good option for roasting, braising, or sauteing.You should also look for the leaner option when buying ground beef. Make sure the label says “lean” or “extra lean.” This means the fat content is lower than normal ground beef.
 Meat that has been grass-fed will contain no hormones or additives and have less overall fat. They also usually contain less saturated fat, which can be an issue if you have heart problems or other health problems. Look for grass-fed red meat at your local grocery store or butcher.If you have a good local butcher, talk to them about getting grass-fed meat. Often, shopping local at a butcher’s shop will give you access to grass-fed meat and higher quality red meat.
 Processed red meat products like packaged sausage, salami, cold cuts, and hot dogs are high in sodium, calories, and saturated fats. They often contain additives and dyes that are unhealthy. Avoid eating processed red meat as part of your diet.If you do eat processed meat, always read the ingredients list on the label to check for items like sodium, saturated fat, and additives. Go for the low-sodium and saturated fat option, if possible.
Instead of buying processed meat, go for lean cuts of meat that you cook yourself.
Avoid deli meats such as ham and turkey slices. Instead, make a sandwich from canned tuna or salmon.