 Just select the app from the application list to begin downloading and installing it on your PC.;
, Tap its icon from your desktop to launch the application. The first thing you’ll see is the login screen.
 Enter your account’s username and password on the text field provided and tap the “Sign-In” button. After that, you’ll be taken to the app’s opening screen.


You can also create an account by tapping the “Sign Up” button and providing all the required information. Likewise, you can create an account without filling out the form by tapping the “Sign Up with Facebook” button instead.
 Flip or swipe across the opening screen to the left to go to your Home page. This page will show all the latest releases from all the magazines you subscribed to.


If you’re currently subscribed to several magazines, you can swipe left to reveal more contents. If you don’t have any subscriptions yet, the current cover stories for the day will be displayed instead.
 Tap the tile of the magazine you want to read from the Home page to open and read its contents. Flip either left or right across the screen to turn the pages.
 If you’re reading an article and suddenly finds a part that you want to include in your magazine, you can tap the plus icon (+) at the top-right corner at the beginning of the article to add it to one of your magazines.
 Slide downwards the screen to show the Sections menu. Tap the “Home” button at the bottom-right corner of the screen to go back to Flipboard’s Home page.
 Tap your account picture at the top-left corner of the Home page to go to your account screen.


Here, you’ll see all your own magazines. Tap any of the magazines you want to open from the list to show its contents.
 Swipe either left or right across the screen to turn pages. All the contents you’ve added from other magazines will be displayed inside. It’s basically a collection of the all the articles you found interesting from various magazines.
 Because Flipboard is a Windows 8 application, its desktop tile will change through and display a brief summary of some stories being updated inside the app. Right click on the Live Tile that you would like to resize. If your device has a touch screen, tap and hold Flipboard’s desktop tile and choose the size you like from the options at the lower left corner of the screen to resize the tile.

