 In some cases, kudzu can be controlled by continual mowing. Mowing kudzu can be time consuming, but it is sometimes more effective than pesticides for eradicating the plants. You can use mowers or mechanical clippers to cut kudzu vines down to ground level. During growing season, you should cut down kudzu vines once every month. Eventually, the plant will become exhausted and cease to grow.Once you're done mowing down kudzu, it's important to remove all plant material after it's trimmed down. Kudzu plants can reroot and begin growing again if not removed. You can burn kudzu materials or place them in plastic bags and dispose of them at a local dump.
Be consistent if you choose to cut kudzu root. One or two cuttings will do little to stop kudzu. You must exhaust the plants over a series of months for this method to be effective.
 It's also a good idea to dig up kudzu at the root. This is another time consuming, but effective, means of preventing kudzu from regrowing. You do not need to remove the entire root. You just need to remove the root crown, which is the portion of the root that kudzu grows out of.A shovel or pick axe are the best tools to use when removing the root crown. If you notice there are several smaller root crowns at the base of a kudzu vine, pruning shears may work well.
To find the root crown, follow a kudzu vine until you find where it roots into the soil. If you dig slightly, you should see new buds stemming. This is the root crown. Cut into the soil just below this area to remove the crown.
 If you notice kudzu growing on a tree, manually cut the kudzu off using pruning shears. Then, apply herbicide near the kudzu roots, at a safe distance from the sapling. If you're uncomfortable using herbicide, you can also dig up the roots of the kudzu., If you have cattle or goats, you can allow your livestock to control kudzu plants. Cattle and goats should graze on kudzu and it is not harmful for these animals. Much like mowing, continual grazing will wear down kudzu to the point it stops growing.