 Take quality pictures of any arrangements that you make and compile them into a professional portfolio. Your portfolio can be shared with potential employers and clients. Highlight your best work and show the full range of your skills (e.g. bouquets, funeral tributes,centerpieces, wedding designs, etc.).


Organize your portfolio in sections (e.g. weddings, funerals, bridal shower, etc.).
Each picture should include a description of the arrangement and the price of the arrangement.
 If you plan to freelance or be self-employed, it is important to market your floral design skills. Set up a website to showcase your work and promote yourself using social media. Ask your friends or family members if they need flowers for a special event. Give small arrangements as gifts to other people instead of buying presents.If people like your work, you will begin to get clients by word-of-mouth.
 If you want to work for someone else, contact the shop or store where you are interested in working. If it is a large company that employs florists, check the website for job openings and apply online. Many florists jobs are found by word of mouth so it is best to call the shop or visit in person.
 In addition to the AIFD, many states have a florist association. Visit your state's website or the AIFD website to find job opportunities.You may need to join the association to access the job board. If you received formal education, let your teachers and former classmates know that you are looking for a job in the field. They may know of some opportunities.


These websites also have a list of florists who are members of the association. You can contact these florists about employment as well.
 Wear business casual attire to your interview and bring your portfolio. Demonstrate your knowledge of the floral industry and flowers. Make eye contact and communicate well during your interview because customer service skills are very important for a florist.


Business casual attire for women includes tailored shirts, sweaters, pants, skirts, and dresses that are not too tight. Skirts and dresses should be knee length or longer. Cleavage should not be visible. Wear conservative closed toe shoes that are black, brown, navy, or taupe.Business casual for men includes nice slacks or khakis and a long-sleeved button down shirt. Wear leather dress shoes as well.You may or may not have to design or put together an arrangement as part of your interview. If you do have to design, ask if you need to bring your own tools.

