 If you're abnormally jealous, this may manifest itself in a high need for contact and attention. You may feel jealous of your romantic partner, worrying what he or she is doing without you. You may also feel jealous of friends and family members, worrying they don't need or want you. If you need a lot of reassurance and attention from the people in your life, your jealousy may be abnormal.When people aren't around, do you text or call frequently? If your partner is out with friends, do you feel the need to check in on him or her regularly? If your friends do not text you back, do you get angry or frustrated?
If you don't receive contact as quickly as you would like, do you panic or become angry?
Healthy people may experience jealousy or feelings of insecurity when they're not receiving as much contact or attention as they want. However, abnormal jealousy is all consuming. If you panic or become angry easily due to lack of contact, you may be abnormally jealous.;
, Most people, while they may occasionally feel jealous or left out, will eventually find a way to distract themselves. The thoughts cease and they begin to relax. If you cannot shift your focus away from jealous thoughts, your feelings of jealousy may be abnormal.It may be helpful to consider how much time you spend consumed with jealousy. If your jealous thoughts are taking up the bulk of your time, to the point you're not completing tasks in a timely fashion, your jealousy may be abnormal.
 Oftentimes, abnormal jealousy is defined as the ability to feel jealous even in a healthy relationship. This type of jealousy may stem from your own issues. Think about your own self esteem.Have you struggled with feelings of worthlessness in the past? Do you not feel good about yourself on most days of the week?
If you have feelings of insecurity, you'll be more prone to abnormal jealousy. Working on your own self esteem may help combat such negative feelings.
 People who were loved and cared for as children tend to feel more secure in relationships. If you grew up in an atmosphere where you felt neglected or abandoned, this can drive feelings of jealousy.Was your home environment as a child repressive? Were your parents or other caregivers often unreliable? If so, you may be more prone to abnormal jealousy than others.

