 Show whoever started labeling you as a lesbian that it doesn’t bother you. Try not to give in to it. The people who started the rumor likely want to get a rise out of you, so when you don’t react they may get tired and let it go.Avoid engaging them on social media.
Walk away when you hear them calling you a “lesbian” or talking about you.
Use humor by laughing or rolling your eyes whenever you hear about it.
 Sometimes ignoring doesn’t work because your feelings are hurt or the label is starting to affect your relationships with others. You’ll need to directly let them know your feelings, but it can be helpful to practice what you’re going to say first. Practice in the mirror or talk with a trusted friend.

When you do talk with them, you’ll want to be assertive:

Express your needs.For example, you might say, “I need you to stop calling me a lesbian” or “I need to know why you’re calling me a lesbian.”
Express your emotions.You can say, “I am confused and angry as to why you keep saying this, but I want to understand where you’re coming from.”
Avoid blaming or name-calling yourself, such as saying “You’re such a jerk for calling me a lesbian.”
Ask for clarification and try to understand their opinions and feelings.You can ask, “Are you saying you’re calling me a lesbian because of the way I dress and who I hang out with? Is that it?”
Be firm and show you’re serious.You might say, “I need you stop telling people I’m a lesbian. If you don’t, I will go to our manager.”

, Whether or not you are a lesbian, the other person needs to know why what they’re saying is offensive. Take the opportunity to educate and inform them about issues of sexuality and gender. You can say or point out the following:


You can’t determine sexual orientation by the way you dress, what you do, or how you talk.Stereotyping hurts both women and men, regardless of sexual orientation.
Being a woman with more masculine traits does not mean you are a lesbian.Sexual experimentation is normal and does not necessarily define you as gay, straight, or bisexual.Gender and sexuality exist on a spectrum., You may or may not want to be clear about your preferences with others. Your sexual preferences are your business, but other people may be confused by you. It may be helpful to be clear and direct with them, but this is a matter of choice and if you feel safe.If you are straight, you might say, “I prefer dating men, actually, but I do support my lesbian and gay friends. Just because I do doesn’t mean that I’m gay, but that I try to be more accepting of people.”If you are a lesbian, bisexual, or questioning, but don’t want them labeling you that way, you might say, “People’s sex life, to me, is a very private matter. I feel it’s not appropriate to broadcast details of one’s sex life. To me, it just seems tacky, so I don’t feel comfortable discussing my sex life with anyone.”
If you do identify as a lesbian or bisexual, and are comfortable with this identity, you might say, “Actually, I am a lesbian, but you should know it’s not okay to make assumptions about someone’s sexuality. It’s not okay to out someone.”

, It can be awkward and difficult to deal with this situation on your own. If the labeling continues despite efforts to calmly talk to them or educate them, consider recruiting help.


If you’re still in high school, your school counselor should be able to provide help, peer mediation, or a support group to help you and the other person talk this through.
If you’re in college, many campuses have an LGBT resource center that can be a good source of information for LGBT individuals and allies. They may be able to provide you with resources and ways to talk to the person who is calling you a lesbian.
If you’re in a workplace setting, you may want to consult Human Resources or your supervisor.

