 One of the first things people notice about someone is their teeth and mouth. As soon as all your milk teeth have been replaced with your set of permanent teeth, its important that you look after them well as they are the only ones you will ever have!


Brush your teeth twice daily, in the morning and after dinner. This is important as it scrubs away sugar that could feed off the enamel in your tooth and cause cavities. Using a good fluoride toothpaste, apply a pea-sized dollop of toothpaste onto a toothbrush. Be sure to scrub in a way that would push the 'grime' away from your gums. Replace your toothbrush every three or so months. Select one that is best suited for your gum type. It is recommended that you use one with soft bristles as ones with hard bristles can cause bleeding gums.
Try to floss from as young an age as possible. Purchase a good dental floss from a brand you trust. Flossing removes any food that gets stuck in between your teeth which a toothbrush cannot properly reach. You do not need to floss twice a day, flossing once a day after dinner would suffice.
If you are over the age of 13, invest in a good mouth wash. Use this after breakfast to kill off bad breath and make you feel fresh and cleaner instantly. Bad breath is a big no-no when it comes to personal hygiene. Listerine is a well-known brand of mouthwash which does the trick well. Ask your local dentist for any recommendations on great mouth washes.;
, When you are relaxing after a long, hard day, it can be irresistibly tempting to go to bed straight after dinner without having a shower. Not so fast! If we didn't take showers, how else would be get rid of all the dirt and grime we project ourselves to on a daily basis?


Find a shampoo and conditioner that works best with your hair type. Do you find your hair is constantly frizzy, or does it break really easy? Maybe it gets very oily during the day, or maybe there isn't much wrong with it at all! There are plenty of conditioners for different hair types on the market, so read the bottle before you buy to see if it is best suited to your hair. This also requires a bit of trial and error. If you aren't really sure what brand or what type of shampoo/conditioner works best for your hair, shop around a bit and try different kinds until you find one which you find works for you. Ask your hairdresser for assistance. Don't forget, it is there profession! However, if they suggest you buy one of their upper-market brands, be careful. These people are also sales persons! Plus, expensive brands do not necessarily work the best. Plenty of drugstore hair shampoos and conditioners work a lot better for some people than expensive salon types. Once you have found your ideal shampoo and conditioner, Try to wash your hair every other day. Do not wash your hair every night as it will dry it out. Always wash your hair after participating in any activities such as swimming in the ocean or in a swimming pool and remember to always use both shampoo and conditioner every time you wash your hair, not just one of the two.
Find a good body wash which smells good and works well for you! Even just looking for one in your chemist or drugstore will suffice. You don't need to go and spend a fortune on this! Just find something which you like the smell of.
Invest in a good razor! If you are a girl over the age of 14 or so, you should definitely consider either shaving or waxing your legs! Getting a good razor and spending a little more is probably better in the long run than buying a cheap disposable razor and getting cut seven times by it!

, Acne or pimples are no fun to have around, and can make your skin red and irritated. But before you Try to pop your zits (and end up with big scars on your face), try getting a good face wash. Like shampoo and conditioners, not everyone will suit the same face wash. It all depends on your skin type. Just because your friend finds a certain brand of face wash works well for them, doesn't necessarily mean it will work the same for you. However, it doesn't hurt to try. Shop around a bit until you find something your face (and your wallet!) is happy with.


Wash your face every morning after you wake up. Not only will it create a stable face washing routine, it will also help you to feel more awake and alert. Just think of it as an alternative to coffee!
Make sure to tie your hair out of your face when washing it. You don't want your hair falling into the water! This includes pinning back your bangs and any other wisps of hair which might fall out.
Wash your face with warm water. This will open up your pores and flush out all the dirt in them which causes zits.
Careful! Don't rub your face too hard, otherwise your skin and acne will become even more irritated, making the zits redder!

, This is extremely important as nobody wants to smell bad. Let's face it, sitting next to someone who's sweating isn't exactly everybody's cup of tea. There are many different scents of deodorants you can use. Most deodorants (or antiperspirants) come in either a roll-on or spray bottle. The only difference between the two is how they are applied. Apply antiperspirant in the underarms only. If using a spray bottle, spray approximately 15 centimeters (5.9 in) away from your underarm.


Find one that smells good! There's no point of using a deodorant if it smells disgusting. Whilst it may seem slightly odd to go to your friends and ask them what kind of deodorant they use, you can quietly find out what brands of deodorant they like by seeing what they keep in their bags after working out at the gym etc.
Try to keep a deodorant with you if you know you'll be participating in any type of physical activity or something that you know will cause you to work up a sweat! Keep a bottle in your school locker or your gym bag just to be on the safe side.
Don't use too much of it! There's no need to drench yourself in it. Don't get deodorant mixed up with perfume.
 Using makeup frequently clogs up your pores, which is the cause of zits and pimples! Try to stick with the fresh-faced beauty look where possible. Love the skin you're in and you will be truly beautiful!


If you need to use makeup, try to avoid sticky kinds! This will double the chances of getting pimples as it is oily and will sink into your pores easier, and that is not cleanly!
Keep a simple look when using makeup. Try to stick to neutral colors. They give you a more clean look!
Either do something dramatic with your eyes or lips, NOT BOTH! Your goal is to look clean and simple, not transform into a clown!
Always remove makeup before you go to bed to avoid it from clogging up your pores overnight.
 Keep a rubbish bin in any room you might do any eating or craft-type activities in so whenever you need to throw away rubbish you have a bin to use and you're not tempted to throw it on the ground.

