 Without proper communication and leadership skills you won't be able to effectively manage a bar, even if you have the technical knowledge. Being an effective leader will help you work more effectively with both your staff and your public. Keep some of the following points in mind when considering your communication skills:Foster a sense of team work with your co-workers.
Manage and balance personality types of your staff.
Know how to manage conflicts effectively.
Make your meetings clear and helpful.
 As a manager you will need to develop and implement certain rules and policies for both you and your staff to work with. Having too many rules can result in your staff working inefficiently or a loss of morale. If don't have enough rules your bar can easily get out of control. Strive for a balance between being a stern enforcer of policy and allowing for some freedom in your bar.Be very clear and direct about what is required of each staff member.
Write down every responsibility or rule that you want to implement.
Listen to and seriously consider any grievance your staff brings to you.
Don't forget to let your staff know they are appreciated.
 Even though you may be the manager of a bar you will still be expected to take on many additional roles. You should feel comfortable or at least have an understanding of what is involved with any other position in the bar. Knowing what each position in the bar involves can help you both manage your staff better and fill in if there is an emergency.For example, you should be able to step in for your bartender if need be.
You might need to wait on tables if you find yourself short-staffed.
 Although it is the main function of a bar to serve alcohol, there may come a time when that function creates an issue. Whether it's a staff member or a customer, you should be vigilant for anyone who is having difficulty with alcohol addiction or overconsumption. Keeping an eye out for people who need help can allow you to avoid trouble and do the right thing.It may be necessary that you work with a staff member to find them help with an alcohol addiction.
You may be faced with firing staff if they are stealing drinks or their drinking affects their professional performance.
It can be a good idea to stop a customer from buying more alcohol if they have already had a large amount or are acting inappropriately.'

