 Look up http://halloweenhorrornights.com for your details. You can see ticket prices, scare zone info, and Haunted Houses. You can also see event dates. Also, look up some videos on YouTube. Type in "Halloween Horror Nights, Universal Orlando";
, Look at your calendar and see what nights of the even you are not busy, and get your tickets. Don't wait for them to sell out. Get them as soon as possible.
 If you are in a different state, get plane tickets to get to Florida, if you are taking that mean of transportation. You could also drive if you'd like.
 You actually may not want to buy your tickets until you do this part.
 Shower, style your hair, do your makeup, and put deodorant on, because you will get hot and sweaty! Grab a bag for you and your group (If you are going to the event with a group!) and pack it with the following: Your tickets, a sweater just in case you get cold, if you have females with you or you are one, pack hygiene products, your cell phone, if you take medications, pack them, extra makeup if you need it, band aids for blisters, so fourth and so on. Those are some basics, but take whatever you need.
 If you are not, skip this. Pack a blanket and pillow for you in your car if you have a long drive home from the event, chances are, you will want to sleep. If the drive there is long, bring something to occupy yourself. iPod, DS, Books, whatever tickles your pickle. If you are driving, don't bother with the pillow; only if someone else is driving. If you are driving, it may help to have a map or GPS on hand.
 Just prepare yourself before going on to the next step.
 Once you get in, START TAKING PICTURES! Its so worth it. Chances are, somebody will scare you by now. The scare is everywhere!

, Ride rides, and do haunted houses!!!! You could also eat, if you'd like!

, BRO! CAN I GET A PICTURE?!" They usually will do that, and then chase you after, but you won't be as scared because they were in a picture with you!!! Don't be obnoxious, and definitely don't touch the actor. That results in expulsion from the park!!

, Its so much fun. It pumps adrenaline, and you just have pure fun!

, Roller-coasters are so much fun at night, because sometimes you can't see the track, making things more unexpected. It's more fun.
 As scary as that may sound, you see everything. You can't really miss anything if you are in the front. You may get scared, but that's okay. You are there to get scared!

