 While cats are thought of as independent pets, they still need to spend time with their owners. Make sure you can spend at least a couple hours every day playing and bonding with your cat.Cats need about a half hour of exercise per day. Playing with a cat will give it exercise and help you bond with it.
Getting used to new surroundings takes time, so try to take some time off work during the first few days after bringing a new cat home.;
, Before getting a cat, take some time to evaluate your ability to take on a long-term commitment. Remember that cats often live up to 20 years.You can’t predict the future, but if you move at least once a year, travel a lot for work, plan on having a family, or anticipate other major lifestyle changes, you might consider getting a cat when things are more settled.
 Make sure caring for a cat fits into your family plans. If you’re dating someone and plan on getting married, make sure they’re not allergic to cats. Talk to your spouse about having children, and make sure you’re both prepared to balance the new responsibilities of building a family with caring for your cat., If you already have children, talk to them about caring for a cat and respecting its boundaries. If you expect them to take on care responsibilities, like litter box cleaning, explain to them how and when to do their chores. Remind them that cats can be independent and often like to have their space, so they shouldn’t force the cat to play with them.Spend time around friends’ or family members’ cats to teach your kids how to handle a cat and to ensure no one in your family is allergic.
 Make sure you have the patience to tolerate the things cats do that aren’t so cute. Be ready to deal with hairballs and vomit, cat hair on clothes and furniture, claw scratching, litter box cleaning, and occasional bathroom accidents.You can get a shorthaired cat to keep shedding to a minimum, but keep in mind there are messy aspects of pet ownership that you can’t avoid.
 Fostering or cat-sitting will you decide whether or not you're ready to get a cat of your own. Ask a friend or family member if you can watch their cat for a weekend, ideally at your house. You can also contact your local animal shelter or humane society and ask for information about their fostering program.

