 The other sites do not have the massive amount of players as Poker Stars. On Poker Stars, 24-7, you will always be able to play heads up.
 As you gain experience, expand on your basic plan based on your opponent. Initially make your game plan for a loose aggressive player, loose passive player and tight passive player.,

When moving up in limits, the full ring games will have less than the capacity of nine or ten players. It will be common to have just four to eight players on those tables.
At this time, online, 6 max tables are very popular and more popular than the full ring games. Heads up is more similar to 6 max games than full ring games in the areas of bluffing and greater uncertainty in the pot odds because of bluffing and complexity.
Play heads to get a feel for the highest level possible. Online, the highest limits have players just sitting alone and waiting for someone to join them.
 Prepare for situations where you are on the button or blinds and everyone has folded. You will not have the ample time to make your decision, playing heads up will quicken your decision making., Distinguish between limit and no limit poker., These maniacs will play many hands and raise on the preflop and postflop. Raise and re-raise these maniacs, with your strong hands, to control them and get value from those strong hands that you will not be dealt frequently. Check and call maniacs to get maximum value from your winning hands.,, This computer game is very valuable to get a grasp of the game., Their big buy-ins usually reflects their need to cover big fluctuations. These players will most likely be aggressive. Alternately, play against players with minimum buy-ins or smaller., There will be many factors to consider, in heads up, where a high card or low pair frequently wins. Factor in the value of bluffing, which you must do more of in head up than in 6 max and in full ring games., Record the times when your bankroll got depleted and you had to get more free money from Poker Stars.

Have a goal to not go broke with your free money.
 Heads up is the ultimate game in terms of action for action junkies.