 You can use one 13 by 9 by 2-inch (33 by 23 by 5-centimeter) sheet pan or two 8 or 9-inch (20 or 23-centimeter) round pans.;
, This will take about 2 minutes in an electric mixer. You can also use a handheld beater or a food processor fitted with whisks.


You are adding more ingredients to your cake mix than what is stated on the package. This will help make your cake richer and taste homemade.
You can also use white cake mix and vanilla pudding. You can also use chocolate cake mix and chocolate pudding instead.
 Use a rubber spatula to help guide the mixture into the pan(s). If you have any residue inside the bowl, use the rubber spatula to scrape it out and into the pan.
 The cakes are ready when they turn golden brown, and a toothpick poked into the center comes out clean. Your baking times will vary depending on the shape of your baking pan:


If you used a round baking pan, your cake will be ready in 30 to 35 minutes.
If you used a sheet pan, your cake will be ready in 35 to 40 minutes.
 Let the cake cool in the pan for 10 minutes first. Then, take the cake out of the pan, and let it finish cooling completely. Don't worry if the cake breaks or comes apart when you take it out of the pan; you will be crumbling it up anyway.
 Use your hands to do this. Keep crumbling the cake until there are no large chunks left. Be careful not to squish the cake into dough, however.
 Use a rubber spatula or the back of a metal spoon to do this.Don't use all of the frosting. If you use too much, your cake balls will be too mushy and won't hold their form.
, Hello Kitty's head is not a perfect circle, but rather an oval. Flattening the cake balls slightly will give you a more authentic Hello Kitty shape. Don't worry about making the ears just yet; you will be making those last using chocolate chips., Cover a large baking sheet with wax paper, then place the cake balls on top. Make sure that you leave some space between each cake ball. Let them rest for 20 minutes, then cover them with a sheet of plastic wrap, and put them into the fridge for at least 2 hours.Be gentle with the plastic wrap so that you don't squish the cake balls.
Don't cram the cake balls onto the baking sheet. If they won't fit, use a second baking sheet.
 Put the candy coating into a small, microwave-safe bowl, then melt it according to the instructions on the package. Each brand may be a little different. In general, however, you'll be asked to melt the candy on medium power at 30-second intervals, stirring between each interval.Do not overcook the chocolate coating, or it will scorch.
You will melt the rest of the chocolate later. This is just to attach the lollipop sticks.
 Be sure that you are poking the stick into the side/longer part of the oval.


You can poke the lollipop sticks deeper into the cake ball if you'd like, but no more than halfway.
 Next, put the baking sheet into the fridge for 30 minutes, so that the candy coating can harden. If you are in a hurry, stick the cake balls into the freezer for 15 minutes.This is very important. If you don't allow the cake balls to set, they will slide off in the next step.
 Poke the lollipop sticks straight down into the Styrofoam block, so that the cake pops are standing upright. Be sure to leave some space between each cake pop.
 Use a small spoon to make two small dots of melted candy coating on top of each cake pop. Press a chocolate chip into the "glue."Hello Kitty's ears are rather far apart, so place the chocolate chips on either side of the head.
Match the flavor of the chocolate chip to the flavor of the cake pop. For example, if your made chocolate-flavored cake pops, use milk chocolate chips. If you made vanilla-flavored cake pops, use white chocolate chips.
 Do not take the cake pops off of the Styrofoam block; simply place the entire block in the fridge. If you are in a hurry, you can place it into the freezer for 15 minutes instead. This step may seem redundant, but the trick to getting cake pops just right is to work with cold cake pops. If they are room temperature, they will fall apart!

, Use a deep bowl if you can. This way, the edges of it will be cool enough to handle when you go on to dip the cake balls.


Save a few chips so that you can melt them to glue the decorations on later.
 Hold onto the lollipop stick, then dip the cake ball into the melted chocolate, all the way down to the stick. Do not twirl or swirl the cake pop.Gently lift the cake ball out of the melted chocolate.


Try to get as much of the cake ball covered. You want to avoid double-dipping. If you double-dip, the chocolate coating may slide off.
If the melted chocolate is too thick, stir in some vegetable oil to make it thinner and smoother.
 Hold the cake pop by the stick in one hand, and gently tap your wrist with the other. This will help get rid of any excess chocolate. Next, gently rotate the stick in between your fingers. This will help spread the melted chocolate more evenly across the cake pop.


If there is too much melted candy on the lollipop stick, rotate the cake pop again, but this time, keep your finger on the lollipop stick. This will wipe off the excess candy coating.
 This will allow the candy coating to set and harden., You will need about ¼ cup (45 grams). You will use this to attach the decorations in this section. Simply dip the end of a paintbrush into the melted candy, then use it to make dots where you want the decorations to go.
 Make two dots of melted candy at the base of one of the ears. Press two heart-shaped sprinkles into the candy, with the points touching. Next, make a dot of melted candy between the two hearts, right on top of the points. Press a small confetti dot or mini M&M into the glue.


For a small bow: use two small heart-shaped sprinkles, and a small confetti dot. Be sure to match the colors.For a large bow, use two large, red, heart-shaped sprinkles, and a mini red M&M., Make a dot of melted candy right in the middle of Hello Kitty's face, and press a yellow confetti dot into it.You can also use a small, yellow candy pearl.Alternatively, you can also draw the nose on using a yellow, edible ink pen.
 Dip a thin paintbrush into dark-colored food coloring, and draw two small ovals to either side of the nose.Hello Kitty's eyes are low, so make them just above the nose. They are also wide apart, so leave some space between them!


Alternatively, you can draw the eyes on using a black, edible ink pen., Using a thin paintbrush and dark food coloring, draw three whiskers on each side of Hello Kitty's face.Make them short, and as close to the edge of the face as you can. Don't let them touch the nose or eyes!


You can also draw the whiskers on using a black, edible ink pen., You can keep them on the Styrofoam block, or you can stand them upright in a nice cup.

