 What vegetables do you like to eat? Think about which vegetables you'd like to eat this summer, then plan your vegetable garden accordingly. Most vegetables grow well in a variety of different climates, but it's a good idea to learn what grows best in your region's garden zone before deciding what to plant.Choose vegetables that can be harvested at different times. This way, you'll have produce all summer instead of all at once.
Some plants don't grow well in certain regions. Find out if the vegetables you want to grow require a cold snap to get started, or if they'll wither and die when the temperature gets too hot. You might have to be selective about what you grow if you live in a climate with very short summers or an area that doesn't get much water.
Choose plants with similar growing and soil conditions to make it easier to care for your vegetable garden.;
, Vegetables need strong, full sunlight, so choose the sunniest part of your yard to create your vegetable garden. Avoid areas that are shaded by your house or a tree during part of the day. Choose a spot with good drainage and rich soil.


You determine if an area has good drainage by checking it after a heavy rain. If a puddle forms, that area is probably not suitable for a vegetable garden. If the water seeps into the soil quickly, it should be fine.
Choose a flat area without roots and rocks. This will be much easier to till the soil to prepare the garden for planting.
If your soil doesn't have good drainage, you can create a raised bed which allows plants to grow above ground level.
Some vegetables grow well in large pots, too. If you don't have a yard, peppers, tomatoes and potatoes can all be grown in pots on a patio or fire escape.
 Now it's time to figure out how much space the garden should take up, and where to place vegetable plants. Different vegetable plants require different amounts of space. Figure out how much space you will need for the plants.


You need to know how much space to leave between the seeds or seedlings you plant, as well as how much space the mature plants will take up. Squash, zucchini and pumpkins take up a lot of space and produce a lot of fruit, while potatoes, carrots and lettuces stay relatively contained.Planting vegetables in rows helps you keep track of which plants are which.
Factor in extra space between the rows to allow you to walk into the garden to weed, fertilize, and water it, as well as to harvest ripe vegetables.

