 A Tea Party does not have to be expensive or large to be memorable. Figure out how many people you can host in your home, and decide on how much you want to spend. Even if you're not concerned about money, having an amount in mind helps prevent you spending more than you would like.


Tea parties are generally smaller events than dinner parties. Aim for a total party of four to eight people depending on space.;
, Even for casual tea parties, some hosts encourage their guests to dress up in semi-formal or mock-Victorian clothing to add to the atmosphere, but usually accept guests in any attire. If you are planning a formal affair and wish to follow traditional dress etiquette, request semi-formal summer dress. This typically means bright colored dresses and hats for women, and slacks, button-down shirt, and blazer or suit jacket for men., You may use store-bought cards, make your own, or simply phone your guests for less formal events. If your guests are close friends or live nearby, consider delivering a small bouquet of garden flowers with the party details attached. Gives guests at least a week of notice if possible.


You may want to delay sending out invitations until you plan the menu and see how much everything will cost. This allows you to reduce the number of guests if you need to save money on refreshments.
 As the host, it is up to you whether to allow smoking, pets, or young children.Communicate your decisions clearly on the invitation. Let your guests know whether to expect a full meal or light refreshments. If you are not sure what food to provide, advice is provided below.


Keep in mind that some guests may be allergic to pets or bothered by smoke. You may wish to designate another room to keep pets in, and ask smokers to step outside.
 If you have a nice tablecloth and tea service, plan on using them. Three-tiered cake stands are traditional, but not mandatory. Small plates and teacups with floral patterns produce a good atmosphere, but don't feel that the teacups have to match unless you are entertaining formal guests or business contacts. Make sure you have a teapot or nice-looking kettle that can hold enough hot water for your guests.


Consider a vase of flowers as a centerpiece.
Place a single fork on the left and a knife and spoon on the right of each plate.Even if you are not serving food, provide small spoons for stirring sugar and milk into the tea.
 You'll need at least one black tea such as Earl Grey or Darjeeling; at least one non-caffeinated tea such as decaf black or chamomile; a small pitcher of milk or cream; and a container of sugar or sugar cubes. If you are not familiar with brewing loose leaf tea, you may provide a teapot of boiling water and a selection of teabags for guests to add. Arrange these all on the side of the table where you will be sitting or standing as you pour tea for your guests, or place on tray on either end of the table if you are hosting a large group.


Be prepared to ask each guest how he would like his tea. Many people are picky about how much sugar and milk to add (or whether to add any at all), so follow their instructions exactly.
Optionally, you may provide honey and/or lemon slices.
 Some people prefer coffee to tea, while others dislike any type of hot drink. Prepare for these scenarios by providing water at minimum, and preferably other drinks such as ginger beer or lemonade as well. Alcohol is not typically served at tea parties, but you may choose to serve small amounts of champagne or a light wine., There are three traditional ways to provide food at a tea party, mostly determined by the time of day. If you are serving tea in the mid-afternoon (between mealtimes), you may either serve an "afternoon tea" or "low tea" with a few sweet and savory snacks, or a less formal "cream tea" that serves only scones, clotted cream, and jam. Teas served during evening mealtimes (traditionally 5–7pm) are called "high teas" and usually provide more substantial food, such as meat pies, quiche, or any filling, savory dishes. A light soup and salad are sometimes served at formal high teas before the main meal.


While you may follow the links above to find recipes for common dishes, it is completely acceptable to serve store-bought foods.
Note that the term "high tea" is now often used to refer to any type of tea. If you are invited to a tea party in the afternoon, do not expect a full meal regardless of the name used in the invitation.
 Tea sandwiches are not mandatory, especially if you are serving a "cream tea" focused on scones, but they are high on the list of what your guests will expect regardless of whether they have attended a tea before. Traditionally, the sandwiches are made with white bread, then cut into small triangles or squares without crusts. Provide two or more varieties of sandwich, selected from these common choices or using other light ingredients:


Butter or cream cheese can be used as the only ingredient or added to sandwiches with vegetables or smoked salmon
Cucumber slices, watercress, or thinly sliced radish
Smoked salmon
Ham and mustard
Egg salad

Coronation Chicken salad, invented for the coronation of Queen Elizabeth II.
 If you have a large party or a small table, you may arrange the food buffet-style and have the guests stand or sit in your living room or garden. If you have space to seat your guests around the table, place the food in the center of the table, or divide each dish among multiple serving platters to make it easy for everyone to reach.


If using a three-tiered tray and serving a traditional afternoon tea, the proper etiquette is to place scones on the top tray, sandwiches on the middle, and sweets such as small cakes or candies on the lower.