 However, it's very easy for the site owner to reject the archive.org bot, keeping it from retrieving any data by blocking ia_archiver bot. In that case, you should try to look at the history of the domain registration. On the other hand, you can try to click some history pages to see if the website has always been in the same business. Their link with an asterisk means the webpage has been changed at some point in their history.
The Domain's Age: This step is similar to the first step. The difference is that you should use the Domain Tools(http://www.domaintools.com/") to check for the domain age of the World of Warcraft gold store. So why do you need another step that is so similar to the previous step? Remember, I mentioned that some sites may block archive.org's bot very easily using robots.txt.
WoW Merchant Privacy Policy: Read the sites' privacy policy or user terms carefully, you will find out how serious the owners are about their consumers. In a general way, the retailers are good enough if their privacy policy has been reviewed by eTrust(http://www.etrust.org/). I guess the privacy policy is important for each site, so each WoW gold site should have one. It even effects the Ad's quality at Google Adwords. When you think you are ready to buy from a site, make sure to read everything carefully, including the user terms.
If possible, talk with them: Feel them out. See how friendly they are, as well as how professional. It's important! Luckily, most of the WoW gold sellers have a toll-free number, and LIVE cam chat. Chat with them online, or call them.
Secure Sockets Layer: Pay attention to the address bar of your browser during purchase and registration. Try to find the SSL there! It will protect your information filled into the form. By the way, there should always be a certificate seal in the site.
Wow Gold Payment: Most of World of Warcraft stores use the third party merchant gateway such as PayPal, Google Checkout, 2Checkout or Moneybookers. So you should never share the sensitive information(credit cards and CVV numbers)with them. It's much safer. Even if you find the WoW gold store supports credit cards directly, it is much better to use PayPal or Google Checkout.
If you are on the realm Darkspear, add a character named Slavelady and give them a mount and they will ask you for lots of gold.
If you're in serious need of gold, go out and do quests; its not hard and it's less likely to get you banned or hacked.;
