 Individuals who suffer from conditions such as obesity, diabetes and high blood pressure often become resistant to insulin, which actually causes the body to produce more insulin. These high insulin levels have been linked to increased eye pressure.To solve this problem, patients are advised to avoid certain foods that can trigger an abrupt increase in insulin levels. These foods include: sugar, grains (whole and organic), breads, pasta, rice, cereal and potatoes.;
, Regularly engaging in exercises like aerobics, jogging, brisk walking, biking and strength training helps to lower your body's insulin levels, thus protecting your eyes from ocular hypertension.


Insulin is a hormone that helps to transport blood sugar (or glucose) into the cells as a source of energy. If we use up this energy through exercising, the blood glucose levels in our body are reduced, along with insulin levels. If insulin levels are low, there is no hyperstimulation of the ocular sympathetic nerve, so there is no buildup of pressure in the eyes.
Try to exercise for a minimum of 30 minutes per day, three to five times per week.
Avoid exercises and positions that place you in a head-down position, as this can increase intraocular pressure. This includes some yoga positions, such as headstands.
 Docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) is a type of omega-3 fatty acid that maintains healthy retinal function and prevents pressure from building up in the eyes.DHA (and other omega-3 fatty acids) are found in cold water fatty fish such as salmon, tuna, sardines, shellfish and herring. To boost your DHA levels, try to eat to two to three servings of these kinds of fish each week.
Alternatively, you can increase your DHA intake by taking fish oil capsules or algae-based DHA supplements. For best results take 3,000 – 4,000mg of standardized fish oil capsules per day or take 200mg of algae-based DHA supplements per day., Lutein and zeaxanthin are carotenoids, which work as antioxidants that protect the body from free radicals. These free radicals weaken the immune system, which can lead to infection and damage to the optic nerves.Lutein and zeaxanthin also help to lower eye pressure by reducing oxidative damage around the optic nerve. This is important, as any damage in the optic nerve increases eye pressure.
Foods that contain excellent sources of lutein and zeaxanthin include kale, spinach, collard greens, Brussels sprouts, broccoli and raw egg yolks. Try to include at least one of these foods in every major meal of the day.
 As mentioned above, omega-3 fatty acids help to reduce intraocular pressure. However, foods that are high in trans fats prevent the omega-3s from working properly, which can lead to increased eye pressure.


As a result, it's a good idea to limit your intake of foods rich in trans fats. These foods include: processed or baked foods, fried foods, ice cream, microwave popcorn, and ground beef., Dark colored berries, such as blueberries, blackberries, and bilberries, help to improve the overall health of the eyes by reinforcing the capillaries that transmit nutrients to the eye nerves and muscles. This is due to the fact that dark-colored berries contain antioxidants that help to strengthen blood vessels. This reduces the chances of blood vessels hemorrhaging and causing damage.Try to eat at least one portion of dark-colored berries per day.
Alpha-lipoic acid (ALA) is an antioxidant and is used to prevent and treat a number of eye disorders, including glaucoma and increased eye pressure. Dosage is usually 75mg twice a day.Bilberry is very commonly used to increase visual acuity and combat degenerative eye diseases, including ocular hypertension. One study on a specific product containing bilberry and pycnogenol (an extract from pine bark) was clinically shown to lower eye pressure.Grapeseed extract is an antioxidant and has been successfully used to reduce eye stress due to glare. Grapeseed extract is commonly used to combat signs of aging and improve night vision., Marijuana can be taken as edibles, sublingually, capsules, tablets and oils for vapors. In a 2006 study, one of marijuana's main constituents, tetrahydrocannabinol (THC), which has psychoactive effects, was shown to reduce eye pressure temporarily when 5 mg was taken sublingually, but the other constituent, cannabidiol (CBD), which does not have psychoactive effects, did not reduce eye pressure. 