 Ensure that you have time each day for at least two to three weeks to observe, interact with your child, and then leave the room to record your observations. Make sure you have dedicated, uninterrupted time, and a notebook to record what you see.;
, Always include the date, the time, and the duration of the observation and well as the interactive part of the assessment. Be objective as possible—avoid commenting on your feelings or interpreting your information. (You can do the interpreting later, once you have a factual record.)


When observing without interaction, stay seated or standing in the same place with as little movement or sound as is possible. Anything you do to provide sensory input (sound, movement, etc.) could change the child's natural behavior.
Watch how your child interacts with you during conversations, playtime, routines, cuddling, etc. Be thoughtful, and commit to memory what transpires. Once you are done, record what happened as faithfully as possible.
 Read the observations and other notations on interaction, and compare them to the list in this article on autism characteristics.
 If very few characteristics appear, or they appear but don't significantly interfere with your child's ability to interact, save the notebook and reassess in six months. If the child exhibits significant characteristics, your child may be autistic. The characteristics are determined by not one single event, but rather by seeing patterns in the behavior emerge.


If your child demonstrates more than three autism characteristics, remember that assessment is an ongoing activity. If you are not convinced whether your child needs be evaluated, continue with your log, and ensure there are continual planned observation periods.
If you are convinced that your child is disabled, do not hesitate to follow through with getting your child formally evaluated. Four strong characteristics, or five or more noteworthy characteristics of an ASD behavior would suggest that it's worth getting your child evaluated.
 If you suspect autism, contact your local school district as well as a professional in the area of Developmental Pediatrics or Clinical Specialists in ASDs. Have a formal set of tests administered to determine if your findings are valid, and if so, what type of disorder your child has as well as where to secure treatment.

