 While pork is the prime culprit for spreading T. solium, their eggs can also be found on meat that was stored or transported alongside pork. Meat infested with pork tapeworms cannot lead directly to cysticercosis, but it can lead to taeniasis, a tapeworm infection of the gut.


If you choose to eat meat, cook your meat well to destroy potential infestation of T. solium. Use a meat thermometer to ensure that your meat reaches temperatures greater than 149 degrees Fahrenheit (65 degrees Celsius).Freezing or thoroughly cooking pork can destroy worms, but pickling and salting are not adequate techniques.;
, In Europe, most cases are reported in Spain and Portugal.The disease is more widespread in Asia, Latin America, and Africa, where farms often do not adhere to strict sanitation guidelines and rates of infection are highest.


Look out for restaurants, too, when traveling through a high-risk area. Do not dine in establishments where employees do not wash their hands. They might accidentally transfer tapeworm larvae onto your food.
 Place your produce beneath cool, flowing tap water. Move the fruit or vegetable slowly around beneath the tap so that the entire surface is washed.


Do not dip your veggies and fruit in a bowl or sink filled with water. This will not clean them adequately.
 Use an antibacterial soap and scrub for at least twenty seconds.Be sure to scrub the backs of your hands and between your fingers in addition to washing your palms.


If you or someone you live with has taeniasis, you are at much higher risk of ingesting tapeworm larvae and developing cysticercosis.If you have children, teach them the importance of handwashing. Demonstrate how to do it several times until they get the hang of it.
You should take special care to wash your hands when preparing or eating food, changing diapers, and after using the toilet.
 Alternately, use an “absolute 1 micron or less” filter and dissolve iodine tablets in the water after filtering it.


Be sure to check the seal on your bottled water. Many restaurants in developing countries refill their water bottles with tap water and serve them to customers a second time.
”Absolute 1 micron or less” filters are available at camping supply stores.
Do not drink from fountains or use ice cubes in areas where pigs are allowed to roam freely or in countries where sanitation and hygiene are inadequate.

