 Even if you are, try to think positive! Think about how more in-depth your favourite lessons will now be, and think of all the better alternative friends you'll make besides your old friends. Think about how you no longer need to worry about seeing the teachers and pupils you hated in Primary.;
, You could end up with many new friends. Don't be too needy and talk to every group of people but also don't be picky and be full of yourself, don't judge your classmates, be friends with them and then you'll see the better side of them which you want to hang around with.
 If there are not many old friends at your new school, don't fret, just keep trying to make new friends and you'll do fine at secondary school, and you will survive it with friends beside you.
 Other students will just think you are a horrible person, and won't give you any respect. You might even get bullied yourself. Bullying is just wrong, it what causes you to have no friends, get along with everyone and don't sink to a bully's level, if a classmate is rude to you, walk away, and try to be friends with another more kind classmate who will most likely end up with friends, unlike bullies.
 Even if the answer is wrong, it is alright! You might even understand the topic better if you try. In fact, getting the answer wrong can sometimes be amusing, but still, don't do it on purpose as it will just make you look silly.
 Don't be dependent on people and hook to one person, as sometimes they will find it annoying, don't do annoying things that will put people off from being around you, alternate between formal and casual.
 It's a great way to make new friends and have something fun to do after school!

, That might sound like a total bore, but at least you'll have the whole evening to do whatever you want! This will help you survive, as you won't have all your teachers catching up and picking on you for not doing your homework.
 It will just make you feel even more sad and scared. If you do argue, apologize and let it blow over. If you are worried, speak to a teacher, a parent, etc. and they can help with your problems.
 It takes time to form a social group among your friends. It takes time to make friends, about a month in you should have a few friends, but you'll notice as you form into half-term and then into the next year group, you will gain more and more connections, with both younger and older students.
 Just do the best you can in all subjects and you'll get along just fine. A school night may make you feel like not going to school tomorrow but once you're in the building, you'll feel there's no need to be scared and no reason not to come in the mornings. Just do what the government asks, get a good amount of information in your brain, and before you know it you would have finished your GCSEs and rocket into College, which is a whole other, better, story.

