 Whether you use a diffuser or the Neti pot, you can use the distilled essences and fragrances (aromatherapy) of various plants to help treat your sinus infection. The essential oils used most commonly for sinus infections are:


Eucalyptus
Menthol
Lavender
Sweet basil
Oregano
Rosemary
Peppermint
Tea tree
Rose geranium
Pine
Clove
Lemon
Chamomile

, In a small bowl, add 1 and 1/2 cups of very warm (but not so hot that you scald your nasal tissues) distilled water, 6 tablespoons of finely ground unprocessed sea salt, and nine to 10 drops of essential oils, if you're using them. Stir the mixture well to dissolve the salt. Add the liquid to your Neti pot and let it cool before using.


If you'd like to use more than one kind of essential oil, just be sure to use an equal number of drops so that the total number of drops equals nine or 10.
Sea salt protects your nasal tissues.
Never use tap water or water that hasn't been filtered, distilled, or sterilized by boiling for at least one minute., Bend forward over a sink and tilt your head to one side. Breathe through your mouth to close your nose and throat off from the solution. Insert the neti pot spout into your upper nostril and slowly pour the solution so that it runs through and out of your lower nostril. Use half of the solution.Repeat this process with the other nostril and use the rest of the solution.
Blow your nose when you're finished to get the remaining fluid out of your nose.
 If you don't have a Neti pot or don't feel comfortable using one, try a simple nasal saline spray, available at any pharmacy. You can also make your own at home, though you must be careful to get the right proportions of salt to water, or you could end up drying out your skin (use about one teaspoon of salt per pint of water). Use the saline spray to keep your sinuses hydrated while you are on the go.


Irrigating your sinuses using a Neti pot is more effective in treating sinusitis than a nasal spray, but it can be intimidating at first.You may want to begin with a spray and gradually move to the Neti pot.
Nasal saline sprays have the benefit of being ultra portable. Throw one in your purse or bag or keep one at work.
 If more than one member of your family has a sinus infection, consider using a diffuser. This will dispense essential oils throughout a room. Anyone with a sinus infection should sit as close as possible to the diffuser. Choose an essential oil and follow the manufacturer's instructions on your machine.Most diffusers suggest using 1/2 cup of water with three to five drops of essential oils.

