 All-terrain running is a major component of a Tough Mudder. You want to start by running at least 2 miles (3.2 km) and work your way up to at least 10.;
, Schedule your long run and your rest days strategically, so that it does not adversely affect your other plans.


If you have signed up for the Tough Mudder with a team, you may want to sync several of your workouts with the teammates. Working out in tandem will help you push yourself harder.
Most Tough Mudder teams are comprised of 5 to 10 people.
 In fact, the larger the number of trail runs you do per week, the better off you will be on race day. Trail running combines hills for better cardio training and soft earth for better balance.
 Incorporate hill intervals or stair intervals as the weeks go on. When you run, sprint for 1/4 of a mile and jog to catch your breath.


Don’t walk between intervals. You will not have the opportunity to walk during a Tough Mudder. You will go from running to obstacles and repeat for 10 miles (16 km).
 On the 4 days you also do strength training, do lower amounts of cardio. Here is an example running program for a 12-week lead up:


Week 1: Do a 1.5-mile treadmill run 2 days and a 2-mile trail run 2 other days. Do a 3-mile trail run. (Include 30 to 40 minutes of bodyweight/strength training 3 times per week after short treadmill or trail runs).
Week 2: Do a 2-mile treadmill run 2 days and a 2-mile trail run 2 days. Do a 3.5-mile trail run. (Include 30 to 40 minutes of bodyweight/strength training 3 times per week after short treadmill or trail runs).
Week 3: Do a 2-mile treadmill run 2 days and a 3-mile trail run 2 days. Do a 4-mile trail run another day. (Include 30 to 40 minutes of bodyweight/strength training 3 times per week after short treadmill or trail runs).
Week 4: Do a 2-mile treadmill run 2 days and a 2-mile run/jog interval 2 days. Do a 5-mile run another day. (Include 30 to 40 minutes of bodyweight/strength training 3 times per week after short treadmill or trail runs).
Week 5: Do a 2-mile treadmill run 1 day and a 3-mile run/jog interval 2 days. Do a 5.5-mile all-terrain run on another day. Replace 1 day of strength training/running with plyometrics.
Week 6: Do a 1-hour run/jog day, a 50-minute hill interval day and a 6-mile run day. Replace a treadmill run and strength training workout with 1 plyometrics routine and a Tabata interval day (See below for explanation).
Week 7: Do a 1-hour run/jog day, a 50-minute hill interval session day, a plyometrics routine day, a Tabata interval day and a 6.5-mile all terrain run.
Week 8: Do 65 minutes of run/jog intervals 1 day, 50 minutes of hill intervals another day, a plyometrics day, a Tabata day and a 7-mile all-terrain run.
Week 9: Do 2 Tabata training days of at least 50 minutes, do 50-minute hill intervals twice per week and run a 7.5-mile all-terrain trail.
Week 10: Continue 50-minutes of Tabata training twice per week, do hill intervals twice per week and do an 8-mile trail run.
Week 11: Continue the same as last week, pushing to 8.5 or 9 miles (13.7 or 14.5 km) during your long run, if you choose.
Week 12: Do a single 5-mile all-terrain run, a 30-minute treadmill run and a 40-minute Tabata session in the week you prepare for your race. , Bodyweight exercise means that you will use your own body’s weight for resistance. You will do these exercises 3 times per week, every other day.


Start with 30 minutes of pushups, pull-ups, burpees, lunges, and squats.
Do 20 repetitions of each of these exercises with short rests in between.
Do these exercises on the same day as your shorter runs. The run will serve to warm up your muscles.
Do upper body weightlifting, like bicep curls, flys, presses and tricep curls after you complete the bodyweight exercises.
 By week 3, you should be using 7 to 30 lb. (3.1 to 13.6kg) weights to increase your resistance during weightlifting and bodyweight exercises.


Be conservative when you use weights. It’s better to start with a smaller weight and increase it later than to injure yourself with heavy weights.
You can also use a weighted vest during cardio or outside training to increase resistance.
Tailor your plan to address your weakest muscles. , Plyometrics are explosive interval exercises that combine jumping, speed and strength training. The following exercises should be performed with 3 sets of 12 reps and a short jogging rest in between.


Do box jumps. Start on the ground and jump onto a high bench, platform or wooden box.
Do squat jumps. When you get to the lowest point of a squat, jump high in the air. Land upright and squat again immediately.
Do power skipping. Cover rough terrain quickly by skipping for 1 minute, just as you did when you were a kid.
Do lateral jumps. Set up cones. Jump to the right side and jump back. Repeat.
Do pushups. Lower yourself down to the ground, then press your arms against the ground in an explosive motion. You should lift yourself off the ground each time.
Do plyometric exercises for 30 to 40 minutes at a time. These exercises are harder on your joints, so take rest days and don’t push yourself to injury. , Do this exercise for 60-minutes with at least a day’s rest between plyometrics and Tabata intervals. You will choose at least 6 exercises to repeat in 4-minute sets. Do the exercise at full intensity for 20 seconds, and then rest for 10 seconds. Repeat this interval 8 times, until you reach 4-minutes. Rest for 1 minute with a walk or jog, and then do another Tabata protocol with a different exercise.
Good exercises include sprints, mountain climbers, skater jumps, cycling, pushups, lunges and boxing.
 Better yet, find a ropes course or outdoor exercise equipment at your local park. A gym environment is too comfortable to imitate a Tough Mudder race. , If you only have cotton workout gear, you should get used to wearing tight-fitting workout shorts, shirts or suits. Cotton carries extra weight and will make you chafe. Wear gloves with the tips of the fingers cut off during hard training and race day. It will help you grip while you are in mud and water.
 The shock will mimic the cold-water obstacles you will experience.
 Go trail running while it’s raining, if you get a chance. It may be your only chance to get used to running in mud.
 As you sprint or finish your set, cheer each other on.
 Although there will be some mysteries, you can adjust your routine to train for whatever the course has to offer.

