 Knowing when you are going to lose it and possibly turn violent can help you stop yourself before you lose control. Monitor your thoughts and your physical body for signs of oncoming anger. You might be on your way to violence if you begin to feel:


Tense muscles and clenched jaw
Headache or stomachache
Increased heart rate
Sudden sweating or shaking
A dizzy feeling

, Most people do not plan to engage in physical violence; it happens in the moment as a response to strong emotions or as a result of escalating conflict. You can prevent yourself from responding to a trigger with violence if you strengthen your impulse control. Some strategies for developing or strengthening your impulse control include:Practice delayed gratification. Practicing delayed gratification in other areas can actually help you develop impulse control generally. For example, if you always sit down and watch your favorite show as soon as you get home from work, try pushing the habit back an hour and getting a bit of housecleaning done first. Accepting this delay will develop your willpower.
Develop “if-then” scenarios ahead of time.For example, you might decide ahead of time, “if this person insults me or my friends, I will walk away.”
Strengthen your body. Some studies have linked strengthening your muscles and body through regular exercise to increased impulse control and willpower., Accept that you dislike someone and that you feel angry whenever you are around him. Know that that’s okay. You may not be able to change the way that you think or feel about another person, but you can always choose how to act towards him. Each time you speak or act, you are making a choice about what words and actions you use.For example, you can think to yourself, “I do not like this person. The way he is talking to me and my friends makes me want to beat him up. It is normal to feel angry and to dislike people, but I will not let him get the best of me by drawing me into a physical altercation.
 Exercise can help you get your “angry energy” out. It can also help you feel better by triggering endorphins in your brain, which are neurotransmitters that make you feel happier.Consistent exercise can help regulate your emotions and strengthen impulse control over time as well as making you feel better in the moment.