 When you apply for a marriage license, the clerk should give you a packet of information. This packet will explain how you can change your Social Security card to reflect your new name. The packet should also include appropriate forms.If the clerk doesn’t give you anything, then be sure to ask.
If you want to change your name for another reason, then follow the procedures in Parts 2 and 3.;
, You must complete this form and submit it to the Social Security Administration (SSA). You should print neatly in black ink and provide all information requested. The form will ask for the following information:your new name
your current name and any previous names
your Social Security Number
your date of birth and place of birth
your ethnicity and race
your sex
parental information, such as name and Social Security Number
your contact information

, You need to submit supporting documents so that the Social Security Administration can process the name change. Obtain the following:proof of U.S. citizenship, such as a certified birth certificate or certificate of naturalization, if you have not already established your citizenship with the SSA
certified copy of your marriage record
proof of your identity, such as a valid state-issued ID or passport (don’t send photocopies)

, You should submit the information to your nearest Social Security office, which you can find by calling 1-800-772-1213 or visiting https://secure.ssa.gov/ICON/main.jsp. Hours are generally Monday through Friday, 9:00 am to 4:00 pm.If you want to mail the information, then ask for the mailing address when you call.
Since you have to submit original documents (such as your driver’s license), you might want to hand deliver your application to the office. Staff can review these documents and then hand them back to you.
 After receiving your information, the Social Security office will process your application and return your documents to you. You should receive your new Social Security card within two to three weeks.Although the name will be different, your Social Security Number remains the same.
 You generally can change your name if you are an adult. However, some limitations apply. You can only change your name if each of the following applies:you are not in prison or jail
you are at least 17 years old
you aren’t required to register as a sex offender
you are not attempting to evade creditors

, You have the option of completing the forms electronically or by hand. You should choose the electronic forms if your handwriting is messy or if you prefer to type your answers. You will answer a questionnaire and then print off completed forms.


If you want to complete the forms online, then go to http://www.in.gov/judiciary/selfservice/2338.htm and click on “Get the Electronic Fillable Packet” at the bottom of the page.
You must have Adobe to complete the fillable forms.
 You also have the option of printing out the forms and completing them by hand. You can get the forms and the instructions here: http://www.in.gov/judiciary/selfservice/files/p-name-change.pdf.


If for some reason you can’t print them off, then you should stop by your county courthouse and ask if there is a packet you can pick up.
 You should provide all information requested. If something doesn’t apply, then type in “not applicable” or “N/A.” You must provide the following information:the county where you are filing
your address
your phone and fax
your email address
your date of birth
your driver’s license number or state identification card number
previous names
any felony convictions
the reason you want to change your name
the new name that you want
your signature under penalty of perjury before a notary public

, You will need to file the original and possibly copies with the court clerk in the county where you live. You will also need to keep one copy of the completed forms for your records.


You can check how many copies to make by reading your court’s local rules. Visit http://www.in.gov/judiciary/2694.htm and click on your county.
 Take your copies and the original set of forms with you to the courthouse. Ask the clerk to file. The clerk should process the forms and give you back one copy with the filing date stamped on it.You may have to pay a fee to file. Check with the court clerk for the amount and acceptable methods of payment.
 When you file, the clerk will set a hearing date. You should write in this date on your form titled Notice of Petition for Change of Name.Also write down the date in a notebook or on a slip of paper so that you remember it.
 A notice of the name change must run in the local newspaper once a week for three weeks. The last day it runs must be at least 30 days before your hearing.The purpose of the notice is to give the public a chance to object to the name change. Go to your local newspaper and ask to talk to the person who handles legal notices.


You should run the notice in the paper with the largest circulation in your county. If there is no paper in your county, then you should use a paper for an adjoining county.Contact your court clerk if you don’t know which paper to run the notice in.
You will probably have to pay to run the notice in the newspaper. The amount will vary by the newspaper., After the notice runs in the newspaper, you will receive a proof of publication. You should attach it to your Notice of Filing Proof of Publication and file it with the court clerk., You must provide notice of filing to the sheriff and the prosecuting attorney of the county where you live if you have had a felony conviction within the past 10 years.You must also notify the Indiana State Police Central Repository.
Provide the notice at least 30 days before your hearing date.
 Be sure not to be late to your hearing. Give yourself enough time to find parking and to go through courthouse security. Remember to take the following with you to your hearing:your current driver’s license or state identification card
your proof of birth, such as a certified birth certificate
copies of all documents filed with the court
copy of proof of publication

, If the judge agrees to the name change, then you will get a signed decree. You can get a certified copy of the decree from the court clerk. Hold onto this decree since it is proof of the name change., After the name change goes through, you should notify appropriate agencies and other parties that need to know your new name. For example, you should notify the following:Social Security Administration
your employer
all creditors
any agency from which you have an ID (driver’s license, passport, etc.)
your vital records office (if you want to change the name on your birth certificate)

