 You can use plain water, but this won't add any extra flavor to the sausage. You may instead want to try making a mixture of water and your favorite liquid cooking ingredients. For instance, broth, stock, wine, beer, and tomato sauce can all transfer their flavor to sausage as it cooks.Boiling sausages won't give them a crisp exterior, but it will preserver the moisture and fat content within them. This makes boiling a good choice for emulsified sausages — those filled with a smooth mixture of finely-ground meat, fat and water. Examples include Bratwursts, Hot dogs, Frankfurters, Weisswurst, Knockwurst, and Serdelki., Use the highest possible setting on your burner — you're dealing with a lot of water, so you'll need a lot of heat to boil it. This may still take some time.
 To prevent hot splashes, lower the sausages in one-by-one with a set of tongs or another long utensil. Don't drop them in. When all the sausages are in the water, turn the heat down so that the boiling reduces to a gentle simmer.
 Cover the simmering water with a lid. If the sausages were previously cooked (as is the case with most hot dogs), you'll only need to cook them until they're hot all the way through (about 10 minutes). If they weren't pre-cooked, you may need to cook them for up to 30 minutes before taking them out. In either case, stir occasionally so the sausages cook all over.









Boiled sausages look a little different than grilled or fried sausages when they're done. They won't have a brown exterior — instead, they'll simply be firm and uniform all the way through, with no remaining pink. Depending on the type of sausage, they may be an unappealing grey waxy color. This is OK as long as they are cooked all the way through.
 The boiled sausages are now ready to eat. However, if you miss the crisp brown exterior from the other methods, you can still get this by applying a little dry heat. Get a frying pan or skillet hot, add a spoonful of oil, and fry the sausages on either side for a few minutes until browning occurs.


Many sausages from Central or Eastern Europe are traditionally eaten boiled. However, they still taste good browned, so don't be afraid to cook them this way.

