 In the United States and many other countries, you have the choice of organizing your business as a corporation or a limited liability company (LLC), or running it as a sole proprietorship.Which structure you choose typically depends on how big you want your business to be and how many people you expect will be involved.
In most cases, an LLC will be your best option. It gives you the same limited liability protection of a corporation, so it shields your personal assets from being reached by business creditors. But it doesn't have as many formal requirements as a corporation does, and you don't have to have a lot of other people involved in the running of the business.
If you're starting your business smaller, or plan on running it as a side business while you work full time, you may simply want to operate as a sole proprietorship. This generally means that your business isn't separate from your personal assets, however, so if you own your own home or have significant assets, you may prefer the protection of an LLC even if the business itself is relatively small.
 In the United States and many other countries, you must register the name of any business you want to establish in a given area. Registration ensures you have a unique name that can't be confused with any other business operating in the same general area.In the U.S., you typically will register your business name in the state where you plan to operate your business. You'll pay a fee, typically less than $100, to gain exclusive access to the name you've chosen.
Depending on the creativity of the name you've chosen, you also might want to consider getting it trademarked.
 In most countries, including the United States, you must get a tax ID number for your business so you can pay the business's taxes. In the U.S., this number is called an employer identification number (EIN), but you must get one regardless of whether you have any employees.To get an EIN for a U.S. company, all you have to do is go to the IRS website at irs.gov and answer a few questions. Your EIN will be issued immediately at no cost to you.
If you're located in another country, contact your country's tax agency to determine how to get a tax ID for your business so you can meet the appropriate tax responsibilities.
Once you have your tax ID number, you'll be able to open business bank accounts, as well as apply for credit cards if you want or think you'll need them., You'll typically need various licenses and permits to operate your business legally. What you need will depend on where your business is located and what kinds of goods or services you're providing.For example, if you want to work with seniors on their home improvements, you may need a general contractor's license or similar state permits. If you plan to pay house calls to help seniors with financial matters, you may need an accounting certification or other professional licensing.
Your local small business association typically will have the information you need regarding any required licenses or permits and the fees you must pay to get them.
In the United States, you can get information regarding required licenses and permits for businesses in all 50 states by visiting the website of the federal Small Business Association (SBA) at www.sba.gov. You'll also find links to the state agencies that provide these licenses and permits.
 In most cases, accounting and tax preparation software will be all you need during the first few years of your business. However, it may be worth talking to a professional if you anticipate things could bet complicated, or if you have difficulty handling financial and legal matters.It can be difficult to know exactly when you need to keep a legal or financial professional on retainer until it's too late and you're already in over your head. For this reason, it's a good idea to consult someone while you're still in the planning stages of your business.
An attorney or accountant can advise you on what kinds of things you can do yourself, and whether you require continued assistance. This also helps you establish a good working relationship with a professional you trust.

