 Once you have determined your fat-burn zone, try to stay in it for at least 30 to 50 minutes. This will help you burn fat while you walk around looking for Pokémon. In order to focus on playing Pokémon GO, you may want to use a fitness tracker so that you are not distracted by checking your pulse.


The longer that you walk around, the more calories that you will burn. If you want to see the health benefits of playing Pokémon GO, try to play for at least 45 minutes.For example, if you weigh 156 lbs (71 kg), you will burn about 176 calories if you walk for about 40 minutes.Depending on your age, weight and gender, the number of calories you will burn while walking will vary.
 Another easy way to increase your heart rate and get into the fat-burn zone is to jog around while you play Pokémon GO. Instead of walking while you play the game, try lightly running as your search for Pokémon, visit gyms and go to PokéStops.Try jogging for at least thirty minutes.
Be sure to watch where you are going if you decide to jog and play Pokémon GO. Try not to get too distracted and run into someone or something.
 You can also use Pokémon GO to practice interval training. During this exercise, you do multiple short sprints. This will get your heart rate up and push it into the fat-burn zone. Consider running hard between gyms and PokéStops while you play, and then catch your breath once you get to where you are going.Depending on where you live, there may be less than a quarter of a mile (1/2 km) between PokéStops, which is ideal for interval running.
You can also decide to sprint for a certain amount of time, and then walk for a set amount of time. For example, you might sprint for two minutes and then walk for thirty seconds.
 Strength training can also help you maximize the number of calories that you burn while playing Pokémon GO. You can incorporate strengthen training into the game by doing some push-ups and sit-ups every time you stop at a PokéStop or a gym. Consider doing three sets of five push-ups at first and gradually increase the number every few weeks.If you are running intervals, do a set of pushups and sit-ups between each sprint.
 If you want to cover a lot of ground quickly and burn some calories, you might want to ride your bike. Consider cycling between PokéStops and gyms. This will allow you to cover a larger area and get in some good exercise. You can ride to a certain area, walk around looking for Pokémon and then bike somewhere else.Do not look at your phone while you ride your bike. If you are distracted, you can wreck and hurt yourself and others. While you ride your bike, put your phone away. Try to stay safe while playing Pokémon GO.

