 If your dog hasn’t been trained to respond to basic commands yet, now is the time to do it. These commands can distract your dog if they are acting inappropriately around the baby, and they will improve the overall behavior of your dog. Good commands to teach your dog include “sit,” “come,” and “leave it.”To teach your dog a command, show them the proper behavior while giving a command such as “sit” or "come.” Give them a treat when they successfully do it. Soon they will associate the word with the command.If you are having difficulty training your dog yourself, you may want to take them to obedience classes or find a local dog trainer to train the dog for you. Some trainers may even offer baby safety classes for dogs.;
, If your dog has certain habits that may harm the baby, you should train the dog to stop before the baby arrives. These might be behaviors that are harmless to adults but could cause injury to babies.If your dog jumps on people, they may try to jump on someone holding the baby or they try to jump on the baby themselves.
If your dog likes to sit on laps, you should encourage the dog to instead sit beside you quietly. Train your dog to only come into your lap when requested.
Make sure the dog can properly walk on a leash. This will ensure that the dog can safely accompany the baby stroller on walks.
 If possible, arrange a supervised visit between your dog and young children or babies both inside and outside of your home. Watch your dog to see how they react to being around young children.You can ask family members or friends if they would be comfortable with letting their children play with your dog.
Give your dog a treat if they sit quietly while children pet or play around them. This will teach your dog to associate children with positive events, and it will reward them for acting calmly around children.
If the dog acts aggressively towards the child, remove them from the situation. Consider contacting a behaviorist for help.
 If your dog won't be allowed in the nursery or playroom when the baby arrives, start restricting them now. By making this a routine before the baby comes home, your dog will think that it is normal.You can use physical barriers, like baby gates, to block rooms and areas. These will let your dog see and smell into a room, which can help them get used to the baby, but it will prevent them from entering the room.
 It may be useful to start acclimating the dog to a rough or unusual touch. Start petting the dog in places that a child might grab, such as the paw pads, face, tail, belly, ears, and mouth. Reward the dog with a treat if they manage to sit calmly while you touch them in these areas. Do this a few times a day for a few minutes at a time., When the baby is born, you may have to change the dog’s exercise, feeding, or play schedule. Over a period of one to four months, slowly change the dog's schedule by a few minutes everyday.Start feeding the dog at irregular periods so that your dog does not expect food at an exact time. For example, instead of feeding your dog exactly at eight every morning, pick a random time between six and nine o’ clock every day.
 If your dog will be allowed in the nursery, let them sniff around the new items, such as the crib, toys, rocking chair, and changing table. Give them lots of time to investigate the area, and reward them if they're calm.


Give your dog scents associated with babies. Let them sniff bottles of things like baby powder, oil, shampoo, or diapers. You can even sprinkle a bit of baby powder on your clothes and let your dog sniff you.
 If you can find one, you may want to invest in a realistic baby doll that makes crying and babbling noises. You can usually find these at baby stores. Start treating this doll as though it is a real baby. This will let your dog see the things you will be doing with the baby, and it will help them adjust to the types of noises a baby can make. You can:Make the doll cry
Bounce the baby doll on your lap
Rock in the rocking chair with the doll
Change the doll’s diaper
Get the dog to sit quietly beside you on the couch while you hold the doll
Take the doll out in a stroller while walking your dog

, The baby will require most of your attention in their first months of life, and this means that your dog will not be able to spend as much time with you. While you should not outright ignore your dog, slowly reduce the amount of time you spend with the dog by about ten minutes a day.If the dog is very attached to you, you may want to have your spouse, partner, or another family member spend more time with them so that they can develop a stronger bond. By doing this, the dog will have someone to be with when you are caring for the baby.
 You may want to check that the dog's vaccinations are up to date. If your dog has not been spayed or neutered, you should consider doing it now. 'Fixed' dogs are calmer and less likely to be aggressive than dogs that haven't been spayed or neutered.You may also want to take the dog to the groomer to cut away excess fur, trim the nails, and remove any earwax. It may be difficult for you to do this after the baby is born, and it will help keep your home clean., While the baby’s arrival might be hectic, it is important to care for your dog during this period. Make sure a family member can care for the dog at home, or ask a friend to take the dog in for a few days. If the dog is well cared for in this period, they may be less excitable when you return with the baby., After the baby is born but before they come home, ask someone bring a blanket or an item of clothing that the baby has worn home. Give this item to the dog so that they can sniff it. This will familiarize the dog with your baby’s scent, and it will cause less stress to the dog when the baby arrives home., Have someone wait outside with the baby or take the baby into another room. Come inside, and greet the dog calmly. Let the dog sniff you and other family members before bringing in the baby., It is best to introduce the baby and the dog while the dog is restrained on a leash. Even if the dog is friendly, they can easily injure the baby in their excitement. Have one person hold the baby, and the other person hold the dog.
 Find a stable place to sit with the baby in your arms. Have another person slowly bring the dog towards you on a leash.If the dog starts jumping, pause until the dog calms down. If the dog is calm enough, you can let the dog sniff the baby. If your dog becomes aggressive, immediately take them out of the room.


If you have more than one dog, introduce them to the baby one at a time.If the dog growls or jumps on the baby, gently pull back on their leash or state a command like "come" to distract them. Remove them from the room, and try introducing them again later.
 Although you may have your hands full with the new baby, you should try to keep the dog as busy as possible. Make sure the dog has plenty of toys, such as chew toys and food puzzles. Always take them on their scheduled walks to prevent destructive behavior.You can also think of activities that the dog can do with the baby, such as taking the stroller out when you walk the dog.
 As the baby grows, you may become more comfortable with the dog and the baby being together, but you should never leave the two unsupervised. If the baby bothers the dog, the dog may bite. There may also be accidental injuries. For example, the dog may unintentionally scratch the baby, causing serious injury. Always supervise the dog and baby when they are together; never leave them alone.If you notice the dog acting in appropriately around your baby, redirect the dog by calling their name or giving a command like "down" or "come." Praise them if they can be easily distracted.
 The dog should have a private space in the home where they can retreat if they are stressed or annoyed by the baby. This can be a crate, a dog bed, or a corner. The dog should always have access to this area, and you should not disturb the dog while they are there. As the child grows, teach them not to go into the dog’s den or to bother the dog when they are in this area.