 Remove and discard the bag immediately.


After vacuuming up the stink bugs, your vacuum is likely to smell foul for several weeks or months. For this reason, you should not use a bagless vacuum that you use at home.
Empty the bag's contents into a large garbage bag and seal the bag tightly.
Alternatively, you can wrap a knee-high stocking around the vacuum tube. Secure the stocking with a rubber band and push it inside the tube. As long as the stocking remains secure, the stink bugs should be caught inside it instead of entering the vacuum filter. You can remove the stocking, holding the end closed, and dispose of the stink bugs from there.
 Fill a 1-gallon (4-liter) bucket 1/4 full with water. Mix in 1 tsp (5 ml) dish detergent or liquid soap. Position the bucket beneath climbing stink bugs and flick them down into the solution using a gloved hand.


The soap will make it difficult for the insects to move, and they will ultimately drown in the water.
As far as stink bug elimination methods go, this is probably the closest to a “stink free” option since the bugs are killed relatively quickly.
 Set this up in an attic or other dark space according to manufacturer's instructions. Turn it on at night and sweep up or vacuum any dead bugs in the morning.


Insect electrocution systems, also known as "bug zappers," attract stink bugs and other insects by drawing them in toward a bright light. As the insect approaches, it gets a sudden shock that is strong enough to kill it instantaneously.
 Place sticky fly tape along windowsills, doorways, cracks, vents, and any other notable entryways into your home. Check the tape every day, discarding it as it fills up and replacing it as necessary.


Since this is not a quick death, trapped stink bugs may give off their trademark odor after being caught.
If you do not have fly tape, you can also use double-sided tape.
 Take an empty water bottle and place the open bottle close to the stink bug.


Use the bottle to collect the stink bug or bugs.
Cap the bottle very tightly.
Freeze the bottle with its offensive inhabitants in a freezer (preferably not one in which you store food). Overnight should be enough time to do them in.
Once the stink bugs are frozen to death empty the bottle into the garbage or outside and use again.
Alternately, add a small amount of dish soap to the empty water bottle and reuse the bottle to catch as many stink bugs as you can. Catching the stink bugs on a vertical surface is easily accomplished by placing the water bottle opening over the stink bug. Once the stink bugs come in contact with the soap, they will suffocate.

