 Chronic bronchitis affects over 10 million people in the US and is responsible for 40,000 deaths. It is condition that lasts at least three months and occurs at least two years in a row. It is caused by inflammation that is accompanied by swelling and excessive mucus production. This causes the lungs to lose their cilia, which are the hair-like appendages that help move mucus and other substances through the respiratory system. When this happens, the mucus stays stationary, which causes the growth of bacteria and stops up the airways.The primary cause of chronic bronchitis is tobacco use. Because of this, chronic bronchitis is a common precursor to chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and emphysema. , The people at the most risk of chronic bronchitis are those who are or have been heavy smokers. You are also at risk if you have had severe bacterial or viral infections that affected the lungs or if you breathed in industrial dusts and fumes. When tobacco smoke or air pollutants such as dust or soot is breathed into the airways, it causes them to become irritated. The cells of the lower respiratory tract that secrete mucus, the goblet cells, go into overdrive. This causes them to secrete mucus at a very high rate into the respiratory passages, which causes a chronic cough.Research indicates that inflammation of the airways persists for more than 13 years after a person has stopped smoking.
People with occupations such as metal molders, grain handlers, and coal miners are at an increased risk due to the excessive environmental irritants., The main symptom of chronic bronchitis is sputum production from a cough that occurs every day for at least three months, which reoccurs at least two years in a row. The mucus causes obstructions to airways, and this causes even thicker mucus as a consequence. Unlike acute bronchitis which starts within in a few days, chronic bronchitis's onset is gradual. The mucus produced is typically yellow or brownish in color.


You will likely also have chest tightness, shortness of breath, and sometimes struggling to breathe. You may also experience fatigue, a sore throat, muscle aches, nasal congestion, and headaches.
Since chronic bronchitis often comes hand in hand with COPD, you may see all the symptoms of COPD such as wheezing lungs, weight loss, and cyanosis, which is a bluish or grayish skin discoloration due to low oxygenation. , Your doctor will likely give you a chest X-ray to check the extent of the damage. This will also exclude pneumonia or lung cancer. Chronic bronchitis will not show any specific signs on the X-ray, but it will tell the doctor if your condition has evolved into COPD.


You may also get a pulmonary function tests. These will test your lung capacity and oxygen levels. These are also likely given while you are receiving treatment over a period of time to see if the treatments are working., The major point of treatment is to quit smoking immediately. This can be done with or without help. If you have smoked for a long time, you may find it easier with help, such as nicotine patches and gums, group therapy, prescription medication, and shots. If you have already quit smoking, there are different kinds of treatment, depending on how bad your chronic bronchitis is.


People with chronic bronchitis should get a yearly flu shot as well as a pneumonia shot.
For chronic bronchitis caused by any factor, you may be given special breathing exercises to increase your lung capacity and help your respiratory system. You may also be told to do more modest exercise, such as light walking or other light cardiovascular exercises. This should be done for 15 minutes at least three times a week to start.Your doctor may also prescribe medication for the condition, such as inhaled beta agonists and steroids to help open up your airways. This works for any cause of bronchitis. You may also be prescribed oral steroids, but talk with your doctor first about the side effects.
Antibiotics are sometimes prescribed when you have an acute flare caused by a bacterial infection.
If you have extremely low oxygen levels, you may be given supplemental oxygen. This is typical in cases that have progressed to COPD.