 Girls, you have to trust your man until he gives you a reason not to. There's nothing more annoying than a jealous girlfriend. He IS allowed to have friends that are girls, like the old saying goes "you can look, but don't touch" same goes for you. There is no need for you to go through his phone, reading all of his text messages or following him wherever he goes. Trust him.;
, Guys can't stand when a girl whines, they find it extremely annoying. There is nothing hot about a whiner.
 Just like you don't want to hear him talk about his ex girlfriend, never talk about an ex boyfriend.
 Calling him more than twice a day is just ridiculous. Even two times is a lot. Once is definitely enough. Let him call you, it'll make him think of you, and that means he actually wants to talk to you. And don't think that just because he doesn't talk much on the phone sometimes, means he doesn't like you, he could just be BUSY.
 Never say the words "I love you" until you are absolutely positive you really do love him, and this is NOT something you say in the first days/weeks of the relationship. Wait to say it (not too long but long enough) you don't want to scare them away.
 Do not start talking about your guy's "future together" until you're positive you will actually have a future together... Guys definitely get freaked out by this.
 Let sex remain a mystery for a little while, first of all you don't want to think you sleep around a lot, tease him instead make him want you even more.
 Don't expect him to spend all of his time with you, he does have friends, and so do you. Make sure you don't keep him from hanging out with his friends, And also make sure you make time for your friends to, or else if you guys break up, your friends will have moved on without you, and you'll be left alone.
 If you don't like him for who he is, then peace out. You have to accept who he really is. 

, Befriend his friends. If your friends with his friends, when you're not around, they'll usually talk good about you to him, which will only make him like you more because if he has the "approval" of his friends, it's a big sense of security.

