 You'll need your rope divided into three strands to tie this splice. Your rope may have adhesive or a fastener on the ends to prevent it from fraying. You may need to cut these ends free with a knife or scissors to divide your rope into three strands.


If your rope is made of many strands, you should try to collect these into three even groups of strands to use in your splicing.
A back end splice is especially useful for preventing a rope that has become unraveled from fraying. This splice will securely keep the rope together.
You can use this same splice to fasten two different ropes together, too. Simply use the end of a separate rope instead of using one end of the same rope, which is the example provided here., You can do this easily with many kinds of synthetic rope by passing the flame of your lighter over the loose ends until they fuse together. This will help prevent fray in the rope while you're tying your splice.








You should use caution when applying fire or heat to your rope. If your rope has absorbed a flammable substance, it could start a fire.
 You should use a durable tape, like electric tape or duct tape, when doing this. Your tape will give rigidity to the rope, making it easier for you to guide it through holes and gaps while splicing.








Unraveling your rope can also hurt the stability of its weave. By taping the ends, you'll also provide greater stability to your splice.
 First measure out enough length in your end strands to tuck around the body of your rope at least four times. Then fasten the base of this length with durable tape, like electrical tape or duct tape, to prevent the body of the rope from unraveling.The tape at the base of your end strands should encircle the rope completely to create a sleeve or collar that prevents your rope from unraveling more than you want.
 The end strand should form a loop as it curls back to the main rope. This is the beginning of a crown knot, which will form the base for your end splice.
 If you're holding your loop in front of you, you should have two strands free. Take the rightmost strand and pass it through the loop, keeping all strands loose.








Your second strand should not be pulled completely through the loop. Enough line should remain so that a loop is formed by your second strand as well as your first.
 Take your final strand and pass it over your first loop and through your second loop. The current shape of your end strands should roughly resemble an airplane propeller.
 Pull the strands with steady pressure until the knot is firm. With coarse ropes, you may need to use your fingers to encourage the rope into place. It can sometimes help to pinch the bottom of the crown knot and pull it tightly.








At this point, if you were to look straight down on the knot, you should see all three end strands equally.

