 Each spouse must agree to file a joint tax return, and each must sign the return. You can’t force your spouse to file a joint tax return.Accordingly, you should sit down together and analyze whether to file jointly or separately.


Look at this as an opportunity to tackle a financial project in a joint manner. Many marital disagreements involve money. By tackling this issue productively, you set the stage for future cooperation on finances.
 You must report all income earned, so each spouse should gather their W-2, 1099, and other forms. You must include the following as income in your return:wages, salaries, and tips
dividends (ordinary and qualified)
business income
capital gains
alimony received
taxable refunds
IRA distributions
pensions and annuities
rental real estate, royalties, trusts, partnerships, etc.
unemployment compensation
Social Security benefits
other income

, You can file using a Form 1040EZ, 1040A, or 1040. The form you file will depend on a variety of factors. Consider the following:Form 1040EZ. This is the easiest to complete. Generally, you can choose this form if you aren’t claiming dependents and your taxable income is less than $100,000. However, you can’t choose 1040EZ if you are filing married filing separately.
Form 1040A. You can use this form if your taxable income is less than $100,000 and you don’t itemize deductions.
Form 1040. All others must use this form.
 Filing your tax return as a couple is pretty much the same as filing when you were single. You’ll need to enter your spouse’s name at the top of the form and include their Social Security Number.Under “Filing Status,” tick the appropriate box: “married filing jointly” or “married filing separately.”If you file jointly, remember to apply the correct standard deduction and use the correct tax rates. They are different than those used by people filing separately.
Both of you should review a joint return before filing it with the IRS. On a joint return, both of you are legally liable for any taxes owed and for any errors made on the return.

