 Any poems or short stories that you studied in class should be re-read. For longer texts like full-length novels, be sure to re-read any sections that seem really important or that your teacher spent a lot of time talking about in class.


If you took notes while discussing the texts, review the notes first, then re-read the text.
Be sure to consult your syllabus to remind yourself about all of the texts that you read.
Reviewing the chapter titles and the first and last sentences of each chapter of novels can help refresh your memory about the specifics of the novel.
 If you used a traditional textbook for your class, read the introductory material and any footnotes that accompany the poems or stories you read.


These items, often overlooked when initially reading the texts, often provide context and overviews that can be very helpful for essay questions.
 If you took notes in class, re-read them. If you don’t normally take notes, you should try to make an effort to do so in the future. This is the best way to remind yourself about what you talked about in class. Teachers rarely ask exam questions that were not directly discussed in class, so being able to review information from class time is the best study guide you can have. It is also good to review class work. 

, Many essay questions about literature will have to do with theme, or the “big picture” messages of a text. If you have trouble identifying themes on your own, try searching online for the name of the text plus the word “theme.” You will likely find some useful overviews and study guides. Knowing common themes in literature may help you identify them in specific texts:(Wo)Man versus nature
(Wo)Man versus a hostile society or God/the gods
The fleeting nature of time
The inevitability of death
The state of Alienation
The danger of ambition

, There are many websites devoted to providing students with summaries and study guides for canonical (popular and famous) texts. These can be great tools for studying, but they should never be used as a substitute for reading the text in the first place.


If you choose to use an online guide, use a reputable one written by experts. Avoid using personal blogs and websites that don't say they're written by experts.
 Though you may not be asked specifically to identify characters’ names and relationships to each other on the exam, these are details that will come in handy while taking the exam.


Getting characters’ names wrong or mixing up characters can undermine even otherwise great responses to test questions.
Use flashcards (either paper or electronic cards) to memorize characters’ names and details about them.