;
, Warm tea coupled with the high fat content of many types of cheese can create a creamy and delectable tasting experience., As with wine, tea contains tannins and it is these that are pairing so nicely with the cheese. Tannins produce an astringent, tart taste and also provides color to the tea, so you can picture how much tannin is in a tea by its color depth––less tannins are found in white and green teas, while oolong tea has a mid-range of tannins and black teas have the most tannins.,


Don't just have tea. Also have slices of bread, some crackers and some fruit slices to round out the flavors and choices.
Fresh water will also be appreciated by those wanted to switch to the next flavors.
 For example, if you like a certain cheese with white wine, it's quite possible that the same cheese will pair well with a green tea, while a cheese you are used to enjoying with a red wine will often match well with a black tea.The same strengths of wine tannins will often transfer across to the strengths of the tea tannins.
 This pairing works well with oolong (such as Tung Ting), Earl Grey or Keemun teas.A lightly salted goat cheese will match well with green tea and sweet teas such as jasmine or rose-scented tea.Earl Grey tea is ideal for really salty teas.If you have a favorite floral-scented tea, pair it with saltier cheese. You'll love the complementarity and you may just find a new flavor match that really works well.
 For example, ideal pairings would include a Darjeeling or a fresh green tea such as Japanese sencha.For example:


Asiago cheese pairs well with grassy green tea such as Kukicha or Sencha.Match Brie with a first flush Darjeeling.Match Danish cream Havarti with Darjeeling.Match ricotta, mascarpone and goat cheese with green teas such as Japanese Sencha or Chinese Dragonwell.Pu-erh teas match well with high-fat cheeses., If you're not really adventurous, stay with black or oolong teas to be assured of a decent pairing, or be slightly adventurous and use green tea., For example, pair Assam, Keemun, Ceylon and Autumnal Darjeeling with full-flavored cheeses, such as aged and vintage cheese.Interestingly, green Dragonwell tea can match well with aged cheese too; at least give it a try.Pair nut-like flavored cheeses with teas containing a decent tannin content. For example, match nutty cheeses with Keemun, Ceylon or Dragonwell green teas.Pair Cheddar with black tea. For example, pair it with Earl Grey tea, with its delightful bergamot undertones.Match Gouda with oolong tea.Pungent cheese with a full-bodied flavor such as Gorgonzola and Stilton cheeses, will match well with Pouchong or Lapsang Souchong teas., Learn to match simply by tasting the cheese or the tea, then thinking about what sorts of matches might work. For example, a smoky tea with a smoky cheese, a grassy tea with a fruity cheese, etc. You can ask for taste tests at both cheese stores and tea stores.
 For example, have at least one cheese from each cheese type (salty, soft and creamy, hard and strong, nutty, etc.). Arrange from the mildest to the strongest cheese flavors.


Cheese pieces should be cut from the rind to the tip to experience the full flavor range of the cheese, not just from one spot.Keep the slices as thin as reasonably possible. This is about tasting, so tasters won't be wanting to get filled up.
 Rillo suggests having two to three black teas, one green and one oolong, to cover the range of flavor matches.Arrange the teas from mildest to the strongest flavors.


Good black tea choices: Darjeeling, Assam, Lapsang Souchong and Yunnan., This isn't "tea party" time; it's all about the tasting, not the crockery.

