 Drew Barrymore and Taylor Swift both famously did this. Sure, it might seem a little self-indulgent or downright self-absorbed, and will probably be expensive, but if it will give you closure, and it's within your means to do so, then go right ahead. Most people who do this tend to either hold it at a community center or make arrangements to rent out the local high school gymnasium during the summer. If you really have money to burn, you can rent a hotel ballroom (like a lot of high schools do now anyway), hire an event planning service to do all the work for you, and make it extremely realistic. You can even have yourself crowned "prom king" or "prom queen" if you are really feeling self-indulgent (hey, it's okay if you're paying for the party, right?);
, Before you get creeped out by the terminology, NO, an "adult prom" is NOT an X-rated version of a prom. It's a party that exactly resembles a prom, but marketed toward adults who are either looking to re-live their prom night, or make up for a missed prom. They often go out of their way to be realistic, even crowning a "king and queen", You can also do an Internet search on "adult prom" to see what the options are in your area. You may have to be age 21 or older to attend, as many serve alcohol.
 In the novel "Nobody's Property," it is referenced that one of the supporting characters, Elise Matthews, had missed her prom by being wrongfully grounded by her overprotective big brother, but one year later went to someone else's prom as their date to make up for missing her own, hence the reference in portions of the novel that she was "a year late for her own prom." Elise may be a fictional character, but the possibility of attending someone else's prom as their date is very real. People "date down" all the time. Depending on your age and/or school policy regarding non-student prom dates, you might just be able to go as someone's date to their actual high school prom. This works best for people who are reasonably close to high school age themselves, i.e. someone who is 21 will have a better chance of success than someone who is approaching middle age. Though the latter could always chaperone a prom. Taylor Swift famously attended someone else's prom after missing her own (in addition to having a "prom party" thrown for her after her first record went #1) and it was even the subject of an MTV reality show, where dateless high school boys were offered a chance to have her as their prom date. Now, unless you're famous, you won't be able to have your own reality TV show to find someone to take you to prom with them...but there are other ways to go to someone else's prom as their date.
 Before you cross this off as a completely ludicrous idea, consider the following. In these four cities, movies with prom scenes are shot at least once or twice a year (in EACH). This works best if you can reasonably pass for prom age, and/or if you'd be willing to play a "faculty" extra rather than a "student" extra. Keep in mind that auditions probably won't be held during prom season - prom's a popular topic, and a movie that is released in the spring, in time for "prom season" is usually shot 6 to 18 months ahead of release.
 Some high schools hold special "alumni proms" (not to be confused with reunions) as fundraisers - alumni and faculty are allowed to attend. These events are usually semi-formal to formal.
 Some high schools allow alumni to attend prom if they wish to do so. Others may require a little coaxing (usually in the form of a donation). Late Wendy's founder Dave Thomas had dropped out of school to serve in the military, but later got his GED 35 years later, and went to his high school's next prom with his wife that year. Many schools not only allow, but encourage alumni to attend future proms. Don't expect to be crowned king or queen - you won't be eligible, and even if you were, would that really be fair to this year's class? - but at least you'll have a prom. This option will work best if you have a really good reason for having missed your prom (military service, etc.), and/or if you are in the financial position to make a reasonable donation to the school. Some schools don't care as long as you buy a prom ticket.
 Granted, this is not the same as actually going to your own prom, but high schools need chaperones at every prom, every year. Prom chaperones are responsible adults who attend the prom with the students to ensure the safety of the students attending, as well as to prevent improper conduct. You won't be all that popular, and forget about being crowned king or queen, but you'll be at a prom. Chaperones are typically parents of students and/or alumni, but most high schools will gladly take any extra volunteers for chaperones they can get. If you have a clean record, this might be a viable option for you.

