 Stop and examine your shoes before you try to treat the odor. If you have damp or damaged insoles, either take them out and dry them, or purchase insoles that are specially formulated to prohibit bacterial growth.;
, Take out the laces and lift the tongue up and out to dry the shoes out faster. By keeping them dry, you help prevent bacterial growth that causes odor.
 The cedar wood that they are made of is antifungal and can help you prevent odor. Plus, cedar smells fresh, light, and crisp, making it a great choice for removing odor and preventing bacterial growth.
 Put your smelly shoes in a plastic bag, and then put them in the freezer over the course of a night. Thaw them naturally the next day in the sunlight for the best results.









There is inconclusive evidence that this strategy works. The idea is that freezing the shoes kills the odor-producing bacteria, but some suggest that this method will only temporarily relieve the odor. Try it out for yourself and see what you think.
 Ball up one or two fabric freshener sheets (that you stick in the drier, or in between your sheets) and place them in your shoes after you use them. The sheets should impart their pleasant perfume into the shoes and wick away any moisture that is still left in shoes.
 Steam may help to eradicate bacteria and fungus, thus getting rid of odor. If you're not worried about getting your shoes a little damp, give it a try.
 Fresh citrus peel has a great smell because of its essential oils. Leave fresh citrus peel in your shoes overnight and remove them before using. They should smell a lot better.
 One or two drops will suffice inside each shoe, on the sole. This will both add anti-bacterial properties and eliminate the odor, replacing it with a fresh fragrance.
 Both of these can be purchased at convenience, grocery, or drug stores.









Antifungal foot powder is commonly associated with athlete's foot. While athletes foot is a cause of foot odor and smelly shoes, it is possible to have smelly shoes without also having athlete's foot.
If you do have athlete's foot, consider using a cream, lotion, or other mixture of tea tree oil on the feet to fight the fungus. Tea tree oil is a natural, great-smelling anti-fungal oil. Rub it onto the feet in order to combat athlete's foot.
 Wash them in a water cycle that is around 40 to 50 degrees Fahrenheit. Repeat this a second time as soon as the first cycle is over, and then let the shoes air dry.
 If the freezer trick does not work, put in a healthy dose of baking soda and let the powder absorb the odor overnight. Baking soda can be used in a wide variety of ways, including as an anti-fungal powder.


Alternately, mix baking soda with zinc oxide powder to create an odor-crunching, fungal-fighting powder. Mix equal parts baking soda and zinc oxide and apply to shoes overnight. Zinc oxide has deodorizing and antibacterial properties.Dump out the powder the next day prior to putting the shoes back on so that you don't give yourself a white, powdery mess or trail all day.
 Most contain bacteria and/or enzymes that eat away at what is causing the odor.
 Swab shoes that you cannot wash with a cotton ball or cotton square with rubbing alcohol on it. This will help dry out offending odor causes and hopefully allow you full use of the shoes again. Rubbing alcohol evaporates quickly in addition to being an antiseptic. When it mixes with other liquids, it helps them evaporate, too.
 Cat litter might seem a bit off-putting, but it works for a reason: it has great deodorizing properties. Stuff a sock with fresh, unused kitty litter, seal it off with a knot on top, and stuff into shoes overnight.
 Spray your shoes with a combination of 50 percent water and 50 percent white distilled vinegar. Spritz the mixture into your shoe lining and sole, and let it air dry for 30 minutes. You can use a hair dryer after that if you are in a hurry to dry the shoe. Follow that up with baking soda in the shoe overnight.

