 Pliers are the one of the worst tools to bring into contact with your instrument. They can scratch and bend your mouthpiece, and using them might even start to break apart your instrument at the mouthpipe., A mouthpiece puller is a handy device that is solely intended to pull stuck mouthpieces out of brass instruments. They can be used for small and large instruments, so they are versatile enough to use on trumpets, trombones, tubas and so on. These are available online or in music stores.The most common mouthpiece pullers are:


Bobcat Mouthpiece Puller: This is the least expensive, costing about $40. This one has two screws that need to be tightened simultaneously when using it.
Ferree G88 Mouthpiece Puller: This is a more expensive option, costing about $100. It is bulkier, but it only has one T handle that needs to be screwed in when being used.
DEG Magnum Mouthpiece Puller: This is usually the most expensive puller, costing about $130. It is very similar to the Ferree.
 You should have a level working space. Be careful to not put it near the edge where it can fall. Alternately, you can do this on the floor, especially if you have a large instrument.


You may want someone to help you by gently holding the instrument still while you operate the mouthpiece puller.
 One end of the mouthpiece puller will go against the instrument at the point where you insert the mouthpiece. There are usually grooves or other U-shaped areas where your mouthpiece will fit into the puller.


Read the manufacturer’s instructions to ensure you are using the mouthpiece puller correctly.
 Depending on the type of puller you are using, tighten the screws (on the Bobcat mouthpiece puller) or the T handle (on the Ferree G88 mouthpiece puller). Turn the screws evenly, steadily and slowly. The mouthpiece should start to move out of the instrument.
 Once the mouthpiece puller has loosened the mouthpiece, you should be able to gently twist and pull to get it free. It should come out smoothly.


For mouthpieces that are really stuck, use a rubber mallet to tap the puller when it is tightened up. This might enable you to turn the screws a little more to help move the mouthpiece., The mouthpiece end that inserts into your instrument should be round and clean. There should be no rust or other debris on it. Look for dents and an oval or squashed shape by holding the mouthpiece at eye level or comparing it to an undamaged mouthpiece.
 If your mouthpiece is misshapen at all, use a trueing tool to return it to its correct shape. This tool looks like a skinny T and has a somewhat pointed end. To use, insert the tool into the end of your mouthpiece. Tap it very gently with a rubber mallet (not a hammer!). The tool will force the mouthpiece end to become rounded.