 If you have an extra room at home, then turn it into an office, complete with a computer, printer, cork boards and a filing system. Separating work from home during the daylight hours is hard enough, so try to make your office as professional as possible.


Focus on creating a space where you won't be afraid to meet with clients. If you have local business, then you should be able to bring them into your office without being afraid of looking unprofessional. In some states, you need a license to conduct business at home, so check with your local Clerk of Court to see what the rules are.
 Although there will be many times throughout the day when the 2 worlds will collide, choose times that are dedicated to work and clients and others that are dedicated to your children. Separating your time will increase your focus and productivity and help you to enjoy being a mother.
 If you find that you aren't exercising, eating right or taking time for yourself, you may become overly stressed. Take a walk, do yoga when the children are napping, wander around a farmer's market, or do whatever it is that makes you feel relaxed and ready for motherhood and work.
 Most entrepreneurs need to hire employees to take care of certain aspects of business or watch over it while you are on vacation. Choose adaptable, trustworthy people who understand why you are motivated to make your home business a success.


Don't assume that friends or family are the best choice for employees. Starting a business with a friend can lead to problems down the road. Make sure you have discussions about how to handle arguments and problems within a business. If you hire an outside worker, you may be able to achieve a better boss/employee relationship.
 Most adolescents and teenagers have chores. Don't be afraid to give them work-related tasks, such as filing, cleaning your office or picking up around the house.


Children who are near entrepreneurs may get a better idea about hard work and the drive to succeed. Encourage your children to develop ideas of their own, whether it's a lemonade stand or fundraising for school.
 Both these skills are more important in an at-home entrepreneur than at an outside job, because you are in charge of all aspects of your day. Attend a seminar or class to learn these basic skills.


Embrace technology to help you organize yourself. Many calendar programs are available via email, mobile phone and remotely. Update your calendar while you are waiting to pick up your kids or before your appointments.
 These contacts can help you solve problems, use resources and work through stress. You can connect online or in your community.

