 Sounds silly, but it's true! Introverts (those who get their energy from being alone) and individuals who have anxiety about social situations can improve their ability to be happy when alone by thinking more positively about relationships and the idea of being alone. Research suggests that people who are lonely may tend to think negatively by expecting a negative outcome in social relationships and thinking that they are already doing all they can to maintain social attachments.Changing your thinking may help to decrease loneliness and increase your feelings of contentment while being alone.


Think about all of the reasons why being alone can be a positive thing. For example, you can do what you want without interference and you can focus on yourself.
Being sad or lonely is a mindset. Think about all the great things you have achieved in life and how many more things you can achieve., If you find yourself thinking negative thoughts such as, "Nobody wants to spend time with me," change this thought to something more realistic like, "People that love me want to spend time with me but they are sometimes busy."


Write a list of things in your life that you a grateful for such as: family, friends, food, housing, social support, etc.
 Self-acceptance and self-love is a crucial component to being happy while alone.Think of yourself as a friend and focus on appreciating your positive aspects.


If you are an introvert, remind yourself that this is your personality and is a completely natural and acceptable way to be! If you have social anxiety, accept that this is currently how you feel and that it is okay to feel this way; it is natural for people to sometimes feel anxious in certain social situations.
Make a list of the things you like about yourself, what you are good at, and what other people seem to like about you. Keep this list in a safe space in case you get lonely while being alone. Ask friends and family to add to this list as well. You can also include a list of compliments and positive feedback you have received.
Avoid comparing yourself to others, which can lead to feelings of disappointment, jealousy, and inadequacy. This occurs when we tend to see the good in others and idealize them.
 Fostering healthy attachments can actually help you tolerate being alone and lead to an overall positive outlook.If you feel secure about your connections, you may be less likely to feel unhappy when you are not with your loved ones. The introvert and the individual with social anxiety may seek a few close bonds (rather than many friends or acquaintances), so it is important that these relationships are strong and supportive (not abusive or dysfunctional).


Make your interactions count with quality over quantity. When you do spend time with others make sure you focus on connecting and conversing rather than on disengaging activities such as watching television.
Allow people into your life who respect you and treat you the way you want to be treated. Avoid individuals who make you feel insecure, threatened, or abandoned. Seek help if you are nervous about terminating those relationships.
When you are alone, focus on the positive memories you have with the people you love. You could write down a positive memory and refer back to it.
 Understand what activities improve your mood. If you can’t think of any, begin by trying a new activity and seeing if it seems to make you feel better when you are alone. The introvert will likely already have activities that she enjoys alone, but may want to try activities that specifically lift the mood (such as exercise).


Find out what activities people who are close to you enjoy and try these activities yourself. However, don’t worry if you don’t like something that a friend or family member enjoys.
Try making a list of things that cheer you up. A list might look like: being in nature, listening to positive music, exploring new places, taking a bubble bath, going shopping, and reading an uplifting story.
Play games. Try doing Sudoku or other brain teasers. These are challenging and really enjoyable.
Play tourist. Explore your city with fresh eyes. On your own, you can walk at your own pace, pop in and out of shops at your leisure, and grab a snack whenever you feel the urge.
Find a free concert in your area. Many communities and music schools put on free (or very cheap) performances. Go check one out and lose yourself in the music.
 Using stress-reducing mindfulness can help to reduce feelings of loneliness.Mindfulness is about being in the here-and-now, or living in the present moment, appreciating it without dwelling too much in the past or worrying about the future.
 Use time alone to push yourself to do new things. Taking a step outside of your comfort zone can help you feel invigorated and make life exciting. Choose an activity that you wouldn't normally do and give it a try.Maybe you've always wanted to learn to ride horses, but you've always been a little scared of their size. Sign up for beginner's lessons at a nearby stable.
Have you always dreamed of being a writer? Start a blog. It can be about anything—your adventures riding horses, or new recipes that you've tried to cook.
 Studies indicate that lonely individuals may be less likely to use active forms of coping.However, active coping such as exercise releases endorphins in your brain which makes you feel positive and happier. The introvert or the individual with social anxiety should practice exercising in public in order to be more comfortable in social environments (perhaps running on the beach, or lifting weights at the gym).


Try engaging in fun exercise so it doesn’t seem like work. Such exercises include: walking, aerobic dancing, yoga, gardening, hiking, rock-climbing, biking, playing a sport (many you can practice on your own), jogging, swimming, skating, and martial arts.
 It's true that it can feel lonely if you're spending a lot of time at home by yourself. You can help change your mindset by changing up your location. You can make a simple change or a big move.If you work from home, it's normal that you might feel isolated. Try working from a coffee shop for an afternoon. Or hit the library. Simply being around people might help your mood.
Take a vacation. If you've been under a lot of stress lately, you might need more than just a visit to the local coffee shop. Start planning a trip.
Lots of people travel alone. You can go on your own, or sign up to travel with a tour group. Start brainstorming locations.
 Research implies that individuals who are lonely or feel socially rejected may lose their sense of meaning and purpose in life.People can be sensitive to social rejection or lacking a sense of meaning in life. We, as human beings, need meaning in order to make sense of our existence; this comes from having a purpose.


Purpose can be many different things: a career, a family, religion, spirituality, helping others, giving to the needy, creating social change, healing others, and so on.
Start by making a list of all of your personal values (such as those listed above). Then identify a goal or purpose for each value. For example, if one of your values is spirituality, perhaps your purpose would be to affect others in a positive and spiritual way. This could include becoming part of a spiritual community and spreading knowledge about your beliefs.
Begin each day by looking at your list of values and goals, and finding a way to work toward. You could do something as small as smiling at a stranger in order to work toward your purpose.

