 Alert the child’s teacher of the teasing if they are unaware. Talk to the principal as well. Many schools have a zero-tolerance policy about teasing and bullying. Demand that the child’s school enforce the policy, if it has one.

Ask the teacher or principal to be on alert for signs of the teasing. Ask them to speak to the offending child or children so that they will stop. You may even want to request that the child spend as little time around the bullies as possible.Request a mediated meeting with the parent(s) of the children who are teasing or bullying your child, the principal, a counselor, and a teacher or two who are involved. A meeting like this should get everyone on board with an appropriate plan of action.
 Talk to your friends and neighbors about the teasing. Ask them to stop it if they see it. You can also ask them to help you initiate a zero-tolerance for bullying policy with your local school if one doesn’t already exist.

You can ask them to write letters to the school and the Department of Education in your area to request the policy. They can also join you in meetings to talk about the bullying and why a policy should be implemented., Write down the time and the place the bullying occurs. Go into detail about what happened so that you have a record of it when you talk to the principal, counselors, or police, if needed. Keeping this log can be used as evidence., Sometimes it’s the family members who provide the teasing. Parents and grandparents may call the child names that hurt their feelings when they are meant to be cute. Siblings may also use the child’s weight problem as a go-to during arguments. Make it understood that no one is to talk negatively about the child’s weight, and that strict actions will be taken if they can’t abide.

For instance, you may warn family members that they may be cut off from you if they continue to tease the child. You can also enforce punishments like grounding and taking away favorite items to your other children if they are the source of the teasing.