 College campuses are full of official and non-official groups and organizations. Some may be political, others for shared hobbies, others to create a “home away from home” for minorities and marginalized students. Joining clubs can help you continue to explore your identity, while building up a social network.Do you feel out of place? You might look for a group that will offer support, fellowship, and solidarity, like organizations for First Generation College Students, for minorities on campus, or for international students.
Do you feel spiritually adrift? There are very often faith-based or explicitly secular groups that cater to these feelings, as well, like Catholic, Atheist, Muslim, Jewish, Buddhist, and Freethinker groups.
You can also find groups whose purpose is public service. If you are searching for bigger meaning in life, you might consider joining a volunteer organization that tutors at-risk high schoolers, for example, or that does community outreach.
 Another way that you can explore your identity – and also make a difference in society – is to get involved in causes on campus. Especially these days, college campuses are centers for activism. Joining one of these causes can give you a sense of mission and also connect you to like-minded people.Do you want to explore your political, sexual, gender, or racial identity? Campus activist groups are usually oriented towards promoting social or political causes that can deal with these topics.
Activism can also take different forms. You might join a group that promotes causes you feel strongly about, for instance, like LGBTQ awareness or Black Lives Matter. You might also get involved in demonstrations, letter writing campaigns, or campus politics.
 It’s perfectly natural to feel closer to people like you, people who look, think, and identify like you. It’s also perfectly OK to socialize with these peers. Still, one of the great things about college is the diversity of the student body in backgrounds, views, and identities. Don’t be afraid to gravitate toward people like you, but avoid too much “self-segregation.”Self-segregation is something that all groups do on college campuses to some degree. In fact, white students lead all other groups in only associating with people like them.Try to be more aware of who you socialize with, for one. Take a look at your friends and peers. Do all of them look like you, think like you, and share the same opinions? You might be self-segregating a bit too much.
Make an effort to connect with people who aren’t necessarily like you. This can mean in background or appearance, but also in beliefs, worldviews, and political opinions. You won’t grow as a person if you live in a self-contained echo-chamber.

