 The private lesson business is most certainly not limited to teaching just a few subjects. There are hundreds of different skills which may be marketed for private lessons. Whether you know how to perform martial arts, cook gourmet meals, embroidery, day trade, understand currency exchange, or know yoga, someone else is bound to want to learn from you. One teacher started her private lesson business by offering lessons in the Japanese language, while a musician used his skills and talents to teach private music lessons. Focus on some talent or skill you enjoy. If you are passionate about the subject you teach, you will enjoy giving private lessons and your enthusiasm will inspire your students.;
, Research the market to determine what competition you will encounter. What does your competitor charge?

, Decide how you will do business. Knowing who will be doing the teaching, where lessons will be taught, the types of payments you will accept, what your bookkeeping or accounting needs look like, and what your licensing and liability insurance needs will be, are some important items to address before opening the doors to your students.
 Devise a marketing strategy to get students into your classes, (space ads, direct mail, promotions, online presence, and word of mouth), and set your marketing budget. Consider using flyers or offering free seminars to groups where you might encounter prospective students. This can be very helpful if you have a small marketing budget. Space ads, a webpage, direct mail, special promotions and word-of-mouth advertising can also bring your new business to the attention of prospective students.
 Having a successful private lesson business can be rewarding and fulfilling. Deciding on the type of lessons you want to teach, doing your homework and market research, making a lesson plan that will be your guide through the everyday details of your business, and finally, marketing yourself to prospective students, may seem like a lot of work to do before you ever begin teaching, but once you have mastered the basics, you can relax and enjoy sharing your knowledge and, even better, get paid for it!

