 An ideal place is a roomy garage, but a concrete driveway, or at least a firm, smooth, level surface is needed to facilitate jacking the truck safely.;
, Failing to do so could result in damage to the wiring harness.
 You will need to lift the front wheels at least six inches above the floor so the transmission can be removed from underneath the vehicle when it is dropped down.
 Then remove the exhaust flange from the exhaust manifold. Remove the electrical and transmission oil cooler lines.
 After the fluid has drained out, you need to reinstall the fluid pan back on the transmission.
 Once removed, tie it up out of the way. Also, remove the speedometer cable and the vacuum hose from the shift modulator valve.
 This should give you the room you need to remove the transfer case from the rear of the transmission, if the truck is four wheel drive. Remove the six bolts and remove it.
 The front of the transmission will now be supported by the splined input shaft and mounts, so do not allow the rear of the transmission to drop in the following steps, or this could damage the shaft, seals, or torque converter assembly.
 Remove the two bolts holding the transmission to the cross member, and the four bolts connecting the cross member  to the truck's frame. Remove the cross member.
 You will need to slide it backward about 7 inches (17.8 cm) to clear the torque converter.
 You can now remove the bolts that attach the torque converter to the flywheel if it is to be removed for repair or replacement.
, It's tricky. It has to be straight in line both ways with the insertion point, and preferably supported on its balance point (balanced from fore and aft, and side to side), securely strapped (for example) from falling, not dangling or flopping around. But, it must be angled the same as the car is (if the front of the car is raised for instance). It would be easier, if the entire car were lifted, level, not angled.


Gravity will fight your getting it in all the way in the spline-socket and into the bearing on the end, unless it is supported at its balance point and lined up perfectly.
Lifting the trans unsecured, or off balance, can cause chaos, wobbling, rolling, falling,...
The spline grooves must align both ways, vertically and horizontally.
The input shaft can hang-up on the pilot bearing edge, instead of proceeding in -- if the transmission is angled more than a few hairs -- if not balanced and aligned.
Do not allow the spline, alone to support the weight of the transmission.

