 Nicotine gum is chewed orally. Instead of chewing like regular gum, you chew for a few bites, until there is a tingly feeling, then put the gum against the lower lip. This helps the nicotine absorb through your mouth. The gum is chewed whenever you feel a craving and can give a small dose of nicotine to help with cravings or stress.The gum is available in two different doses without a prescription. You can use it up to 12 weeks.
Nicotine gum helps right after you stop smoking. You can chew up to 24 pieces a day.Don’t drink anything 15 minutes before or after using the gum.
The downside to the gum is that you have to chew it multiple times a day. The gum may only lessen cravings, not completely get rid of them. You also have to chew the gum the right way for it to work.
You may experience a sore jaw, nausea, upset stomach, or mouth irritation.
 Nicotine patches are small and stick to your skin. They release a steady amount of nicotine into your system through your skin. It gives you longer, more even amounts of nicotine to help with cravings and withdrawals. As you overcome withdrawal symptoms, you can taper off the nicotine patch. You can get the patch without a prescription, and it is easy to use.You apply a new patch every day. You use the patch for eight to 12 weeks.
The patch can be used along with other quit-smoking products.
The downside to the patch is that you can't adjust the amount of nicotine in your system. You can't use a patch to help with a sudden craving.
The patch may cause itching, rash, or irritation to the application site. Sometimes, the patch may cause weird dreams or disrupt sleep.
 Lozenges are tablets that you suck on as it dissolves in your mouth. They contain a small amount of nicotine that is absorbed through the mouth. They act fast, so they are good for cravings and withdrawal symptoms.Lozenges are available without a prescription. They are supposed to be used for about 12 weeks.
You can use up to 20 lozenges a day. Reduce the number of lozenges as you wean yourself off nicotine.
Don’t eat or drink anything but water for 15 minutes before and during using one.
Lozenges are used along with other quit-smoking aids.
You must use the lozenges repeatedly to deal with cravings. They may cause nausea, heartburn, and indigestion. They may also irritate your throat.

