 Shield them from UV rays with goggles that are specifically designed for sunbed-use. Rent or borrow one from the salon, depending on their policy. Invest in a pair of your own if you plan on making regular visits. Do not trust your eyelids, sunglasses, other forms of eye-wear to protect your eyes.If you use a pair that belongs to the salon, make sure they have been cleaned since the last customer used them. A salon that does not use a cleaning solution to disinfect their eyewear may also prove to be unhygienic in other areas.A lack of eye protection increases the risk of cataracts, conjunctivitis, and irritation., Wear underwear or swimming gear to only tan those areas that will be visible to the public. Be mindful of where tanlines will appear. Wear briefs, speedos, or bikinis to show tanned flesh even when your shorts, skirt, or dress pulls up, thus exposing more leg. Or eliminate tan lines altogether and tan naked if permitted by the salon.Before tanning naked, be advised that your nipples, genitals, and other delicate areas may burn before the rest of your body does.
 Minimize the harm of UV light by protecting yourself with sunscreen.Apply it wherever your skin is exposed. Wait a quarter of an hour before using the sunbed so your skin has time to absorb it.Minimize your risk further by also using tan accelerator to acquire your desired tan in a shorter amount of time.Sunscreen will help minimize the skin damage caused by UV light, but it won't eliminate it entirely.
Use SPF-30 sunscreen or higher, even if you typically use a weaker formula outdoors. Remember that the sun is billions of miles from Earth, but the sunbed's lights are only a few inches from your skin.
Although tanning accelerators contain ingredients that help defend your skin from the effects of ultraviolet light, they are not the same as SPF sunscreen. Do not use the two products interchangeably.Check your accelerator’s ingredients to make sure it includes L-tyrosine. Be aware that simple moisturizers are able to advertise themselves as tan accelerators, even without this active ingredient. This is only because moist skin technically does tan quicker than dry skin. However, a moisturizer will have minimal effect in a sunbed.

