 There are a number of ASE certifications a tech might choose to pursue. Most of these certifications have a specific experience requirement you will need to meet before you are awarded your certification. The most common ASE certification for automotive repair is the G1 exam for Auto Maintenance and Light Repair.There are many more certifications one can pursue after completing their G1 certification.
The G1 test requires a minimum of two years of hands on experience.
There are series of tests that cover things like collision repair all the way to repairing school buses.;
, You will need to find an entry level technician job in order to gain the necessary experience to become ASE certified. Create a professional resume that lays out your experience. If you do not have any automotive experience, list any professional experience you do have when writing your resume.Be sure to include your name and contact information on the resume.
Make sure you list your experience and education clearly.
Have a friend proofread your resume to help ensure there are no spelling or grammatical errors.
 Look online for entry level automotive repair technician jobs on websites like Monster.com and Indeed.com. You may also want to look in the classified sections of your local newspapers.Many jobs will require that you complete an application online. Pay close attention to ensure you don’t miss any questions.
Make sure you dress appropriately when you go in for your interviews.
 While you can complete the ASE certification exam before you complete the experience requirements, you will not receive the certification until you have worked in the field for at least two years.You do not have to complete all of the required experience at the same location.
The experience must be hands on and pertinent to automotive repair.
 There are many technical and vocational schools that offer training specifically designed to prepare you to pass the ASE certification exams, but most require a high school diploma or GED certificate in order to enroll.Locate your high school diploma or GED certificate to be able to prove to the school you apply to that you are eligible to enroll.
If you do not have a diploma or GED, earn your GED to fulfill the requirements.
 You can enroll in online courses that prepare you for the ASE exams, or you can choose to attend a school in person. Often, attending classes in person will provide you with hands on experience that you may not get through your job. Online courses may be easier to attend if there isn’t a local technical school or if your schedule makes attending classes difficult.Consider how you prefer to learn when deciding between attending classes online or in person.
Online courses will require more self-discipline, as you won’t be seeing a teacher to hold you accountable for your work.
 There are many schools that offer ASE certification programs. The first step toward narrowing the list of schools down is to identify which programs near you or online are accredited. Most schools will provide that information on their webpage, or you can contact the admissions department to ask about accreditation.You can also search for the schools near you on websites like this: http://ope.ed.gov/accreditation/

Make a list of the local or online programs you think you may want to apply to.
 Once you have a list of the schools you may want to apply to, consider what the cost of attendance will be. Ask your admissions counselor if the school offers financial aid, and make sure to complete and file your FAFSA in order to receive federal student aid.Make sure to consider the cost of any necessary supplies or expenses associated with commuting if you are going to attend classes in person.
Consider whether or not your computer can support your online course load, otherwise the cost of a computer will need to be considered as well.
 Once you have chosen one or a small number of programs you will like to apply to and can afford to attend, submit your application prior to the school’s designated deadline for the course.The school’s admissions counselors can help ensure you know when the deadlines are and what you need to submit.
Make a note of anything you need to find, like your high school diploma, and make sure you locate and submit them prior to the deadlines.
 Whether you attend class online or in person, you will need to cover a wide variety of topics in preparation for the ASE test. Be prepared to learn automotive terminology, the various parts of a vehicle, and common repair or maintenance techniques.If you take the courses online, you will likely need to participate in forums or discussions, as well as submitting normal coursework.
Online classes will use pictures of different automotive components while some schools you attend in person will have actual vehicles to demonstrate on.
 You must first register for the ASE test before you can choose a location and a date to take it. You can register online by going to https://www.ase.com/Tests/ASE-Certification-Tests/Register-Now.aspx and creating a MyASE account.Check on the ASE website for the registration deadline for the current and upcoming season.
Registration deadlines may not be the same from year to year.
 After registering online, use the website to locate an ASE testing facility near you. You can then schedule an appointment through the ASE website to take your exam or you may call the facility directly to schedule a test date.It may take up to a day for your online registration to process on the ASE website.
If you do not schedule your test date within 90 days, you will have to register online again.
You can choose to schedule to take multiple tests in a series if you are prepared to pursue a specialization like alternate fuels, heavy trucks, or damage analysis.
 The cost to register online is $36, with an additional $37 to schedule your exam. These fees are subject to change from year to year, so make sure to refer to the ASE website to find the most up to date costs associated with the examination..


If you are planning on taking additional, more specialized, ASE certification exams, each one will have another fee associated with it.
No matter how many certifications you take, the exam fees max out at $111.
 Upon arriving to your testing location, you will be given the exam and an allotted amount of time to complete it. There are sixty questions on most ASE tests and you will be given an hour and fifteen minutes to complete it. Make sure you are clear on how much time you have for your exam before you begin.Recertification tests require only twenty-five questions and must be completed within thirty minutes.
Some advanced certifications may require a different number of questions in a different amount of time.
 Because ASE certification tests are done on a computer, the results will be processed immediately. You will receive your score and know whether or not you have attained your certification prior to leaving the test facility.If you did not pass the exam, you will need to schedule another test date to retake the test.
If you have not completed the work experience required for the certification, you will not receive your certificate until after you have fulfilled the requirement.

