 Sagittarius guys are constantly expanding their horizons--they crave new knowledge, new scenery, and new adventures. If you’re going to tame an archer, you’re going to have to be spontaneous and open to a change of plans at the drop of a hat.


A great way to show that you are flexible is to suggest a crazy adventure. Something like “hey, wanna ditch this club and sneak into this rooftop pool area that I know?” will immediately get your archer’s full attention. Of course, your plan doesn’t need to be so elaborate (or daring) simply asking him to go on a hike you’ve been wanting to try, or suggesting he try this crazy drink that you know the bartender secretly makes will intrigue him.;
, Sagittarius guys like girls who hold back about themselves a little. Don’t spill all of your life’s story the second you meet an archer. Instead, reveal your personality in bits and pieces. Sagittarius is ruled by Jupiter, which means that they enjoy puzzles. Make him have to figure you out.When he asks you questions about yourself, throw in an occasional “wouldn't you like to know?” or “maybe I’ll tell you...on our next date.”

, Being mysterious and aloof does not mean that you should lie to seem mysterious. Generally Sagittarian guys are an excellent judge of character--which means they can hear a fake laugh a mile off. When you are around your guy, always make sure to tell the truth and act honestly.


Sagittarius guys are trusting but have a hard time trusting again once they have been let down. Be as truthful as possible because if he catches you in a lie, he probably won’t be very quick to forgive (or call you again.)

, This means keeping things lighthearted. Be fun and playful and avoid being negative around your guy. Archers are generally happy, active people who want to have a good time. Try to avoid complaining or speaking negatively about others. Go out of your way to make your time with your archer fun. Laugh and smile a lot, and make fun suggestions like going out on the dance floor or doing a fun activity together.
 Sagittarius guys love a girl who is unpredictable and always keeps them guessing. While this does not necessarily mean you should play hard to get, you should challenge him a bit. Play coy and make him work for your affection. Don’t show him that you are interested. Act indifferently around him (but don’t ignore him altogether.)Archers also love to be challenged mentally. You must be clever to catch an archer. Debate him on topics that you are both interested in. Play the devil’s advocate and take the opposing view from the one he holds (even if you secretly agree with him.)

, Sagittarius guys never stay in one place for very long so you are going to need a love of travel and adventure to capture the attention of an archer. When you first start talking with him, ask him about his travels and then relate some of your own (this may also be a great time to play up your mysterious side by giving vague answers about why you went to a certain place.)Suggest things to do that involve a little bit of traveling. Plan an adventure day in which the two of you explore an area neither of you have been before. Drive out into the country and stop at every place that looks interesting (world’s largest corn maze? Lets do it! A pie shop on a huge farm where you can learn to milk cows? Lets do it!...etc.)

, Sagittarius guys love to flirt. Don’t be afraid to simply walk up to him and begin a conversation (a very flirtatious conversation.) The archer will love you confidence and will be flattered by your attention, and will (much) more than likely flirt right back.


To get his attention before even talking to him, make eye contact with him across the room. Catch his gaze, then drop your eyes while slightly smiling. Then slowly draw your eyes back to his and don’t look away until he drops his gaze. Give him your best ‘come hither’ look.
 A big part of the Sagittarius personality is his love of freedom. Whether it’s hitting the open road on his latest adventure, or simply having some time alone (probably going on a run or hike in the mountains) this guy needs a girl who won’t cling to him or clutter his freedom.


When you and your guy begin interacting, make a point of showing that you can be independent and don’t need to be waited on. If you’re at a bar, buy yourself a drink (and ask him if he wants one.) This will show him that you are not expecting him to wait on you hand and foot.
 Men can’t resist a woman who looks fabulous--why would an archer be any difference? Arches love women who are put together, dressed well, and sexy but without being too revealing.


If you know your Sagittarius guy is going to be at a party or bar you are heading to, tonight might be the night to break out that flirty dress you haven’t worn yet and those sexy stilettos. No man (and certainly not an archer) will be able to resist you.
 Sagittarius guys love a woman who smells fresh and delicious (no but really--archer’s love girls who smell good enough to eat.) Try out scents with hints of citrus and orange blossom. You’ll have a whole swarm of archers humming around you as soon as you walk into the bar.


Here’s a tip: always carry around a small bottle of perfume and a travel-sized deodorant. That way, even if you have to hike up 20 blocks to the party you are going to, you can refresh and smell great once you get to the top.
 Are your eyes a crazy shade of blue? Do you have gorgeous mile-long legs? Maybe your hair is a prize asset of yours. Whatever it is, make sure he notices. Wear clothes that play up your best features. Wear makeup that makes your eyes pop and style your hair to perfection.
 Archers love a woman who has confidence in herself. Know that you are a beautiful, strong, intelligent woman--and show them that you know this fact. A woman who knows she is sexy is a thousands times sexier than a woman who is fidgeting with her hair, clothes, face, etc.