 You may try to hide your OCD from those around you out of fear or shame. You also might experience fears or doubts about being in a relationship and having it continue on if the person knows you have OCD.Talk to one person you trust about your OCD. Tell this person what makes you feel scared or ashamed. It might be scary, but it can also feel like a relief not to keep everything a secret. You may come to find that sharing your secrets and experiences is not as difficult as you imagined, and that people are willing to support you.
 Your shame may make you feel like you want to or need to isolate yourself from other people. You might find it hard to be around others or fear going outside or being in public. These feelings can lead to intense shame and isolation.However, isolation does not help you deal with your difficult emotions and often increases OCD symptoms.Make a point to spend time with friends and family. Even if they are far away, schedule phone calls or video calls to keep in touch.
One way to feel less isolated is to adopt a pet. A dog can provide companionship and help to reduce anxiety.For more information, check out How to Adopt a Pet from a Shelter.
 Getting into the habit of practicing relaxation exercises can help reduce anxiety and increase feelings of well-being and calm. This can help decrease your anxiety and other negative emotional experiences, such as shame. Include relaxation as part of every day to experience long-lasting results.Schedule time each day to practice relaxation. You can start with 10 minutes and adjust the time as needed. If you want to try different relaxation techniques, try qi gong, yoga, or meditation.
 You may be able to find in a mental health clinic near where you live or find some online resources. A support group can help you make connections and realize that you do not suffer alone.They are often organized by people with a disorder or a mental health professional and function to bring people together who each suffer from similar challenges.


You may find that other people experience similar shame. The support group can offer you advice on other people have dealt with similar feelings.

