 Installing Google Drive will allow you to edit and save Google Doc files offline. All of the changes you make to Google Doc files while offline, will be automatically synced to your online Google Drive.


Go to Google’s Get Drive Everywhere webpage.
Hover over “Download Drive” and select “Mac” from the drop-down menu.Read and agree to the Terms of Service, open the file installgoogledrive.dmg. Drag the Google Drive icon into your Applications folder and open Google Drive.
Sign into Google Drive and finish the installation process.
 When you install Google Drive for your Windows, you will be able to access, edit, and save Google Docs while you are offline. All changes you make to these documents will be shared with your online drive.


Go to Google’s Get Drive Everywhere webpage. Hover over “Download Drive” and select “Windows” from the drop-down menu.Read and accept the Terms of Service and then open the googledrivesync.exe file.
Log into Google Drive and follow the instructions to complete the installation process., Open your Google Drive and click on the “Settings” icon (wheel). Select “Settings.” Locate the “Offline” section and check the box next to “Sync Google Docs, Sheets, Slides & Drawings files to this computer so that you can edit offline.", Upon installing Google Drive, a "Google Drive" folder is automatically created and added to your existing "Document" folder. Documents and files are added to this folder in two ways.


Once you enable online access, the items stored in your online Google Drive will automatically appear in, or sync with, your desktop's "Google Drive" folder.
You may manually move documents and files from you desktop into the "Google Drive" folder. The folder will automatically sync with the cloud.
 The Google Drive application also allows you to share files with others. Open the "Google Drive" folder and right-click on the document you with to share. Select Google Drive > Share from the pop-up menu. Share the file with one or more people., In the offline application, Google Drive automatically saves changes made to a document every few seconds. When your computer connects to the internet, the Google Drive application will function like its online counterpart. The changes you make to a document will be automatically saved and synced to your online drive.