 At the beginning of every match when you are in the lobby, it shows what class each member of your party is using. Based on the types of classes being used, you should select a role that needs to be filled. For example, are there two rogues, and a mage? You should be a warrior then, to open the warrior doors.;
, Converse with your party and find out who will be doing what. Questions to ask include: "Are you dealing damage, tanking, or support?"; if dealing damage, "are you ranged or close?"; if tanking, "do you want/need barrier support?"; if support, "do you need a guard?".
 This is where many teams fall apart. This game is heavily dependent on team work and communication. Have a leader who will be able to survey the field and call out actions for the team (this helps if the team has mics). If no mics are available, utilize the "rally" call out when pressing down on the d-pad. Even if your team cannot talk, ensure you stay together.
 People get too caught up in the points and kills than how the team functions. Having the most kills is nice, but that doesn't matter when you are dead in sections 2 or 3. Focus more on helping your party than yourself. If you make that a habit and your party routinely completes dungeons, your stats will increase at a greater pace.
 Not everyone is the damage dealer. Most players want to be the F16 flying around blowing everything up and yes, while every team needs a F16, they don't need three or four! Every F16 needs support, whether it be intel or repairs. Every party should have at least one tank and one support. A tank is a character that can take large continuous amounts of damage and survive so that the enemy only focuses on them. A support is a character that buffs other units or removes negative effects.
 Try thinking two steps ahead. Take your time and plan out your movements, item usage, and ability usage. By taking this time, you can save yourself (and your party) a lot of heartache later.
 Yes, winning is fun and losing does stink but don't let those motivations rule your experience. Enjoy your game experience with some friends or make small talk with your party members. Laugh at things instead of getting mad and learn from your prior mistakes. Do not go overboard with this and just mess around the entire match, because your party will not appreciate it if you are not helping. Just remember this: It is a video game, which is supposed to help you relieve stress––not add onto it.

