 Start with specific questions about the type of stress you are under. Is there a stream flowing under your home? Or are there earth lines crossing to create an overpowering disturbance in your dining room? Try to be specific, as it may affect what solution you take.You may be dealing with not one but several sources of energy at once. The distortion caused by an underground stream, for example, might well cross and amplify the force of a geological fault or vortex.
Keep in mind, too, that energy patterns can be cyclical rather than constant. If your own energy and health fluctuate during the year, it may point to the disturbance – for example, a seasonal underground stream under your home.;
, Dowsing is thought to be a way to discover subterranean water, minerals, or other objects. The idea is to take a device like a wand, pendulum, or V-shaped rod and hold it in front of you. The wand points to the ground when you are standing over water or your desired object. While dowsing has no scientific basis,some people feel strongly that the attraction of the wand to the ground is a result of electromagnetic energy. Try dowsing yourself or bringing in a practitioner to help you discover the sources of your energy disturbance.


In order to dowse, you’ll need a wand or V-shaped rod. Even a simple stick works. Start by holding the wand level in front of you. Then, begin to slowly walk around the area in which you suspect there is a disturbance. The wand will be attracted to the ground when you pass over such an area.
You can also use a pendulum to dowse, or two separate wands that cross when you have located water or an object., Some people feel that compasses are also effective at locating electromagnetic disturbances. To use one, hold it in your hand and turn until the needle is pointing due north. Then, move the compass over the suspected disturbance point. The needle will alert you of any energy distortions by wavering back and forth.Since it is hard to hold a compass steady, this method is best for small areas like a bed, chair, or sofa.
 The nineteenth century German geomancer Baron Gustav von Pohl made a startling discovery: cats, dogs, insects, and other animals are naturally attracted to areas of earth resonance. One of the simplest indicators of a geopathic stress zone is to be found in the behavior of animals. Look for signs around you.Cats, for example, will sleep over such spots. If outdoors, look for bee, wasp, or ant nests over the spot.
Excessive amounts of slugs, snails, other insects, or parasites is also a good sign of disturbance. Moles, too, burrow along geopathic stress lines.