 Commitment phobes often make plans at the last minute or within a few days. They don’t like to commit to anything in the future. Try making plans with the person for something in the future. If the person seems uncomfortable with the idea, they may be a commitment phobe.You don’t have to suggest anything large. It can be a day trip in a few weeks or a mini getaway. You may even want to suggest seeing a movie that premieres a few weeks away. Try saying, "Hey, there's a concert next month. I know how much you love that band. I thought we could go see them together" or "I can't wait for this movie to come out in two weeks. Let's make a date to see it."

, Commitment phobes may talk in a very specific way. They will weave these interesting stories, and sometimes even excuses about why they can’t do anything. They are usually elaborate and entertaining. Commitment phobic people also use a lot of indefinite language which may sound like they’re committing, but when you really listen, you notice there’s an out for them.The person may never give you a straight-forward excuse. Instead, they may tell you some detailed story that explains away why they cancelled or why you can’t meet their friends.
Words that show their lack of commitment include probably, maybe, perhaps, i might, or things like that.
 Commitment phobes often have jobs that take them away from home. These jobs usually require travel for large chunks of time. The hours are odd or do not adhere to a general 40 hour work week. Look at the kind of job the other person has. If they are away for business a lot, this may point to commitment phobia.Some people use a job where they travel to be unfaithful.
Not every person who has a job of this type has commitment phobia, but it is worth checking for other symptoms.
 You may be able to see the signs of commitment phobia in the person’s life, not just in their interactions with you. Commitment phobes may have had multiple different careers or have very few close friends. They also may not have made major investments despite being able to.For example, the person may have gone from a teacher to a business owner to a personal trainer.
The person may never have owned a pet or a house. They may not even own a car.
 Commitment phobic people may be on a date with you and showering you with compliments, but they may be looking at other people. It’s normal to look at others or notice when someone is attractive, but it should not happen all the time when you are together.This person is watching other people because they are not committed to you. If they find an interesting conquest, they will move on from you.

