,


Buy "Flight of the Reindeer" by Robert Sullivan. It is a completely real book about Santa that gives much information on it.
Check for other historical or Christmas-related titles at the library.
 Remember, though, you may subject yourself to some embarrassment being vocal about the topic in some social circumstances.


Read "Flight of the Reindeer," as noted in the above step.
 You can track him with the Google Santa Tracker. You can also watch the Weather Channel as they track his travels.
 Check the clock when it is 12:00 to 12:15, so your parents are not awake.,, Make your home a welcome place for him to visit, keeping the lawn and living room, very neat and tidy.


Decorate your house fancifully for Christmas. No cheap lights. It should look like the house in "The Nutcracker." Make paper snowflakes and hang them everywhere. Put candles in the window and use small white Christmas lights. There are lots of nice things to buy in Christmas catalogs.
Have Christmas music playing at your home. It may also help if you play music from the Nutcracker, which can be found on iTunes and at the play. You have probably heard it in previews for Christmas films.
,,


You need to sneak downstairs without anyone hearing you. Even though it is fun to have someone come with you (like a sibling or cousin) be warned that you two are more likely to be heard.
Plan ahead. Make a map of your house and living room. Mark all the spots where the floor or stairs creak, etc. Map your route, emergency escape route, and hiding spots in case someone goes down to check what is going on.
Make a Santa Cam. First, get a shoe box and spray-paint it a Christmas color. Put a bow on top. Make sure it looks like a real present. Then get a video camera. Put it in the shoe box, mark where the lens touches the box (this can be done by painting the rim of the lens with washable watercolor paint and pressing it against the box)and cut it out with a cardboard box cutter. The camera should be concealed in the present. Make sure the hole points towards the fireplace. Turn the camera on so it films all night.
If you are willing to stay up all night and want to watch the fireplace live while being hidden, here is what to do: Ask a person who knows how to use a camera show you how to show how you can see what you filmed on a television. This is done by turning the mode to VTR and plugging it into the television with a cable that has red, white and yellow ends into the sockets of those colors. Hide the television (which should be small) somewhere near if you don't have one in your living room. Now you can watch the fireplace hidden away.

