 A trapped kitten will feel overwhelmed and bite as a means of defense. If she has gone to ground, leave her be. Pulling her out from under a bed will only intensify feelings of fear and reinforce that she is right to be frightened.If your kitten is hiding because she got scared, place some food or a treat within her reach and leave the room. When she perceives the threat has gone, she will then have a reason to come out that will also reward her ‘bravery’ for coming out of her hiding place.
 As odd as this may sound, kittens and children can have a hard time getting along. This is because children have a hard time understanding that kittens need to be handled gently, and don’t always like to be picked up. If your kitten is frightened of children, help her get over these feelings. You can do this by:


Teaching your kids to be gentle with the kitten. You can do this by modeling gentle and appropriate petting and playing behavior. Explain in simple terms how to touch the kitten, e.g., “Hand flat when you pet the cat!” or “Use nice, soft touches, like this.” Praise your kids when they pet and play with the kitten appropriately.
Having your children give treats to the kitten. This will help the kitten learn to associate your kids with good things.
Feeding the kitten in one half of the room, while the kids sit in the other half of the room and ignore her. Explain to your children that they should never disturb the kitten when she is eating because she might see them as a threat.By learning that the children are not a threat (to herself or to her food), she will gradually view them with less fear and begin to associate them with nice things (like eating food).
Always supervising your kids around the kitten, and intervening if necessary.
 Cats may feel threatened by direct eye contact. Thus, an anxious kitten may misinterpret you looking at her as a threat, rather than as affection or concern. To help build your kitten’s confidence:


Lie flat on the floor. A human standing up is an intimidating thing for a small animal.
Turn your head away from your kitten. If your kitten approaches, do not turn and look, but let her investigate in her own time. This will make her more comfortable with you.
 Positive enforcement of exploratory behavior will help teach the fearful kitten that new experiences can be good. To do this carry a bag of cat treats with you. If you notice the kitten venturing out from behind the sofa, casually drop a treat within her reach so that she associates the big, wide world with nice things like food.

