 Go to your local search engine and search 'Mail.com'. You'll see a search result that says Free email accounts | Register today at mail.com. Click on that.;
, Once you are directed on the site, you'll see a grey button in the right corner that says 'Sign Up'. Click on it to begin creating your account.
 Once you click sign up, you'll have to fill in a few details. Fill in the two boxes with your first name and last name. Your full name will be the name you'll be addressed by on the site.
 After you fill in your name, you'll have to enter your gender. Choose whether if you're a male or female.
 After putting your gender, fill in your date of birth by stating the month, date, and year you were born in.
 Choose the country you are from by scrolling through the list and clicking on your country.
 Type in the email address you wish to have that hasn't been chosen yet. You can also switch the domain to something else besides Mail.com from the options Mail.com provides you with.


If you'd like your own personal domain, you can purchase the 1&1 package for a variety of email options if you own a business or company.
 Choose a desired password and fill it in the box. After you choose a password and write it, retype it again in the next box to ensure this is the password you want.


Pick a password that has more than eight characters has a mix of letters and numbers, includes capital letters, and has symbols. Choosing a good password keeps it safe and secure.
 This is optional but you can type in your contact email so others can reach you to another email address if needed, such as if you forget your password.
 To confirm you are not a bot, choose one of the security questions provided by Mail.com. Type in your answer in the second box.
 Before you can create your account, verify you are not a robot by answering the questions asked to prove you are human.
 To confirm you accept and read the Terms & Condition, click the bottom button that states, 'I accept. Create my account'.
 After you've created an account, a page will appear of all the information you've provided. You can quickly skim through the info to ensure it is correct before continuing.


If you'd like, you can also print out the email info if desired. Just click on the bottom button that says, 'Print account information'.
 After checking your information, you can start using your account by clicking the below button that is blue and says, 'Continue to inbox'.
 When you click 'Continue to inbox', a page will appear asking if you'd like to get the premium membership. The premium member provides more features to your email client and keeps your inbox ad-free. You can choose to go premium by clicking the big blue button that says, 'Go Premium' or you can continue with the free account and click 'No thanks, go to inbox'.
 Once you've created your account, you can start composing and receiving emails.

