 Being a Brony is more than just being a fan of My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic; it's about being an active participant in the fandom, the negative connotations of which can be scary for some. If you know for certain that you want this, you must then recognize that you are indeed a Brony. This can be a hard thing to do; just keep in mind that you do not need to fear persecution. This is a rather common fear among Bronies, but try to own it.;
, This is probably the most vital part of becoming a Brony. Watch every episode of My Little Pony: Friendship is Magic and watch the new ones as soon as they are released.
 Always know when the next episode is going to premiere. Stay updated and be aware when clips or screenshots are released about the upcoming episode. Always know what's going on in the Brony community. In every episode, listen carefully what Twilight or other ponies say while writing letters to Princess Celestia, and think carefully about it.
 You'll need people to converse with along the subject of MLP: FiM. You should also consider gathering your fellow Bronies to watch the newest episode together. If you don't have any Brony friends, try to introduce lots of new people and get them to watch it with you!

, Mentally talk to them if you'd like. Maybe choose a favorite pony too, although it usually happens naturally.
 If you have got a good few people in your group of Bronies, create an official club for local Bronies! Members should have frequent gatherings, in which they should buy merchandise or just socialize. Be creative and plan more things to participate in with your friends. Create a Facebook or Twitter group to spread the word.
 Buy t-shirts, put up posters, buy the DVD's, and get figurines and/or plushies of your favorite characters (pony merch can be found in some stores like Hot Topic and of course online)!

, MLP: FiM has incredible music, and there are downloads to all the songs all over the Internet. Get them on your iPod and listen to them often! Try to memorize them if you can!

, There's tons of fan content created every day. Music, art, fanfictions, videos, this fandom has got it all. Don't be afraid to go on YouTube, DeviantArt, or other websites and indulge in the content; if you don't you'll be missing out!

, So you've completely dived into the art, music, literature, and everything else the fandom creates, now it's time to contribute! Are you a writer? Write fanfiction! Make music? Create pony music! Are you a painter, or a designer? Make pony art! It doesn't matter what, Bronies will be happy to embrace your creations!

, Believe it or not, MLP is huge on the meme scene. Fellow Bronies love it when you douse them with your wicked knowledge of Internet culture (as long as it's in appropriate threads). Spice up your discussions with plenty of doge, grumpy cat, and of course horsey memes! Good Morning, Neighbor!

, Message boards and forums are great places to join in on the online community fun of viewing and posting favorite pony pictures as well as chatting about the show or events. Be sure to follow all site rules.

