 One of the dirtiest places in your home is the toilet, which means the toilet brush often needs sanitizing. To wash your toilet brush, soak the brush in a mixture of 2 cups of white vinegar, 1 tablespoon of borax, and ½ teaspoon of dish soap. Let the brush soak for at least 30 minutes before you rinse it thoroughly.


Clean your brush each time you clean the toilet and replace the brush every four to six months., Other brushes you use while cleaning, such as scrub brushes or small detail cleaning brushes, also need to be sanitized. First, remove any stuck in debris or hair from the brush bristles. Next, put all your brushes in a large bucket and soak them in a solution of hot water and your favorite sanitizing product (such as bleach). Let the brushes soak for 30 to 60 minutes. Then drain the solution, rinse the brushes, and remove them to fully dry.


Do this at least once a month or after a particularly thorough cleaning., Sponges get dirty very easily while cleaning up messes. To sanitize your sponges, rinse your sponges to get all possible dirt and refuse from them. While still wet, place the sponges in the microwave and heat them for two minutes. Remove the now extremely hot sponge carefully and run it under cool water, then let it dry.


You can also place the sponge in a small bowl of water instead of just on the plate in the microwave. Remember to remove the sponge from the water with tongs since the water will be very hot.
You can also clean sponges in your dishwasher if it has a sanitize cycle. If it doesn’t, use the microwave method.
If your sponges have any metal parts, do not microwave it. The metal will catch fire in the microwave., The towels you use to clean and dust should also be washed frequently. Once you finish using towels in cleaning, wash them in the washing machine. Use your regular detergent and the hottest cycle your wash has. Dry them on the hottest dryer setting and dry them completely.


Skip using fabric softener, since you don’t want the towels to have unnecessary residue on them.
You can throw in ¼ to ½ a cup of baking soda into the wash with your towels for an extra cleaning boost, especially if your towels are very dingy and dirty.You can also forgo washing detergent and use white vinegar instead in the wash. This provides additional sanitization of your towels., Microfiber cloths need to be washed differently than normal towels. They work by attracting dirt and dust through electrostatic charge in the cloth, which is recharged during washing. Before you throw them in the wash, rinse them gently in the sink, scrubbing the cloths with your hands to release caked in dirt and dust. Then, place your microfiber cloths in the wash by themselves with a small amount of detergent. Then dry on a high heat setting or let them air dry.


Do not use fabric softener and make sure the detergent does not have it in it either. This will reduce the effectiveness of the static charge in the cloths. The same is true for dryer sheets in the dryer.
You can also wash the cloths in a delicates bag to help keep them safe in the wash.
In order to not ruin the effect of microfiber cloths, avoid using these cloths for waxing or super grimy work and stick to dusting and cleaning mirrors and tables., Dusters are easy to clean after each dusting. First, take the dusters outside and shake out the majority of the loose dust and dirt. Then fill a bucket or the sink with hot water and enough dish soap to create sudsy water. Dip each duster in the water, swirl it around to release dirt in the feathers. Rinse and let the duster dry completely before using again.


To ensure all the dirt gets out, use your hands to work the soapy water into the feathers, being careful not to damage the duster in the process., Even the bottles of cleaning supplies need to be cleaned from time to time. After you clean, use a disinfectant wipe or cloth with cleanser on it to wipe each bottle you used. This will cut down on any germs or dirt that may transfer to the bottles from your hands while you clean.

