 There are a couple options when it comes to RSS services. You can use a web service to automatically create and update your RSS feed for a monthly fee, or you can download an RSS feed program and update your feed manually. Popular programs include:RSS Builder – A free, open-source RSS creation program that allows you to create RSS files that you upload to your website. It can also automatically manage the RSS feed on your website without having to upload the file each time
Feedity and rapidfeeds – These are web services that allows you to manage multiple feeds with automatic updates. You will not need to manually update your feed when you update your website’s content. Feedity will generate an RSS file without having to input each item.
FeedForAll – A paid program that will allow you to create RSS feeds to upload to your website. It also has specialized tools for creating podcast feeds for iTunes.;
, Once you have chosen your service, create your first feed. The process will differ from program to program, but the general idea is the same for almost all of them. All feeds will need to have some basic metadata:


Create a title for the feed. This should be the same as your website or podcast.
Enter in the URL for your website. This will help viewers link back to your homepage.
Enter a description of the feed. This should be no more than a sentence or two describing the general content on the feed.
 You can add an image that represents your feed. The image file will need to be uploaded to your website in order for it to load. Adding an image is optional, but highly recommended for podcasts.
 Once you’ve entered your podcast’s information, it’s time to start populating it with content. Enter within the title of the article, blog post, podcast episode, etc. Enter in the URL that links directly to that content, as well as the publishing date. For Feedity, enter in your website URL and your content will be automatically populated.


Each entry should have a short but sweet description. This is what your readers will see before they choose to click your entry in their RSS readers.
The GUID is a unique identifier for your content. Most of the time, you can place the URL in this field as well. If both pieces of content are located at the same URL, they will need unique identifiers.
You can add Author information and comments.
Add a new entry for each piece of content that you want to broadcast.
 Once you’re done entering in all of your content into your feed, you need to export it to an XML file. This XML file will allow visitors to subscribe to your RSS feed.
 Upload the XML file you’ve created to your website and place it on your homepage. Some sites will create an URL to your feed that you can place on your website instead.


For RSS Builder, you can enter in your website’s FTP information to have your feed automatically updated whenever you edit it. To do this, click the FTP button in the top toolbar, click the New Site button, and enter in your FTP information. When you’re ready to update the XML file on the website, click the Publish Feed button.
 There are a variety of aggregate sites that you can submit your RSS feed to. These sites collect articles from similar interests, and can significantly increase your viewership. Search for RSS Feed Directories that match the interests that your feed addresses and submit the URL to your feed’s XML file.


If your feed is a podcast, you can submit it to iTunes so that iTunes users can search for it and subscribe through the program. Your podcast will need to be approved in order for it to show up in searches.