 To start, you should apply your regular foundation. Dab the foundation on using a makeup brush or your fingers. From there, mix the foundation in your face using your hands, a sponge, or a makeup brush.If you don't normally wear foundation, you can skip this step.;
, Metallic lipsticks come in a variety of shades. Choose any color you want for your look. Think about the occasion or your clothing if you're struggling to choose a shade.Metallic lipstick is often meant to look very bold. If you're wearing lipstick to convey a bolder look, go for shades like gold, bright reds, and deep colors like black and violet. This gives you a dramatic look, which may be appropriate for a party or other social event.
However, metallic lips do not always have to convey a bold, overpowering style. You can also use metallic lips for a more casual look. For example, go for milder shades of peach, pink, or other lighter shades if you want metallic lips for an every day look.
 You will need to start with a basic foundation before applying the metallic gleam to your lips. Choose a liquid lipstick that matches the metallic shade you're going for. Apply this lipstick to your lips as you normally would prior to applying your metallic glaze.If you don't have liquid liner, you can use matte lipstick. However, liquid liner generally works best as it gives off the glow associated with metallic lips.
 You do not need to pay for fancy metallic lipstick and it can be expensive. You can blend your own metallic covering using a color pigment from a local beauty or department store and a makeup setting spray.Select the color pigment you want. Mix it in with a small amount of the setting spray until you have a spreadable mixture for your lips.
 Use a lipstick brush to gently cover your lips with the metallic covering. Move over your lips slowly, using gentle swiping motions, until you've completely covered your mouth with metallic lipstick. Once you're done, you should have dramatic metallic lips to show off.