 Write notes throughout the day or use an online app to track how you’re feeling. Focus on times that you notice when GI issues arise or subside and what makes them feel better.This can help you figure out what may be causing your GI issues. It can also help your doctor make a proper diagnosis and treatment plan. Some of the most common symptoms of GI issues during pregnancy include:Nausea
Vomiting
Heartburn
Constipation
DiarrheaBelching;
, As a part of your journal, make detailed notes on what you consume at mealtimes and during your day. Pay attention to whether your symptoms develop after you eat or drink. A detailed description of food you eat can determine if there is a correlation between your diet and GI issues. It may also help your doctor better diagnose the cause of your discomfort and get you proper treatment., Schedule an appointment with your doctor as soon as you notice GI symptoms for longer than a couple of days. Take your notes and food journal to the appointment with you to help your doctor make the best diagnosis and treatment plan for you.Answer your doctor’s questions honestly and don’t worry about being embarrassed. For example, if you’ve been having bowel issues, say, “I go from having uncontrollable diarrhea to being constipated. This changes every couple of days and it’s very uncomfortable.”

, Purchase a liquid antacid that does not contain sodium bicarbonate at your local pharmacy. Follow the proper dosing instructions on the packaging or those given by your doctor. Ask your doctor or the pharmacist any questions about the antacid you may have. This can ensure proper usage and that you get some relief from GI symptoms., If you have serious nausea or vomiting, speak to your doctor about an antiemetic. These drugs can ease nausea and vomiting during pregnancy, as well as any heartburn or discomfort that accompany them.Avoid using antiemetics on a regular basis to minimize the risk of harm to your baby., Take an over-the-counter stool softener if you have constipation. Read products labels to identify stool softeners sodium docusate. These can help release your bowels without potentially harmful side effects. Some stool softeners to avoid include:Stimulant laxatives
Castor oil
Mineral oil

, Limit how many painkillers such as aspirin, ibuprofen, or naproxen sodium that you take. These drugs, called non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDS), can irritate your stomach and cause dyspepsia, peptic ulcer disease, or reflux. Talk to your doctor about alternative pain relievers or ways to take NSAIDS while protecting your stomach., Incorporate different foods from the five food groups into your daily meals. Eat smaller and more frequent meals throughout the day to minimize any heartburn, nausea, or vomiting you may have. Eating a healthy, well-balanced diet and smaller meals can ensure that you and your unborn baby get the necessary nutrients and manage GI symptoms.Select foods including lean proteins like chicken or beef; fruits and vegetables high in simple carbohydrates such as raspberries or broccoli; as well as dairy products like yogurt or cheese for calcium., Drink at least 15 cups of water a day to stay hydrated and help sustain your pregnancy.Maintaining hydration can also ease GI issues such as nausea and constipation.Include non-caffeinated tea, bouillon, sodas, and juices in your daily water total. Clear, non-caffeinated soft drinks such as ginger ale may also ease nausea and vomiting.
 Sit or stand up straight for several hours after eating or drinking. Bending over or lying down flat can cause heartburn or belching and may make your GI symptoms worse., Steer clear of foods and beverages with alcohol or caffeine during your pregnant. Limit or reduce how much you smoke. All three substances can harm your baby in large quantities. They can also make GI issues worse.Speak to your doctor if you are having trouble avoiding any of these substances. They can help you reduce your intake.
 Talk to your doctor to see if you and your baby are healthy enough for gentle to moderate exercise. Aim to get at least 30 minutes of moderate exercise all or most days of the week.Doing low to moderate intensity cardiovascular exercise can ease GI issues such as constipation.It can also make your pregnancy and subsequent recovery more comfortable.Try walking, swimming, jogging, rowing, biking, or using an elliptical machine.