 First things first: You don't need to feel guilty or anxious because you're feeling depressed. Hundreds of thousands of people worldwide suffer from clinical depression. Depression is a flaw in brain chemistry, not a flaw in your character. Having clinical depression, anxiety, or any mental disorder, does not mean you are a bad person, or that your'e "broken" or that you're "wrong." You deserve to feel happy and find a treatment that works for you.;
, How do you tell the difference between clinical depression and a plain old case of the blues? While depression can work in different ways for everyone, it's important to learn what to keep an eye out for.You may be suffering from depression if you:


Have difficulty concentrating, remembering things, and making decisions
Feel constantly fatigued, even after getting enough sleep
Feel guilty, worthless, or helpless
Feel hopeless or pessimistic
Have trouble sleeping
Feel irritable and restless regularly
Lose interest in things you enjoy, including sex
Overeat, or lose your appetite
Feel persistent aches, pains, headaches, cramps, or digestive problems that don't respond to treatment
Have thoughts of suicide

, Make a list of every quality you can think of for your particular depression. This will help you learn how you can address specific issues, and if you choose to seek professional help, your insights will be invaluable to making sure you get a proper diagnosis. Think about the following questions:


Do you feel depressed all the time, or does it come and go?
Do you experience anxiety before or after depressive episodes?
Do you ever experience suicidal thoughts or actions?
Are you in any physical pain?
It it worse in the morning or the evening?

, Sometimes, depression can be a constant companion. For others, it will come and go on a regular basis. To help with a more specific diagnosis and treatment method, it's important to keep in mind your depressive triggers before you talk to your doctor.


What sends you off on a spiral of depressed feelings and behaviors?
Do you feel a stronger sense of despair after speaking to a particular friend or family member?
Does thinking about work make you feel anxious or hopeless?
Is this an ever-present sensation you wake up with every day?

, Depression is a disease, it's not a mood or a phase. There's nothing wrong with talking to a doctor about how you're feeling and pursuing a treatment option that's right for you. Make an appointment to talk to your family doctor or GP, who may refer you to a specialist for counseling or medication.
 With depression, sometimes the day can seem like a mountain you have to climb. When all your responsibilities pile up, it can start to seem impossible. To make each day a little more manageable, break things into a series of small tasks.


Even if that thing is just, "Get out of bed and brush your teeth," put it on your list. Tell yourself you've just got to do that one thing, and then you'll be successful. When you're done with that, come up with a new goal. Just one thing at a time.
Doing something small can give you the mental boost you need to keep going and do other things. Try telling yourself you'll just make yourself something to eat, or you'll just tidy up one room of the house. You'll probably end up doing much more than you expected, once you actually get started.
 Every day that you get through should be considered a success. Even if some bad stuff happened over the course of it, there's an even longer list of things you did right. At the end of each day, it's important to take a little time and remember everything you did that was good.


Made a good breakfast? Bathed yourself? Drove to work without running a single red-light? Worked a whole workday without calling your boss a jerk? These are things to be celebrated.
 If you're able to sense when you're starting to slip into a depressive state, try heading it off at the pass with something that makes you feel good. Don't let yourself slip into a spiral that will only go down.


Do something productive, creative, or fun that will engage your mind. Read a book, watch a favorite movie, do some puzzles, anything to take you out of that state of mind you're currently in.
If you feel like you're slipping, it's usually very helpful to be around people. Spend time with your friends, or find an online community of people with similar interests, so you can spend some time chatting and staying engaged with people.
 Any therapy veteran will tell you that an important part of recovery and care is remembering that you are not your illness. One excellent way of working your way through depression and conquering it is to put it outside of yourself. Imagine your depression is an entirely separate entity from yourself. Give it a name, a backstory, even draw a sketch if that helps.


When you feel yourself getting depressed, address your depression out loud. It might sound stupid, but really unload on your depression when you feel like it. Call your disease out for what a no-good nobody it is. Get it away from you.
 Imagine you are taking off in the window seat of an airplane. Watch every single thing in sight get smaller and smaller as you fly away. Watch everything go slowly farther and farther away from you. If you shut your eyes and really imagine seeing this you might begin to feel like your troubling thoughts are also decreasing in size, even if only for a minute this might bring you a little relief and mental strength.


Find other visualizations that help to calm your nerves and center yourself. Climbing down a ladder, or falling deep into a pool are effective meditations for some people.
 You can't get everything you need from the Internet. We have evolved to receive many positive neurological effects from engaging with other people. It's essential that you spend time in the presence of others, talking and learning. If you close yourself off, depression only gets worse.


Lots of people struggle with depression, and talking to some close friends or neighbors can help you to feel like you're not alone. Find someone who is going through something similar and talk. It'll help.
People do care. Talking about your feelings isn't a sign of weakness, it's a sign that you care enough about your mental health to do something about it. What could be more normal?

, Don't try to suffer through feelings of intense depression alone. If you're really struggling, it's important to reach out and talk to someone. Which friends or family members do you know you can rely on to be there for you when you're feeling particularly low, or even when you just need someone to talk to? Tell them what you're going through and get in touch.


Seek out free counseling resources: Many schools, offices, and religious institutions offer some sort of counseling. See what's available to you through the organizations you or a family member are part of.
 If you're able to, talking to a psychiatrist about your feelings is one of the single best ways to start the healing process. This is their job, and they won't judge you or think less of you for seeking treatment. In fact, the opposite is true.


If you have the option of seeking professional help, take it. There is not a single person walking this earth that couldn't benefit from therapy. Even the most textbook neuro-typical human being alive can reap come benefit from speaking to an impartial stranger about their life and feelings.
 Even if it sounds ridiculous, or like it could never help you, give it a shot. What have you got to lose? Try starting slow, just giving it a few minutes per day. It might seem counter intuitive that doing nothing could actually do something, but clearing your mind, even for a short period of time, can help center you when things seem overwhelming.


Find a quiet spot, set a timer, get into a comfortable position. Close your eyes and focus on your breathing. Feel the air going into your body and nourishing it. Hold your breath for a few seconds, and slowly release it back into the air. Feel the air going back into the world.
 The number of studies that have shown a correlation between physical exercise and alleviation of depression symptoms could probably be used to wallpaper the Taj Mahal! But you don't have to commit to a full gym routine (though that certainly won't hurt anything!) to reap the benefits. Any activity that gets you up and moving around will do the trick, even just a quick walk can help.


Go outside for a bit. It's been proven again and again that people just generally feel happier when they're outdoors. Whether it's hiking or gardening or just ambling around your neighborhood, the fresh air really will do you some good., Most depressives groan at the word "diet," but the truth is that many types of milder depression are caused by a nutritional deficiency.Try tracking your intake using a journal or an app/website like SparkPeople to see what your intake of micro- and macro-nutrients looks like over time. If you find you're falling short on things like magnesium, iron, or unsaturated fats, you can adjust your diet accordingly. You may also want to consider a multivitamin supplement.


Finding a cookbook with healthy recipes in eating styles you like can be a great start. Maybe you're really fond of stir-fry, or want to try going vegetarian and don't know where to start, or you might be interested in paleo-dieting which is heavy on nuts, fruit and greens.
Salads are quick and easy to make, especially if you can afford pre-mixed salads from grocery stores. They're light and filled with good greens. Make up a big dinner salad of lettuce, rocket, radish, avocado.
 If you skip breakfast, your blood sugar and mood will be affected.Even if you don't feel like it, find a quick, healthy, and nutritious breakfast that will help you start the day right and give you the energy you need. No, not donuts, McDonalds, or a cigarette.


Try making a smoothie each morning with some oats, yogurt, a banana and milk. It's filling and promotes a healthy appetite through the rest of the day.
Try eating citrus in the mornings. it's hard to feel tired with cold and zesty grapefruit, or lemon zest on top of a non-dairy smoothie (like lemon, strawberries, ice and watermelon). Even just a fresh orange is a great start to the day.
 Showering is no fun when you're in a slump. It might sound counter-intuitive given the effort it feels like it will take, but having a bath or shower can be really helpful for mood. Set an hour or so aside, play some music, and get a whole heap of soaps.
 Tidying up can be daunting, but doing a little at a time can definitely improve your mindset. Try briefly organizing your work area, making your bed and giving a quick sweep or wipe of the seats. Afterward, give yourself a break breaks for TV, gaming, exercise or work in between.
 The vast majority of psychiatric professionals will respect your choice if you want a non-pharmaceutical treatment plan, but it's good to do your homework beforehand. Research potential medications, looking specifically at their efficacy and side effects.


If your doctor recommends a particular treatment, give it some time to think it over. Typing the name of the active ingredient into Google Scholar will bring up the results of any studies involving that drug. Also look for generic versions of the same active ingredients, which can be much cheaper than name brands.

