 When you have diarrhea you need to replace the water lost during each episode, but bear in mind that water is not the only thing you are losing. You will also need to replenish your potassium, sodium, and chloride.Drink water, fruit juices, sports drinks, sodas without caffeine, and salty broths.


Children should drink rehydration solutions made especially for them — drinks like Pedialyte, which contain salts and minerals.Confirm you are getting enough fluids by doing the pinch test, medically known as the skin turgor test. Pinch a section of skin on the back of your hand, your lower arm, or your abdominal area and hold it for a few seconds. Make sure the skin is tented upward. Release the skin after a few seconds. If the skin snaps back quickly to its normal position, you are well hydrated. If the skin stays tented upward and snaps back slowly, you are likely dehydrated.;
, Soluble fiber will help your body absorb water and make your stool more firm, thereby slowing down your diarrhea. Soluble fiber is found in foods like oats, bran, plain rice, steamed broccoli, and barley.There is another type of fiber — insoluble fiber — that is found in foods like celery and citrus fruits. Insoluble fiber does not absorb water (think about the difference between putting a cup of oats in a pot of water vs. a stick of celery in a pot of water — the oats would absorb the liquid and become sticky, but the celery would remain unchanged).This type of fiber will make your diarrhea worse and should be avoided.Grains should be cooked in a light chicken or miso broth. Use a 2:1 ratio, with twice as much liquid used per one cup of grains. For example, you would cook ½ cup barley in 2 cups of chicken broth.
Insoluble fiber is found in wheat bran, vegetables, and whole grains., The BRAT diet can help to bulk up your stool and provide nutrients you may have lost because of the diarrhea and any vomiting. The BRAT diet is composed of:Bananas
Rice
Applesauce
Toast
You can also eat salted crackers to help reduce any nausea or vomiting you may be experiencing.
 Probiotics such as Lactobacillus GG, acidophilus, and bifidobacteria can be found at your local pharmacy. These are “friendly” gut bacteria that help you maintain a healthy gut. Taking them while you have diarrhea allows the “friendly” bacteria to fight off the disease causing bacteria.You can also have yogurt to increase the active cultures in your stomach and counteract the disease causing bacteria in your gut.

