 This condition is often accidental, but can severely injure or kill a child.At least 1 in 4 shaken babies die.
Those that survive may experience blindness, cerebral palsy, intellectual/developmental delays, seizures, and other conditions.
Experts warn that shaking a baby is similar to shaking a half-empty container of water: the contents crash around inside, even after the shaking is done. Even one or two shakes can be devastating to a baby's brain.

People can be sent to prison for shaking a baby.;
, This includes long, inconsolable bouts of crying. It's typical, and it'll get better as the baby gets older.You are not a bad caregiver if your baby cries a lot (or if you get frustrated by it). It is how babies communicate., Family members, babysitters, and other people who look after the baby should know how to treat them right.Tell them what soothes the baby best (for example, maybe she loves being put on top of the washing machine or being danced to sleep).
Tell them what to do if the baby is still crying. You could even print off this article.
Screen daycare providers and babysitters, and don't leave your baby with someone who may lose control.
Teach children to be very gentle with babies, especially their heads.
 Make sure that you are getting enough time to sleep in. Exhaustion can make it harder to deal with stress. Take turns with your partner or another caregiver.

Try working out an arrangement where you take turns dealing with the baby each night, or one person handles the baby before midnight and the other handles the baby after.
Take time for yourself whenever you can. You're allowed to take breaks.
 Parenting is hard, and it's okay not to have it together all the time. Classes can help you be prepared for the different stressors, and know how to deal with problems that might arise., Parenting can be difficult, especially looking after a baby. You don't have to face this alone.

Would any grandparents, neighbors, or friends be willing to babysit?
Would they be willing to bring over a meal or help with chores?

, You don't have to raise a child if you aren't ready or willing.

In the United States, you can surrender a baby to a safe haven.

