 Whenever you need to use the Internet, jot down what you plan to do on a piece of notepaper first. Keep this with you when you sit down at the computer (or even hold it in your other hand if you’re using a phone). Give yourself an itemized to-do list so you have a plan to stick to. This will make it harder to stray into temptation.This is also a good idea whenever you’re working on a device connected to the Internet, even if you don’t intend to go online.
 If you tend to watch YouTube at a certain time of day, fill that time slot with a new activity. Busy yourself with new habits to avoid lapsing back into the old ones. Ensure success by choosing something that doesn’t require a device. For instance, you could:Create or adjust your exercise schedule to fill that time slot.
Dedicate that time to reading a book, newspaper, or magazine.
Cook meals in advance for the days or week ahead.
Enroll in a class or group activity that meets at that time.
 Keep a to-do list of stuff that needs to be taken care of around. Then, whenever you find yourself a click away from wasting the next half hour on YouTube, refer to that list to find something else to occupy yourself immediately. Failing that, come up with some fallback activities that you can do instead of succumbing to temptation, like:Calling, texting, messaging, or emailing friends or family that you haven’t reached out to in a while.
Stepping away from your device for some impromptu exercise, like pushups, situps, or even just taking a walk.
Engaging in some other interest or hobby of yours, like writing, painting, or playing an instrument.
 If you do find yourself back on YouTube, grab a piece of notepaper, write down the date and time, and make a tick for each video that you watch. Save this and add to it every time you stray back to the site. Create a visual record of your relapse to keep track of your progress, as well as identify any patterns to your success and/or failures. For instance:Say you find yourself back on YouTube at roughly the same time each Saturday. Now you know to block the site during those hours and/or make a point of planning another activity.
Now say you find that you do pretty well in staying off YouTube all day long on Sunday. Now you can model other days of the week with a similar schedule to mirror that success.

