 If you want to be more creative, you could write the girls' names on the balloons.


Other decorations could include streamers, a lovely table setting for the dinner or buffet, etc. However, think about if you want a theme or not and consider what mood you are going for.
 Have plenty of snacks, as well as dinner. You could also have dessert, if you want. You'll also need to include breakfast foods for the following morning.


Good slumber party foods include: Pizzas, hamburgers, pasta, fries, takeout, etc.
You could go for more exiting foods as well such as: coke floats, pop tarts and other things that will be fun!
For dessert: Cheesecake, ice cream, chocolate anything, fruit pie, etc.
Snacks might include: Dips and chips, candies, fondues (cheese or chocolate), brownies, cupcakes, etc.
Drinks might include: Sparkling water, sodas in different flavors, juice, plain water and hot chocolates.
Keep in mind the possibility that some of the girls might have food allergies or foods they don't like. Ask them the menu to make it clear when they RSVP that they have any such issues.
Suggest some of your guests bring snacks too! ( you could have a midnight feast,)

, There are lots of possibilities for activities but it's a good idea to plan them ahead and not leave anything to chance. Choose activities that are fun and easy. but don't make the sleepover too planned. it would be boring if you and your friends/the girls have no time to do what they want to do.


For younger girls, a slumber party should be more structured, becoming more independent with older girls.
Board games,movies, scavenger hunts, crafts, makeovers, group video games etc. are great choices.
Visiting somewhere can be an option if you can arrange transportation. For example, going to the movies, ice-skating, ten-pin bowling, go-kart racing, eating out, etc.
Be sure to leave plenty of room for spur-of-the-moment activities and chatting.
 A living room, family room, den or a spot with lots of room and a TV are ideal places.


Be sure to accommodate the needs of every other household member. Let everyone know which rooms are off limits, both ways; the guests should know where not to go to avoid bothering siblings or parents and the family members should keep out of the way of the guests.
 If you're the girl of honor, enjoy yourself. If you're a parent, give them some space so they can have a nice time.


Parents usually like to retreat to another part of the house to get some quiet space. Just make that the girls know where you are if the need you.
Other siblings can sometimes become annoying if the birthday girl wants some time alone with her friends. Be sure that there is enough space for the birthday girl to have time alone with her friends.

