 Certain specific symptoms indicate that you’re experiencing mysophilia. These include an interest in touching or smelling soiled underwear and sexual arousal from doing so. Similarly, recurring sexual fantasies or urges involving soiled underwear or comparably foul smells also indicate mysophilia. In some cases, you may also be sexually aroused by marring or dirtying a sexual partner.Less blatant symptoms may also indicate that you are having urges similar to those that describe mysophilia. For instance, if you are aroused by dirty areas, such as alleyways or unclean washrooms, these are considered expressions of mysophilia.
Similarly, if you are aroused by wearing the same clothes or foregoing washing for extended periods of time, you are likely experiencing mysophilia.;
, If you have a romantic relationship with someone who doesn't know about any recurring sexual urges you experience, it's worth telling them. Especially in committed relationships, honest and open conversations about your personal sexual interests are important.Say something like, "There's a fantasy I have that I want to share with you, but you may be a bit surprised by it. Would you like to hear about it?"
You may be surprised by your partner's response to your revelation. They may even be willing to incorporate more of your interests into your sex life together. However, if your partner is not comfortable with your interests, be respectful of their wishes.
Even if you hope to fight the urges you experience, you will likely feel better about acknowledging something you'd been hiding from your partner.
 If you have the opportunity to safely and respectfully indulge in a sexual urge you're feeling, don't feel bad about doing so. Most importantly, however, all sex acts must be consensual. This includes indulging in a fetish.


If someone is willing to throw up during intercourse, or to loan you a pair of soiled panties, there is nothing definitively wrong or unethical about experimenting with sex acts that some others may deem taboo.
 As long as you do not risk hurting another person when you pair masturbation with a particular fetish, do not feel guilty about doing so. That said, consistently masturbating to a particular thing, such as a dirty undergarments, does place you at risk of growing dependent on such an item for sexual satisfaction.For instance, you may gradually come to require the fetish to enjoy sex and reach orgasm. This can stand in the way of a healthy sexual relationship with your partner(s).

