 Your grandparent might still live independently, and in that case, she almost certainly would welcome help with chores around the house. Ask your grandparent if she could use your help with anything.Alternatively, if you know that your grandparent needs some help, you could surprise her by showing up unexpectedly to do the work.
 If your grandparent does not want to ask you to help due to pride or a strong feeling of independence, or if she is vague about needing help, think of some ways in which you can help her.


Vacuum the house
Dust the furniture
Pull weeds in the garden
Help harvest homegrown vegetables
Wash the walls
Deep clean the carpets
Do the laundry
Paint a room

, Sometimes, your grandparent's home might need professional work done that you cannot help complete. However, you can help your grandparent call different companies or contractors to get price estimates and to get the work scheduled.


Having a new roof installed
Having a new appliance delivered and installed
Getting a porch or deck built onto the house
Having a pest issue resolved
Having some kind of renovation done inside the house, like replacing cabinets

, You can arrange a day and time that works for both you and your grandparent, or you can show up to surprise her.


Be sure to follow through with going to her home, if she is expecting you. You will let her down and lose trust if you do not show up.
Be polite and respectful if your grandparent is hesitant to let you help due to pride or feelings of independence. While she might truly need the help, she could find it offensive or upsetting if you become pushy about it. If your grandparent does not want you to do as much work as you planned to do, then complete the tasks she is allowing you to do and try to get to the others next time.
 You are volunteering your time to help your grandparent, but you should still be sure to complete the work to the best of your ability.


Your grandparent probably did a lot to help your parents raise you, and this is your opportunity to help repay the favor. This is also a good time to show her how much you appreciate and care about her.
You want your grandparent to live in comfort and health, so do your best to ensure that this happens when you offer to take care of chores personally.
 If you can, make plans to be at your grandparent's house the day that the work is supposed to be completed so that you can make sure it gets done.


You might need to take your grandparent to your house or somewhere else for the day, depending on what kind of work is being done on her house. Take care of those arrangements ahead of time, if necessary.

