 Figuring out where to invest your money is one of the hardest parts of personal finance basics. Essentially, you want to invest in a variety of stocks, bonds, and treasuries—but which ones? Target Date Funds make this a little easier for you. A TDF is basically a hands-off retirement account. You enter the age you want to retire and the TDF will automatically spread the money you put into this account across a wide variety of stocks, bonds, and treasuries.


Some of the recommended companies through which to do this are Vanguard, Fidelity, and T. Rowe Price., If you choose a more hands-on approach to investing, it is important to diversify your portfolio to reduce risk. Diversifying means that you choose a variety of stocks, bonds, and treasuries in which to invest. You should make sure your investments are spread over a number of different companies and industries. This way, if one company or industry suffers a financial downturn, you will only lose a portion of your investment, not the whole thing., As mentioned above, investing in a 401k provided by your company is a good idea. There are a couple really good things about this option. First of all, most of the time, the money you put into a 401k is deferred on your taxes until you take it out of the account. Some 401ks are taxed before investing, however, so check with your employer to find out which one you have. Second, your employer will often match the amount of money in your 401k (up to a certain amount) so you are, essentially, getting free money just for investing.


You should invest in a company match 401k even if you are in debt. The return you receive on this type of investing is often more than what your debt is.The amount of money your company will match often depends how much you invest in your 401k. Usually, you have to hit certain investment thresholds, which will then determine the percentage your company will match., Another investment opportunity offered by many employers is a Roth IRA. In a Roth IRA, you pay taxes up front on your investment. Investing in a Roth IRA is an especially good idea for young people with low incomes, considering the tax rate will likely increase in their lifetime. This type of investment can be very helpful because it will provide you with a pot of money for your retirement that won’t shrink due to taxes.