 As a teen, you should have hobbies and interests to keep you occupied and engaged. School probably won't cut it. try to find extracurricular hobbies that will let you blow off some steam and find enjoyment. Some kind of extracurricular activity can be a great way of meeting other kids your age and socializing without having to meet people yourself.


Many teenagers take sports very seriously. Find out what team sports are offered at your school and consider trying out for the team. If you don't like any of the sports offered, tennis lessons, golf lessons, or other individualized sports might be more appropriate for you. Heck, check out learning how to fence.
Check out clubs at school. Sports aren't even close to being the only way to socialize at school. Foreign language clubs, chess clubs, art clubs, ecology clubs, and all sorts of organizations are available to students for fun and learning outside of school. If you don't like any of the clubs at your school, check out after-school programs at the YMCA, or other youth center in your town, or check out a youth group at a church.Try playing music. Whether in marching band, concert band or by starting your own garage band, music can be a great outlet for teenagers. Studies show that teens who study music learn more efficiently and have a great amount of fun and camaraderie playing.
 As you get older, it's important to learn as much as you can about other people and learn to exercise your empathy skills. A child thinks only of themselves, and an adult is able to think more selflessly, but a teenager is somewhere in the middle. It can be tough.


Mission trips and exchange programs can be excellent and effective experiences for many teenagers if such opportunities are available. Likewise, getting a part-time job and learning to work for your keep is an important growing-up step that you can learn in the summer time, or on the weekends after school.
Read as much as you can, about as much diverse topics that you can. Travel from the comfort of a chair by checking out novels, travelogues, sci-fi, fantasy, whatever you like reading. Read some things that are challenging and some things that are easy. Read all the time. Read everything.
 Being a teen is a time of experimenting, trying on new identities until you learn which one fits you the best. In a given year, you might switch back and forth between thinking you want to be a doctor and loving your position on the soccer team to wanting nothing but to write poetry and hang out with painters and paint your fingernails black. That's ok! That's normal!



Try out being an art kid. Take some art classes and learn the fundamentals to see you if you'd like to spend your days in the studio, creating strange masterpieces.

Try out the exciting world of mystery. Lots of teenagers take solace in the dark clothes and powerful vibes of a mysterious person. While it might seem "weird," it's pretty normal.

Embrace your inner athlete. Jocks don't have to be the villains from high school drama movies. Be a well-adjusted athlete who takes sporting seriously. Make it your "thing."

, Find a community of people you like and people who are like you and get to know them well. Hang out in school and outside of school. Support each other and lift each other up.


Emphasize forging a few strong relationships over lots of meaningless ones. It's not worth having 800 Facebook friends if you can't talk to any of them in real life.
Alternatively, it's also a good idea to meet lots of people who you don't necessarily have a lot in common with. If you're a sporty athlete, hang out with some of the art kids every now and then to see what you have in common. try to make all sorts of different friends.
 Having fun is important, but taking your responsibilities seriously is just as important a part of growing up. Save enough time in your busy teenage schedule to complete your schoolwork and work as hard as possible at doing well. Even if you think you're sure what you want to do in life, and that plan doesn't involve algebra-trigonometry, give it your best shot. You never know how you might regret blowing off that welding class, or zoning out during sewing down the road.


Make sure you take excellent notes. Notes force you to pay attention, improve your memory and provide you with a helpful study guide.
Do your homework. Don't slack off on it, because believe it or not, it really does help you learn. Pay attention in class and ask questions to stay engaged. Respect your teachers and try to make the best of it.
 Where do you want to be in ten years? In twenty? What do you want to do with your life? Tough questions for anybody, and uncomfortable questions for most, especially teenagers. But it's something you're going to have to struggle with. The more you struggle with it, the better you'll prepare yourself for your teenage years, and the more normal you'll be. It's something everyone struggles with before transitioning into adulthood.


If you want to go to college, start researching affordable places you might attend that seem to be full of people like you, or places that offer the kinds of specialties you'd like to study. Many teens who struggle to make friends or fit in during high school really come into stride during college.
It's also normal and perfectly fine to have no idea what you want to do with your life. Don't worry about it too much. That's perfectly normal. When people ask, tell them that you're just trying to get through your teens first.

