 If your spouse’s request comes as a shock, you may experience a wide array of emotions. You may feel hurt or betrayed that your spouse wants their own bank account. You may also feel angry or become suspicious of their motives. However, in the moment, the best thing that you can do is to try to stay calm. This will help you have a productive conversation with your partner about your finances.


Once you feel emotions well up, try slowly counting down from ten while taking deep breaths. This will help calm your body’s anxious response.;
, After your spouse makes their request, ask them why they need the account. Talk with your partner about what the purpose is of the separate account. More importantly, discuss what it means for your relationship.You might ask things like “Why do you need a separate account?” or “What is the separate account for?”
You may find that a separate account simply helps your spouse manage their money better. However, it may also be a sign of larger problems in your relationship.
 Be a good listener and pay attention to what your partner tells you. Listen to what they say and try not to be distracted by your own thoughts and emotions. Although this may be difficult when your emotions are high, active listening will ensure that you and your spouse communicate clearly and avoid any misunderstandings.Make eye contact. Use facial expressions and head nods to indicate that you are listening.
You can also try paraphrasing. For example, "I hear you saying that you want a little financial independence. Is that right?"

, Although a separate bank account may trigger feelings of suspicion and distrust, there may be valid reasons for your partner’s actions. For example, if your partner is accustomed to managing their finances in a certain way, a separate account may provide them with some autonomy. Try to keep these negative thoughts at bay and keep an open mind while you discuss what a separate account means to your relationship.Try writing about why you are offended or hurt by this to gain a better understanding of your feelings. For example, you may be harboring negative feelings of inferiority if your spouse makes more money than you do.
 It is important that you clearly communicate your emotions to your partner. Let your spouse know how their actions have affected you. If the new account is a surprise, express to them any hurt feelings that you may have, as well as any fears concerning the health of your relationship.


You might say things like “This new account really worries me” or “I’m hurt that you’d open this account without talking to me.”

, After you have your initial conversation, make a point to talk about it more in the future. Do not simply have the initial discussion and then never broach the subject again. Ask your partner to talk with you about the account after you have had some time to think about it. This will allow your emotions to settle a little, which can give you some perspective.


For example, pick a time a few days after your initial discussion to revisit the subject. If you are still upset about the separate account, you might want to meet at home to avoid creating a scene in public.
You might say something like “Can we talk about this more tomorrow?” or “I think that we need to talk about this more in the future.”

