 There is no need to make it easy for burglars and others to break in. Get in the habit of locking up when you leave or enter your home, and before going to bed. Make sure all potential entrances to your home can be secured.If you have a spare key, don't leave it hidden somewhere outside your home. It's best to leave it with a friend or trusted neighbor.
 Keep valuable objects, such as electronics, artwork, and jewelry away from windows. Don't allow potential thieves to "window shop," by seeing what you have. You may consider investing in a safe to store valuables inside your home. At the very least, put house and car keys somewhere out of sight, like in a drawer., Keep trees and bushes away from doors and windows, and install lights around your home. You don't want to give potential thieves an opportunity to hide while breaking in to your home., There are a variety of home alert systems out there, designed for many different homes and living situations. Make sure you chose one that best fits your needs. Things to consider include how the alarm will connect to a monitoring system, how you want it installed, and any additional home automation features you might want., If you are going to be gone for a while, take steps to make it look like you are still at home. Arrange for your mail or newspapers to get picked up. Consider purchasing a timer for lights or electronic devices so that they are not always off., Introduce yourself to the people who live around you, and learn a little bit about them.Learn if any of your neighbors have surveillance or security cameras. This kind of information can be helpful to police who need video evidence that a crime has been committed in your area.
 If you are concerned about a rise in crime, get people in your neighborhood together to discuss their problems and ways you can work to solve them. It will probably be best to identify a few problems you can deal with first, though as you talk, you may find that many neighbors will have similar crime concerns.Pre-existing groups like church organizations or social clubs (Rotary or Lions, for example) can form the basis of an anti-crime organization.
Invite the police to your meetings as well. They can help provide additional information you need to fight crime in your neighborhood, and set up specific ways for people to report crimes anonymously.
 If you have a community group together, you can take public steps to protest crime. Choose a location where a large number of people can gather, and is in a visible public place. Since you are protesting on behalf of the your community's safety, a notable civic landmark can be a good location. Arrange for local figures, such as police, politicians, crime victims, or clergy, to speak about the problems of local crime, and how you can stop it., You and your neighbors can work together to help the police keep your neighborhood safe. Recruit others in your area to discuss community concerns and watch for crimes. Create plans for watching your neighborhood and communicating issues. Be sure to involve local law enforcement, as your watch group will be working closely with them.