 Whether you're requesting a birth certificate by mail or planning a walk-in, you first need to complete an application. The application PDF can be found on the website for the Office of Vital Records.


The application will ask for your name, address, phone number, city, state, and zip code.
It will ask for you relation to the person named on the certificate and your reason for requesting the certificate.
It will ask for the full name of the person on the certificate, their date of birth, their place of birth, their hospital of birth, and the names of their mother and father.
It will ask what type of certificate you want, and the number of copies.
You will be asked for a signature., In order to obtain a copy of your birth certificate, you either need to show a worker at the Office of Vital Records a valid form of ID or mail in a photo copy with your application. The following are acceptable forms of ID in Virginia:


Photo driver's license, learner's permit, or photo identification card issued by the DMV
School or employer issued photo identification card
Military card, active or retired
US passport or foreign passport with visa
US certificate of naturalization or citizenship
US citizen identification card
Temporary resident card
Employment Authorization Card
Refugee Travel Document
Foreign Alien Card
Permanent Resident Card
Northern Marianas Card
A copy of the first and last page of an application for Asylum
Birth Abroad (Consular Report) of a citizen from the USA
Birth Abroad (Certification Report) of a citizen of the USA
Virginia Criminal Justice Agency Offender Information
United State Probation Offender Information, To walk in to receive your birth certificate, go to 2001 Maywill Street, Richmond, Virginia 23230.


You will be asked to fill out an application, if you haven't already.
You will be asked to show the processing clerk your form of ID.
There is a $12 fee, which can be paid by cash, check, or money order. No debit or credit cards are accepted.
This is a same day service, meaning you will receive your birth certificate before you leave., If getting to the office is inconvenient for you, you can simply mail in your application.


Mail your application to P.O. Box 1000, Richmond, Virginia 23218-1000.
You must include a signed application, a photocopy of a valid form of ID, and a signed letter giving your return address.
Include a check or money order, made out to the State Health Department, for $12.
If you're requesting a birth certificate with no changes made, expect delivery in 2 to 4 weeks.
If you've requested any amendments or changes, the wait can be up to 12 weeks.