 Many banks will charge what they call a maintenance fee or even just a minimum balance fee. This fee can often be avoided if you keep a certain minimum balance in your account at all times. There are some additional ways to try to avoid this fee, such as linking accounts together or monitoring your balance through the month.For more information about avoiding maintenance fees, you may want to review Avoid Minimum Balance Fees.
 A common fee that is charged by most banks is the overdraft fee. This is a fee that is almost entirely within your own control. You just need to keep track of the balances in your accounts - most notably, your checking account - and be careful not to write any checks beyond that amount. This will also apply to whatever account is linked to your debit card, since a debit card works much the same way as writing checks.You may get some help in avoiding overdraft fees if you can link your checking or debit account with your savings or money market account. If you link your accounts in this way, you will be less likely to overdraw.
 Some banks allow free, unlimited ATM use, while other banks may allow you a number of visits, and then charge a fee for each use. You should also know if your bank is a member of any national or worldwide ATM networks. You may be allowed free ATM use within your network but be charged a fee for using ATM outside your network.If you have any questions about ATM fees, call your bank and ask.
You can avoid paying ATM fees by staying within your network and monitoring your use so you do not exceed the number of free visits that your bank allows.
 Many banks will charge a fee for replacing a lost credit card, debit card or ATM card. In some cases, this charge may be as high as $20. This is one fee that you should be able to control. Be careful with your cards, and you will not need to contact the bank for any replacements.Don’t accept this fee on its face. If the need arises to replace one of your cards, contact a customer service representative at the bank. Find out if the bank intends to charge a replacement fee. If so, you can often have the fee waived simply by asking.
 Many large banks will charge a fee if you close your account prematurely. When you open your account, you should find out whether there is any requirement to keep your account for a set length of time. Banks rely on the certainty of having your money, and if you withdraw prematurely, they may charge a fee for that. To avoid the fee, just be aware of the requirement and stick to it.If you must close your account early, try (as with anything else) to negotiate your way out of the fee. Speak with a manager at the bank and try to explain that you have a strong reason for closing your account early.
 Fees related to credit card use are a part of banking costs. The most common credit card fee is charged for making your monthly payments late. Nearly every credit card issuer charges a fee, ranging from $10 to $50 for each late payment.Paying your credit card bills on time not only helps you avoid the late fee but also helps maintain a positive credit rating.

