 Are you hiding them from just one friend? Other friends? Both? Everyone? This is going to determine how you proceed and to what degree you must hide your feelings.


Hiding your feelings from everyone works only if the feelings are temporary and not likely to affect other aspects of your life. For instance, if you are angry at your parents for grounding you, but you know that you will get over it soon, you can choose to ignore and hide those feelings from everyone. But if you are angry at your parents for abusing you, this is not something you are likely to overcome without telling someone in authority, discussing it with friends, and eventually confronting your parents about it (when you are older, assuming you want to maintain a relationship with them).
It is often helpful if you have a trusted friend you can confide in. This person may be able to help you sort through your complex emotions and understand your options. Someone who has no connection to the person you have feelings for is ideal.;
, Sometimes, the healthiest choice for you is to express your feelings and deal with the fallout. Often, containing the way you feel causes those feelings to grow instead of recede, and eventually you have to let them out.


Tell your friend if you have romantic feelings for them, if those feelings are making it difficult for you to be a good and supportive friend. Your friend has the right to know and if you have a strong enough friendship, you can work through the way you are feeling together.
Most often, feelings of hurt or betrayal at the hands of someone you love should be dealt with. If someone has caused you pain, you deserve to let them know and give them the chance to make it right. If they care about you, they would want to know that you are hurting. If they don't care about you, then you deserve to know that, too, so that you can move on with your life.
 Containing or hiding your feelings is not the best answer if your feelings are an indication that you need to seek help. In those rare cases, it's important to recognize that your feelings are a symptom of something else.


If you have an urge to hurt yourself or others, seek help immediately. Self-harm and/or violent tendencies can signal underlying disorders and you don't have to live like that! If you're in the United States, call 911 or the National Suicide Prevention Hotline at 1-800-273-TALK (8255), or search online for your country's resources.
If your feelings are inappropriate or illegal-- for example, sexual feelings for minors or an overwhelming urge to use illegal drugs-- please seek help from a licensed counselor or psychologist. There are treatment plans available for you. If you don't have a mental health care provider, your general practitioner can give you a recommendation.
If you have ongoing feelings of despair, sadness, or like life does not have the same meaning it used to have, you may be experiencing depression. Seek help from a licensed mental health care provider, who can help you with a personalized treatment plan. Ask your general practitioner for a recommendation.

