 They are usually placed in the tunnels and other hard-to-reach areas. Kill anyone along the way. Try to get more ammo along the way. Get to the enemy base. Do not let up. If you run out of ammo, switch to a pistol or go back to find another heavy weapon.;
, This works very well in large level with open spawn points like Blood Gulch, Sidewinder and Timberland. Try to always strafe (use "a" and "d" keys) while sniping if you can, this prevents giving the enemy sniper an easy shot at you (your contrails make you a sitting duck). Also watch your motion tracker in between shots, make sure no one is sneaking up on you with a shotgun! Finally, remember to lead your shots. The lead you need on each server is different. The best way to figure out what it is to shoot at someone going in a straight line with a pistol, when you consistently hit them is the server's "lead". Remember the distance and use it while sniping.
 When you spawn in front of a guy with a rocket launcher, you can actually kill them with a pistol sometimes. The key is to get off a shot, jump and strafe to dodge the rocket or fuel rod shot, and get off 2 more. At this point their shield should be down and you can either randomly shoot with the pistol (you will eventually hit them) or take out your AR and blast away. The pistol is great only at mid range. If they have a close range weapon, like AR, shotgun or flamethrower, run backward and shoot. If they have a sniper, strafe and run toward them until you are in range.
 You start with 2 frag grenades. I usually throw one at me opponents feet when i come in firing. If I hit him twice in the next three second (Not uncommon in a pistol fight) he is dead (or had no shield and no health and is an easy kill). Throw spades at people feet, and remember the delay. So if they are running toward you, throw it in front and back away. If they are backing away, aim a little behind them. Also use them to take out hogs and ghosts. If you have plasma grenades, if you can get close to a person, try to stick the grenade on the person, then run, as the blast will take out your victim as well as you if you are too close.
 Get in a ghost and run people over. Use cannons to freeze them in place and drive over them. when driving a warthog, help out your gunner by running enemy's over. It even works in a banshee, just fly down and splat. Watch out from sticky plasma grenades though. Also, the guns on vehicles all have unlimited ammo and ranger from powerful rapid fire AR (warthog) to plasma cannons (ghost/banshee) heavy guns (rocket hog/banshee cannon) and tank turrets (tank). Have fun...

