 Start with one bunch of greens, roughly 4 ounces (113 g). Cut off thick stems, or leave a few short pieces if you want bright red streaks in the pesto.Rinse off dirt.


Optionally, add a bunch of fresh basil leaves for a more familiar pesto taste, or a bunch of radish greens for a peppery flavor., This will make the greens and stems a bit less tough. Get your kitchen tongs ready and blanch as follows:


Prepare a bowl of cold water and ice.
Bring a large pot of water to a boil, then drop the leaves in for 1 minute.
Transfer the greens to the ice bath until cool, then remove.
 Pine nuts or walnuts are the most common options, but you can try pistachio for a more unusual flavor. Shell them, then toast in a dry, hot pan over medium heat, stirring frequently. The nuts are ready when golden brown and aromatic.If the nuts have skins, rub them after toasting with a clean cloth to remove them.


Pine nuts take about 5 minutes.
Walnuts take 10–15 minutes.
Pistachios take 6–8 minutes., Add chopped garlic and toasted nuts to a food processor with a metal blade. Pulse until coarsely ground.
 Tear the leaves into pieces and add them to the processor. Add Parmesan and pulse until coarsely ground. Continue blending as you pour in a thin stream of olive oil, until you get the thick, homogenous texture of pesto.Taste, then blend in salt and pepper as desired.


You may need more or less olive oil than the recipe calls for.
Optionally, complement the pistachio version with 1½ tbsp (22 mL) fennel fronds, 3 tbsp (45 mL) fresh parsley, and 1 tbsp (15 mL) lemon juice., Dip crusty bread into this bold pesto, or add a dollop to creamy soups. Thinned with water, you can use it as a pasta sauce. On homemade pizza, use it instead of tomato sauce and top with slices of roasted beets or other pizza toppings.Store leftovers in the fridge for up to one week. For longer storage, pour into ice cube trays, cover with olive oil to prevent darkening, and freeze. Pop out into plastic freezer bags and store up to 6 months.