 The traditional wakeskate board is made of pressed wood just like a skateboard. Recent interest in the sport has led to more high-tech designs that use a plastic foam core. Wooden boards tend to react more like skateboards and respond well to tricks, whereas composite boards float a little lighter and feel like wakeboards.


Composite boards tend to last longer and are usually more expensive., Board size is always measured in inches, and the size you buy depends on you as a skater. Lighter boards move slower but respond well to tricks, while bigger boards have more buoyancy and speed through the water.


39-41 inches: Riders who weigh 90-170lbs, beginners and intermediates.
42-43 inches: Riders who weigh 150-200lbs, intermediate riders.
44-46 inches: Riders who weigh more than 180lbs, advanced riders., While they have slightly less control than a grip-tape board, foam-topped boards are great for beginners. You can wear shoes with them as well, but many people find it easier to learn barefoot because they can feel the boards movement better., The only issue is that fins make it more difficult to break the surface of the water and get air. Still, fins are good for beginners or those who want to focus on speed and comfortable riding.Many boards come with removable fins, allowing you to adapt your board to your riding style or skill level.
 Wakeskaters have a wide variety of shoes to choose from, as most regular athletic shoes will work just fine. Many wakeskaters prefer normal skateboard shoes because they are designed to interact with the surface of the board for grip and stability. Wakeskate specific shoes, however, have drainage channels and quick-drying material for added comfort on the board.Unless you're planning to do tricks, jumps and other stunts you can use regular athletic shoes or skateboarding shoes.
 These boards are more forgiving to ride, have added stability, and can be ridden with shoes or barefoot. Talk to the staff at your watersports shop about finding the correct size for you if you have any questions, but know that you do not need a "perfect" board to get riding. With a little practice and the right board for your weight you will be up in no time.

