 These suppositories form are suitable for children to use. Glycerin suppositories are considered much safer than Dulcolax as they are a kind of fiber supplement, which are much safer for children than stimulant laxatives.


Fiber laxatives act in a more natural way as they suck water into the colon where the dry stool is, and then swell inside it making it softer. Stimulant laxatives, on the other hand, trigger the colon walls to contract in a way to expel stool.
Stimulant laxatives should only be used in cases of chronic constipation, not like fiber laxatives which can be used as a first line treatment.;
, Increasing your child’s water intake and giving him other natural fiber sources such as smashed apples or pears can help the laxatives to take effect more quickly.


Don’t give your child laxative suppositories without a doctor’s permission and always store them out of your child’s reach.
 Suppositories are given by lying your child down on his left side, and keeping his legs bent, then gently inserting the suppository (pointed tip first) about one inch into his rectum.


Use little side moves to facilitate its insertion. You could also moisten the suppository with a little warm water to make it easier to insert. Keep the child lying down for about 15 minutes, giving the suppository time to melt and release all the active ingredients. The suppository should give take effect about 20 or 30 minutes after administration.
Liquid suppositories types as Pedia lax liquid suppositories can be also administered by squeezing the active liquid inside the child’s rectum. These have the advantage of taking effect more rapidly than the normal suppositories, producing their pharmacological effect within minutes.
Infant suppositories can be given to children between age two to five, as one suppository every day, for no more than a week., Laxative chewable tablets are also available for children of this age, such as Pedia lax chewable tablets containing Magnesium hydroxide. These act like osmotic laxatives, where the active ions of Magnesium attract water inside the colon by increasing the pressure, resulting in softened stool.


Pedia lax chewable tablets come with a watermelon taste, which is appreciated by children. They provide a rapid effect within half an hour, which makes them a good choice for mild cases of constipation.
As this form of medication may seem like a candy to a child; parents must pay close attention to keep them out of the child’s sight, in a high place that can’t be reached, to avoid any risks of being taken by their child accidentally.
The chewable tablets can be taken as follows: one tablet given up to three times daily, according to the child’s medical condition or doctor’s orders., Laxatives Syrups are also available for children aged two to five years, examples include Pedia lax liquid stool softener. This contains Docusate, a stool softener that works in a sustained release manner, which takes effect over a duration of 12 to 72 hours. This is a good choice for chronic constipation cases.


It is available in fruity flavors and can be mixed with water, juice or milk for children to drink.
Pedia lax liquid can be given in does of one tablespoonful to be mixed with water, milk or juice once daily., Laxative chewable tablets such as Pedia lax can also be given to older children, in the same way as discussed above.


However, the daily dose would be increased to one or two tablets to be chewed up to three times daily. The total maximum dose should not exceed six chewed tablets each day.
Never give your child the maximum daily dose unless under doctor’s prescription, as overdose can cause watery stool instead of treating constipation, or cause more severe problems, such as dehydration and electrolyte loss.
 Laxatives syrups can also be used with older children to ease their constipation.


Pedia lax liquid stool softener (as mentioned above) is also used for older children with a little adjustment to its dose. Two or three tablespoons can be given daily, according to doctor’s advice.
Pedia lax can be mixed with milk, water or their favorite juice to hide the unpleasant taste, and to prevent any chance of throat irritation.
 Pedia lax also offers another pharmaceutical form of supplemental fiber, which can be given to children to soften their stool and give them easier bowel movements. However; some doctors classify these fiber gummies as only a supportive fiber source and not a treating laxative.


Each fiber gummy contains about two grams of fiber, which is approximately equal to the fiber contained in two boiled potatoes.
They are sugar and gluten free, which makes much safer for incorporation into your child’s daily diet than regular gummies.
The recommended dose is one gummy to be chewed three times daily.
 Laxatives in the form of drops can be given to children in this age group. Examples include Skilax drops which contain Sodium Picosulphate and are a stimulant laxative.


Drops come with a special measurable dropper to use for accurately measuring the prescribed dose.
Make sure to wash the measuring dropper before and after using the medication with warm water to keep it clean. Close the bottle firmly after using every time.
The recommended dose of Skilax is two to five drops once daily to be mixed with water, or juice to mask the undesirable taste.
Skilax as a stimulant laxative may take at least eight or twelve hours to provide a direct effect on the intestinal mucosa stimulating its contraction, so its advised that the child takes it before bed.
 Metamucil capsules (Psyllium) are made from a natural type of fiber that attracts water to the colon, which is absorbed by the stool, causing it to swell and making it softer, which eases its passage out.


Metamucil capsules are taken with a full glass of water, as they need water to provide their pharmacological effects and to avoid any possible side effects, such as cramps or flatulence.
This drug can alter the absorption of other drugs like Aspirin or Warfarin, so patients are advised against taking other drugs one hour before or two hours after taking the laxative.
Don’t take this drug without your doctor’s advice if you are pregnant, breast feeding, vomiting, or have recently noticed any unusual changes in your bowel movements., Colac medication is an example of a stool softener that is available as 50 or 100 mg capsules, or as a syrup. It contains Docusate as its main active ingredient.


Being a stool softener; it acts by softening the stool and creating an emollient effect. The recommended dose for adults is from 50 mg up to 200 mg according to doctor’s orders or the patient’s constipation degree.
It should be taken with a full glass of water and the patient should continue to drink water throughout the treatment, in order to stay hydrated., Dulcolax (Bisacodyl), Ex Lax (Senna) and castor oil are all examples of stimulant laxatives.


Castor oil is a liquid laxative that acts in the small intestine by gathering fluids there and stimulating the expulsion of stool. It works after two to six hours so it shouldn’t be taken before bedtime, and should be taken on empty stomach with water or juice to hide its bad taste. It should only be used on a once-off basis, not repeated frequently as it impairs the absorption of various minerals from the intestine.
Dulcolax is available as 5 mg tablets, the daily dose for adults is one tablet to be taken up to three times daily with a full glass of water. Tablets should not be taken with milk or antacids to avoid any side effects such as flatulence or cramps. They take effect within six to ten hours. Treatment should be stopped if there is no improvement, or rectal bleeding occurs.
Miralax powder sachets are an example of osmotic laxatives containing polyethylene glycol, which acts by increasing the osmotic pressure inside the colon, making the stool much softer and easier to expel. The sachet should be dissolved in a full glass of water, juice or even tea and stirred well before drinking. It should be taken only once daily, and can’t be used for more than two weeks. The patient should return to his doctor if there is no improvement., Dulcolax is also available as a suppository to be taken rectally. The rectal suppositories provide faster relief from constipation than the tablet forms, taking action within 15 minutes to an hour.


The recommended dose of dulcolax suppositories is one suppository to be inserted gently in the rectum while the patient is lying down on his back.
Be sure to wash your hands before and after inserting the suppository.
 Patients taking laxative medications should increase their water intake to more than eight glasses daily.


This is because some laxatives depend on sucking water inside the colon cavity to soften the stool. These are known as osmotic laxatives.
Others need additional water to swell inside the colon. These are known as bulk laxatives.
 Natural fiber sources should be included in the patient’s diet. Fiber is found in many sources, such as:


Fruits (apples, citrus fruits, pears, raspberries), vegetables (Cauliflower, potatoes, artichokes, broccoli), legumes (Beans, lentils) and whole grains.
These natural fibers absorb fluids, swell and keep the stool emollient and soft. This enhances enhance bowel movements and prevents hard constipation.
 Bulk laxatives should be taken with a whole glass of water to avoid any risk, of blocking the patient’s throat while swallowing them as they swell and increase in size with water.


In order to prevent any suffocation risks; this medication can’t be prescribed to or taken by patients with any kind of swallowing difficulties, patients who vomit, patients with respiratory disorders, breathing difficulties, or children younger than twelve years old.
 Lubricant laxatives such as mineral oils can slow the absorption of vitamins A, D or E, so it’s advisable to take them on an empty stomach. Other medications that the patient may be taking should be administered one hour before or two hours after the laxative intake.
 Mineral oils (if taken in high doses) may leak out of the rectum of the patient, staining his clothes and causing itchiness and irritation in the anus area. It may be useful to divide the recommended dose to overcome this problem.
 Whatever the kind laxative that was prescribed to you, you can’t use two types of laxatives categories at the same time, as this can cause an overdose and lead to diarrhea (watery stool), dehydration and loss of electrolytes from the body.


You should especially avoid taking laxatives and mineral oils at the same time, as this leads to the absorption of mineral oil into the blood circulation, leading to other problems like inflammation of the liver or the lymph nodes.
 If you missed a dose; never double the next one to try to compensate for the forgotten dose. This could easily trigger the medication's side effects, such as stomach cramps or other unpleasant reactions.


If you feel any sudden stomach pain, or experience any sudden rectal bleeding, you should stop taking the medication and seek your doctor's help immediately.
You should not take any laxative for more than one week. Call your doctor if you don’t notice any improvement in your medical condition after one week.
 You can mix liquid laxative (syrups / drops) with water, juice or tea to overcome the bitter or bad taste. Even laxatives designed for children which come in different flavors should be mixed with juices, to prevent any risks of throat irritation or discomfort.
 Bulk laxatives can cause flatulence (gas), nausea or cramps, especially if taken with small amounts of water. These side effect can easily be avoided by taking them with a full glass of water, and increasing your daily water intake.
 Osmotic and saline laxatives can cause the leakage of magnesium or phosphate ions into the blood circulation causing an increase in their levels. This can be a risk factor for patients with low renal functions, hypertensive patients (elevated blood pressure), or patients with heart failure.


These patients should not take these types of laxatives at all, their doctor should switch them to another category to treat their constipation.
Other side effects of these laxatives include gas, nausea or increased thirst.
 Stimulant laxatives may cause irregular heart beats, stomach cramps, or general weakness in some patients. Prolonged use of them may lead to laxative abuse, which is discussed in the next step.
 Wrongful use of laxatives, overdosing on laxatives, or taking laxatives for a prolonged time (if not advised by a doctor) can lead to laxative dependency.


People may develop laxative dependency as a result of a perceived inability to have normal bowel movements without using a laxative. Other patients mistakenly use laxatives as a fast-track to losing weight or getting rid of unwanted excess calories.
Laxatives, and especially stimulant laxatives can affect the normal peristalsis and weaken the intestine muscles, decreasing their ability to contract normally. This can lead to serious problems as a result of severe dehydration and loss of essential electrolytes.
This directly affects vital organs such as the heart, kidneys and nervous system, causing possible tremors and fainting in chronic cases. As a result, laxative abuse can be life threatening case if not treated.