 Slice the beets into thick wedges, leaving the skin on. Arrange them on a greased baking sheet, drizzle with olive oil and sprinkle on a pinch of salt. The crunch roots will bake to a sweet, tender finish not unlike sweet potato fries.Roast the beets on a medium heat for slightly longer to keep them from burning or shriveling.
Use a sprinkle of freshly chopped parsley or oregano to provide the finishing touches.
 Beets are right at home in a colorful assortment of seasonal offerings like broccoli, bell peppers and bamboo shoots. After chopping the veggies to a consistent size, you can toss them with oil and stir fry them or steam them until they’re soft.Cut the beets into inch long cubes or slivers to make them more manageable.
Prepare a special root vegetable medley using seasonal beets, carrots, sweet potatoes, parsnips and taro., Sneak a few beets onto a homemade pie, along with complementary items like spinach and olives. Their crunchy meat will be nice and crispy straight out of the oven. And when mixed with pizza sauce, flavorful veggies and cheese, you’ll hardly even be able to tell they’re there.Try substituting pesto for marinara and smoky goat cheese for mozzarella., Roll out a basic dough for a crust and press it into a greased pie pan. Load the crust with roasted or boiled beets, along with other choice fillings like cheeses and fresh herbs. Season lightly with salt, pepper, fresh basil and oregano and bake under foil.Create a vibrant beet ratatouille by arranging sliced beets in alternating layers with eggplant, squash, zucchini, tomatoes and bell peppers.
Serve miniature tarts and quiches as hors d'oeuvres at your next get-together., Pulse pickled beets in the food processor, then combine the liquid with the rest of your chosen ingredients. Because of their mild flavor, beets can be adapted for use in a wide variety of different soups.If you’re unsure how best to use them, look to soups that use similar ingredients like carrots and squash.
Soups made with hearty root vegetables may need to simmer longer than usual to make sure they soften up.