 One of the worst ways to end a speech is to just run out of steam, as if someone had cut you off. Even if you suspect you're running long, take the time to end the speech properly and sum up your final points in a clear and direct way. Don't just drop the mic and walk off. Avoid using any of the following kinds of last-lines:


"Well, that's pretty much it."
"That's it."
"I'm done."

, The ending is a bad time to go off-script. If you've got a good finish cooked up, but suddenly remember another thing you wanted to say, don't try to jam it back in when you're supposed to be wrapping up. The ending is one of the most important parts, so be sure you get it right and make it clear. Go for short and concise, not long and rambling.


When the speech is over, don't keep talking. Even if you just remembered a point you forgot to make a few minutes ago, don't launch back into the speech when people are clapping, or once they're finished. When the speech is over, let it be over. If there's a chance for Q & A, then get to it then.
 Public speaking is hard, but don't make it worse by drawing attention to your shortcomings. If you think the speech hasn't gone well, or that you've gone on too long, don't end by drawing attention to the fact. This won't make it any better. You'll only serve to end the speech by highlighting the absolutely worst element of it.
 The ending is a time to sum up and repeat the main ideas, not to throw a curve ball into things. Even if you think it would be a surprise, or would be more shocking at the end of the speech, don't use the final moments to try to explain one more complicated thing. Let the audience start slowing down their brains and transitioning into something else.
 If you're giving a speech about the horrors of war, it would be inappropriate to use a call-and-response ending, or some kind of audience participation gimmick that would be out of the purview of the rest of the speech. Don't do something drastically different and risk ruining the tone for the rest of the speech.


Some speeches can be leavened with a bit of humor in the ending. If you've just given a particularly touching toast at a wedding, it might be good to release a bit of the tension with a well-placed gag. Probably not so much for a professional presentation.

