 Approach the puppy from the side of their body, so that you don’t pose a head-to-head threat. Slowly bend your knees to the ground or lower yourself into a squat when you are near the puppy. Hold a few moments in this position with your hand extended to let the puppy sniff you a bit.If the puppy acts agitated at this point by growling or attempting to bite, you may want to wait a few minutes and then approach again.;
, Gently slide one hand around the rear area and under the tail of the puppy. You want the puppy’s behind to rest firmly on your forearm and hand. It is important that you place both hands on the puppy at the same time. Move in a deliberate and efficient way., At the same time, slide your other hand across the puppy’s chest to support its back and front body. If the puppy is squirming a bit you can also move your hand into the space between its front legs and use your forearm to help with the holding as well. If you do this, slide your other arm further around the rear to provide a counterbalance on the outside of the puppy’s body.Most people prefer to carry using their dominant arm and hand to hold the front part of the puppy. This can give you better control over the head area too.
 Push up from your knees at a snail’s pace. Moving too fast at this point can startle the puppy. As your rise, pull your puppy’s body towards you until there is no space between you. Cradling it against your body will have the effect of adding even more stability (and a sense of comfort for the puppy too).As you start to walk, keep the place slow as well and try not to multitask while holding the puppy. You don’t want to run the risk of dropping it while you are distracted.
 It may be helpful to say calming statements, in a soothing tone, throughout this process. Dogs and puppies often respond positively to their owner’s voice, in particular. You might say, “It’s okay,” or, “Be calm.”

, In the past, many people would pick up a puppy by grabbing a handhold of neck-scruff and lifting. This practice has gone by the wayside as can be potentially harmful to a puppy. It is also a bad idea to “shake” or “alpha roll” your puppy with their scruff to ensure submission.Do not pick your puppy up by the forelegs either. This offers no spine support and can contribute to a host of health problems for those breeds that suffer from genetic joint problems., As you lift and carry your puppy you may observe that it goes almost completely limp, relaxing its body against yours. This is a good thing and is part of the natural process. The puppy may assume that you are protecting it in some way and doesn’t want to inhibit your progress by squirming., If the opposite occurs and your puppy acts agitated try to calm it for a few seconds and then gently bend back down toward the floor. When you are close to floor level slowly set the puppy down so that it stands upright.