 Capture the egg yolk in the shell while letting the white drain into the bowl. Use the yolk for your spicy mayo and discard the egg white.


You may need to gently toss the egg yolk back and forth between the two eggshell halves in order to separate it completely from the white.
To make life easier, you could also use an egg separator. Crack the egg into the separator and let the utensil do the rest of the work.
If desired, the egg whites can be saved and used in another recipe.
Egg yolks contain lecithin, a natural emulsifier that binds the ingredients together and thickens the mayo.
 Transfer the three ingredients to a medium glass mixing bowl and whisk them together thoroughly until completely, evenly combined.


The mixture should be a vibrant yellow.
Lemon juice and vinegar add both acidity and flavor to the final product.
If desired, you can also mix the mayo in a food processor instead of whisking the ingredients together by hand. Using a food processor can make the process easier, but whisking it together by hand will work just as well.
 Add the Wasabi paste, minced garlic, Dijon mustard, Tabasco sauce, and salt to your mayo mixture and whisk well to incorporate.


If using peppers, you do not need to remove the seeds before adding them. The seeds contain a large portion of the pepper's heat, so removing them will cut down on the spiciness of the mayo.
When using a food processor, add these ingredients to the contents of the machine through the hole at the top of the glass. Pulse until the solid ingredients, like garlic or peppers, have been finely minced and incorporated into the mayo.
 Add 1/4 cup (60 ml) of olive oil to the mixture 1/4 tsp (1.25 ml) at a time, whisking continuously.


This should take about 4 minutes.
If the bowl begins to move around as you whisk, place a kitchen towel beneath it to hold it steady.
While whisking by hand will still work well, this is the point at which a food processor really comes in handy. If using a food processor or blender, add the oil through the hole at the top of the lid. Continue to hold the pulse button down to steadily and continuously blend in the oil.
 Add the remaining 1/2 cup (125 ml) of olive oil to the mayo mixture in a slow, thin stream. Continue whisking continually as you add the rest of the oil.


This step should take roughly 8 minutes.
The spicy mayonnaise should be fairly thick once you finish adding the oil.
If using a food processor, add the remaining oil in through the hole at the top of the lid. Continue to hold down the pulse button so that the contents are continuously mixed together.
 Cover the dish with a lid or plastic wrap and leave the condiment in the refrigerator until you are ready to use it.


You should use fresh mayonnaise within 5 days.
To beautify your efforts, cut up a thin, red, thai chili and distribute in the middle of your mayo. This adds a fun color contrast and gives your mayo a professional look.