 For in-text citations, always include the last name of the author or authors and the year of publication. Use the author’s name at the beginning of the sentence to introduce the author (“Roberts (1982) wrote that…”) or at the end of the sentence as an in-text citation (“The sky is blue (Roberts 1982).”).


Include a page number when you are directly quoting from somewhere else and when you are paraphrasing.
Whether at the end or beginning, the page number follows the date with just a colon in between and no spaces: “Roberts (1982:171) wrote that ‘The sky is blue.’” or “’They sky is blue’ (Roberts 1982:171).”

, For the end of the paper, begin a reference with the last name of the author, followed by the first names or initials and a period, like “Roberts, Grace D.”


Next, add the date: “Roberts, Grace D. 1982.”
Follow it with the title of the book. Use title-case capitalization and italics: “Roberts, Grace D. 1982. All the Colors of the Rainbow.”
Finally, use the place of publication and the publisher, separated by a colon and a space: “Roberts, Grace D. 1982. All the Colors of the Rainbow. Grandbury, Oklahoma: Books for Nerds Press.”

, For a journal article, follow a similar format to the book example. Begin with the author’s name, last name first: “Grace, Roger.” Follow it with a period.


Next, add the year: “Grace, Roger. 1999.” Also use a period here.
Now, add the journal article’s name in quotations with a period. Use title-case capitalization (capitalize important words): “Grace, Roger, 1999. ‘Green Is the Best Color.’” Follow that with the journal’s name in italics, also in title-case: “Grace, Roger, 1999. ‘Green Is the Best Color.’ RoyGBiv Journal”
After the journal title, place the volume number (without any punctuation) and the issue number (in parenthesis), followed by a colon: “Grace, Roger, 1999. ‘Green Is the Best Color.’ RoyGBiv Journal 57 (2):” Most of this information can be found on a database’s biographical page for the journal article or at the front of the journal (if not actually on the journal article).
Finally, include the page numbers for the article: “Grace, Roger, 1999. ‘Green Is the Best Color.’ RoyGBiv Journal 57 (2):267-298.” Don’t make a space between the colon and page numbers, and end it with a period.
 Also, double space the page just like the rest of your paper.

