 If at all possible, find ways to decrease the stress in your life, as this will likely help to soothe your psoriasis flare ups. Consider sharing your life stressors with a close friend, or even seeking professional help from a counsellor or psychologist.


You may also consider trying activities such as meditation, yoga, or taking walks out in nature as ways to invite a calm energy into your life.
Increasing your aerobic exercise (exercise that elevates your heart rate, such as jogging, brisk walking, swimming, or cycling) to at least 30 minutes three times per week has been shown to decrease stress levels.
Psoriasis also has a close association with depression, due to the psycho-social impact that the disease can have.
If you believe that you may be suffering from depression, book an appointment with your family doctor. They will ask you further questions, and may offer you medical treatment for depression if needed.
Dealing with any concurrent depression may help to reduce your stress, and to decrease the severity of your psoriasis.
 If you have been contemplating quitting smoking, now may be the time to do so.


You can consult your family doctor for support in quitting smoking.
They can offer you nicotine replacement options as needed, as well as medications (if you are interested) that can help to tame your craving for cigarettes (such as Wellbutrin, Chantix, or bupropion).
 There are also injectable medications, known as "biologics," that your doctor may recommend if other strategies to combat your psoriasis flare ups have been ineffective at producing the desired results.


Biologics are the next generation of medication of immunological diseases like psoriasis. Before you start any biologic therapy, such as a TNF alpha inhibitor it is important to get tested for tuberculosis, as this could complicate treatment. Talk with your healthcare provider about safely starting these medications.
 Speak to your naturopath for further information.


It is important to always mention to your doctor any natural remedies you are trying, to ensure that they do not interfere with any of the medical treatments you are on.
 This is because it is a condition that cannot be fully cured; it can only be managed as effectively as possible.

