 Avocados oxidize quickly. Cutting them at the absolute last moment ensures that they stay fresh and green. Start by cutting an onion in half. Halve again until you have one quarter. Dice the onion with a sharp knife. Set aside in a small bowl.









If you want onion with a less acidic bite, wash your diced onion under cold water in a colander and drain. Water will help remove some of the sulfuric acid in onions (the same sulfuric acid that makes you cry when you cut an onion).;
, Mince your serrano or jalapeno pepper and combine in the same bowl with the onion.


If you want less spicy guacamole, remove the seeds and veins from the pepper before you mince it. Seeds and veins are especially hot.
 Bunch the cilantro together with one hand. Carefully chop it with a sharp knife and combine with onions and peppers.









If you want, feel free to cut the cilantro stem along with the leaf. Unlike parsley, which has a fibrous and unappetizing stem, cilantro stems are pleasing additions to guacamole.
 Guacamole doesn't need garlic, but many consider garlic an essential ingredient. If you do plan to use garlic in your recipe, mince a small clove and combine in bowl with onions, peppers, and cilantro.
 In order to get the best possible flavor, consider spending some extra time mashing the onions, cilantro, and serrano chili pepper with a fork so that they release their oils. This isn't absolutely essential if you're in a hurry, but it makes a big difference in the end.


If you happen to have a mortar and pestle (or traditional molcajete), now's the time to gently grind the onion, pepper, and cilantro together.
 Take a sharp knife and slice the avocados in half lengthwise. Pull the seed out from the avocado half and make sure no seed bits remain in your avocado.









It's better to use an avocado that's too soft than too hard. Since this is the main ingredient in guacamole, it's important to choose nice avocados whose flavors will highlight your dish.
It might help to twist the avocado halves as you're pulling them apart.
 Cut a grid-like pattern in the avocado halves. Don't cut through the skin.
 Take a spoon and scoop the cubed avocados from the peel into the bowl with your onions, peppers, and cilantro.
 If you like chunkier guacamole, use your spoon to gently break up the avocados until the onions, peppers, and cilantro are evenly distributed but the avocado isn't completely smooth. If you like smoother guacamole, mash the avocados until the avocado is creamy.









If you'd like to, add lime to your guacamole while you break up the avocados.
Be sure to salt your guacamole, too. Sea salt adds a nice crunch to guacamole that table salt doesn't give.
 If you have less-ripe tomatoes, combine them before you break up the avocados. If you have ripe tomatoes, introduce them now; ripe tomatoes are delicate and are worth highlighting.
 Fresh mango adds a tangy sweetness to your rich guacamole. If you enjoy sweet flavors in your dips, try out a Mayan salsa called xec. Pomegranate seeds make your guacamole visually appealing as well as slightly sweet.
 Roasted tomatillos or toasted pumpkin seeds give your guacamole a whole new depth of flavor.
 Don't be afraid to make your own additions. It's hard to mess up guacamole and easy to create your own unique version. Drizzle olive oil on top. Include the zest of a lime or Meyer lemon. Try adding a small amount of grated queso fresco cheese.
 Sprinkle cilantro over the top and serve immediately. Other options for garnish include:


Thinly sliced radish
Oven-roasted corn
Chips or tortillas arranged around the side of the guacamole bowl

