 While you may be listening attentively, it is still possible for you to miss or even misunderstand words or sentences. Having an audio recording will make the transcribing process much easier. The type of device you use will depend on your budget and your recording needs.If you can afford to, it is better to buy a digital recorder instead of using a smartphone due to poorer sound quality.If you have an iPhone or an iPod touch, you can record using the Voice Memo app.
For Android users, download the Smart Voice Recorder app or the Easy Voice Recorder app. Both of these apps are free.A good quality digital recorder can be purchased for $100 or less., Make sure that you are sitting in a comfortable position and have everything you need for note taking. This may include a computer, paper, pens, and pencils.


Developing your own shorthand will allow you to shorten words or even summarize phrases without losing their exact wording or meaning.
 This is a crucial component of any transcription. The recording device should be positioned as close possible to the voices you are trying to capture. If possible, try to do a test recording in the same room. You should also have a second recording device in case something happens. Although, this is not always possible.


If your recorder is battery operated, make sure that it is fully charged and ready to go. Also, bring an extra set of batteries.
If you are using a smartphone, make sure that the phone is adequately charged and be prepared to recharge your phone if you need to.
 Although you are recording the proceeding, it is important that you remain focused an attentive. Take notes on what is being discussed, body language of the people talking, and any thoughts or reactions you have to what is being said. These notes will help provide context when you are transcribing the document.


Write down everyone who is speaking and any characteristics of these people as well.
 Digital recorders come equipped with software that will allow you to upload the recording to your computer. If you are using a smartphone, you will need a USB cable to transfer the recording to your computer.Recordings done on Apple devices can be downloaded to your computer using iTunes. When given the option to sync music, select "Include Voice Memos."
Apple users can also purchase DropVox for $2. This app will automatically upload your voice recordings, and you will not need a USB cable.