 Maintaining physical, mental, and emotional health is important whether the family is coping with the loss of someone due to suicide or trying to help prevent a suicide.When your body is healthy and your mind is centered it is less challenging to deal with suicide. Talk to the family about ways that they can stay healthy while they address suicide.


Encourage the family to participate in physical activity, whether individually or as a group. For example, you could say, “We could all take tai chi together.”
Discuss eating healthy meals and snacks at regular times. Remind the family to drink plenty of water, eat fruits and vegetables, and avoid alcohol and substance abuse.
Talk about getting enough sleep. You might say, “It’s important that we get enough rest each day. Try to set up a bedtime routine for yourself and the kids.”

, Talk with family members about relaxation and stress relieving strategies like meditation, deep breathing, and journaling. Sharing information about these coping techniques can help the family deal with suicide better. Tell them about reducing stress and anxiety by using mindfulness strategies to help cope with suicide. You could say, “Mindfulness meditation helps you focus on the here and now.”
Talk about using deep breathing techniques. For example, you might tell them, “You can calm yourself by inhaling and exhaling slowly and deeply a few times.”
Explain to the family how using a journal to express thoughts and emotions can help you manage your feelings and stress. Try saying, “Writing in a journal can be a huge stress reliever!”
Encourage people to start expressing their feelings openly. Remember that it is better to be open about your feelings than to suppress them.
 Let family members know that it’s always okay to seek help from a therapist or counselor for issues like suicide. Professionals can help by teaching stress management techniques, listening, and providing other support.You could say something like, “It’s okay to talk to a therapist when you feel like life is getting overwhelming. They are there to help and they can.”
Or, you might try saying, “Consider talking to a grief counselor about our cousin’s suicide. It could help you cope.”

