 Most of these can be found in any arts and crafts or hardware store .;
, You can do this by tracing the outline of a band-aid on index cards or other thick paper.


Using a pencil can help if you have an unsteady hand as you want the tracing to be as close to the original shape of the band-aid as possible.
 Use a pair of scissors to cut along the penciled outline you have made. This first cutout will serve as a template.
 Draw six more band-aid shaped pieces using your template. Making six layers will ensure that your fingerboard is sturdy and durable.
 Try to make the pieces as uniform as possible.
 Use a glue stick or brush and spread the glue evenly on one side of each cutout.


Don’t be afraid to use a lot of glue as you want your fingerboard to be as sturdy as possible.
 Layer them together carefully, making sure they align as much as possible and use your fingers to apply pressure and smooth out any uneven spots or air pockets.
 The easiest and most reliable way to do this is by using two fingerboards as a mold. Otherwise, you can shape it using your hands.


If you already have two fingerboards, you can sandwich your fingerboards between them and apply pressure for ten minutes. Alternatively, you can tie a rubber band tightly around the three stacked fingerboards and leave it to set.
If you do not have any fingerboards, turn up the ends of your paper fingerboard using your hands to create the skateboard-like shape desired. Continue applying pressure with your fingers to make sure the ends stay curved up as the glue sets.
 Allow your fingerboard to dry for at least twenty minutes or until it feels stiff.
 You will use these holes to thread through the screws to attach the trucks onto your fingerboard.


Use a nail, thumbtack, or other pointed object to punch four holes in two rows on either end of the fingerboard, totaling eight holes. Begin by aligning the trucks with each other on the bottom end of your fingerboard and marking where the four screw holes are located on each truck with a pen. Then punch through the markings with your sharp object of choice.
 You can buy griptape or make your own by cutting a small strip of sandpaper.


Griptape is the friction tape on top of the deck that allows you to control and do neat tricks with your fingerboard. It’s not essential but will help upgrade your fingerboard to a functional object.
You can estimate what size sandpaper to cut out by comparing it to your board. You want a rectangular strip that covers most of the board but doesn’t stick over the sides.
 Get creative with colored markers, spray paint, or tape to make your fingerboard truly one of a kind.
 This final step will make your fingerboard fully functional. Because these parts are very small, it is best to invest in some tech deck tools, which are easily found online or in skate shops and toy stores .


Using a tech deck screwdriver or your fingers, push the screws into the holes through the top of the fingerboard. Repeat the process until you have eight screws in your board, then flip your fingerboard over and place the trucks on top of the screws. Keeping the trucks placed over the screws, flip the fingerboard on its side and continue tightening the screws until the trucks are firmly attached.
