 If you injured your neck in an accident, or if your symptoms extend to your arm, visit a doctor before stretching. If you have additional symptoms, check the Warnings section below for more advice.


For a less serious injury, gentle exercise is probably more effective than rest.As a general rule, stretching is a good idea as long as it doesn't hurt.;
, A warm compress or heating pad on the neck reduces stiffness and makes stretching easier.However, if the pain began in the last two or three days, avoid heat and wait until after the stretching to apply ice. During this early stage, you want to cool the area down to reduce swelling.One easy way to apply heat is to stretch under a stream of warm water in the shower., You may stretch in a standing position, with your feet at shoulder width apart. Alternatively, sit in a straight-backed chair with your knees bent 90 degrees and your hands on your thighs. Your back should not touch the back of the chair. In either position, align your shoulders over your hips, and your ears over your shoulders.
 Bring your chin down toward your chest to stretch the back of your neck. Hold the stretch for 20 seconds, then return to the neutral position.These stretches should be pain free. Do not push past the point of mild discomfort.
If you need more support, hold the back of your neck with your hands., Lift your chin toward the ceiling to stretch the front of your neck. Hold the stretch for 20 seconds, then relax and lower your chin.
 Keep your shoulders stable and tilt your right ear toward your right shoulder, looking straight ahead. Hold the stretch for up to 20 seconds, then tilt your left ear to your left shoulder and hold for another 20 seconds.
 Rotate your neck to the right, looking straight ahead over your right shoulder (or as close as you can comfortably get). Once again, hold this for 20 seconds. Relax, turn your head to the left, and hold for a final 20 second stretch.


If you reach the limit of your motion and the stretch feels comfortable, push your head gently with your hand to increase the stretch., This is a less common exercise, and not typically recommended for people with serious neck problems. A "forward head bend" can feel good for everyday aches and pains, though, since it gives your spine a break from holding up your head. Here's how to try it:


Keeping your back straight, hinge forward at the hips and reach for the floor. If reaching for the floor is uncomfortable, rest your hands on your thighs or shins.
With your head hanging down, try the chin-tilting exercises (up and down), and the rotation exercises (looking left and right).
 One or two stretching sessions a day are usually enough. If you want to stretch more often, ramp this up slowly or consult a doctor or physical therapist. In some cases, stretching too much can overtax your neck.


If the stretching felt good and did not increase pain, you can try holding each stretch for 30–60 seconds next time.
 Once your muscles no longer feel tight, stop stretching except when needed, typically two or three times a week.Most neck pains should improve rapidly with stretching. Visit a doctor if they last more than a week or two, or if symptoms get worse.


A burner, or stinging sensation along one side of the neck and shoulder, can last anywhere from a few minutes to a few weeks.