 In addition to getting your body and home ready, you can also prepare mentally and emotionally for back surgery. Try to put yourself in a positive frame of mind. The power of positive thinking can actually help.It is common to have a wide range of emotions before back surgery. You might experience a lot of different types of negative thoughts.
For example, it is normal to "catastrophize", which means imagining the worst case scenario. To fight these thoughts, try to do the opposite. You can think, "This surgery is going to change my life for the better."
It is also common to overgeneralize. You might find yourself thinking, "This surgery means I'll never play tennis again." Instead, try to think, "Maybe my game will improve once my pain is gone."

, In the days before your surgery, you might be nervous. It is normal to feel anxiety. Surgery is a major event. You can practice relaxation techniques to help calm your fears.Try breathing exercises. Breathe in through your nose for four counts and exhale through your mouth for four counts.
Repeat this pattern until you feel more calm. Focusing on your breathing can distract you from your fears.
Breathing exercises and other relaxation techniques can also help you to manage your pain. For some people, they can also lower your heart rate and blood pressure.
 You will likely have a lot on your mind as you prepare for back surgery. If you can anticipate your needs during your recovery process, you will feel more calm and prepared. Make a list of all the things you will need.Take time off from work. Talk to your boss about the time you will need to be completely off, and when you might be able to work from home.
Anticipate the financial costs. If you are going to miss out on income, make a modified budget for your recovery period.
Find out what equipment you will need. For example, you may need things like a brace or possibly a walker.
 Recovering from back surgery can be difficult. It can become even more complicated if you don't have help. Before your surgery, make sure that you have a support system in place.Ask a family member or friend to help you out. If you live alone, ask someone to stay with you for a few days.
Explain your needs. You can say, "Will you be able to go to the pharmacy and grocery store for me? I won't be able to drive for a while."
Choose someone you trust. You will need reliable emotional support in addition to help doing everyday tasks.

