 When you borrow money from a bank or other lender to make a large purchase such as a house or a new car, you borrow a specific total amount. This amount will be listed on your loan documents.As an example, assume you are borrowing $150,000 to buy a house, or $30,000 to buy a car.;
, Your loan term is the length of time you'll be paying back your loan. For mortgages, the term typically is 30 years, although terms anywhere between 15 and 40 years are not uncommon. For vehicle purchases, loan terms typically run anywhere from 3 to 6 years.Keep in mind that although loan terms usually are discussed in terms of years, they are calculated in months. For example, if you had a 30-year mortgage, your loan term would be 360 months. For a 5-year vehicle loan, the loan term would be 60 months.
 The interest on a loan is the amount it costs you to borrow the money, expressed as a percentage of the borrowed amount. The interest rate you are offered will depend on your credit history, the type of loan, and the amount of money you're borrowing.In most cases, your interest rate will not change once the loan term starts. However, it may increase after a few years if you've taken out an adjustable-rate loan.
Generally, you'll have either simple interest or compound interest. With simple interest, the interest is calculated solely on the outstanding principal amount. However, with compound interest, the interest rate is applied to both the outstanding principal and the outstanding interest owed.
For the purposes of the examples, assume the interest rate on the 30-year home mortgage is a fixed rate of 4.5 percent, while the interest rate on the car loan is 5.25 percent.
 The total repayment consists of how much it will cost you to pay back your loan over the full loan term, including principal, interest, and any fees. The total repayment figure assumes that you make all payments on time.Keep in mind that your annual interest rate does not reflect the cost of origination or other fees that your lender may charge to service your loan. However, your loan documents may include a figure described as the "effective APR." This amount is the annual interest rate plus any fees.
While traditional lenders are required by law to disclose the APR to you, lenders outside the traditional sphere are not. If you're using an alternative lender, make sure you total all the fees and find the APR. You can use APR calculators online for this purpose.
 While amortization math is fairly complex, you should at least get a handle on it so you understand how the calculations work. However, you don't have to do every calculation by hand – you can use an online calculator.To start, you'll need the following figures: the initial principal or amount of the loan, the interest rate per period, and the total number of payments or periods.
Add one (1) to the interest rate to period, then raise this sum to the power of the total number of payments or periods. Multiply this figure by the interest rate per period, and place this number on the top of a division symbol.
On the bottom of the division symbol, take the figure you got when you added one (1) to the interest rate and raised it to the power of the number of payments, then subtract one (1).
Complete the division and multiply that amount by the initial principal to find the payment amount per period.
 There are many independent financial websites that have amortization calculators available. Banks and other lenders also often have these calculators available on their sites.If your lender has a calculator available on its website, you may want to use that one as opposed to one offered elsewhere. Not that there's going to be much, if any, difference in the calculation, but using your lender's calculator gives you a little more ground to stand on if you find a difference between the monthly payment you calculated and the one your lender calculated.
 Online financial calculators provide spaces for you to enter the total amount of the loan, the term of the loan, and the annual interest rate. There also may be places for you to describe the type of interest or enter any fees., Once you've provided the necessary information about your loan, the calculator will provide you with the amount of your monthly payments so you don't have to do all that math by hand.Keep in mind that amount you calculate may be different from your actual monthly payment if your lender charges fees that you left out of the calculations.
For example, if you have a $150,000 mortgage with an annual interest rate of 4.5 percent and a loan term of 360 months (30 years), your monthly payment would be $842.50. If you have a car loan for $30,000 with an annual interest rate of 5.25 percent and a loan term of 60 months (5 years), your monthly payment would be $569.58.
 An amortization schedule will help you understand your monthly payments and fit them into your budget. The benefit of creating your own spreadsheet is that you can save it on your own computer and print it out, which you can't do with the online calculators.Most basic spreadsheet apps have amortization table templates built in. You also may be able to find a template for the spreadsheet app you use and download it for free online.
Using a template will save you from having to enter the amortization formula manually.
 Your spreadsheet will have a separate line or row for each payment over the life of the loan. You may want to organize your spreadsheet so that the first half of the payments are on one side of the page and the other half run down the other side of the page, so you can see the whole table at a glance., The first column of your spreadsheet typically should be the date each payment will be made. Work with your spreadsheet functions to see if you can get these dates to auto-populate based on a formula rather than having to input each one manually., The two columns that provide the amount of each payment that goes to principal and the amount that goes to interest will be the most useful columns for you in comparing different loans or understanding how your loan is amortized.In the beginning, you'll notice that more of your payment goes to interest than to principal. This is because interest is being computed on a larger amount of principal initially. As you pay down the principal, the interest you pay gradually decreases as well and more of your payment goes to principal.
If you aren't using a specifically designed amortization table spreadsheet, you'll have to enter the code yourself for the amortization formula so that your spreadsheet will auto-populate these columns and you don't have to calculate each amount by hand.
You may want to add an additional column for the interest rate. If you have a fixed-rate loan, you may feel this column is unnecessary, but it could be useful if you have an adjustable-rate loan.
 Unless you have an adjustable-rate loan, your monthly payments aren't going to change, so you can easily fill in the payments column using cut and paste.Your overall balance typically should be the last column on the spreadsheet. Use the formula function to fill in the data for this column, showing the balance decline by the amount of each monthly payment.
You also may want to include a column that shows how the principal balance (rather than the total payoff amount) is declining over time. To populate this column, create a formula that subtracts the amount of each payment applied to principal from the total remaining principal after each payment.
 If you have a fixed-rate loan, your amortization schedule will determine the amount of each monthly payment. This amount won't change unless you are late with a payment, at which point your lender will charge you late fees and other penalties.Some lenders reserve the right to increase the interest rate if you are late on multiple payments, which could affect the amount of your monthly payment.
Keep in mind that if you are late on a mortgage payment, you typically must continue to pay fees and penalties until your mortgage is brought current. This means if you skip one month's payment and then make the regular monthly payment the next month, you'll be charged for two months of late fees.
 In many cases, you can make extra payments each month and these will be applied entirely to the principal of your loan. Making extra payments, whether regularly or sporadically, can help reduce the amount of interest you have to pay. You'll also pay off your loan faster.With an amortization schedule you can create an extra column for extra payments. Enter extra payments to see how it changes the amount of your monthly payments that go to principal and interest over time, and how much sooner you can pay your loan off.

