 Tie a slipknot with a loop large enough for your thumb and two fingers to fit through. Keep a tail measuring 5 inches (13 cm) long.


To make a slip knot:

Cross the skein side of the yarn over the tail end, creating a large loop the size of your fist.
Insert your hand through the loop and grab a nearby section from the skein side of the yarn. Pull this section through the original loop, drawing up a second loop as you work.
Tighten the first loop around the second loop by pulling on the tail end of the yarn. This secures the second loop in place and completes the knot.


For this scarf, you'll actually be using a process known as “finger crochet.” The stitches you need to make are so large that you will need to use your fingers to make them instead of a crochet hook.
While most sashay projects require you to spread the sashay yarn out into a net, for this project, you will use it as thick regular yarn.
The finished scarf will usually measure around 110 inches (279 cm) in circumference, but the exact measurement can vary based on how tight you make the chains.;
, Insert your thumb and one or two fingers into the loop of the slipknot. Grab the skein side of the yarn close to the loop, then pull it back through to the front side of the loop.


Essentially, you are making chain stitches with your fingers. This entire scarf will end up being one large chain.
Note that the number of fingers you use will change the size of this scarf. Two fingers will produce a thinner, longer chain, while three fingers will produce a thicker, shorter change. Either option will produce a suitable result, though.
 Continue tugging on the yarn you pulled through during the previous step until the first loop tightens slightly around its base, creating a new loop.
 As before, insert your thumb and one or two fingers through this second loop. Grab the skein side of the yarn from the back, then pull it back through to the front. Continue pulling until it forms a loop at the front.


Try to create the same stitch width you used for the first stitch. The easiest way to maintain a consistent stitch width is to use the same number of fingers—one or two—when grabbing the yarn for each stitch.
 Repeat this process as often as possible until you almost reach the end of the skein of yarn, leaving only 5 inches (13 cm) of yarn left.
 Quickly tie off the end in a simple knot to prevent the chain from unraveling.


You do not need to use a slipknot or any other special type of knot here. A simple, standard knot is all you need.
 You can wear the scarf as is, but you should consider tying the ends together to make it more versatile and easier to handle.


Simply tie the tails of both ends together, forming a long infinity scarf that you can play around with each time you wear it.
Alternatively, drape the scarf around your neck in your desired position before tying the ends. Knot the ends around the back neck area of the scarf to secure your desired positioning. Wrap the ends around the first knot a few more times before tying it off again, then weave any remaining ends into the folds of the scarf.
This step completes the project.

