 To make this type of volcano, you will need a two-liter bottle of cola, a roll of Mentos brand candy mints, and a large open area. Diet cola appears to work better than regular soda (it’s also less sticky than regular soda). Sodas with caramel color look more like ‘lava’ when they erupt as compared to clear lemon-lime sodas.This experiment is best done outside, but if you must be inside, lay down a large plastic tarp first.;
, Avoid doing this experiment inside, as it will create a huge, sticky mess. Make sure your outdoor area is also uncovered since the soda can erupt quite high. Remove the cap from the soda bottle.


Warn any spectators to stand back.
 When Mentos come in contact with the soda, a reaction occurs that causes the carbon dioxide gas in the soda to push the liquid out of the bottle. The more Mentos you drop in all at once, the greater the eruption; however, this can be difficult.There are a couple of different ways to deliver the Mentos into the bottle.


Method 1: Make a paper tube the size of the bottle neck. Place an index card over the bottle mouth, place the tube over the hole, and fill it with Mentos. When you are ready to erupt, you will slide the card out, releasing the Mentos into the bottle.Method 2: Loosely scotch tape the entire roll of Mentos together. When it’s time, you will drop the taped chain directly into the open bottle.
Method 3: Insert into the bottle a funnel with a mouth that is wide enough to allow the Mentos to pass, but small enough to fit inside the neck of the bottle. You will drop the Mentos through the funnel and remove the funnel once the Mentos are in the bottle.
 Getting all the Mentos to fall in the bottle simultaneously is quite hard. If done incorrectly, the volcano will only rise a few inches or so. Practice getting the Mentos to drop simultaneously a few times before wasting your bottle of soda. Once the Mentos drop into the bottle, run a few feet away to observe the eruption!


If using the paper tube method, remove the card holding the Mentos in place and let them all slide into the bottle at one time.
If using the tape method, simply drop the piece of taped-together Mentos into the mouth of the bottle.
If using the funnel, drop all the Mentos into the funnel at the same time. Remove the funnel once they’re all in and run back.

