 Start by soaking the item in lukewarm water mixed with dishwashing detergent and vinegar. In a quart of water, add a tablespoon of water and a 1/2 teaspoon of dishwashing detergent. Mix together, and add the piece of clothing.Let the clothing soak in the solution for about 15 minutes.
Rinse the clothing out at the end.;
, Next, use rubbing alcohol to sponge clean the stain. Pour rubbing alcohol on the sponge. Start from the center of the stain and work your way outward, gently massaging it as you go. You may need to squeeze out the sponge and add more rubbing alcohol partway through.Don't rub too hard as that could damage the fabric.
If the sponge gets too dirty, clean it off with soap and water before continuing.
 Add a tablespoon of an enzyme cleaner meant for pre-soaking fabrics to a quart of warm water. Mix it together, and put the piece of clothing in, making sure it's all the way submerged in the solution. Let the clothing soak for half an hour.Once you've soaked it, pull it out and check to see if the stain is lifting. If it still seems solidly on there, you may want to soak it for longer.
Enzyme cleaners are a natural way to own stains.You can find enzyme cleaners at most big box stores.
 Using the hottest setting the fabric will take, put the clothing in the washer. Add detergent and bleach. Use chlorine bleach for whites or oxygen bleach for colors. Let the clothing go through a normal cycle.To see how hot you can wash the fabric, check the tag. The tag will have laundry instructions, such as what setting you can wash the fabric on.
You may be able to only wash the fabric in cold water. If so, go ahead and wash it that way.
 If the stain remains, repeat the steps again before you dry the fabric. Drying the fabric with the stain could set the stain permanently, so you want to make sure the stain is gone before you dry it. Once the stain is gone, dry the clothing normally.


One way to check the stain is to smell it. If it still smells like beer, wash it again.
Also, look for discoloration. If the fabric is still discolored, you need to wash it again.

