

Weather forecasts can help determine the temperature and any precipitation (if any is forecast) that is expected.
You should not water plants if temperatures are above 80 degrees, at least. If you need to water, wait around dusk to water as temperatures fall within that time area.
Not every forecast is perfect. Check multiple weather sources for accuracy.
If a frost or freeze is expected, be sure to care for plants by covering them with a bag or blanket. Temperatures below 32 degrees can damage or kill plants.
Check weather warnings and advisories frequently.
For your safety, wear appropriate clothing for appropriate weather conditions.;
,


When taking care of plants, make sure not to use too much water as it is harmful to the plant.
Avoid hot water as it can be harmful to the soil.
Averagely, plants should be watered at least once every 2 days, depending on the conditions of the soil. Some prefer once a day, and some does twice a day. You shouldn't do more than 2 times per day, as the roots cannot absorb much water at a time.
 They're not good.


Weeds can severely injure or kill plants. Make sure to properly remove weeds to avoid bad plant health.
Some weeds can be killed by sprays. You should try and buy a spray to help rid weeds.
Do not mistake weeds for a drug. These weeds are unneeded plants that can overlap against the plants you're growing, which injures or kills plants.
Weeds are technically not large in size, but don't mistake their size into the plants, any size is dangerous and should be removed.
While not technically on the topic, weeds have also been found on other areas, not just near plants. For example, sidewalks can also have weeds grown. If you spot weeds, and pulling them out is not a good option, use a spray recommended by stores.



These bugs can eat plants and cause them to wither and die.
Make sure to have proper equipment as some bugs can bite.
If needed, set a small gate around the plant to avoid animals coming back to your plant.
If a gate is not enough, set traps recommended by pest controls. Do not eat any of these traps as they are a poison, and could kill you.



These dead plants and leaves won't help new plants. Instead, they'll harm plants as it would take up room.
Dead plants and leaves cannot be revived, and not only can they not be revived, but even if they're dead, they can cause damage.



A lot of people are generally surprised for new plants.
You should be careful when being around plants, don't step on them.
If you want to, you can take pictures of the plant and share it on media with the permission of your neighbor.

