 Home and bath stores typically carry a variety of storage type bags like this. Otherwise, check with the local suit store or online for larger clothing bags.


Buy several bags to accommodate more than one suit and shirts. Your shirts and suit will be different sizes once folded, so you don’t want a bag that is too big or too small.






Check each bag to ensure that it doesn’t have any holes or rips. The bag needs to be airtight when you seal your clothing, so a pristine bag is important.






Reuse bags several times. Retire the bag once it begins to show wear and tear––a ripped or worn bag can compromise the integrity of your clothing.





;
,, Make sure you can smooth the jacket along the surface and that no bumps or other obstructions will wrinkle the jacket.


Smooth the back of the jacket with clean hands to remove any wrinkles or bumps. Pick off any lint or loose strings from jacket to ensure that it packs totally clean.
 Fold the jacket the same way you would fold a t-shirt, by first taking the left side and folding it lengthwise inward, approximately 2 inches (5cm). Perform the same step for the right side.


Fold the sleeve along the folded jacket lines. Fold the sleeve over the jacket and then back, so that it lines the jacket fold. The sleeve should be in line with the fold on each side of the jacket.






Smooth the jacket sleeves downward to remove any wrinkles. Leave the jacket in this position on the table.
 Make sure the pants are clean and do not have any items in the pockets.


Lay the pants on the table and fold them in half again. Be sure you fold the pants end to end in order to form a square.
 Carefully lift the pants from the table and gingerly lay the pants on top of the jacket.


Place the pants on top of the jacket, toward the neck or top area. Make sure the jacket and pants are the same size, width-wise to create an even line.
 This will create a neat package with the pants situated inside the jacket.


Turn the jacket over so that the front is facing upward. Carefully remove any debris, loose strings or dust.
 Make sure you select a bag size that will accommodate the clothing so compare different bag sizes before selecting your bag.


Slide the suit package inside the bag so that the bottom of the suit is sitting at the bottom of the bag.
Seal the bag but be sure to trap a considerable amount of air inside. Test to make sure that air is inside the bag by pressing on the bag after you’ve sealed it. Keeping air trapped inside the bag will keep your suit wrinkle-free.
 Inspect both sides to make sure the shirt is free from lint, dust or loose strings.


Lay your dress shirt on a clean hard surface, facing downward. Smooth the shirt using clean hands to remove any wrinkles or debris.
 Instead of folding the arms inward, as you would a t-shirt, take a more complex approach to minimize any wrinkling.


Lay one shirt arm across the back of the shirt so that the end of the sleeve touches the opposite shoulder of the shirt. Use your opposite hand as a guide by laying the side of your hand near the armpit area of the shirt.






Lay your hand alongside the middle of the sleeve and fold the sleeve upward, toward the shirt neck.






Fold the top of the sleeve, near the neck of the shirt backwards to create a small square.






Repeat this step with the other sleeve.
 Smooth the shirt lines as you fold.
 Then fold the shirt again in half until you have created a small square.
 Make sure the shirt is free from debris or lint before sliding it into the bag.
 Shirts are not as vulnerable to wrinkling in transit once you’ve folded and packaged them properly. Now you should be set.

