 If you are experiencing pain or other side effects from ovarian cysts, then it is important to let your gynecologist know. Your gynecologist may advise a “wait and see” approach, also known as watchful waiting. Your gynecologist may also want to do an ultrasound a few weeks after you become aware of the cyst to see if it is still there., Over-the-counter pain relievers such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen can provide relief for painful ovarian cysts.Make sure that you read and follow the manufacturer’s instructions before use. Talk to your doctor if you are not sure what or how much to take.
 Sipping a cup of herbal tea may also help to relieve some of the pain caused by ovarian cysts. The warmth of the tea can help to relax you muscles and serve as a nice relaxing distraction. Some good teas to try include:Chamomile
Peppermint
Raspberry leaf
Decaffeinated green tea

, A heating pad applied to your lower abdomen may also help to relieve some of the pain caused by ovarian cysts.You can use either a hot water bottle or an electric heating pad. Place the heating pad on your lower abdomen for about 10 – 15 minutes at a time.


Take breaks in between uses to avoid overheating your skin.
 A stressed state of mind may make pain seem worse, so try to take some time for yourself and relax as much as possible while you are dealing with an ovarian cyst. Some good stress relieving activities include:Playing with a pet
Going for a walk
Taking a bubble bath
Writing in a journal
Calling a friend
Listening to music
Watching a funny movie

, If cysts are large or if they are causing other symptoms, then surgery may be necessary to remove them. Surgery may also be necessary if there are concerns that a cyst may be cancerous. Surgery for ovarian cysts may be performed using:Laparoscopy — For smaller cysts, the surgeon can make a small incision and remove the cyst with the help of a laparoscopic camera.

Laparotomy — For larger cysts, it may be necessary to make a longer incision to remove the cyst.

