 If you enjoy more serious seduction, select a dimly lit room, or use candles and lamps instead of overhead lighting. If you want something more fun and lighthearted, keep things more brightly lit and put on some music with a beat.Men's clothing options are often less varied than women's. You can strip from an ordinary outfit, but if you want something more unique, try finding props or costumes that fit a masculine theme, such as cowboy or policeman., If you know how to dance sexily, you can show your sexual partner some moves between items of clothing, or even while you're removing one. If you aren't a dance floor god, however, stick with the occasional hip sway, and turn occasionally to give your partner a view from a different angle., Men's shoes and socks don't tend toward the sexy side, so get rid of these before you get into the swing of things. Toss these aside, somewhere out of the way.
 If you're wearing a tie, untie it and toss it away, or at your partner, quickly and aggressively. While you can go for the slow, sensuous striptease if you're comfortable with it, most men may prefer a more energetic, aggressive style.
 Pull the shirt over your head quickly, then yank it off your arms and throw it to the side or at your partner.Alternatively, you can grab the shirt by the lower hem instead of the collar, then use the same motion.
 If you're wearing a button up shirt, unbutton it from top to bottom while keeping eye contact with your partner. Leave it on until after you've removed your trousers, to give your partner something else to look forward to, or keep it on if your partner likes the "shirt half on" look.
 Pull off your belt, then step out of them one leg at a time. Take this slowly, to avoid getting your foot caught and reducing the sexiness considerably.


Don't try to shimmy out of trousers sexily; due to mysterious laws of the universe, this only works for women.
 At this point, invite your partner to get the next stage started by removing your boxer briefs, along with your button up shirt if that's still half-on. You may have to remove tighter underpants yourself.


You could also "go commando," with no underpants at all, to surprise your partner.

