 Work on deautomatization your lies. Perhaps you have become so accustomed to omitting the truth that it has become almost second nature to you. When you are thinking of lying, take a few seconds to pause. Take as much time as you need to gather the courage to be fully honest.Perhaps you will even need to excuse yourself for a few moments until you feel ready to be honest. Simply say “Hold on for one moment, I’ll be right back.”

, If you will soon have to discuss something that is uncomfortable for you with someone, try practicing in the mirror beforehand. This will help you become more comfortable with the truth and prepared to be honest.Look in the mirror and practice saying something like “Jenny, I was fired today because I was late on several assignments. I was irresponsible with them and it cost me my job.”

, Once you tell one lie by omission, you will typically always have to tell more. If you tell the truth, you will never have to try to remember what story you told or worry about others telling the truth for you. Be honest so that you don’t get caught up in a web of lies.For instance, if you don’t tell your partner about hanging out with an ex, know that that doesn’t mean that your ex won’t tell someone or that someone didn’t see you. You run the risk of your partner finding out through someone else, which will make you look dishonest and untrustworthy.
 Know that during this process of being more honest, you will not be perfect. You may slip up and neglect to tell important information or you may outright lie about some things. However, there are ways to rectify and correct your lies. Confess immediately once you omit something or lie. Though the person may be upset, at least they will know the truth.Say something like “Hey babe, I know yesterday I told you that I went to the mall, and that was true, but I got a guy’s number when I was there. I already deleted it from my phone, but I wanted to apologize both for doing that and for not telling you sooner.”

