 There are a number of ways you learn about mold on wood floors. You may exhibit some symptoms of mold exposure, experience musty smells, or even see the wood floors warping.Pay attention to any symptoms you may have. If you are suffering from mold exposure, you may experience headaches, itchy eyes, breathing problems, or difficulty concentrating.
Notice any musty smells. Mold gives off a gas that gives it a musty smell. If you notice this smell, you likely have mold, even if it is not visible in your house. See if your wood floors are warping. If there is any sign of warping of the wood, this means your mold problem is pretty far along. Try to start working on it as soon as possible. ;
, Mold can be dangerous, especially if do not take the proper precautions. Make sure you know the extent of the mold problem on your wood floors before you start cleaning


Consider the extent of mold. Test the mold depth. Press into the spot with a screwdriver or sharp tool. If the wood feels soft, the mold has spread below the surface and into the wood. This will require more than surface cleaning. Think about hiring a professional. If you have allergies to mold, a weakened immune system, or the mold covers more than 30 continuous square feet, consider calling in a professional to address the mold problem. Certain types of mold are highly toxic and exposure can lead to serious health complications.
Dry out the floor using room heaters or fans. All moisture in the wood needs to be eliminated prior to mold removal in order to protect the integrity of the floors and to prevent future mold growth.
 Make sure you have the necessary safety gear for cleaning and are using chemicals for cleaning safely.


Wear appropriate safety gear when working around mold or with chemicals. Gloves and safety glasses are sufficient for removing surface mold over small areas, no more than a few square feet. For deeper mold removal or over larger surface areas, use an N-95 mask or P-100 respirator in addition to gloves and safety glasses. Also, wear clothing and shoes that can be easily washed or disposed of after.Use the proper cleaner. For surface mold, you want to use a cleaner designed for urethane finishes. You can also use a chlorine bleach solution, with a water/bleach ratio of 10:1. Limit the spread of bleach solution to unaffected areas. Do not leave the bleach solution on the wood for longer than necessary, as it will remove the wood finish.
Read through the safety labels on any and all chemicals you use.
Wipe away the mold using a rag. For stubborn mold stains, use a firm-bristled hand scrubbing brush.
 This be be more difficult than removing surface mold. Make sure you take all the necessary precautions when doing so.



If the spot feels slightly soft, the mold can be removed.
If the wood feels spongy or crumbles, it may be rotten and not salvageable.
Don't try try to fix any ingrained mold that cannot be repaired. Try calling a professional first.
 Allow the room to air out for a few hours. Make sure your floors are totally dry. Ingrained mold needs to be dry before you remove it.
Let the room clear out before you start repairing your floors. Clear the room of any potentially harmful mold particles.
Keep the area well-ventilated. Even if you are wearing a mask, you do not want to inhale any mold particles.
 Make sure to use appropriate grit sandpaper so you do not damage the wood underneath


Use 100 grit sandpaper or a metal hand scraper to remove as much mold as you can.
Use 220 grit sandpaper to remove more ingrained mold. Be careful to not damage the floor underneath.
Sand in a circular motion. Only sand the affected area.
Spray diluted bleach onto the area to kill any live mold before it spreads.
 Make sure to complete all final steps after removing the worst of the mold. You want to get rid of your mold problem as best as you can.


Polish the affected area with 200 or 250 grit sandpaper until smooth. Wipe away the residue with a dry microfiber cloth. For bigger areas, use a vacuum to remove the debris.
 Try to find a wood finish that will cover up the mold stain and hopefully restore your wood floor back to normal.


Apply a wood finish that matches the original finish. Allow the finish to dry completely. For added protection against moisture in the future, apply a polyurethane finish to the wood. If you can't find the exact colored finish to match the original floors, use the next lightest shade.Double-bag all the debris. Use heavy-duty garbage bags. Carefully clean all equipment to prevent spreading mold spores to other areas.
 After cleaning your wood floors, you want to prevent having this problem again. Preventing future mold growth will make it less likely you’ll have to do this again.Mold needs moisture to grow. Keep an eye on your wood floors to make sure they are clean and dry. If you have wood floors in places that are prone to moisture, such as bathrooms, basements, or kitchens, make sure you clean up any surface moisture as soon as possible. Warm environments also encourage mold growth. Wood floors in any places that get warm, such as bathrooms or kitchens, need to be aired out to avoid mold growth.
Mold needs food. For wood floors, mold feeds on nutrients on the surface of the wood, but not on the wood itself. Keep your wood floors dry and clean to make sure mold does not have a food source.
 If your wood floors are clean and dry, then the conditions for mold are less likely to arise. Vacuum and mop your wood floors on a regular basis. While you may not have to clean your wood floors daily, make sure to incorporate it as part of your weekly cleaning routine.
Control humidity in your house. Mold grows best in humid environments. Consider buying a dehumidifier to keep a consistent level. Indoor humidity should be at about 50% to avoid most molds. Clean spilled water as soon as possible. Don’t let any water sit on your wood floor as that could lead to mold growth.
 Different seasons have different problems with mold growth. Air out your house during the colder months. When it’s colder outside, we tend to keep our homes warmer, which creates warm air that does not escape. Additionally, plants are dying in the fall and winter, which creates more opportunity for mold to grow. Keep your air conditioner maintained during warmer months. An overused air condition can create additional condensation. Make sure your air conditioner is in working order and not creating excess moisture.