 Stress-related hormones such as epinephrine play a significant role in the production and regulation of glucose.If you can identify your major stressors, you can take steps to reduce stress in your life and decrease your risk of hypoglycemia. There are a few common tactics for dealing with stress.


Write down what stresses you throughout the day. This will help you identify what is causing your stress as well as what you can do to deal with it in a healthy manner.
Get plenty of sleep. A full night’s rest can reduce the stress you feel the following day. Maintain a healthy and consistent sleeping schedule.
Exercise. Even taking a short walk every day will help you relax.
Talk it out. Discussing what bothers you with a close friend or family member can provide you with assistance and support. Your problems will not be your burden alone., Blood sugar levels can plummet after intense exercise, but this does not mean that you should stop entirely. Exercise has many other health benefits, and you can moderate your exercise with certain practices to reduce the risk of hypoglycemia.


Eat a snack before and after you exercise. This will prevent your blood sugar levels from dropping too severely. Check your blood sugar during extended periods of exercise and have small snacks as a necessary, especially if your blood sugar is less than 100 mg/dl.Do not exercise late at night. Have your session be at least two hours before you go to bed.
Do not exercise more than once or twice a day.
If you take insulin injections, do not exercise when your insulin levels are at their highest.Even after exercise, when you are recovering, medication may cause your blood glucose to spike. Check your levels periodically after exercise., Alcohol and coffee can be difficult to eliminate because they are social drinks, but they are also major catalysts for hypoglycemia. As many as one-fifth of severe hypoglycemic episodes are caused by alcohol.If you are finding it difficult to eliminate alcohol and caffeine completely, only consume them in social settings and limit yourself to one drink.


Alcohol, especially on an empty stomach, can lead to hypoglycemia, and can have lasting effects even one to two days after consumption. Heavy drinking is particularly dangerous. Make sure you're not drinking on an empty stomach — have a small snack if necessary., Being overweight often leads to diabetes, and the first step to pre-diabetes is reactive hypoglycemia. If you can prevent hypoglycemia by losing weight and controlling your diet, you will decrease your chances of developing diabetes.


According to the Diabetes Prevention Program, even a modest decrease in weight — around 7% of total body weight — greatly decreases your risk of developing diabetes., Smoking significantly increases your odds of suffering severe hypoglycemia.Wean yourself off tobacco to improve your general health and increase your odds of avoiding hypoglycemia.
 Glucose tablets are available to boost your blood sugar levels in case of emergency. There are many over-the-counter options available. Ask your local pharmacist for recommendations. You can take three or four at a time depending on the dosage.