 It should be small enough to keep in your bag or locker but big enough to fit these:



 


A nail buffer, nail file, or tiny nail clippers- in case a nail breaks or you get a hangnail.






A small pack of tissues- for cleanups and blowing your nose.






A travel size toothpaste & toothbrush - to freshen up after lunch.






Deodorant- for after gym class.






Safety Pins- in case your skirt rips or something. These are also handy if you forget a belt and your pants are sliding around.






Extra chap-stick or lip gloss- especially in the winter, it's important to keep your lips moisturized.






A compact mirror- To check your makeup or see if you have anything on your face. Just make a quick check, don't be one of those girls who stares at herself in the mirror all the time.






Mini perfume or body-splash- This is optional, for just in case after gym class or when you want to smell extra nice. Be SURE that it seals well, and keep it in a plastic bag or a separate compartment of your bag. You don't want it to spill over everything in your bag!






Mini lotion- This and the mini body splash could be bought at Five And Below, Bath and Body Works, dollar stores, drugstores, and just about anywhere. Most drugstores sell tiny, empty, bottles if you want to bring your standard lotion with you. It could be used when you were running late and had no time to apply lotion, or when you just start feeling dry.






An extra pair of earrings- this is another optional one. If you absolutely have to have earrings on all the time, bring a cute but inexpensive pair, in case you lose an earring.






Feminine items- Just to be on the safe side. ALWAYS have them with you.






Extra hair clips or ties - In case halfway through the day your style starts to fall apart or your hair just keeps getting in the way.






Hand sanitizer- Don't use it all the time or become obsessed with it, but there are going to be plenty of times you sit at a desk and find gum under it, or encounter other icky situations and can't immediately wash your hands





;
, :)

,