 Locate the app on your device. The app icon has a white background with the Pinterest logo on it. Tap on it.;
, Tap the profile icon on the bottom toolbar. This will bring you to your account screen, which displays your boards, pins, likes, followers, and following.
 A screen or panel will appear for you to fill up the board’s details. You can create just one board for all the tutorials you will collect or you can create multiple boards for each area of interest.
 The first field is for the name of your board. Tap the field and type the name in. Make it something in relation to the tutorials you will be pinning to the board, like “DIY kids” for DIYs your kids can do or DIYs you can do for your kids.
 The second field is for the description for your board. Tap the field and type the description in. Make it interesting and informational; this way, you won’t forget what the board is for. For instance, if your DIY is for kids below 10, state that in the description.
 The third field is for the category of your board. Tap the field, and a list of categories will be displayed. Swipe through the list, and tap “DIY & crafts” since the pins of your board will be regarding tutorials.


If you want to use a different category you believe is more applicable for your board, then just tap the category you prefer.
 Tap the “Create” button in the top right corner of the screen or panel. Your board will be created, and you will be able to view it from your dashboard.
 This will bring you to the Search screen.
 In the search box at the top of the Search screen, enter the name of the tutorial you’re searching for. You can use keywords, such as “diy” and “how to ” to filter your results to only topics related to tutorials.


For instance, if you’re interested on DIY summer crafts for your kids, you can search for “kids summer DIY.”

, Photo titles matching your search will be displayed. There are also buttons right under the search box for topics related to your search. You can tap on any of these buttons to filter the results and add to your search.
 If you see an interesting tutorial, tap on it. It will be shown in full screen so that you can see it better. Good tutorial photos have multiple or step-by-step photos visually styled and arranged in a collage.
 If you’d like to add the tutorial to your board, tap the “Pin it” button on the top right corner of the photo. Your list of boards will be displayed. Tap the board you just created for tutorials, and the photo will be added to that board.


Continue searching for and adding tutorials to fill up your tutorials board.
 This will bring you to the Search screen.


If you follow tutorial pinners and boards, any new pins added by the pinner or added to the board will be displayed on your profile page. This means you won’t have to constantly search for new tutorials, you can just view your home page for new tutorials pinned by others.
 In the search box at the top of the Search screen, enter the name of the tutorial pinner or board you’re searching for.
 There are sections in the search results for Pinners and Boards. Pinners are the people or users in Pinterest. If they appear in your search results, most likely they are people who are focused on the area or topic you wanted. Boards, on the other hand, are created by users such as yourself. If they appear in your search results, most likely these are boards created by other users who collect the same set of tutorial you wanted. You can get lots of new ideas and from these pinners and boards.
 Tap the name from the results. If you’ve selected a pinner, you will be brought to his or her profile screen. If you’ve selected a board, you will be brought to the board with all the pins.
 Tap the “Follow” button on the top right corner. It will now be easier to find the pinner or the board you’ve found since it will appear in your own profile screen under “Following.”

, Once you’ve followed a pinner or a board, you can now go and look at their pins. If you see anything you like, pin it as well so it will also appear in your own boards.

