 Bring all the supplies you'll need. Binders, pencils, pens, paper, erasers, sharpeners, textbooks and loose leaf or notebooks. Don't "forget" these things at home; you'll need them and you don't want to be milking them out of your classmates, it'll make you look irresponsible to your teacher and will most likely annoy your classmates who always have to lend you their things. Being prepared is one the most important things in any school, and in any class.;
, Be organized! Keep all your notes in a binder for that class or teacher and keep them in order by date. Never throw out any notes. Even if they are from last term or the beginning of the school year, you never know when you'll be doing a full year review or exam. If old notes are cluttering your binder just transfer them to a pocket folder or duo-tang for safekeeping. This is good if you want to pass the MSP or any state test; taking notes is important preparation for any test. Always keep your notes!

, One of the important things in any school is that you always have to do your homework. During the whole school year think about how many homework assignments you've done. Even if you don't get A's on all of your tests at least you'll get an okay grade because all of your homework assignments. To you, homework that isn't graded might seem useless and a waste of time, but in reality it's preparing you for quizzes and tests and constantly refreshing your mind on the subject. It also shows responsibility and dedication to schoolwork, which teachers always appreciate.
 This way you won't have to do as much studying. Also, instead of trying to remember the work, jot down some fast and easy notes during class.


Learn how to take notes properly. If you want to make sure you hear and remember everything take quick jot notes, only using the most important details of each sentence.You can remove transition words such as "the". For example, instead of writing "The fox chased the rabbit down the hole", write "Fox chased rabbit down hole".
 For example, making a song on the work and then just remembering the song.
 Always study in an area where you won't be distracted. Turn off the TV and computer (unless you need it to study, in that case log out of things like social networks and e-mail) and any other electronics. Tell your family members that you are studying and ask them to try to be quiet. If you find yourself distracted in one area, move to another.


Places that you shouldn't study in include your bed, and in front of the TV or any high traffic area (where everyone walks through).
 Read all of your notes and go over past worksheets or assignments. Make sure you cover everything you don't understand or are having trouble with multiple times.

