 Plyometrics are great because they require minimal equipment and require various explosive movements; however, they can be a challenge to commit to if you only have limited amount of space and time available to you. Choose exercises that will challenge you in the time you have scheduled for yourself.Here is an example of a plyometric routine specifically made to jump higher for volleyball.Do each exercise for 15 repetitions, completing the entire routine 2-3 times through.

15 Minutes of Cardio to warm up.
15 Knee Tuck Jumps: jumping straight up as you raise your knees and tuck them toward your chest.
15 Lateral Jumps: jumping side to side keeping your feet together.
15 Mountain Climbers: starting at a plank position (the top part of a pushup), quickly move your feet towards your hands, as if you were running in place with your hands securely pushed against the ground.
15 Broad Jumps: jumping forward as far as you can, from a stationary standing position, focusing on distance rather than eight.
15 Burpees: starting from a plank position, quickly move to your feet and explode into a jump (it’s a combination of a pushup and vertical jump).
15 Squat Jacks: squatting down with your feet shoulder width apart and legs bent just above a 90 degree angle, move your feet in and out, quickly moving your inner thighs towards each other.
15 Agility Dots: trace an imaginary square on the ground and jump sideways and diagonally towards each corner of the square, keeping your feet together, to create an X pattern.
15 Squat Jumps: get into a squat position and explode into a jump. Cool Down and Stretch.
 To keep yourself from getting bored and your muscles and gains from hitting a plateau, you can add plyometric workouts 2-3 times a week in conjunction with cardio and bodyweight exercises in order to jump higher. To make the plyometrics even more effective, wear a weighted vest while you do the exercises.


These plyometrics exercises should only be done on even ground to avoid sprains and injuries.
Never do the exercises on concrete as the impact can be rough on joints.
 Practice makes perfect. To increase your vertical, find a tall empty wall, grab a pack of sticky notes and start jumping. Label your first sticky note as '1st Jump' and whenever you reach the highest point of you first jump, slap the labeled sticky note onto the wall. Then grab the next sticky note, label it, and try to get that sticky note higher than the first one you put on the wall.


Jump ropes are also an excellent way to get to jumping higher and faster (after all, volleyball relies on reflexes as well).Use ankle weights, a weighted vest, or tension bands to provide resistance as you jump towards the mark. Consult a health or fitness specialist for proper technique and guided weight resistance as landing with added weights can cause injury and stress to your joints. Ideally, use specialized equipment or tension bands that provide resistance as you explode up but do not add any weight when landing back on the ground.
Make sure you're bending your knees and mimicking the movements you will be using in the game. Imagine that the wall is the net and you need to maintain the vertical plain without touching it.
 Box jumps are a common exercise for utilizing plyometrics to increase your vertical leap. Doing box jumps increases your explosion and coordination by training your muscles to explode upward.As the name states, box jumps are simply jumping up onto a box from a stationary standing position using a single step approach. Many fitness facilities have specialized boxes specifically built for this exercise. Keep doing box jump repetitions for about 10 jumps x 3 sets, 4-5 times a week for the best results.


Ensure there is enough room for you to jump without hitting your head on anything.
Ensure that the box is stable and does not slip out from under you as you land on top of it.
Slowly increase the height of the box as your vertical begins to increase.

