 If you have not already, shampoo and condition your hair. Let it air dry partway before continuing; it will be easier to braid. Make sure that your hair is completely tangle-free. Run a wide-toothed comb through it, if necessary.;
, This will make it easier to work with. For a tighter crimp, pull the top three-quarters of your hair into the bun and leave the bottom fourth loose. For a looser crimp, pull only half of your hair up into the bun, and leave the bottom half loose. This will be the first layer you will be working with.
 This will help your hair hold the crimp better, especially if your hair is very straight or does not hold a curl well. If you do this, you will need to do it for each layer of hair that you work with.
 Take a section of hair closest to your face. Try to keep the braid tight. The smaller section of hair you braid with, the tighter crimp you will get.
 When you get to the very end of your hair, tie a mini hair elastic around the braid ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) from the bottom. Loop the tail end of the braid into the hair elastic. This will help keep the ends looking crimped and prevent them from appearing too straight., Try to keep the braids as even as possible.
 Once you finish the row, undo the bun at the top of your head, and let down another layer of hair. If you are working with more than two layers for a tighter crimp, pull the rest of your hair up into the bun.


If you applied mousse into the bottom layer earlier, be sure to apply more mousse to this new layer.
 When you finish the end of a row, let down some hair. You want to end up with four rows of braids for a tight crimp, and two rows for a loose crimp.
 This will help give your hair some extra holding power., This can take anywhere between two to four hours. If you are going to sleep with the braids in, then consider wrapping your hair with a head scarf or sleeping on a satin pillowcase. This will help reduce friction and prevent frizz.
 Start with the bottom layer first, then work your way to the top. If you aren't certain whether or not your hair is dry, press your fingers into one of the braids. If the hair inside the braid feels dry, the braids are safe to undo. If the hair inside the braid feels damp, let your hair dry longer.
 Brushing crimped hair will make it turn frizzy. You can leave your hair loose, or you can part it off to one side. You can even wrap a headband around your head or pull your hair up into a high ponytail.


If the crimps aren't fluffy enough, you can soften them by gently running your fingers through your hair.

