 Taking a class as pass/fail can be a great option, depending on your personal academic situation and learning goals. Think about the following advantages:


It can alleviate the stress that comes with taking a class for a traditional letter grade.
You can concentrate more on the classes within your major.
You can explore subjects outside of your major without worrying as much about how you'll perform in the class., While taking a class as pass/fail does have certain benefits, there are also disadvantages to take into consideration. Weigh the pros against these cons:


You still need to do the work required of the class. Working really hard for a grade of “Pass” instead of an “A” can be unsatisfying.
You usually can't switch back once you've decided to take a class as pass/fail. That means if you're earning the equivalent of an "A" grade in the class, you can't change your grading option to a traditional letter grade.
If you change your major, and a class you took as pass/fail becomes a required class for your new major, you may need to re-take it., While all pass/fail courses generally follow a similar format, the rules and expectations of pass/fail classes can vary greatly among schools. Research your school’s policies on pass/fail classes and talk to a school advisor to verify information or ask questions.Some questions to consider are:


How many pass/fail classes can you take per semester? Per academic year? Per college career?
What kinds of restrictions are there in taking classes as pass/fail? For example, many schools don’t allow you to take any classes within your major area of study as pass/fail.
What is the minimum grade you need to pass a pass/fail class?
What is the effect of a pass/fail class on your overall GPA?
Will taking a class as pass/fail impact graduation with Latin honors?
What happens if you fail a pass/fail class? Does it go on your permanent transcript? Will you have the opportunity to retake it as a pass/fail class?
What are the general expectations of students taking classes as pass/fail?

, If you decide to take a class as pass/fail, follow the directions in your school’s student handbook or on the website for enrolling in the class. Usually there is a different registration process for taking a class with the pass/fail option- sometimes it's as simple as clicking a button while registering, other times it requires submitting a form. Talk to an advisor if you’re unsure.

