 Before you do anything, check with your school to verify exactly how strict your dress code is! If you are not allowed to have any form of accessory, then there isn't much you can do.;
, For hair, there are many options. One option would be to tease it up a bit. If you are allowed to dye your hair, an unnatural color would definitely add some individuality to your look, or you could just go with black (since it IS in fact a natural color). Another good idea could be clip-in extensions. Recommended are ones made from real hair, as fake ones will look cheesy and you may look like a poseur. And if you have no interest in adding color to your hair, that is perfectly fine! No matter what style you choose, make sure you do it in a manner that will make you look good and put-together You could leave your hair loose and free, or do it like Wednesday Addams. Remember, the point is to express yourself.
 Don't do anything too distracting. Try choosing one feature to focus on. If you can use some, a red or plum lipstick could look nice. If you can't/don't want to, you could also use a tinted lip balm. If you would prefer to have the focus on your eyes, you could either leave your lips alone, (make sure they're moisturized!) use a lip gloss, or put a concealer/nude lipstick on them. For eye makeup, you could just do eyeliner (of any quantity, really), or add eye shadow. Colors that look good may be purple, deep blue, black or red. (Using red may be more difficult if you can't wear a lot of makeup. It should be worn with another color usually; preferably black.) If you want a more natural look, use a color that either matches or complements your eye color.
 If you're allowed to wear any accessories, some good ideas may be skeleton hair clips, creepy jewelry (bats, skulls, spiders, etc.) headband, and/or cuff, fishnet gloves, black or patterned arm warmers/tights, etc, etc, etc! If your school is freaked out by that sort of thing, (brace yourself,) you will probably have to tone it down a bit. In this case, try dipping into the more elegant side of goth! Try lovely jewelry that doesn't scream, "GOTH," such as pendents with intricate designs or a black ring. There are (again) endless possibilities! If your style tends to lean more towards the punk side, you could try things such as a zipper bracelet, chains, a thin studded bracelet, or something with safety pins. (Whatever your style may be, DIY something! Nothing says "you" like something made by you!) If you feel that you must indulge in your love for skulls and bats, try something very subtle. Examples would be small skull stud earrings or something in the shape of a bat that could be mistaken for a bird.
 One essential for most goths is black nail polish, and in an environment where our style is more restricted, it seems even more necessary.
 Shoes are a great way to express yourself! If you're allowed to choose your own, you should almost definitely wear black ones. Some good styles would be elegant black flats, lacey shoes with a (small!) heel, or (the best,) pointy boots (with either buckles or laces).
 Your backpack (or whatever you carry your things in) is very important as well! You could buy one with a Gothic design, or (as I prefer,) buy a plain black one and personalize it with buttons, lace, studs, different fabrics, doodles, and/or anything else that you feel is necessary!

, Lastly, if everyone is okay with it, you could make some modifications to your actual uniform. Additions such as safety pins, lace/trim, sleeves, etc. may look nice. If your dress code is very flexible, you could also try fraying the edges of your skirt (if you have one) if you want to look a bit more punk and/or messy (but not in a bad way).
