 An individual is a person who is different to other people and not care what other people think! They may dress differently, like different music or even may have a different personality this is all fine!;
, This is one of the most important things about being an individual, you may be shy, loud, friendly or moody! Any of these things will make you an individual! Or you may even change your personality around different people, this is fine! This step isn't really important because you have a personality already!

, You may like to wear different things to other people you can wear baggy jeans, skinny jeans, 3 quarter length shorts, skirts, miniskirts, tights! This is all fine! If you like wearing baggy jeans you could get ones that are too big for you and wear those or get ones that are too small! This will make you stand out in the crowd! Get whatever colour suits you! If you wear tank tops, band tees, shirts or whatever personalize them if your parents let you! You can personalize them by maybe adding small designs with felt tips or acrylic paint! If you are not allowed to do this then buy plain white t-shirts and personalize those dye/bleach them if you are allowed! If you like things messy then try ripping then or cutting them!

, Vans, Converse, Nike, Adidas or whatever!

, An individual is someone who is independent! They just be themselves and don't pretend to be anyone else! They express their individuality by fashion doing what they want and music! They don't just do things because they wanna look good or because other people do it! It's because it is what represents them as a person! They make their own decisions and be who they wanna be!

, You can like any type of music! Genres are: Classical, Folk, Slow Acoustic, Country, Country pop, hip hop, pop, r&b, rock, country rock,punk rock, ska punk, emo, emo pop, emo rock, classic punk fusion and may more!!!!!!

, You may want to express yourself by doing hobbies like playing an instrument, writing a song, playing sports,making up a game, reading books, writing books, daydreaming,make up a fantasy world! These are all things you can express your individuality through!

, Who cares if everybody calls you weird? Part of being an individual is enjoying life and not caring what other people think!

, Be confident but not cocky, be yourself and always say your opinions, but be kind and gentle and you will be looked after!

