 Insecurities such as weight or wealth are overlooked depending on others' opinion of you. If you push past your fear of rejection and accept yourself both physically and morally, it will be much easier to branch out.;
, Don't expect them to line up waiting to shake your hand; rather, you must first put yourself in a position where it is easy to start talking to others. Joining clubs, sports, or even simply getting to know your lab partner will open many doors, and future employers may be impressed if you happen to stumble across one.
 Someone who is inclined to agree on ideas more often has a more positive connotation in the mind of their peers rather than someone who constantly finds the faults in things. Things to say "yes" to include everything from trying new foods to trying new business ventures, but never things that would make you lose respect (see Step 9).
 Even if you've never had the desire to go to a heavy metal concert, if someone asks you if you'd like to go with them, you really never know until you do it. Besides, having an interest in everything will also give you the advantage of having a shallow knowledge of those things.
 Think of your own story first: You know that you were born and raised in a nice small town, but perhaps your mother left when you were young and so you've always had the tendency to be more clingy. Other people are the same way - many of their traits and quirks can be understood and empathized with if you humanize them enough.
 Even with an interest in everything, it's okay to voice your opinions, albeit in a non-spiteful manner. Expressing distaste for some things can actually be a positive attribute in the minds of some people; they now know that you will give them an honest opinion when asked.
 Never judge someone before meeting them, as this is the quickest way to lose a potential friend or beneficial relationship, and also the quickest way to lose esteem in someone else's eyes. If faced with inner conflict, always try to imagine yourself on the other end of this prejudice.
 A deadbeat person is certainly someone you wouldn't want around; therefore, you should always act enthusiastic or at least awake, even if you have the desire to go to sleep at that very moment. Remember that this isn't lying, it's simply displaying a more positive disposition.
 Most people know how it goes - it starts with a small request such as taking a look at someone's PowerPoint presentation, and turns into cleaning their entire house for the company party. This is the time to refuse in a firm manner, which may be difficult but will ultimately make you seem like a more capable and respectable person.
 Irresponsibility is most definitely a turn-off, so forgetting to show up to your coworker's wedding rehearsal will not earn you points on the relationship level. If it helps, keep a planner; that way, you can remember all coffee meet-ups, dinner dates, and movie nights with your new found friends!

