 Get in the habit of making rushed runs to different rooms in your office, with a frowning look on your face, shuffling papers through your hands. When people see you, they'll think, "Must be really busy."


Always keep moving around when you're at work. If you're just sitting there doing nothing, someone will notice. But if you're all over the place, nobody will think to question whether or not you're doing something, or just wandering around.
If you're working on a computer, tilt your screen so nobody can see it and type furiously. Listen to music or podcasts instead.
 Does your boss need someone to sweep up the kitchen? Volunteer. Does somebody have to sit out back and sort boxes? Sounds good. The more brainless the task, the more like doing nothing it will be. The more stressful thinking required, the more difficult the job.


Alternatively, it may be better to never volunteer for anything. If you ever find yourself standing around on the clock, just keep standing there. That's good money.
 Scotty said it best on Star Trek: "Tell the captain it's gonna take you four hours, so you can look like a genius when you get it done in two." If nobody else can do what you do, then nobody knows how long it should take.


Tell your boss it took you all day to drive around selling ads, or that you're running into all sorts of problems filling out that report, so you haven't gotten it finished, and it'll probably take a few more hours. If you're already done, just sit there doing nothing and making your money.
 An old adage from automotive factory lines, passed down from older hands to new workers was to just sit tight if something went wrong. If your machine stops working and the line stops, don't go running off to tell someone. Just stand there. You're getting paid either way.


You don't have to work in a factory to abide by this basic rule. If you're ever working and something goes wrong, or breaks, just kick back. Put on your confused "trying-to-figure-it-out" face and scrutinize things closely, doing absolutely nothing.
 Some people let their egos get in the way of their doing nothing. You're not in a productivity competition with your coworkers. You don't need to be hyperactive if you're being paid hourly and you're on the clock. If something comes up that anyone can do, let someone else do it.


You can even help this process along. Learn to say, "I could do it, I guess, but that's totally in Jim's wheelhouse. He'll knock that out of the park."
Of course, at some workplaces, your paycheck does depend on your productivity. You usually can't let someone else do everything for you.
 Take as long a break in the middle of the day as possible while you're working, especially if you're on the clock for it. When five o'clock rolls around, that extra fifteen minutes you got to steal to finish your sandwich will be the last thing on everyone's mind.


At most jobs, you'll have to feel this out to see how far you can push it. If you're on the clock from 8-3, you can always say that you've got to be somewhere else and you can't stay when it's time to leave.
Just ignore anyone who makes comments or tries to make you feel "lazy" for taking a decent break. Unless it affects your employment, it's not your job to care.
 Depending on what kind of worker you are and what kind of job you have, you can always find a way to emphasize your good characteristics as a worker to allow for a lot more laziness.


If you're a talkative, active presence, make that presence known at meetings and in group situations by talking a lot. Be the "idea" person in the room. You'll seem like you're busy and valuable, even if when you're alone, you do basically nothing.
If you're a quiet, but studious worker, get away with doing nothing by putting it off until later. Do nothing Monday through Wednesday, but slam yourself on Thursday and Friday to get all your work done for the week.
 You don't have to be the best worker at your job, you just have to be good enough to keep getting paid. That's all that you have to worry about. If your boss saddles you with a big responsibility, it's ok to fail. In the future, you won't be asked to take on special responsibilities again. Good deal.


It's important to look as if you came close, but couldn't get it done. Take a project in the completely wrong direction, but take some time to do it. It's better to make good-natured mistakes.
 If you could do nothing and get paid for it, that'd be a pretty sweet deal. Jobs in which it's very easy to steal time include:


Night security
Ticket-taking
House-sitting
Writer of spa reviews
Cute pet video aggregator
Food testing
Any telecommuting job

