 Forwarding emails is a very simple procedure. Although many of us were introduced to the process via bad chain mail, it's an incredibly useful tool in correspondences. You can forward single messages with all modern email services, and in the majority of cases, you can even set up your account to automatically forward emails to a secondary account. First of all however, you'll need to sign into your email account.


If you don't have an email account yet, Gmail is recommended for its ease-of-utility and compact design., If you're only wanting to forward a single message, the process is incredibly easy and simple for the majority of email services. Simply go to the message in your inbox you would like to have forwarded onto someone else, and press 'Forward'. For standard email services, this should bring you to a new tab where you can add something new to the email if you'd like. If you do add anything to the email, just give some context to the forwarded email. Whatever you do, don't change any part of the original written message, as this is unethical and will cause an issue in communication.
For example, if you're trying to figure out how to write an introduction for the message you're forwarding, consider letting the recipient know why you're sending the message ("I thought you might be interested in checking this out...") or what you think of it ("I think this is an interesting message because...").
 For Gmail, you can get to your settings tab via the Gear icon., Once again, the specifics will vary depending on the sort of email messaging service you are using. However, all function services should have a tab or section in their settings that relates to forwarding messages. Find the forwarding options, and input the email you would like to have your messages forwarded to. Press Save or Enter (whichever applies to your email service) and the operation should be complete.If you're having any difficulty finding the Forwarding tab, you might try Ctrl+F and doing a word search. With any luck, it should pinpoint the applicable area for you immediately.
 Many email services, like Gmail, offer inbox filters that will help sort through your mail automatically. You can quickly access the filters tab via your inbox. If you're forwarding your mail to a new secondary account, it is recommended you add a filter to this new account to highlight these forwarded messages. That way, you'll know which mail is meant for which account in particular.


For example, you can add your original email address in the filter to come up as highlighted in your new inbox so you'll be able to clearly distinguish the ones sent to your old account.
 Much as you would with regular mail, it's a good idea to make sure the message has been read and received by the other person, particularly if the forwarded message in question has any importance to either party. In the case of automatically forwarding messages to another account of your own, you should send yourself a test email and check the forwarded address to see if anything comes through. If not, you'll have to redo the steps and identify what it is you did wrong.

