 If your maid of honor tends to enjoy a good self-care session, you may opt for a gift that reflects this preference. Give them a custom set of essential oils that they can use in the bath or as a scent to wear on their skin. Or gift them with a spa package of their dreams so they can chill out and treat themselves whenever they want.You can also put together the ultimate stay in basket complete with a bottle of wine, good chocolates, bad DVD movies, and face masks. Or you could give your maid of honor a certificate to a masseuse so they can enjoy a few hours of relaxation.
 If your maid of honor always seems to be traveling or has a passion for travel, give them a gift that will reflect this interest. You may find a map related gift, such as a world map bedspread, a world map poster where they can tack on all the places they have been and intend to go, or even world map themed jewellery. You could make the gift personal by including pictures of places you have traveled together as part of the gift.You may also get them items that they may need on their next trip, such as photography gear, travel clothing, or a travel toiletry set.
 Another popular maid of honor gift is an item of jewellery that will remind them of their important role in the wedding. You may get them a necklace with a pendant that has their initials on it or an image that is representative of your friendship. You could also get them a bracelet or earrings that you feel they would like as a sweet reminder of their role in your wedding.If you are getting the rest of your bridal party gifts such as jewellery, you may make the maid of honor’s jewellery a bit more special. For example, you may add a precious stone to the maid of honor’s jewellery to make it a bit more distinct from the other wedding party gifts.
 If your maid of honor is more into loving gestures than material items, you may give them a gift they can experience. For example, if your maid of honor loves to rock climb, you may get them an hour of free climbing at their local climbing center. Or if your maid of honor enjoys doing yoga, you may get her an unlimited pass for a month at a local yoga studio.Another option is to get the maid of honor an experiential gift they can share with someone else. For example, maybe there is a local restaurant that you both love to go to. You may then get the maid of honor a gift certificate to the restaurant that they can use to take their partner or a friend.

