 Frost can be a major danger for young olive oil trees. In general, opt to plant in spring after temperatures have been consistently warm and there has been no recent frost. Most people plant trees during April or May, but adjust for your region.The more time trees have to grow before winter, the better. Plant your trees as soon as possible after the last expected frost date of the season.
 Purchase potted olive trees online or at a local greenhouse. Seeds on their own are fragile and difficult to cultivate. You should plant trees that are 4 to 5 feet (1.2 to 1.5 m) high and whose branches start at three feet., Measure the trees pot, including its circumference and height. Dig a hole about that deep and wide. You do not have to get the hole the exact number of inches and measure, but the hole should be roughly the same size so that the tree fits comfortably in the soil., Remove the tree from the container, including all the roots. Cut or untwist any circling roots as best you can, but stay away from the root ball. Cutting into this can damage your plants., Use the previously dug soil and surrounding soil to fill in the rest of the hole. Put an inch of topsoil over the root ball. At this time, things like fertilizer and compost should not be added near your tree. The tree should grow out of the native soil initially., Dip emitters are irrigation systems that keep your olive trees properly hydrated. For the first year, they should be placed right next to each tree trunk. The following year, they should be moved 24 inches away from the trunks. A second emitter should be added, also 24 inches away from the trunk.Installing dip emitter is complicated. While you can purchase them at a hardware store, installation is tricky unless you have extensive gardening experience. It is best to hire professionals to install your emitters.
Usually, emitters are hooked up to a water source such as an outside faucet. You then run the tubing across your garden or yard until it gets to the base of your trees. You will then poke holes in the tubing and install a watering device to help irrigate your olive trees., When using dip irrigators, you should water your trees Other mulches can be used instead of coarse straw. Lucerne, soya bean, and pea hay, to name a few, are excellent mulches high in nitrogen and other nutrients to feed the tree.

