 Add ½ cup (118 ml) of whole milk that’s been warmed to a small bowl. Sprinkle a ¼-ounce (7 g) envelope of active dry yeast and a pinch of granulated sugar over the milk, and let the mixture stand until it becomes foamy, which should take approximately 5 minutes.The milk should be between 105 and 115 degrees Fahrenheit (41 to 46 degrees Celsius).
If the yeast mixture doesn’t foam at all, throw it away and start over with a new packet of yeast.;
, Add ¼ cup (50 g) of granulated sugar, 1 large egg, and 1 large egg yolk to a medium size bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until the mixture is smooth.To separate the yolk, break the egg against a flat surface, such as the counter or table. Divide it into two halves over a bowl, and allow the egg to fall into the lower half. Transfer the yolk back and forth between the two halves, so the white drips into the bowl below. Continue moving the yolk back and forth until all of the white has been removed. Save the white for use in another recipe.
 Once the egg, egg yolk, and sugar are mixed, pour the yeast mixture into the bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re fully combined., Add ½ teaspoon (3 g) of kosher salt and 2 cups 9250 g) of all-purpose flour to the bowl of a stand mixer with the paddle attachment in place. Mix on low briefly to just blend the two.You can mix the dough in a food processor if you don’t have a stand mixer.
You can mix the dough by hand with a wooden spoon and a dough cutter. However, it will take more time and effort.
 When the salt and flour are mixed in the stand mixer, pour in the egg mixture. Mix on low until the egg mixture is just incorporated, which should take approximately 30 seconds.Be careful not to overmix or you may wind up with tough babka.
 After the egg mixture is incorporated, replace the mixer’s paddle attachment with the dough hook. Add 7 tablespoons (98 g) of unsalted butter that’s been softened to room temperature and cut into pieces to the bowl, and beat on medium-low until the butter is fully mixed into the dough, which should take 8 to 10 minutes.The finished dough should be smooth, slightly sticky, and stretchy.
 Once the dough has come together, turn it out onto a floured surface. Use clean hands to knead it several times until it becomes even smoother and then form it into a ball.You may want to flour your hands lightly too, so the dough doesn’t stick to them.
 After you’ve kneaded the dough, butter a large, clean bowl and transfer the dough into it. Cover the bowl with a clean towel, and allow the dough to rise for 1 to 2 hours.After you place the dough in the buttered bowl, turn it over a couple of times. That will allow the dough to absorb some of the butter.
For optimal results, place the dough in a warm, draft-free location, such as inside an oven that’s not on, so it can rise more easily.
When the dough is finished rising, it should be approximately double in size.
 Once the dough has risen, punch it down with clean hands. Cover the bowl with plastic wrap, and allow it to chill for at least 4 hours.For the best results, refrigerate the dough overnight.
 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the babka, set the temperature to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully heat. Next, butter a 8 ½-inch by 4 ½-inch (22-cm by 11-cm) loaf pan to keep the babka from sticking.If you prefer, you can grease the pan with non-stick cooking spray.
 Add 3 ounces (85 g) of finely chopped bittersweet chocolate, 2 tablespoons (14 g) of unsweetened cocoa powder, 2 tablespoons (28 g) of unsalted butter, 1 tablespoon (12 ½ g) of granulated sugar, ¼ teaspoon (⅓ g) of ground cinnamon, and ⅛ teaspoon (¾ g) of kosher salt to a heatproof bowl. Toss lightly with a wooden spoon to ensure that the ingredients are mixed.You can substitute semisweet chocolate for the bittersweet if you prefer.
Chocolate chips can work in place of the chopped chocolate.
 Place the bowl with the chocolate mixture over a saucepan that’s full of water simmering on medium heat on the stove. Continue to heat the mixture until the chocolate and butter are melted, which should take 5 to 10 minutes.Stir the mixture periodically while it’s heating to ensure that the chocolate and butter melt evenly.
You can melt the mixture in the microwave if you prefer. Place the ingredients in a microwave-safe bowl, and heat on medium power for 30 seconds. Stir the mixture, and return it to the microwave for another 30 seconds.
 After the dough is finished chilling, turn it out onto a lightly floured surface. Use a rolling pin to roll the dough out into a 22-inch by 12-inch (56-cm by 30-cm) rectangle, making sure that one of the long sides is facing you.If you don’t have a rolling pin, you can substitute a wine bottle, water bottle, or thermos.
 Once the dough is rolled out, use an offset spatula or a butter knife to spread the chocolate filling mixture over it. Make sure that you spread the filling all the way to the edges of the dough without leaving a border., When you’ve covered the dough with the chocolate filling, begin to roll the dough up like a jelly roll. Be that you’re rolling a long side of the dough away from you to get the right shape and size.Try to roll the dough as tightly as you can while maintaining the log’s thickness.
Pinch the ends of the logs shut to close them and keep the filling from leaking out.
 After you’ve finished rolling up the log, use a sharp knife to cut it in half horizontally. Arrange the two halves so they’re side by side and touching.Make sure that the long sides of the logs are still facing you.
 That creates the “X” shape that will allow you to form the twists for the babka., Take the two ends on one side of the “X” and twist them together twice. Next, grab the ends on the other side of the “X,” and twist them together twice as well.In the end, you’ll have a total of four twists.
 Once you’ve shaped the dough, carefully lift it from the floured surface and place it in the greased pan. Cover the pan with a clean towel, and allow the dough to rise in a warm spot for an hour to an hour and a half.If you prefer, you can cover the pan with plastic wrap and let the dough rise in the refrigerator overnight.
 Add 2 tablespoons (25 g) of dark brown sugar, the remaining 1 tablespoon (12 ½ g) of granulated sugar, ½ teaspoon (1 ¼ g) of ground cinnamon, and ⅛ teaspoon (¾ g) of salt to a medium bowl. Use a spoon to stir the ingredients together until they’re fully blended., Once the sugar and cinnamon mixture is blended, add the remaining 2 tablespoons (28 g) of melted butter to the bowl. Mix well until the butter is fully incorporated.You may find it easier to mix in the butter with a whisk rather than a spoon.
 After you’ve incorporated the butter, add 5 tablespoons (39 g) of all-purpose flour to the bowl. Use a fork to lightly toss the ingredients until moist clumps form.The streusel will have a slightly wet appearance when you’re finished mixing it.
If you aren’t planning to top the babka with the streusel right away, store it in the refrigerator until you’re ready to use it. Allow it to come to room temperature before sprinkling it on the babka, though.
 Add 1 egg and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of heavy cream to a separate small bowl. Whisk the two ingredients together to create a light, frothy egg wash., Once the egg wash is mixed, use a pastry brush to apply to the top of the dough. Next, use your fingers to spread the streusel over the babka as evenly as possible.If you don’t have a pastry brush, fold a piece of parchment or wax paper into a strip and use it to paint the egg wash onto the dough.
You can omit the egg wash and streusel topping if you prefer.
 After you’ve sprinkled the streusel over the babka, put the pan in the preheated oven. Allow the babka to bake for 50 to 55 minutes, or until the top becomes golden brown.You can also test the babka’s doneness with a toothpick or knife. Stick it in the center -- it shouldn’t meet any resistance and should emerge clean when you pull it out.
 When the babka is finished baking, remove the pan from the oven. Place it on a wire cooling rack, and let it cool for 15 to 20 minutes., When the babka has cooled slightly, run a knife around it along the inside of the pan to loosen it. Flip the pan over to turn it out on the cooling rack, and allow it to cool for another 20 to 30 minutes before cutting it.The babka will stay fresh for 3 to 5 days at room temperature.
If you want to freeze the babka, wrap it in plastic wrap and then foil. It will keep in the freezer for up to 3 months.

