 Keep a positive while you’re at work. Remember to smile. Positive attitudes are contagious and will rub off on your coworkers. Positive attitudes can also help to increase your own motivation, and the motivation of those around you. Other people tend to feel inspired by those with positive attitudes.Being positive doesn’t mean you have to be that super happy and peppy person that people find extremely annoying. This type of attitude will end up having the opposite of a positive attitude on those around you.;
, Personal problem belong at home. Try not to bring them to work if you can help it. (And try not to bring your work problems home.) Your coworkers, while they may care about you, don’t deserve to suffer the bad mood you may have from those personal problems. If you find you’re unable to leave your personal problems at home, it may be a wise decision to stay at home with those problems until they’re resolved.
 If you want to be popular at work, you can start by listening to your coworkers, especially without any distractions. This undivided attention will make your coworker feel more confident about what they’re talking to you about. And paying attention to your coworker without distractions conveys the message that you are taking your coworker seriously.When talking to your coworkers, put down the smartphone and give your undivided attention to your coworker.
Being a good listener will become a part of your new popular reputation. Coworkers will remember you as someone who listens and will seek you out more often for your advice.
Use active listening techniques when talking with coworkers. Those techniques include: make sure you understand what your coworker is trying to say, ask clarifying questions if needed; wait to express any judgement associated with what your coworker is saying until you fully understand their perspective; don’t interrupt if your coworker goes silent, allow them time to think., Your popularity at work should be based on the fact that your coworkers like YOU, not someone you’re pretending to be. Don’t hide behind a façade at work, be yourself., People are naturally drawn to confident people. Confident people can help others feel confident too, and take away worries and uncertainties. When at work, be confident in yourself and in your abilities. This will not go unnoticed and your coworkers will think of you as a competent, 'go-to’ person who makes them feel comfortable. Some ways to show your confidence are:Use your positive attitude to be a role model for others. Demonstrate your positivity by being able to do your job without listening to office gossip.
Don’t react negatively to the things your boss or your coworker’s do.
If you’ve already decided on a particular option, don’t hesitate when asked about it.
Know your strengths and use them to your advantage.
Avoid projecting any kind of territoriality.
Use body language to express your confidence — stand up straight, smile, keep your hands out of your pockets, don’t fidget, make eye contact, avoid crossing your arms in front of you, don’t talk fast., One of the hardest things to do is admit you’ve made a mistake about something. But people who do own up to their mistakes are remembered as being honest and trustworthy. If you make a mistake, admit it. Apologize if necessary. Don’t dwell on your mistake other than to treat it as a lesson of what not to do next time.Admitting your mistakes also means forgiving your coworkers for the mistakes they make.
 Passionate people tend to be happier and positive, because they have a passion that drives them. The passion you have for your job can rub off on your coworkers when they see how happy and positive you are. Plus your passion is a great motivator for you and your coworkers.


If you don’t already know what you’re passionate about, stop and think about it for a while. Even if you aren’t passionate about your job as a whole, there must be a specific task or responsibility you have that you are passionate about.

