 Whether it is your newborn baby or a 10 year old kid. Buying secondhand will most certainly save you money. A lot of the second hand clothes are actually in a better condition than you may imagine! You may find some of the charity shops in the market you go for shopping. Otherwise, you may find some on the Internet; however it is advised that you be careful while shopping online.;
, You could also buy new shirts of 0 sizes, with your kid's favorite character on it and cut that to put it on their own shirts. Size 0 shirts are relatively low priced, thus can be bought to make your kids happy and save at the same time.
 Perhaps you can find a toy that would otherwise cost you a shiny dime. You would need them in future too. When you have a newborn, you have lots of time to search for his/her toys. You can be picky at charity shops, although if you're lucky enough, you may just find the thing you were looking for!


Take your time, and find toys of your choice to give them to your kids when they reach that age.
Shop smartly from charity shops as they sometimes are dearer to the new ones! 

, Your library will lend you many items for free. In charity shops, books are relatively low priced so go for it. Books are the best toys for kids; they are informational and are excellent boredom-busters.


You can find some sites that offer a free exchange of items. Freecycle.org is one such site. You can also find cheap clothing on various other sites. Amazon and eBay also offer a secondhand section in their site list It is always advised that you exercise caution while shopping for secondhand products online. 

, There are countless games that one can play with a set of 52 cards. You can play the classics such as Hearts, BlackJack, Gin or Solitaire or you can even make up your own card game!

, Origami sets are inexpensive and are a lot of fun. They are also good for your child's visual, tactile and mental development. 

, A good drawer is a necessity of the room and a toy for the kids to play with.


It will teach them the concept of tidy up and make them organized. 

, It is not rocket science and is fairly easy once you get the hang of it! You can also find free offers from new hair dressers on Internet and in shops. This is worth finding! 

, They are usually free all the time instead of spending a wholesome amount at leisure clubs.
 Cooking can be fun too! Experimenting with new ideas and recipes to make a mouth-watering dish is an art in itself. This will also help them in their lives ahead and make them more independent.
 Not every toy has to be an expensive robot or a RC car. Common household objects such as used up CD's can be a fun thing to play around with.

