 Excess waste leads to overflowing landfills. They pollute land, the water and the air, making life worse for everyone who lives nearby. When it comes to waste, there are plenty of ways to make your habits greener. Here are a few ideas:


Buy goods without a lot of packaging. For example, buy your food in bulk, rather than getting individually-wrapped packets with one serving size each.Recycle and reuse as often as possible. You'll quickly see how much packaging comes into your home when you make the goal of recycling or reusing all of it.
Compost your food scraps. Food scraps are biodegradable, so there's no reason for them to end up in a landfill.
 This is an easy, extremely helpful way to be green. Many wild places have been destroyed by humans, so native plants and animals need all the help they can get to survive. Make your yard a safe haven for any wild creatures that need a home. You'll find that it won't take long for your yard to be alive with wildlife.Don't treat your yard with pesticides or herbicides.
Set aside a section of your yard to leave unmowed. Let the natural grasses and weeds grow as tall as they'd like. This encourages wildlife to move in.
Plant butterfly bush and other plants that attract butterflies and bees.
Set up a birdfeeder and a birdbath. You can also set up a squirrel feeder and a bat box.
Make a small pond to serve as a water source for animals.
Don't kill, trap or scare away snakes, frogs, lizards, moles, raccoons, opossums, or other creatures who want to live in your yard.
 In most climates, the land is healthier when it has plenty of trees. Trees keep soil from eroding, clean the air, and provide shelter for wildlife. Trees also help to combat global warming by shading the ground and keeping temperatures down. Planting tree is one of the best ways to literally go green.Find out what trees are native to your area. Plant them in areas where there are too few trees.
Join with a local group working to stop forests from being clear cut  in your area to make way for developments.
 More animals go extinct every day, and it's up to each one of us to save those who are left. One way to do this is to start thinking of animals as valuable creatures with a right to live and thrive on earth, just like us. Whether or not you consider yourself an animal lover, take these steps to be greener:Take care of wild places, like beaches and forests, that provide habitats for animals.
Make sustainable eating choices when it comes to the way you consume fish and meat.
Speak up on behalf of animals. For example, if a developer in your area wants to put up a cell phone tower directly in an endangered bird species' flight path, find ways to speak up against the development.
 Depending on where you live, your community might be dealing with threats such as mountaintop removal, fracking, clearcutting, strip mining, and more. Educate yourself on the environmental threats in your area so you know how you can best help. Remember that the best way to be greener is to go beyond personal actions and make your voice heard.

