 Place the foot corresponding to your non-dominant hand in front of the other. For example, if you are right-handed, put your left foot forward. Let your feet find a natural and comfortable position; the best way to do this is to take a normal step, then pause and stabilize your weight. For blocking low strikes, it is generally easier to defend from a walking (shizentai-dachi) or cat stance (nekoashi-dachi), as this allows you to defend the lower body without the legs getting in the way of the block.Gedan barai can be employed from many different defensive stances, but stances with the legs staggered are the most natural as they put the body in a less clumsy position to protect the hips, groin and legs.
In nekoashi-dachi (cat stance), the weight is poised mostly over the back foot, with the heel of the front foot raised to enable a quick transitional movement or kick. This positioning closely resembles a boxer’s fighting stance., Bring your blocking arm across your body until your fist is positioned beside your opposite ear. As you initiate the block, you will quickly reverse this motion, creating enough momentum to slow or stop the oncoming strike.In a downward block, the blocking arm should pass from the opposite shoulder down to the lead hip. Keep the fist close to the body and use the leverage of the hips and shoulders to stabilize the blocking arm.
 From your opposite shoulder, bring your blocking arm down and across your body forcefully to intercept the strike. Your fist should stop a few inches above your lead leg, forearm parallel with your thigh. Tense your arm and shoulder at the moment of impact to ensure that the strike doesn’t break through your defense.The purpose of the downward block is not so much to stop an attack outright, but to minimize its impact and do damage to the opponent’s attacking limb.
Gedan barai is useful for breaking a grab and defending against uppercuts and hooks to the body.
 Once the attack has been defended, launch a strike of your own to fend off or incapacitate your opponent. One benefit of a staggered stance is that it allows for greater diversity in your choice of counter attack. You can respond with a straight punch thrown from the hip, but will also be in a position to throw a kick or knee strike with the rear leg. Strike at an undefended point on your opponent’s body, and be prepared to defend against any other follow-up attacks.Though they are somewhat less stable than deeper defensive postures, cat stance and walking stance arguably offer a greater variety of offensive options.

