 Before you commit to using a internal condom, you should be aware of the advantages and disadvantages of using it instead of another form of birth control. Here are the pros and cons of using a internal condom:Advantages:

The internal  condom does not require a prescription and is therefore pretty easy to get. You can find it in most drugstores and some supermarkets.
Internal condoms let people share the responsibility for preventing infection.
Unlike the birth control pill, the internal condom doesn't have an effect on a person's natural hormones. (Though it may be used along with birth control pills for extra prevention, of course.)
It can stay in place even if a partner loses their erection.
It can enhance your sexual experience. The external ring can stimulate the clitoris during vaginal intercourse.
It is made with polyurethane instead of latex and can therefore be used by people with a latex allergy.
It can be inserted up to a few hours before intercourse -- and remember that you can use the bathroom while the condom is inserted.



Disadvantages:

The internal condom may irritate the vagina, vulva, penis, or anus (if it's being used anally).
It may slip into the vagina during intercourse.
It can be a bit tough to insert it, especially at first.
Wearing the internal condom can create a louder noise during sex, though this can be controlled with more lubricant.

;
, The condom works like a male condom but it's inserted into the vagina. It even looks somewhat like a large external condom, except it has a flexible inner ring that will be inserted into the vagina, and an outer ring that will hang about an inch from the vagina. Once the condom is inserted, the person can insert their penis into the condom. When they ejaculate into the condom, it should be removed.The female condom can be effectively inserted into the vagina or the anus, and the method for insertion is very similar.Remember that if you are wearing a female condom, the male should not wear a condom. This will create friction that can cause one or both of the condoms to tear.
 Before you use the female condom, check the expiration date on the package to make sure that you can still use it. Then, use your fingers to delicately smooth down the package to make sure that the lubricant is distributed evenly throughout the package.

