 Exposure to excessive amounts of sunlight will cause acne scars to darken (hyper-pigmentation) while hindering the healing process — this includes tanning and sunbathing. Be careful to avoid direct sunlight, especially during peak hours in the afternoon.


Apply sunscreen (broad-spectrum SPF 30) liberally before you go out, and reapply two hours later. Try to find brands that will not clog skin pores.
Wear a wide-brimmed hat and sunglasses for extra protection. If your scars are on your arms, neck, or back, cover those with clothing as well.
 Largely made from collagen, scars are the body's natural way of healing itself. Picking and squeezing your acne or acne scars will further irritate the skin tissue and keep it from properly healing.


Instead, wash with a gentle cleanser to get rid of the oils and dirt that cause acne. You might also try over-the-counter acne products. Look for products that have benzoyl peroxide as the active ingredient.Watch what touches your skin. Keep your hair clean and swept away from your face, and avoid resting hands or objects like phones on your face.
 There is a balance between under-washing and over-washing skin. Under-washing leaves excess skin cells, oil, bacteria, and other debris on the skin, potentially clogging pores and creating blemishes. Over-washing irritates and dries the skin, contributing to excess oil production and more breakouts. Refrain from washing problem areas more than twice a day. When washing, use gentle cleansers with smooth grains and light scrubbing to exfoliate. Avoid products containing large grains, such as almond or apricot shell fragments, that will potentially damage or irritate the skin.


Showering is especially important following exercise and/or heavy perspiration to prevent bacterial growth on the skin.

Wash your hands when soiled and avoid touching your face or other problem areas. Touch can drive bacteria and debris into hair follicles, causing acne.
 Products containing isopropyl alcohol will strip the top layer of skin and dry it out. As a result sebaceous glands in the skin will produce more oil, possibly worsening or causing more breakouts.
 It is tempting to just throw anything and everything at your acne and acne scars. This, however, is usually not effective. Talk with your dermatologist and devise a targeted plan for attacking your scars.


Your plan might involve an oral antibiotic, a topical retinoid, and a fade cream. Your doctor might also prescribe something to bring your acne under long-term control.
Treat your scars with your doctor’s guidance. Most of all, be patient as your skin gets clearer.

