 Don't want to shell out your hard-earned cash on expensive makeup? Try one of these home remedies. You may already have the ingredients in your kitchen (at worst, you may need to make a trip to the grocery store.) For example, beetroot, which is often sold at health food stores, contains a powerful red pigment — in fact, earlier in history, it was used as a dye. Carefully rubbing beetroot on your cheeks can give them a subtle pink hue, though it's important not to over-apply this strong dye.


Be gentle when using beetroot, as its natural dyes can easily stain fabrics.
Remove beetroot from your cheeks by rubbing with a slice of lemon., Mixing just a splash of a red-colored fruit juice (like grape or pomegranate) into your daily facial rub or lotion is one easy way to give your product mild "rosy" properties. Plus, it usually smells great. Add only a small dash of your juice — no more than a teaspoon or so. Using too much can leave you with a watery rub that leaves your cheeks feeling sticky once it dries.
 Mild, non-greasy vegetable oils have long been used to give the skin an attractive natural "glow." In fact, the ancient Romans used olive oil as a sort of skin lotion to make themselves look good after bathing.You can get the same effect today by rubbing a small dot of vegetable oil into each cheek — the natural sheen you get will bring out your cheeks' gorgeous natural complexion. Below are a few oils that are generally safe for this sort of use:Grapeseed oil
Olive oil
Sunflower oil
Apricot kernel oil

Note:If you get acne easily, you may want to be cautious with this method, as some greasier oils can clog pores and lead to outbreaks.
 If you're looking to pamper yourself, consider a rose petal rub. The natural pigments in the petals will help add color to your cheeks and, if you're using petals from a fragrant rose, they'll have a natural perfuming effect.


To make your rose petal rub, combine about half a cup of rose petals with 1 cup of sugar, 1/2 cup of virgin coconut oil (or one of the oils above), and about 20 drops of essential rose oil if you have it. Mix the ingredients, grinding the rose petals into the mixture as you go (a mortar and pestle or food processor can be helpful here.) Gently rub the mixture onto your cheeks after bathing, then rinse off and pat dry.