 Look at the prices and coverage levels of several different travel insurance policies before you commit to one.If you plan to buy travel insurance, you should purchase it either on the same day you book your trip or as soon afterward as possible.
If you travel frequently, you may want to consider a multi-trip or annual policy, which can save you both time and money compared to purchasing travel insurance for each trip separately.
Different policies cover travel for different lengths of time, and cover different types of risks. Typically the more risks are covered, the more expensive the policy will be.
You may want to check with a third-party such as a travel agent or a travel website if you're unsure about different types of policies.
You also should consider talking to friends, particularly if you know someone who is a frequent traveler or who just returned from a trip similar to the one you want to take. In addition to their recommendations, their stories can help you assess the risks you might encounter on your trip.
 Which policy is the best fit for you will depend on where you're going, how long you'll be gone, and the reasons for your trip.The policy that will work best for you also depends on how much risk you are willing to take. That may fluctuate depending on where you plan to travel. For example, you may want more comprehensive coverage if you're planning a safari in Africa than you would want if you were visiting Toronto for a week to stay with friends.
Travel insurance may go beyond compensation for canceled flights to include medical or legal expenses as well as coverage for personal liability while you're on your trip.
 Once you've purchased your travel insurance policy, make sure you update your carrier if any plans or details change that might affect your coverage.You typically must notify your carrier if you change travel plans, particularly the date of your departure or locations you plan to visit.
You also should notify your carrier if you expand your trip, causing your travel expenses to increase significantly, as the cost of your trip typically affects the maximum amount your policy covers.
Additionally, your policy is designed to cover your trip based on the costs you provide. Any difference between the actual cost and the figures you gave your insurance company can result in a claim being denied., Review the claim forms and information before your trip begins so you have a sense of the types of information your carrier requires to process a claim.You typically will need information about your trip including your dates of travel, as well as copies of receipts for any expenses you incurred as result of the cancellation.
If your flight is delayed or canceled, contact the airline and ask for a verification letter. The insurance company may require it to process your claim., Your claim is less likely to be denied if you file it soon after your flight is canceled, rather than racking up additional expenses.Travel insurance companies typically only cover a certain amount of related expenses per day, so it's in your best interest to mitigate your damages to the extent possible.
When you file your claim, make sure you've included all requested information and documentation.

