 If you accept a call before you have a chance to realize that it’s an automated message, get off the line right away. Don’t say anything, don’t press any buttons, just disconnect. Any type of response or interaction can signal to the caller that there’s a living, breathing person on the other end of the line that is willing to accept their calls. If they think you’re receptive, they’ll redouble their efforts, and the problem will just get worse.Make a mental note of who’s calling so you can report them later if need be.
If you’re on a landline that has Caller ID, go back and record the number so that you don’t make the same mistake should they call back.
 Pay attention to the name of the person or business indicated in the message so that you can later put in a request for them to stop calling you. Also, think back on anything you might have put your phone number on that could become an issue down the line. Go back and tell these callers you don’t wish to be contacted any further. It’s a hassle, but it may be necessary to bring the madness to an end.In most cases, recurring calls won’t stop until you get your number taken off the list.
 The Do Not Call Registry is an index of US phone numbers that are unlawful for sales-motivated entities to dial. It’s free to register your cell number, household landline or both, and, best of all, it stays on there forever. This won’t keep illegal scammers from trying to take advantage of you, but it will at least put a stop to above-board callers like department stores, doctor’s offices and telemarketers once and for all.The Do Not Call Registry makes a great failsafe for those receiving automated calls on a landline or house phone.
This service is run by the Federal Trade Commission, which can legally prosecute businesses who fail to heed the provisions it sets out.
 American citizens are protected under privacy laws created by the Federal Trade Commission. If you’re being harassed by automated calls from unlisted numbers, or a company fails to stop calling you after you’ve asked them to, your next course of action is to file a formal complaint with the FTC. They’ll issue a stern cease-and-desist to the sources of these robocalls, giving you the satisfaction of a hard-fought victory and some peace and quiet at last.It is technically against the law for businesses to send out robocalls to private cell numbers.Be ready to supply the FTC with the name or title of the caller, as well as the nature of the messages you’ve been receiving.

