 We humans are well-tuned to each others body language on a subconscious level (you can usually know that someone is frustrated or upset at you without them even saying anything) but we do not have the same instinct for dog body language. To "listen" to your dog you'll need to be more conscientious.
 For example, among the signs below, for two or three weeks pay attention only to your dog's tail.
 As you become familiar with your dog's nuances with his tail, spend another few weeks paying attention specifically to his posture.
 Your dog is unique and while the signs below are a good place to start, if your dog's body language does not match up with its actions according to the guide below, then accept that your dog may have a different "body language vocabulary".
 It mean the dog is relaxed, but alert. He's waiting in anticipation of something happening. He or she expects something to happen (for example, a walk).;
, It means the dog is telling you that he doesn't understand your command, and is asking you what he wants himself to do.
 It means that he's issuing a quiet challenge to your authority, since he feels that he is the dominant dog.
 It means the dog is acknowledging to you that you are in charge. He is prepared to listen to you.
 It means that he's projecting a high degree of alertness.
 It means the dog has accepted your challenge.
 It means he's letting others know that he is the leader of the pack. It's only a "gesture of a very confident canine."

, It means he's relaxed and content with the way things go.
 It means the dog is uncertain or just has the "blahs". Play with the dog, or do something out of the ordinary, for a little while.
 It means the dog is critically in fear of something painful happening.
 It means the dog is responding to a challenge or threat, and is letting his adversary know there's no way that he's not backing down. War will ensue, if two dogs adopt this stance.
 It means the dog is telling you that he accepts your dominance.
 It means something in the situation is making him unsure of himself or of what will happen next. The paw will return to the floor, when he knows the clear understanding of what's going on.
 It means two rivals have resolved the issues between them and the dog it's being placed on, is the submissive dog.
 This is an attention grabbing device. Do not interpret this as a challenge to your authority.
 This means he's eager for you to pay attention to him. He's challenging you and expects you to respond firmly.
 This means he thinks he's in charge and that if you don't accept, misbehavior ensues.
 This action means that he's letting you know that he's ready to play.
 This means he's giving you a submissive message ( such as under a possible ensuing punishment).
 This action means he's expressing nasty aggression. but don't run away from the dog-back away from the dog super-slowly.
 This action means that he's expressing curiosity and that he's paying attention to any new event in his environment. Make sure the tone of your voice and your gestures express the same mood.
 This action means the dog is expressing fear. He's reflexively trying to get his ears out of the way of whatever he perceives to be threatening to him.
 This action is a mild signal of discontent and it will usually pass by without intervention.
 This action means he's very mad and won't take it.
 Yawning means he's miffed and is the canine reflex reaction to stress.
 This action means his wanting to let the challenger know that a fight is not in the cards. If the aggressor continues to menace, look for obvious display of mission (rolling over)., This action means that he's protecting his turf (such as while he's eating), This action is a low key sign to tone down the intensity of whatever is happening between your pet and you.
 This action means they're relaxed and happy. Take advantage of it, by indulging in a little gentle playtime.

