 Provide the website with an email address and come up with your own username. Your username will become your own personal account so you'll be able to buy and sell on eBay. You'll provide the website with your credit card number or bank account information.


When you sign up, you'll need to provide the online public auction site with your credit card number or bank account information. The company will use this information to handle any fees or payments in accordance to the terms of agreement.;
, You can use 1 of the online vendors that eBay recommends or another authorized vendor. You may need to create a separate account with your payment processor.
 You may want to price your listing as competitively as possible to help attract attention.



The listing will let the shopper know that you have a used item for sale, but it can only help to include specific details about any cosmetic blemishes or defects the item may have.
Be upfront and honest about the true condition of what you're selling to give the person a realistic gauge of what he is about to purchase.
 This is a simple process and the online public auction site walks users through it step-by-step.


Inform shoppers of everything they may need to know, such as actual measurements of the clubs or whether or not an accessory comes in sealed packaging direct from the manufacturer.
Take quality photos of your golf club or accessory listing. You can choose one photo or several. Having an accurate photo will allow shoppers to see what they're buying. Save your photos on your computer so you can access them quickly when creating your listing to sell on eBay.
Upload photo(s) to eBay's site and type in the description of what you're selling. Make sure you include photos that are clear and that show a potential buyer what the product looks like. This will help buyers to make their own decision about purchasing whatever it is you are attempting to sell.
Enter shipping information for your listing. When you are selling golf clubs, shipping is an expense the customer should pay. Once eBay receives your payment, you'll have a predetermined amount of time (2 to 5 days, for example) before you'll need to ship the item(s).
 Once the listing is public, people can beginning bidding or buying your golf clubs and accessories.
 As you wait, make sure you answer any questions a buyer might have. Emailing someone back promptly with the answer to a question could very well mean the difference between selling items or not. The buyer will certainly appreciate your help.
