 Location is important when you are planning your garden. Most importantly, determine if the area you want to use gets enough sun. Then, consider if the size is appropriate for what you want to do with it and also consider how you will water this garden. You should either be able to pull a hose over to it if it is a large garden, or be able to carry a full watering can to it if it is smaller.


If you are going to be growing a container garden, it is still important to identify a suitable area to place the containers. The area should have good sunlight, enough room for the plants to grow upwards, and they should be easy to transport to a source of water or located somewhere that is convenient to bring water to them.
 Good soil will have an adequate amount of lime, phosphorus, nitrogen, and potassium. Find out how much of each you have in your soil, and what you need to add more of to get the best growing plants. If you are planting a container garden, then you don’t need to worry about this. You can just use potting soil that is appropriate for the type of plants you will be growing.


You can purchase an at-home soil testing kit from many hardware and garden stores. Follow the directions to find out the properties of your garden soil.
You can take soil samples from around your garden and have them sent to your local state-certified soil testing lab or university extension service, and for a small fee they will lab-test your soil and send you the results within a week. This is much easier than testing the soil yourself, but it does cost more.
Take multiple soil samples from around your garden to make sure that you are getting accurate test results.

Test your soil’s pH to see if you need to make changes to balance it. To do this, use a pH testing kit or make your own test at home and check the soil from your garden. Certain plants prefer different pH levels, but it is best to have soil that is as close to neutral - a pH of 7 -as possible., It is important to find out information about growing conditions in your area. Look online, speak to a local garden consultant, or call your cooperative extension service.


Find out when frosts start and end on average, so you know the right time to plant. Planting too early or too late can kill your seeds or plants, so it is vital to know when the best time to start is.
Learn about local weather patterns that might impact your garden.
Look-up the best time to harvest your fruits, berries, and vegetables in your area. Some of these may be straightforward, but some plants require a little more know-how about when the best time to harvest them is.
Make a schedule of when each of your specific plants needs to be planted based on their habitat requirement and growing needs. Some plants may need to be started very early in the season, while others may not need planting until the summer., To make gardening as easy and relaxing as possible, it is important that you have all the right tools. Use a shovel, gardening trowel, a garden fork, baskets or buckets to hold weeds, and a watering can at least. You can purchase other tools, but it is not necessary for a small to medium sized garden.


For a large garden you may also need to purchase a wheelbarrow, rakes and hoes, loppers, and a post-hole digger.
Look into installing an automatic sprinkler system if you don’t have time or the ability to hand-water your garden., Once you have your soil and pH tests completed, ready your soil by adding the necessary nutrients to help your plants grow.


Add organic matter to help enrich your soil with nutrients. You can use compost (from your own compost pile, if you have one), decomposing leaves, peat moss, or decomposed animal manure. All of these are available for purchase at local gardening centers if you don’t have easy access to them.
Add fertilizer to your soil to help substitute in nitrogen, phosphorous, or potassium that you may be lacking. The label on the fertilizer bag will tell you exactly how much of each of these nutrients is present. 5-10-5, for example, tells you that the fertilizer contains 5% nitrogen, 10% phosphorous, and 5% potassium.
Following the results of your pH test, if your soil is alkaline (above 7), try adding lime or wood ash to neutralize it. If your soil is acidic (below 7), add peat moss or decomposing leaves.