 Once your device is ready for use, look for an app called iBooks. It comes standard with most iPads, and is easily recognizable by the book icon on it.


You might have to swipe through a few pages on your device before finding the iBooks app.;
, If you can't find the app on your iPad, you'll have to download it through the App Store. To do so, simply tap on the App Store application. Then, enter iBooks in the search bar. Once the results come up, tap on the small, rectangular GET button next to the app.


If the iBooks app is already on your tablet, but you weren't able to locate it, the App Store will tell you.
If you already have the app, you'll see only one option: to Open iBooks. Tap on it to launch iBooks.
 If you were able to find iBooks on your tablet, tap the app to open iBooks. Once you're on the Books screen, you'll see a few Apple book categories: Favorites, Bestsellers, Popular On iBooks, Books Made Into Movies, and more.


If you don't have a particular book in mind, it's always a good idea to browse through the book offerings. You might come across something you like.
 Look to the upper right hand corner of your iBooks screen, and locate the search bar. Type in the title of your desired book, or just the author.
 Once you've found the book you were looking for through the search option, tap on the small rectangle next to the e-book icon in order to download it. Your iPad will ask you to Sign In To iTunes with your iTunes password. Enter your password, then tap on OK.


If the book can be downloaded for free, the small rectangle will read GET.
If the book must be purchased, it'll say the price inside of the small rectangle.
 Once you've completed the download process, look to the lower left hand side of your iBooks screen. The farthest left options will say My Books. Tap on it to view your downloaded book(s).
 Simply tap on the book of your choice, and iBooks will launch it. To turn the pages, simply swipe your finger from the right to the left of your device screen.

