 This will really help you out when trying to figure out what to do to entertain them.;
, The toy should be one of the toys the baby already has. If it's a toy that you brought, make sure that you washed it thoroughly ahead of time and that it is not too small to play with. If the baby starts sucking on the toy don't be grossed out or alarmed, as this is a way for the baby to further explore the toy will their sense of taste. Here are a few good toys to bring for the baby if you are bringing toys:


rattles
small stuffed animals/stuffed dolls/stuffed puppets (as long as the toys is not too small and that the toy isn't a dollar store one as if the baby is teething, he/she may break pieces off of the toys and swallow it)
water toys like funnels and rubber ducks (it's best not to let baby suck on these toys, and while near the water when playing will the toys, keep a firm grip on the baby and do not let the baby fall in or put the baby in intentionally)

, Try bringing a picture book or a kid-friendly magazine like National Geographic Kids or Chirp so that you can show the baby the pictures in the magazine/book. You can also simply change baby's surroundings a bit. Do this by taking a bit of a walk inside or outside the house, letting them look out the window, or turning on the T.V, changing it to a kid-friendly channel like Treehouse, or TVO Kids. You can also let them study your face if they haven't seen you before or if they haven't seen you often. If they are familiar with you, try making funny faces (like 'fish' faces, sticking your tongue out and so on) at them and see if you get a reaction.
 For touch, tickle them, rub different textured things (like felt, faux fur, a soft fabric and so on) against their skin, blow gently on their skin, and walk your fingers up their arms and legs. For sight, show them pictures from kid-friendly magazines and picture books, change their surroundings, and make funny faces (see previous step for more). For hearing, make different sounds/noises (ring a bell, tap your fingernail against something, and so on), whistle and make clucking noises with your tongue, and simply talk to them using different tones and pitches. For taste, let them suck on their thumbs and toys (see step 2 for a little more on this), and possibly give them a new flavour of baby food or something like that. For smell, bring a few mildly smelly things with you (flowers are ideal) and let them smell them (don't let them suck on it though!).
 This can be quite entertaining for both the baby, and you! Also, if they say something that sounds like it could be developed into a word (for example, if they say 'ma, mama, da, or dada' say, 'daddy', or 'mommy'.)

, You can try to think of more games, but here are a few suggestions:


Peek-A-Boo--- First, hide your face with your hands. Say, "Where am I? Where is *insert your name here*?" Then, remove your hands and say, "Peek-A-Boo! Here I am!" Put a happy, excited expression on your face as you remove your hands. Do this a few more times. As baby becomes familiar with the game, gently take baby's hands, and put them over their face without touching their hands to their face. Then say, "Where are you? Where is *insert baby's name here*?" Then, remove their hands from their face and say, "Peek-A-Boo! There you are!" This game is a really fun and exciting game for babies.
I Spy Junior--- First, say "I Spy with my little eye..." name the thing that you are thinking of, and then describe the object. For example, if your item is baby's bib and it is pink with a purple giraffe on it, say "I Spy with my little eye, baby's pink bib with a purple giraffe!" You could also say, "I Spy with my little eye, baby's bib! It is pink, and it has a purple giraffe on it!" If you can pick up the object, pick the object up and show it to them. Then say, "Here is the *insert object's name here*!" If you can't pick it up, walk over to the object and say, "This is the *insert object name here*!" Then describe it telling baby what colour it is, what the texture is like, and other interesting and important little details.
Bouncing On Knee Games--- Sit down, and hold baby on your lap. Make sure that baby is in a sitting position. Then, bounce your knee up and down, but don't bounce it too much. While bouncing baby, recite a cute nursery rhyme or make up your own rhyme.
 Use some finger puppets, dollar store puppets, or even homemade ones. You can also use oragami figurines to put on the show. Try having baby as one of the characters! Give the character baby's name and make sure that the character is the main character and that the character is very kind and has a nice personality. Have fun with the show and try to make baby giggle and smile.
 Baby may not be able to understand the story/poem because of how young they are, but the baby will enjoy hearing your voice and will still have fun.
 If you are positive and have fun, baby will most likely have fun with you!

