 Try to break loose any buildup and be sure to scrub the entire surface, as removing excess dirtiness will make your job easier overall. Dirt on washing implements can scratch your paint job., Add one cup of baking soda to a gallon of soapy hot water to make a powerful cutting agent, especially for your car's winter buildup.
 Dab peanut butter or solid shortening onto the effected area of your car and allow it to sit for about a minute. After that, try wiping off with a cloth. This may take a few attempts before you completely remove the sap.


Denatured alcohol also dissipates tar and sap well., Shampoo is a great household cleanser you can use to cut grease and grime on the body of your car. Baby shampoo is ideal, as its gentle ingredients won't harm your car's paint., Make sure that you scrub with a soft cloth so you don't scratch your car's paint. Be sure not to use too much shampoo, as undiluted cleaners can also damage your car's paint.
 If you have difficulty reaching the roof, hood, or other places, this is a great scrubber that can help you out.
,, This will remove excess grunge from the surfaces of your car and prevent you spreading dirtiness to your seats or floor.
 Stains on your leather or vinyl seats can be removed by gently scrubbing the affected area with toothpaste.



Always test your cleaner on a small area. There is a chance that the dye can be affected by the cleaning agent.
 Lightly dab your stain after you've tested the alcohol on the surface you will be cleaning.


The more alcohol you use, the harsher the solution will be, and the more likely it will bleach whatever color your car might be dyed.
 Spray this mixture on hard surfaces and then wipe them with used fabric softener sheets so you don't leave lint behind.
 This is another great combination for beating interior dirt and grime. The shine it leaves behind on your leather seats is an added bonus., This will absorb the smells and odors and keep your car fresh. If you do not smoke, you can leave some baking soda in your ashtray as an air purifier.
 Clear out any garbage or dust that might have accumulated there. Often, forgotten items, like snacks, spoil in glove compartments and make your car seem less clean than it actually is.
 Mix one part fresh lemon juice with two parts olive oil in a small bowl of your choosing. Do not apply this solution to pedals, levers, or anything you need to drive. This protectant leaves behind a smooth seal that you don't want to slip on while operating your vehicle., Rub this solution over the dashboard, plastic surfaces, and vinyl surfaces. It will give the hard surfaces of your car a beautiful shine.
 Failing to do this can make your job more difficult by rubbing in or spreading a fabric stain., Sprinkle these kind of stains with cornstarch and set your timer for 30 minutes. When your time expires, vacuum the cornstarch and check the condition of the stain.Some experts recommend using a little water with the cornstarch to make a paste. Allow the paste to dry, then brush away the powder and grease., Apply your mixture to stains and allow for a short soak before blotting.
 If this doesn't work, you can scrub lightly or try a heavy duty cleaner. Certain stains are cleaned more effectively with specific cleaners. A quick Internet search can reveal exactly what you need to treat your stain.
 Allow your grass stain to soak in a 3% solution of hydrogen peroxide, and then wash normally.If you can't find hydrogen peroxide, pre-treat your stain with equal parts white vinegar, rubbing alcohol, and warm water.Rub the mixture directly on the stain and then wash as normal.
 This works great for burn marks left by cigarettes. Hold a cut onion to the burn, and after you notice that the juice of the onion has been absorbed into the fabric, soak the stain in water to lessen the unsightliness of the damage., In a heavy duty spray bottle, mix one cup of Dawn dish soap (blue), one cup of white vinegar, and one cup of club soda. Spray this solution liberally and scrub with brush to lift and remove stains.
 This will improve the air quality traveling through the vent system of your car. You should always apply new air freshener lightly to prevent it from being overpowering.
 You can do this by applying a purifying spray made from water and hydrogen peroxide to your car's air intake. You can identify the intake by checking your car manual.
 You should shake the solution gently but thoroughly to mix.
 Spray your water/peroxide solution into your car's fresh-air intake. This spray will kill germs and mold living in your car, but it is a gentler cleaning agent than most and will not irritate your lungs or eyes., Fill a small jar with a 1/4 cup of baking soda and punch a few holes into the lid or stretch some cheesecloth across the mouth of the jar. You can put this in a cup holder or out of sight in a pocket.Add a few drops of essential oils to create a pleasant fragrance to accompany the refreshing effects of your baking soda.
 These will help your car fight persistent odors. If you participate in sports or a physical activity, tuck a dryer sheet in your trunk or in an interior pocket to fight strong, sports related odors.
 You might want to take care of windows first, but many people prefer to save this for last to prevent any splatter or mist from clouding a clean window when working on other parts of the car.
 Newspaper and microfiber towels are highly absorbent and you don't have to worry about leaving lint or streaks behind. This is also a cheaper alternative, as cloth can be reused and newspaper is typically less expensive than paper products.
 This will prevent you from having to clean up drip marks or trails.Using a different wiping direction between interior and exterior can help reveal any spots you've missed., Not only is this option usually more affordable, you can also take pride in the fact that this homemade cleaner is environmentally safe.
 You can mix these together in a spray bottle by gently shaking the solution. After mixing, the solution is ready to be used.


You can use vinegar and water to good effect, too, if you lack alcohol., Be sure you remember to wipe from top to bottom with suitable rag, cloth, or paper product. For especially dirty windows, you should have two rags, one for wiping away grime, and the other for finishing and drying excess., Spray your car window or windshield with vinegar and simply wipe it clean. If your bug stain is especially bad, allow the vinegar to soak into the stain before wiping it away.Seltzer water has also been reported to, after allowing to soak for few minutes, loosen insects stuck to your car.,,,