 It will be easier to get everything done and avoid feeling overwhelmed if you have them all listed in front of you. The list currently should not be very detailed or specific - you are simply doing a quick first draft. Include everything on your list, no matter how big or small the task, to make sure nothing gets overlooked.;
,


Ask yourself "Does this task really need to be completed? Will it help me to reach my long term goals? Is it urgent and/or important?" If you answer 'no,' simply get rid of the task.
If you have children, assign smaller or easier tasks, such as folding laundry or vacuuming, to them and reward them with an extra dollar in their weekly allowances. This will free up your time for bigger jobs and help them learn responsibility.
 SMART is an acronym which stands for Specific, Measurable, Attainable, Relevant & Time based.


Specific: Make your goals specific. For example, if your current goal is to lose weight, you should specify how much weight you want to lose.
Measurable: Have a way to measure progress. For example, if your goal is to write a novel, you could measure your progress by looking at how many chapters you have wrote.
Attainable/Achievable: Decide if your goal is possible. For example, will you really be able to lose a stone by the end of the week?
Relevant: Set goals that you want/need to achieve, not what others think you should. If a friend thinks you should aim to become good at chess, and recommends you join a chess club, but you hate chess, do not join the club,(Although, if you dislike it because you aren't good at it, you can improve).
Time based: Create a time you want to achieve the goal by. For example, if your goal is to write two chapters for a novel, set a time you want to have wrote the two chapters by. The end of the week? Before the month is out? Make sure to set a realistic time.
 Everything needs to get done, but some need to be done sooner than others. Complete everything that's urgent or that has a strict deadline to make sure nothing is late. Put these tasks at the top of your list or highlight them so you can do them first, then focus on jobs that have a more flexible time line.
 Plan on a half-hour to wash the dishes or an hour to mow the lawn. This will help you organize other tasks and know how much time you have left to work with.
 Perform chores that require you to travel when traffic is light to save time. Avoid running errands during rush hour or when school lets out and buses will be driving children home. Traveling at times when traffic is light and on direct routes will reduce the amount of time you waste sitting in your car.



Make the most of commuting time - maybe you could listen to podcasts while driving? Public transport systems are good for reading things.
Carry around reading material or transportable tasks so that you can read/do them whenever you are waiting for something.
If possible, record programs instead of watching them on T.V. This means you can watch them later and save time by fast forwarding through the adverts.
Learn to do the good type of multitasking. Get it all done by multitasking and combining small jobs to save time. Write out your grocery list while you're waiting for the iron to heat up or organize the pantry while the dryer's spin cycle finishes. This will help prevent wasted time and get you started on your next task so you don't lose momentum.
 Stay away from social media sites and email while trying to do work. Ask other people to not distract you because you are busy. Turn off your phone. It is also possible to download computer programmes which block certain sites while they are turned on.
 There are many more out there!

, Although it may seem efficient to write a report while answering calls, it will actually decrease the quality of your work, as well as how much you get done.
, Good health will not only give you energy to focus on your work, but it also increases brainpower, will make you feel better and will help you to be optimistic. There are truly no downsides to good health.
 To begin improving your health, make sure to get high quality sleep, for as long as you need.


Make sure to wake up and go to sleep at the same time, even on weekends and holidays.
Dim the lights around an hour and a half before bed.
Do not use electronics in the hour leading up to bed.
Make sure you are relaxed when in bed.
 You may have heard that you should aim to drink 8 cups of water a day, but you will need even more when doing large amounts of exercise or in hot weather. If you are well hydrated, your urine should be very pale.


Find a reusable water bottle you like and keep it with you wherever you go. This will make drinking water more convenient and you will begin desiring water more.
Drink a cup of water with each meal.



Research the eatwell plate.
Pick one or two things to change about your diet, and start simply with those. Every week or two, try something healthy and incorporate it into your daily or weekly menu.
When cutting out something bad from your diet, replace it with something healthier and tasty.
The first things to cut out are fried, fatty foods (like McDonald’s) and stuff that’s too sugary (donuts, colas, candy) and other junk food. Don’t cut it out completely, but start to phase it out gradually and replace it with healthier, tasty stuff (see first two rules).
Eat smaller portions and more often during the day. If you wait until you’re really hungry, you’ll pig out.
Pack healthy snacks to take with you, and plan for meals when you go on the road.
Set long-term goals, and don’t expect quick results. Be patient!

,


Know how much physical activity you need.

Adults between 19 and 64 should get at least 150 minutes a week of moderate aerobic activity or 75 minutes a week of vigorous aerobic activity. The guidelines suggest that you spread out this exercise during the course of a week. Adults should also carry out strength training exercises at least twice a week. People at the age of 65 or over should have the same amount of exercise but at a lower intensity.
For people between the age of 5 and 18, 1 hour of exercise should be carried out a day.
Children under 5 should have around 3 hours of physical activity a day.


Exercise doesn't have to be in large chunks - four ten-minute walks is not much worse than one forty minute walk.
To make exercise more fun, do it with friends or family and/or do activities you enjoy. Most children do not see exercise as a chore, but as a fun activity. Climbing trees is exercise!

