 To get your Rancher, you'll need to raise your wanted level quite high, which means you'll need to be able to cause widespread mayhem and death as quickly as possible. Basic hand guns and melee weapons won't cut it. Instead, you'll want rifles, machine guns, and, if possible, heavy weapons like rocket launchers and miniguns. Visit Ammu-Nation to buy most standard guns.


Don't forget to stock up on ammo, too!;
, Once you start racking up wanted stars, you'll start to be pursued and attacked with increasing violence by law enforcement forces. Body armor can help you survive long enough to make it to five wanted stars.


Full health is also a must-have.
 Start spreading destruction. Kill people, steal cars, and blow up the cars you don't steal. Killing police officers rather than random pedestrians will help raise your wanted level faster, but the police will fight back. As you raise your wanted level, law enforcement will pursue you more and more ruthlessly. Once you bump it up to five stars, the FBI will start to pursue. This is your chance to grab an FBI Rancher!

, The FBI Rancher is a black four-door SUV. If you're on the run, you'll encounter FBI Ranchers pursuing you as well as in road blocks as they attempt to block your path. When you encounter one, wait for the agents inside to exit the car, then quickly kill them. Be careful - the FBI Rancher comes with four agents inside, each armed with an MP5 machine gun, who can easily waste you if you're not quick. Once they're dead, take the Rancher. Try to make sure that there are no police officers around when you enter the vehicle, or they may be able to bust you as you try to leave the scene.
 There are several ways to do this. You can use a cheat (see Tips), drive to a Pay 'n Spray, switch cars, and drive your new car into the Pay 'n Spray, or collect police bribes.


You can't drive the Rancher directly into the Pay 'n Spray - it's too "hot" to repaint. Just leave it right outside the Pay 'n Spray, quickly steal a nearby car, then drive that car into the Pay 'n Spray. Note that when you get back into the FBI Rancher, you'll automatically get a one-star wanted level.
 Make sure you save the game itself as well. When you load the game later, you'll have the car stored in your garage damage-free.

