 Ask your cheesemonger for suggestions if you have no idea where to start. For a cheese platter, you should get a variety of different types of cheeses. You should have at least one familiar type of cheese, such as Brie or aged cheddar. Pick one each from the following categories:









Aged Cheeses: Aged cheddar, goat Gouda, Swiss, etc.
Soft Cheeses: Brie, Camembert, Constant Bliss, etc.
Firm Cheeses: Gruyere, Jarlsberg, Monterey Jack, Provolone, etc.
Blue Cheeses: Stilton, Gorgonzola, etc.
Alternatively, pick one cheese from each type of milk - goat, sheep, and cow - to ensure that several different flavors are present on your platter.;
, You will want to have a variety of crackers or breads. You should also have a few fruits out to eat along with the cheeses.









Serve flavored crackers with mild cheeses. The cheese will accentuate the flavor in the cracker.
Serve seedy crackers with cheeses such as goat's cheese. .
Slices of baguette work well with soft, easily spreadable cheeses such as brie.
Edamame, maple syrup, and honey are interesting and delicious accompaniments to soft, fresh cheeses such as feta.
Try serving praline bacon or nut brittle with your blue cheeses.
Serve hard cheeses with slightly spicy foods such as cranberry-beet horseradish or apple mustard.
Apple slices pair well with Brie and Camembert, as do sun-dried tomatoes and warm pistachios.
Thinly-sliced onions are an excellent complement to blues or pungent double/triple cream cheeses like Taleggio or St. Andre.
 Will it be served as a course or as an hors d’oeuvre? You will need much less cheese – 1 oz-1.5 oz per person of each type – if you are going to serve cheese as a dessert course. If it is an appetizer, served buffet style, consider your guests and their appetites. Two to three ounces per cheese per person will work if you are serving a light meal.









Keep your numbers odd. Cheese plates should have an odd number of cheeses – 3, 5, 7, etc. – rather than even. This is a guideline; you could serve 4 or 6 if you like, but the balance of odd numbers is visually pleasing and is reflected in other arts, particularly Ikebana, the Japanese art of flower arrangement.
 Place the rest of the cheeses – mildest to strongest – clockwise, down and around. Your mildest cheese will end up next to your strongest cheese, if you have a sizable cheese plate. Blues are almost always the strongest cheeses on the plate, followed by washed rind cheeses. Keep your cheeses within the rim of the plate, or the plate will look messy.
 Other foods can intensify and even change the flavor of cheese. Serve cheeses with a variety of accompaniments like toasted nuts, quince paste (membrillo), slices of pear or apple, dried fruits, wine jelly, Italian mostarda, fig cake, or date cake (and any number of other treats available today).
 Water is nice, but wine is finer. If you are serving cheese at the end of the meal, the last wine you serve with the entrée can be served with dessert if you don’t want to fuss too much. You can also choose a wine to pair with your cheese course, if you really want to create a dazzler (ask your cheesemonger for advice if you have a broad range of cheeses). With strong blues, nothing beats dessert wines like Port, Tawny Port, Muscat, late harvest Zin, Sauternes, etc. Milder cheeses can be overwhelmed by syrupy dessert wines, so avoid them if you are not serving strong cheeses.
 Cheese courses should be fun and eye-opening. Don’t stress. If you don’t want to do the work, your cheesemonger will be more than happy to help you out.








