 A royal flush is an ace-high straight flush, a set of five cards in the sequence ace-king-queen-jack-ten of the same suit.


In poker games that allow wild cards, wild cards may substitute for any of the cards in the royal flush. A royal flush made without wild cards is called a “natural” royal flush.;
, Poker hands are ranked according to their respective rarity. The royal flush is rankest highest because it is harder to make than any other straight flush, while a straight flush is harder to make than four of a kind, which is harder to make than a full house, which is harder to make than a flush, which is harder to make than a straight, which is harder to make than three of a kind, which is harder to make than two pair, which is harder to make than a single pair.How hard it is to make a royal flush depends on the poker game you’re playing.


The hardest poker games to make a royal flush in are those where you are dealt only five cards. In five-card draw or stud poker, your chances, in general, of getting a royal flush are 1 in 649,740. (There are 2,598,960 possible five-card poker hands, only four of which can be royal flushes. The royal flushes are four of 40 possible straight flushes; the chances of getting any straight flush are 1 in 64,974.)Your chances of getting a royal flush are better in draw poker games where you can throw away bad cards and draw new ones than in stud games where you have to play the cards you’re dealt.
Your chances also improve if you have been dealt some of the cards that make up a royal flush; if you’ve been dealt four of the five cards, you have a 1 in 47 chance of getting the fifth.Poker games where you are dealt more than five cards improve your chances of getting a royal flush. In seven-card stud or Texas hold’ em, your overall chances improve to 1 in 30,940. (In Texas hold ‘em, getting a royal flush on the “flop” or first three community cards, your chances are still 1 in 649,740, but they improve to 1 in 108,290 when the fourth or “turn” card comes out, and then to 1 in 30,940 when the river or appears.)They are still better in Omaha hold ‘em, in which you have nine cards (four hole and five community) from which to make your poker hand.Poker games where you play with fewer than 52 cards also improve your chances of getting a royal flush. Your chances of getting a royal flush increase significantly in the Texas hold ‘em variant Royal hold ‘em, where the only cards are the aces, kings, queens, jacks, and tens stripped from a regulation deck, or 20 cards in all.In this game, there are only 4,845 possible hands, raising your chances of making a royal flush to 1 in 1211.25.
The use of wild cards also increases your chances of getting a royal flush, as the wild card can substitute for any of the natural cards in the royal flush. Cards from the regulation 52-card deck made wild improve your chances slightly more than jokers, which add to the number of cards in the deck.
 As noted, you stand a better chance of making a royal flush if you’ve been dealt at least some of the cards that make up a royal flush.


If you’ve been dealt four of the cards that make up a royal flush, your chances of getting the fifth card are 1 in 47.
If you’ve been dealt three of the cards that make up a royal flush, your chances of getting a fourth card to make up the royal flush are 2 in 47. Your chances of getting both of the cards you need, however, is 1 in 1081.
If you’ve been dealt two of the cards that make up a royal flush, your chances of getting the other three drop to 1 in 16,215.
If you’ve been dealt only one of the cards that make up a royal flush, your chances of getting the other four drop to 1 in 178,365.
 The more cards that make up a royal flush you’re dealt, the better your chances of making it. Which cards of the flush you’re dealt also have an impact on whether you should try to play for the royal flush or settle for a lesser hand.


If you’ve been dealt four cards of the royal flush, you have a better chance of getting a winning hand if you have the king, queen, jack, and ten instead of the ace, king, queen, and jack. With an ace-high hand, you have to hope to draw the ten of the same suit (a 1 in 47 proposition); otherwise, the best hand you can get, by drawing a lower card of the same suit, is an ace-high flush, which can be beaten by any straight flush, four of a kind, or full house. With a king-high hand, you have a 2 in 47 chance of getting either a royal flush or king-high straight flush (by drawing a nine of the same suit), which is the second-best poker hand you can get.
You should also try to play for the royal only if you have consecutive cards and can try to draw the cards outside those you already have instead of those between those you have. If you have non-consecutive cards, such as the ace, king, jack, and ten, while you have the same 1 in 47 chance of drawing the queen of the same suit that you would of drawing an ace of the suit when you have the king through the ten, if you don’t get the queen, your best possible hand would again be an ace-high straight with a queen of a different suit. (This rule is often expressed as “Don’t draw to an inside straight.”)