 While it might seem like a good idea to cover up your sores with a bandage, bandaging sores actually slows healing. The best way to speed up healing time for your herpes sores is to allow them to be exposed to air and run their course.If you suffer from genital herpes, wear loose fitting clothing and underwear to increase air flow to your genital region.;
, Picking at sores can cause infections, which may further increase the amount of time that it take for your sores to heal. Stop yourself if you catch yourself picking at your sores. Leave them be and they will heal much faster.If your sores are itchy or burning, use some ice or a cold compress to help relieve these symptoms.
 If you suffer from frequent or occasional herpes outbreaks, you should talk to your doctor about your treatment options. Although there is no cure for herpes, there are medications that can make it easier to live with the condition. Some medications can shorten the severity and duration of outbreaks, while others may prevent and reduce the total number of outbreaks that you have., Antiviral drugs are intended to treat herpes at the first sign of an outbreak. Speak with your doctor about having a prescription written to have on hand in the event you have early symptoms of an outbreak and are unable to reach him/her. Acyclovir, famciclovir, and valacyclovir are the most commonly prescribed antiviral medications.Follow your doctor’s instructions and take your medication as directed. Do not take more or less than your prescribed dosage.
 There are several different over the counter ointments for herpes, but you should consult your doctor before choosing one to use on your sores. If you have genital herpes, then you may need a prescription ointment.Consider using a propolis ointment. In one study, propolis ointment was found to be more effective than acyclovir ointment. People who used the propolis ointment four times a day reported that their sores healed faster than those who used acyclovir., After you have been taking an antiviral medication for a few months, it is a good idea to follow up with your doctor to determine if the treatment is working. If it is not producing the desired results, then your doctor may suggest a different course of treatment.