 When you find yourself getting depressed, take note of what causes it. Make a list to keep track and look for patterns of things that cause your depression. Try to avoid those triggers that cause your depression and have a plan of how to react if you do encounter them.You can also work with your family and friends if you aren't able to pinpoint your triggers on your own., Depression hampers your ability to see the future clearly. Usually, depressed people are unable to relate to the future. In order to fight against your atypical depression, plan your life. Make short-term goals and reward yourself upon accomplishing them.Goals can be therapeutic or general.
Noting your goals will also help you keep track of your progress.
 One way to help keep your depression at bay is to take care of yourself. This is true of both body and mind. Make sure you spend time doing things you like to do every day, such as reading, gardening, going for a walk, or watching an episode of your favorite TV program. Also spend more time with the people in your life that you love. This can help lift your mood., When you have atypical depression, eat a diet full of vegetables, fruits, whole grains, and lean proteins, which will help keep your nutrient levels even and balance out your mood.


Don't skip meals, either. Your body needs the energy to fight against your depression.Avoid alcohol, which is a depressant and makes symptoms of depression worse. Long-term abuse can cause effects such as psychosis, memory loss, and physical damage to your brain or liver., With atypical depression, you will want to sleep more than 10 hours a day. In order to combat this, try to sleep less every day. Sleep seven to eight hours a night and avoid naps. This will help regulate your sleeping patterns, which will help you stay refreshed and balanced., Exercising can help with depression because it releases endorphins, which are the feel good hormones that can improve your mood. In a recent study, people who did at least 40 minutes of moderate exercise, such as running, jogging, or aerobics, three to five times a week had better anti-depressive effects than medication.You can also try yoga, which has the benefits of exercise as well as helping reduce stress.
 Take note of the negative thoughts you have every day. Try to change them to more positive thoughts that help you feel better. As you have made negative thinking your habit, it would can help to constantly practice positive thoughts in order to make them a natural part of your thinking.


As negative beliefs brought you down, positive ones will help you lead a better and more healthy life.