 In addition to serving as an excellent moisturizer, frankincense contains compounds that can lift and tighten skin loosened by age, stress or environmental conditions. Blend one part frankincense oil with two parts baby oil or shea butter and rub it on tired eye bags or rough, chapped hands for a rejuvenated appearance.There is evidence that frankincense and other essential oils can help fight wrinkles and other signs of aging.Use a drop of frankincense oil to treat dry, itchy, irritated skin.
 Mix up your own no-filler toothpaste by combining the essential oil with a teaspoon of baking soda and a couple ounces of water to form a thick paste, or use 2-3 drops of frankincense and peppermint oil diluted in warm water as chemical-free mouthwash. Frankincense has natural antiseptic properties, meaning it will wipe out the germs that congregate in your mouth and keep your teeth and gums looking and feeling healthy.Swish frankincense oil and warm water like hydrogen peroxide if you have bleeding gums or a get a cut in your mouth.
Regular use may also help clear up chronic bad breath.
 Save money on expensive over-the-counter cold medicines by using frankincense to alleviate the worst symptoms of an illness. The oil has been shown to reduce swelling, which is useful for curing aches and pains as a result of all types of maladies. When used topically or ingested in small amounts (no more than a few drops at a time diluted in another liquid), it may even act to boost your immune system on its own, making you less likely to get sick in the future.Stir a few drops of frankincense oil into a large bowl full of hot water, drape a towel over your head and inhale the fumes deeply to clear up congestion and reduce inflammation in the lungs.
You can also soak a washcloth in a solution of warm water and frankincense oil and lay it across your eyes and nose to ease the throbbing pain of a sinus infection.
 Frankincense’s antimicrobial benefits also make it perfect as a topical remedy. Dabbing frankincense oil on a minor cut or scrape will eliminate bacteria and prevent infection without interfering with the healing process. As it dries, it will keep the skin nourished to make scabbing and scarring less noticeable, as well.


Massaging frankincense oil over scar tissue, stretch marks or acne can help reduce their appearance over time.Don’t apply frankincense oil directly to an open wound. If it’s a severe injury, seek immediate medical attention.
 If you happen to be experiencing a stomach ache, excessive gas or bloating or intestinal cramps, have no fear. One or two drops of the essential oil in a few ounces of water or herbal tea is as good for providing quick gastrointestinal relief as any anti-diarrheal medicine. Just down the mixture and feel your discomfort vanish in minutes.To make it go down easier, try adding it to a tablespoon of honey.
Make sure the frankincense you’re using is pure and free of perfumes or chemical additives before ingesting it.

