 This needs to be the size that holds furniture or large items when moving. If you don't have any at home, call a furniture store to see what they might have to spare., Lay it flat on the work surface., Tape the end piece to the side pieces. This end is very simple, just straight, so this part should be easy.

It can help to prop up the sides while doing this step, so that they don't fall and tear the tape away.
 Aim to shape the front flaps in a triangle or pitched roof shape. This may take a little fiddling and cutting but you should be able to bend the cardboard to shape. Tape in place.

Have an extra set of hands to help with this part; it will be easier than trying to do this on your own.
 Find a small but sturdy box for the post. Glue it to the base of the boat, at the point where the triangle part and the rest of the boat join. This becomes the "post piece"., This might come from another box, or from scrap pieces.

Cut the corrugated cardboard to the width of the boat. Cut two lengths. Keep the width of the lengths proportionate to the size of the box; there should be plenty of space behind and in front of the sail post.
Glue or tape the first length across the post piece, gluing or taping to each side of the boat.
Add a small box the same width as the post piece on top of the post piece, sitting directly over the corrugated cardboard length you just added. This forms a continuation of the post piece.
Glue or tape the second length across the second post piece, attaching to both the post piece and the sides of the boat.
The end result should appear like a "T" with gaps in the crossbar of the "T".
 Paint it one color. You can add features once it has been painted., Stick one broomstick vertically into the sail post you've just created. Place the other broomstick horizontally, about 5cm/2 inches above the insertion point in the post. Wind duct tape around the join to keep it stuck to the vertical broomstick. Wind twine or rope around this to hide the duct tape and to make it stronger (it also looks more realistic).

Keep the vertical sail in place by using a plastic or metal ring just slightly larger than the pole, to prevent it from lurching about. Glue this into place before securing the two poles together.
 These can be same color as the boat, or a different color. Allow to dry fully., Tie a small fabric or plastic tablecloth triangle to one side and a large triangle piece to the other side. Tie with strong knots; you can add glue or tape if this helps to keep the sails in place.

A flag can be added to the top of the vertical pole. Attach the flag to a stick and glue or tape the stick to the top of the vertical pole.
 Pierce holes through the sides of the boat and knot around these holes to hold the base of the string lengths in place., You can add waves to the base or any other features you like too, although keeping it simple is best., This will protect the boat if used outdoors on the grass or concrete, as well as giving it more durability for play., Have the children take the boat out to the yard or playroom for a test sail. Ahoy mateys!