 At its root, humping is a mating behavior. As a result, neutering or spaying your dog is the absolute first thing you should do before taking any other corrective measures. Moreover, you should also get your dog fixed as early in its life as possible for the greatest effect.Getting your dog fixed will almost always decrease mounting problems, especially in males.
However, this may not eliminate the problem completely. With older dogs, the habit is often ingrained. That's one reason why getting your dog spayed or neutered as a puppy is so important., Your dog’s humping behavior could be linked to an underlying medical condition that causes your dog to act that way. Some medical conditions can be serious if not treated and need proper medical attention. If you believe your dog has underlying issues, take them to the vet immediately.Possible medical conditions that could be contributing to your dog's behavior include urinary tract infections, urinary incontinence, persistent erections, and skin allergies.
 If your dog is aggressive when you try to stop them from mounting or humping, you may need to take them to see a Certified Applied Animal Behaviorist or certified veterinary behaviorist. You shouldn’t try to alter your dog’s behavior if they are aggressive.If you cannot find a certified behaviorist in your area, look for a certified professional dog trainer. Just make sure that the dog trainer has experience dealing with aggression and mounting.
If your dog sinks their claws into the skin of a human it mounts, or growls when you try to remove it, this is a more serious problem and should be addressed by a certified applied animal behaviorist.
 When humping is clearly connected to stress, giving your dog an anti-anxiety medication might be enough to stop the humping and improve your dog's overall mental and physical health.Medication should only be used as a last resort, and even then, only in extreme conditions. For instance, if a dog is displaying other signs of anxiety, like obsessive licking or destructive behavior, he or she might have a serious anxiety issue that needs to be addressed.

