 Find photos, souvenirs, and other mementos, if possible. On Mother’s Day, reminisce with your mom about those special moments. Tell her how much those memories have impacted your life, and make sure she knows that you value your time together.
 Be specific. Think of your mom’s best qualities and think of all the things that she does for you. Instead of writing something generic like “Happy Mother’s Day,” try something like “Thank you for being there at our baseball games” or “We love the delicious dinners you cook for us.”

, You can hand-write a note, you can make or buy a Mother's Day card, or you can print out a typed letter. It doesn't need to be wordy or complicated. Simply wish her a happy Mother's Day, tell her you love her, and list a few reasons that you appreciate her so much. Give her the note with flowers or another gift. If you can't give her a note in person, send her a thoughtful email or e-card, or post something sweet on her Facebook wall.


Try writing several short, thoughtful notes and putting them around the house where she will see them. Put a note on the coffee pot, on her computer screen, on the front door, on the bathroom mirror. Write notes as simple as "Happy Mother's Day! <3", or write specific notes that describe her best qualities: for instance, adorn the refrigerator that says "You are the world's greatest chef! Thank you for cooking delicious dinners and making sure that we never go hungry."
Consider mailing her a letter. If you don't live with your mom, and you won't be around to spend time with her on Mother's Day—even if you will—try sending her a heartfelt letter in the mail. Look up average mail-delivery times from your area to hers (or use priority mail) and try to time it so that the letter arrives on or just before Mother's Day.
 Simply remove the fortune from an existing fortune cookie without cracking the shell, then slip in your own Mother's Day message. She will be surprised, and she will be impressed at your creativity., Record her children, siblings, husband, and other special loved ones saying things that they love about her. Post the video to YouTube or another video-sharing website; post it to her Facebook wall; or, if she is not so into public displays of affection, simply save the video file to your computer and send it to her in an email. Your mom likely won't expect a heartfelt video that has been made especially for her.
 Write about what your mom means to you, what she does for you, and what makes her a great mother. It does not need to be long, and it does not need to be in a formal style—but if you are writing an essay and not a letter, it will probably not be addressing her directly.
 She will be a proud mom when you tell her about the A that you got on your test, the exciting new job that you were just offered, or your successful proposal to your now-fiancee. Don't make the day about yourself, but tell her things that will make her proud to be a mother.
 Bring your siblings together to plan and act out a short, funny skit that honors your mom. Playfully re-enact a memorable family event, a funny camping trip, or a time when Mom did something especially caring or courageous. A comedic sketch can be a great way to lightheartedly poke fun at your mom's quirky traits while still showing her how deeply you care.

