 Dogs can choose to guard the whole house, or certain objects in it. Sims, child or older, can also direct the dog to guard the entire house. Dogs can guard: Pet bed, Pet house, Pet bowl, Plants you can harvest, Cat Condo, Parked Car and loads of other everyday objects.;
, If a non-household or low-long term relationship Sims or pets try to approach the guarded object, the dog will bark or growl. Sim generally back away from a guard dog, and coward Sims will flee. When commanded to guard the house dogs patrol around, barking at any Sims or dogs walking by, or any cars driving past.
 Burglars are actually more likely to try robbing the home, which is more fun because the dog is more likely to catch him in the act! Genius pets can sense the burglar from farther away, While clueless pets have a harder time noticing him unless he is right nearby. Aggressive pets will always catch the burglar, while lazy pets will often fall asleep and not notice.


If a guard dog detects the burglar, he runs up to the bad guy and barks. This wakes up the household Sims, who automatically call the cops. The burglar might freak out, run away or ignore the dog and steal something anyway. Otherwise the cops come and that is one less malefactor in Appaloosa Plains (or wherever), thanks to that valiant Guard dog!







, Getting them to guard expensive objects is recommended because burglars take the most expensive.
 Aggressive and loyal pets do better. If your Sims have guests around, they may try to hold the baby or toddler. On some occasions, other Sims take the baby. If your Sims do, and you don't want your baby lost, click the crib and select Command to Guard. Your pet should guard the baby.
 Sometimes, if your pet has a low relationship with other Sims or pets in the family, they go for them. They also chase cars going by sometimes. Since Mysterious Mr Gnomes cost loads, get pets to guard them. Burglars have a 45 percent chance of stealing them, so get pets to guard them.
 Place burglar alarms outside the door, and anywhere where burglars get in.
 Burglars come at 2:30 to 4:00, pets should be guarding the house by then.

