 Gaiters usually come in either an ankle or full length style. Ankle gaiters will cover your shoe and the bottom of your pants. They are usually best for keeping grit and debris out of your shoes. Full length gaiters are the most common. They keep snow, water, and debris out of your shoes and protect you from things like thorns and snake bites.Ankle gaiters are good for off road and fell runners because they are closer fitting than full length gaiters and protect you from water ingress.;
, Gaiters come in many sizes. Usually, you will need a pair of gaiters that correspond with your shoe size. Along with shoe size, they should also fit snugly around your calf. If possible, it’s best to try on gaiters at a store to make sure they fit you properly., The cheapest gaiters will usually come with Velcro as a fastener. A majority of gaiters have lace hooks that can adjusted to fit your leg and shoe. Higher end gaiters often have waterproof zips or click-lock buckles. Costly brands are usually more reliable, but you don’t have to buy the most expensive brand of gaiters to get the protection you need. , Your gaiters will come with one way to attach the bottom of the hooks to your boots or shoelaces. Hooks are very common. Slide the hook under the lace of the boot. Try to get the hook to catch as far down as possible.Mid-length hooks that face out are the easiest to use.
 Your gaiters may not come with a hook. If that’s the case, look for straps the ends of your gaiters. The straps should be in a “U” shape. Buckle the straps on the outsides of your feet., Don’t stress if you don’t see hooks or straps. That means your gaiters probably have reinforced patches—like Velcro. The patches will usually be located on the shins or insteps. There should be two patches that need to be attached to each other to secure the gaiters., There should be a gaiter specifically for the right and left foot. You should be able to tell by the design of the gaiters, or there may be a marking. You will know the gaiters are on the right foot if the underfoot straps are on the outsides of your feet., If you have full length gaiters, wrap them around your ankles and calves. Wrap them around your ankle if they are shorter than full length. Hook the gaiters all the way down your leg if you have hooks. Zip the gaiters if you have zippers., There should be a strap at the bottom of your gaiters. Tighten the straps as much as you can. To secure the strap, you will most likely need to pull the strap through a buckle. Make the gaiters tight enough so that snow or debris doesn’t have a way to fall in. Don’t make them too tight, however, or you could cut off your circulation.You will also have to tighten the calf enclosure if you have full length gaiters. The enclosure may be a string you have to pull on or straps you have to buckle.
 You should have a strap left undone on each gaiter. Put the straps under the bottom of each foot. The straps should be under the middle of your shoes. Thread the straps through the buckles, tighten the buckles, and then you’re good to go.Make sure there aren’t any gaps left in your gaiters before going outside.

