 Even if the applicant hold a previous passport, anyone under 16 must fill out the general application form instead of using the simplified renewal process.
 Download the form by clicking this link. If you do not have printer access or the download does not work, you may wish to request the PPTC 155 form from a local passport office instead.
 The child's parent or legal guardian may legally fill out the form. If you are able to fill out forms on your computer's pdf viewer, you may do so before printing. Alternatively, you may print the forms first and fill them out in capital letters using black or dark blue ink.



Note: If you don't know how to fill out a section, leave it blank for now. The requirements for supporting documents and Declaration of Guarantor are described below.
 If you are going to a passport office in person, you may pay then using a debit credit, credit card, money order, or certified cheque (not a personal cheque). If you are mailing in an application, either include a certified cheque or money order with the application, or fill out section D, Credit Card Information. Debit cards are not accepted for mail applications. Cash and personal cheques are never accepted.


To find out how much you owe, check the official page for up to date information and additional services you can purchase. As of July 2014, child passports for applicants located in Canada cost C$57. Child applicants located in the United States are charged C$100 instead.
 You will need to submit the original document, not a copy, although it should be returned to you once the application is completed. If the applicant was born outside of Canada, you will need a certificate of registration of birth abroad, or the applicant may apply for a certificate of citizenship.
 You do not need to submit new proof of parentage if the proof submitted for an earlier passport still applies.


If the applicant is in the foster care system, see detailed instructions at this link.
 The applicant's "guarantor", or person vouching for them, must be a Canadian citizen older than 16 with a valid, adult, Canadian passport. This can be one of the applicant's parents or guardians, as long as he or she meets this requirement and is not the same person who filled out the application form.


Have the guarantor fill out the Declaration of Guarantor section of the child application form. This is section 6.
Have the guarantor sign the back of one passport photo, and write "I certify this to be a true likeness of (applicant's name)"., You may need to fill out additional forms if the child is requesting a change of name or replacing a missing or damaged passport. Include custody documents or other documents relating to legal access to or guardianship over the child.
 To present in person within Canada, find a passport office or receiving agent by clicking this link. Note that a receiving agent, unlike a passport office, may charge an additional fee, and will not be able to provide all extra services, such as urgent pickup.Mail documents from Canada or the U.S. to "Passport Canada Program, Gatineau QC K1A 0G3, Canada" or, if using a courier service instead of ordinary post, to "Passport Canada Program, 22 de Varennes Street, Gatineau QC J8T 8R1, Canada"/
If you are located outside Canada and the U.S., find the nearest consulate or embassy by clicking this link and ask them for mailing instructions.
 Children under 11 should leave the signature section in their new passport blank. Children over 11 should sign the signature section on page 3 only if their signature also appears, printed, on page 2. No one else should sign the child's passport.