 When raising a cat it is important to provide it with nutritious food. Canned and dry food are both fine -- though dry food will help keep your cat's teeth clean -- if the food includes mostly animal protein and not a lot of fillers.


If you are unsure of what to feed your cat, discuss food with your cat's veterinarian. They will likely have a suggestion for what to feed your cat for its specific nutritional needs.;
, When your cat is young, you should feed it kitten food, which gives it more fat and protein for its growing mind and body. As the cat ages, you should feed it food that gives it complete nutrition without giving it so much that it gets overweight. When your cat gets older, you may need to transition it onto senior food, which provides the type of nutrition that geriatric cats need.
 If you have long-haired cat, it is a good idea to give it hairball-preventing food, especially if it has a history of having hairballs. In most cases, this type of food helps to prevent hairballs by increasing the amount of fiber your cat is getting. Fiber increases the rate of digestion and moves food, and hair, through the digestive tract more effectively.Discuss which hairball-preventing food is best for your cat with your veterinarian. They should have suggestions for a food that will fulfill your cat's nutritional needs, in addition to being good at preventing hairballs.
 The amount of food you give it will depend on the size of your cat. Look at the food packaging and follow the directions there for portion sizing, which is usually based on your cat's size and age.Discuss portion size and feeding schedule with your veterinarian. They may have suggestions that take your cat's specific dietary needs into consideration.
 It is very important to provide your cat with clean water at all times, as dehydration can make your cat very sick. Put the water in a clean, small bowl and replace it daily, so that the water is appealing for the cat to drink.If you want to make your cat's water really appealing, consider getting it a cat drinking fountain. These are devices that recirculate a cat's water in a stream, which can draw the cat's attention to the water.

