 For example, if you enjoy watching horrors and think you can make a good horror, then do it. If you want to make a little kids film, then this is harder - but possible.;
, Might I recommend The Grudge and The Shining for Horror, but Yes Man for comedy.
 This can basically be anything, but don't forget to include cutscenes (mark these in with a little (<enter actions, emotions etc here>) so as your cast know what to do) and stuff. Some people who are just doing this for fun (or with no deadline) may figure out some extras beforehand.
 If you are on a No-Budget film limit, then might I suggest using either a webcam, a camera or even a phone? The better the quality, the better the film, but if you have a limit then it's OK - you can change the roughness later.
 You may hire your friends or a local acting group. If you are having a very hard time because of your budget (under 18's will get this, but also if you are under 18 then everything will be hard because your friends are under 18 so the film won't particularly be something that people will pay for) then make your friends agree to act and make them sign a contract that says they will ONLY get paid a share of total profits after 5 months etc. For example, if you have 3 actors, agree to share final profits three-ways, so if you make £90/$90, everybody will get £30/$30 but don't forget about your next project - if this project goes well then you need money for the next project, so say that about 10% of all profits go towards making etc.
 If you need locations, then do NOT go to professional route. Professionals will always MAKE their locations - the Skeleton Key was filmed in a BASEMENT! - or rent certain accommodations and they always need permission to film. If you are under 18 and/or low-budget, film in your house, your local parks and other places like that. Be prepared for odd looks though. Also make sure to block out car-license plates and house numbers. You can get sued.
,,, OR post onto YouTube. If you are on YouTube, ask people to donate to you and your cause to help make the films more pro.

