 Creating a visible organization within the community leaves a distinct impression.;
, These will not only generate a public image of doing good for the people, but it will also have a public record of you helping the city.
 Attempt to raise enough money to replace a certain set of textbooks, or have new toilets installed. Many schools will put a dedication to organizations that actively help schools, once you have shown you are trustworthy among the community.
 A quick example would be this: Say a group of "Goths" wanted to disperse of stereotypes. They would hold an open seminar, where people could attend. They would then have a few keynote speakers, and address the concerns of the public, parents especially.
 Have your members actively travel in groups of five six, and as a group, your group would attempt to maintain law and order, and escort people too and from places in the middle of the night.
 In many small communities, there is not enough of a voter demand for public transportation to be available. If your group has had the success and foresight to make it to a large group, attempt to provide public transportation at little or no cost to the public. There is no reason why your group can not have your sponsorship on the side of the vehicle.
 These can include sporting matches where all of the equipment is provided, gatherings such as concerts, or any other type of event you can think of. Make sure you obtain the city's permission to provide such a service, if you are going to use city space.
 Seeing one or two of your members at a soup kitchen may have an impact at one or two people. Seeing an entire collective of people serving the public can have an influence on another entire group. For instance, if you are running a group to dispel the stereotypes of punks as violent, having twenty to thirty punks show up at a soup kitchen can radically alter people's opinions.
 For instance, if you believe that a religious organization may be the most apprehensive towards your group, attempt to openly befriend said religious organization. If you believe that a police department has a dislike for your particular group, be cooperative and help the police at any possible moment.
 Hostility will not win over the minds and hearts of people. However, actively helping people will.
 Have large numbers of your group head internationally to aid other countries. This will not only create a public record of doing good for other countries, but will gain support on a global level.
 It will help better your image globally, and help organize people of the same beliefs in other countries.

