 Watch produced movies and analyze the timing and pacing of scenes. Pay attention to how long each scene lasts, how much action or tension there is during a scene, and how each scene fades seamlessly into the next. Look for visual or sound cues that enhance dramatic rhythm.


Go to your local or school library and check their database for books on film history and film analysis.
Familiarize yourself with the nature of film, primarily by watching everything you can get your hands on. Get a feel for specific directors or editors and what makes their work distinct.
For each television or film production you watch, look online for major newspaper reviews, such as the New York or Los Angeles Times. Reading professional critiques will help you develop your own critical eye.;
, Apply to and enroll in a college film editing program. Your choices include a specialized film school, a four year college or university, or a local community college. Decide what's best for you in terms of affordability and location, and research options that match your needs.


A four year program offers the best preparation for a career in film editing. Check out the list of available majors at your state university system's colleges.If you want to get away from your hometown, look for out-of-state programs. A film school or four year degree from a California- or New York-based school could help you secure better internships and apprenticeships.
Schools near these industry centers can help you develop a stronger network and allow you to be closer to more work opportunities.
A university program will also help you access professional development resources, like publications and calls for entry.
A key perk to film school is access to equipment. Renting equipment can be expensive, but it can be cheaper if you’re a student, especially if you rent through your university program. When you're researching programs, ask about their available equipment and rental procedures.
 Your coursework will include basic editing and commercial editing, film history, storytelling, and screenwriting. In addition, you will learn how to use photo and film editing software programs like Adobe Premiere and Final Cut Pro (FCP). FCP is the Hollywood standard for film editing, and you'll need to take software-heavy courses that'll allow you to master it.Go for a course load heavy in technology and software training. Film editors don't manually cut film anymore, so it's important to have a strong foundation in both established and emerging tech and programs.Even after you've graduated, it's common for editors to continue their education by occasionally taking formal courses. This helps to stay up to date with the industry's technological changes., Hone your skills when you’re just starting out or in school by editing smaller projects. Work with your friends or with peers at university. Start out with independent editing projects to put your education into practice, and edit as many short films as possible.Use your university years as an opportunity to start growing your network by working with your peers and seeking out mentors among your professors.
Collaborative amateur projects are important when you're starting out, especially in today's industry environment. Working with others is a highly prized skill, so collaborating early on will help you further down the road.Even making silly videos, putting projects on Youtube, and other small spare-time endeavors will help you exercise your editing muscles and put theoretical knowledge into practice.
 While a film school education can give you a knowledge base and technical foundation, it’s essential to build concrete experience. The more tangible experience you have, the better your chances of getting your foot in the door in the world of film editing. Start out small by looking for smaller, local productions or by continuing to collaborate with peers you’ve met along the way.


You can look online for local production job and gig listingsWord of mouth is key for getting gigs, whether paid or unpaid, and at both amateur and professional levels.
 In addition to volunteering your time on local productions, you’ll likely have to continue paying your dues and working for free for a considerable portion of your early career. Networking is key throughout the process, and you’ll have to rely on your growing network to land an apprenticeship with a major production company. Even though it’s free labor, apprenticing or interning will help you demonstrate that you possess actual skills and a solid work ethic.Consult your professors and try to access their networks while you’re in school. This will help you to land good internships or apprenticeships, both while you’re in college and when you’re breaking into the field after graduating.
You might have to take several apprentice jobs before you actually start to make a modest income.
Treat every job as if you’re getting a million-dollar income. Prove that you have a great work ethic and are a pleasure to work with.
 Those with whom you’ve apprenticed or interned will be essential for getting a paying job, whether they connect you with one or offer you a strong recommendation. You're unlikely to land a job in editing right away, even if you have strong apprentice gigs under your belt. Take any job that comes along, whether it's as a tour guide on a studio lot, a personal assistant to somebody on a film crew, a secretary at the office, or a runner for a production.
 Be polite to everybody you meet and promote yourself. Hand out business cards with links to your website and reel. Make it known that you're looking as a job as a film editor. Building your network of connections this way can lead to unexpected chances, like becoming a film editor on a short that later wins an award at a festival.If you meet people who work in the editing room, ask if you may occasionally join them to observe and learn.
It might take up to ten years before you’ve built a robust enough network and record of on the job training to land a job with a reasonable income, so be persistent., One of the easiest and most effective ways to build your body of work is to create your own business. Invest in cards and other marketing materials to make yourself professional and competitive. Starting an editing service with a skilled peer is also wise in the current market, as collaborative skills are desirable in the industry nowadays.When you're starting out, you find it necessary to branch out beyond your specialized field in order to build clientele.
Consider getting in touch with local or emerging musicians about producing music videos for them. Be open to trade and bartering for compensation.Wedding or graduation videos, commercial marketing for restaurants and other local businesses, and producing corporate training videos are other examples of some avenues to take when you're starting your own business., Be strategic about how you build your body of work. Put your best effort into making each production you work on more legitimate than the last, and be sure to make long-lasting contacts with every job. Even shorts and low budget movies can get a listing on the IMDB, as long as the productions were released. Potential employers will refer to it before hiring you.The IMBD staff updates its listing regularly and selects films, television series and specials, commercials, music videos, and local or public access television shows for inclusion in its database.
Register on the IMBD website and submit your individual credit or project's title to verify or correct its listing., Once you’ve built up your body of work, design a winning portfolio to market yourself successfully. You’ll find that the applicant pool for editing jobs is intensely competitive, so you have to make yourself stand out. Send out your resume, along with a reel of your best work, to studio executives, directors, and other film editors. Make sure the materials you submit in applications are concise and show off only your best work.
Submit design reels that are relevant for specific projects. You don't have to include everything you've ever done with every job application.
If you're going for a gig as an assistant editor on a television program, don't submit graduation or wedding videos you've cut. If you don't have any relevant materials, television cuts in this case, music video or short film scenes would do.
Ask people with whom you’ve worked in the past to look over your materials and offer feedback.
Create a website that offers a more substantial selection of your work.
 Once you’ve demonstrated the quality of your work in independent productions and as an assistant editor, look for opportunities to take the helm. You must constantly build new connections in order to advance to the position of full editor. Make people want to work with you by always demonstrating a strong work ethic and likeable attitude.Start out by applying to be an assistant editor on a production.
Consider joining a union for faster career advancement.
Keep yourself informed about new technologies and software, taking courses in or teaching yourself new programs or devices.

