, This will be the setting on all your posts unless you specify otherwise.
 Here you can make your wall and profile completely public or completely private.


This offers more security than the past Facebook privacy settings allowed, as you can now further customize who can send you friend requests and messages.
 Under this option, you can control who sees things that you are tagged in.


Turn on or turn off profile review. If profile review is on, you must approve tags before they will appear on your profile. Until you do so, the tag will appear as "pending." Remember that not approving the post doesn't mean that you're not tagged—-it simply means that the tag will not appear in your profile.

To remove your tag from a post, simply click the "remove tag" button under the post.


Choose who can see posts that you're tagged in. Choose from the options in the drop down menu, or create your own option by clicking "Custom."
Decide whether or not to enable tag suggestions. When your friend uploads a photo that looks like you and this feature is enabled, Facebook will suggest that they tag you. The tag will only appear if your friend approves it.
Enable or disable tagging from the "places" app. Leaving this option enabled will allow your friends to tag you with them when they check in to places. You will always be notified when friends check you in with them, and you have the ability to remove the check-in from your profile.
Turn on Tag Review. Turning on tag review will allow you to review any tags your friends add to your profile before the tags appear.
 Here you can edit who can post on your timeline, who can see what others post on your timeline and who can see posts you've been tagged in. You'll also get a few options to turn on options for "Review posts friends tag you in before they appear on your timeline" and that of "Review tags friends add to your own posts on Facebook" along with "who's seeing tag suggestions when photos that look like you are uploaded" (rarely looked at).


Use the same drop-down process to find out how much information you'd like to allow Facebook users and your friends to access.
 Here, you can see the apps/games/websites that you've been using.


Click the "Edit Settings" tab under "Apps you use" to see a full list of your apps. You also have the option here to remove any "spammy" apps or to simply turn off all platform apps.
Decide what info your friends can "bring with them" when they use apps. Click "Edit Settings" under "How people bring your info into the apps they use." Decide which info you feel comfortable having shared. For maximum protection, uncheck everything.
Decide which "instant personalization" sites have access to your public information. Facebook has partnered with a few sites to completely personalize your experience on the site. The first time you visit a site with instant personalization, you will receive a notification at the top of the page. Using public information, the info on the site will be tailored to you. For example, if you visit Rotten Tomatoes, you will be presented with movie recommendations based on movies you have liked on Facebook and you'll see your friends' reviews and ratings of certain movies. Uncheck the box at the bottom of the page to disable all instant personalization. You can turn off instant personalization for specific sites by visiting the site and clicking the "Turn Off" option.
Choose whether or not to enable public search. If you have set "Search for me on Facebook" to "Everyone" (under Basic Directory Information), you have the option of allowing the public to see a preview of your Facebook profile. Check or uncheck the box at the bottom as desired.
 Clicking this option will allow you to easily standardize who sees all of your past posts. By clicking "Limit Old Posts." you automatically set your past posts to your default privacy setting.


Bear in mind that if you change your mind later, you'll have to individually go back and change each post's privacy settings. If you're sure that this is what you want to do, hit "Confirm".
 Here, you can block anyone from your profile (this means that it will appear to them as if you've deleted your profile).


To block someone, simply type a name or email address into the boxes provided.
To unblock someone, hit "Unblock" by their name on the list provided.
You can also block all invites to events and apps from specific friends without completely blocking the friend. To do so, type their name into the provided box.

