 Select 1/2 to 3/4 inch (1.25 to 1.9 cm) wide burlap ribbon. Cut seven pieces of ribbon, creating three pairs of ribbon in progressively smaller lengths.


Two pieces should be 10 inches (25 cm) long, two should be 9 inches (23 cm) long, and two should be 8 inches (20 cm) long. The final piece should be 4 inches (10 cm) long and should not have its own match.
 Starting with one piece of burlap, fold the end of the strip so that it sits on top of the center of the piece. Fold the other end so that it overlaps the first at this center point.


With each fold, the top side of the end should meet the top side of the center, creating a pointed loop. The finished appearance should look like a figure-8.
Staple the center of the figure-8 to hold it together as you continue working.
 Repeat the folding and stapling process with the other 10 inch (25 cm) strip, both 9 inch (23 cm) strips, and both 8 inch (20 cm) strips.


Do not, however, loop the final 4 inch (10 cm) strip yet.
 Create and "x" shape from the two largest loops by laying one on top of the other, angling them in perpendicular directions.


Note that the narrow, pointed part of the loops should point downward when you stack them.
Hold the two pieces together by placing a small dab of hot glue in between them.
 Stack the remaining four loop pairs on top of the bottom set, working with one size at a time.


The loops of each evenly sized pair should form a perpendicular "x" shape with one another.
As you stack the loops on top of one another, try to fill in the gaps left by the previous set. Once you determine the best placement for a loop, hold it in place using hot glue.
 Bring the ends of the 4 inch (10 cm) strip together, forming a single circular loop.


Hold the ends together with a staple or a bead of hot glue.
 Place a bead of hot glue in the open center of your ribbon stack. Press the seam side of the final loop into the glue.


Once the glue dries, fluff and readjust the secure loops as needed. Some of the outer loops should slightly overlap the center loop.
 The burlap bow should be complete. You can use it to decorate gifts and other packages.

