 In most cases, updating will not cause you to lose any data and settings. Things go wrong occasionally however, so you should make sure you have a backup made before you begin updating.;
, The installation could take a significant amount of time. To avoid any issues that may occur if your iPad turns off during the update, ensure that it is plugged into the wall with its charging cable., iOS updates are quite large, so avoid potential data costs with your wireless plan by connecting to a Wi-Fi network for the update process. Follow this guide to learn how to connect your iPad to a network.
 Open the Software Update tool by opening Settings, tapping General, and then selecting Software Update.


If a red badge appears above the Settings app’s icon an update is available.
 In the Software Update section, the available updates will be listed. You can tap Learn More to see the details about the update and see what will be changed. If you haven’t updated in a while, there may be multiple updates listed.


Not all updates can be installed over the air. If you need to use iTunes to install the update, see the following method.
 Large software updates may require a lot of free space on your iPad. For example, the iOS 8 update requires up to 6 GB of free space on your device. If you want to update from your iPad, you'll need to have this space available. If you don't want to delete all of your stuff to make room for the update, see the next section to learn how to update using iTunes, which won't require your iPad to have extra space.
 Before you can install the update, you need to download it to your device. Tap the Download button to begin downloading the update installer. Depending on the size of the update and the speed of your internet connection, the download process can take a while to complete.


Your device must have enough free space to download the update files. If you get a message saying that your iPad has insufficient storage, you will either need to delete files to make room, or update through iTunes using the next method.
 Once the update is finished downloading, the Download button will change to an Install Now button. Tap this to begin the installation process. Your iPad will begin installing the update, and you can check the progress by looking at the bar.


Depending on the update that you are installing, you may need to sign in with your Apple ID again once the update is installed.

