 This avoids having to rush around at the last minute and gives you time to relax before he arrives. Some will give themselves as much as 3 hours, but the ballpark is anywhere from 1-2 hours.;
, The most important thing is to be CLEAN! Every guy can appreciate a woman with good hygiene.


Wash your hair and use a good conditioner, studies show guys are more attracted to women with healthy-looking hair.
Give your whole body (yes..everywhere!!) a good pass with some good-smelling soap, and rinse thoroughly.
Don't forget to get those feet clean!
Shave your legs and armpits. Guys love smooth skin! And shave anywhere else you normally do. Even "down there" if you choose. (But if you DO, make sure you rinse out any stray shaved hairs that might not rinse off very easily..)
LOTION. Rub some lotion all over your body, it makes your skin smell amazing and feel smooth.
 Remember to clean the insides of your ears with a Q-tip!

, What type of clothes does your man think is sexy? Think carefully, he might have told you, or made a comment about a specific outfit you've worn in the past. Clothing preferences are different among guys so try to pick something you know he personally likes, but DON'T GO OVERBOARD.


Guys very often like the colors red, blue, and black on a woman.
Always wear things that show off the parts of your body you are most proud of, and/or parts of your body he has complimented often.
 When your nails are painted, it shows a guy that you care about your appearance. Go with a color that matches the outfit you have picked. Or, if he has mentioned a color he likes on a girl's nails, use that. And wait for them to dry to avoid smudging.
 Do it however you feel you look the best and that you know he likes on you. Don't try something new, because if it doesn't come out right, you may not have enough time to fix it before he shows up!


Try not to let your hair be really hair from too much hairspray or gel. Hard/sticky hair isn't very touchable!
Most guys prefer when women wear their hair DOWN.
 It's important to know what your guy thinks. Do your makeup however you feel the most attractive, and again, don't try anything new here. Don't go overboard with crazy eyeshadow unless that is how you usually do it.


A simple, thin, application of eyeliner on either the top, bottom, or both lids usually does the trick.
Guys like mascara.
Maybe throw on some chapstick? Guys LOVE smooth lips.
 And if he's mentioned something he really really likes, don't forget to put that one on to!

,  No guy likes bad-smelling breath. And to avoid your mouth being overly minty when he shows, try drinking a glass or two of water after you brush them, right before he's supposed to come over.
 Put on a small amount of good-smelling perfume. Again, something you know he likes. Don't put on too much though, or it'll be overkill to his nostrils.


Studies show that cinnamon, vanilla, and jasmine are psychologically a turn-on to a guy. So if you have any of these perfumes, it'd be a good idea to spritz a little on yourself.
Don't put it anywhere where you think his mouth will be! PERFUME TASTES AWFUL. (Trust me.)

,, They can really help set the mood.


Pumpkin, vanilla, cinnamon, jasmine, and any scents related to food are proven to help make a guy more turned on

