 it’s normal and healthy to fight with your sibling. While it may be easier to get an adult or parent to help resolve the conflict, do your best to find a solution on your own.When you are upset at your sibling, talk it over. Tell your sibling how you feel and how you want things to be for the future.You may have to find a middle path or find a solution that benefits each of you separately (like your sibling gets to watch tv first, then you get to watch your show afterward).
 While you might feel really angry and want to hit your sibling, don’t do it. You can really cause hurt or pain to your sibling, beyond what you want to do to show your anger. Instead, ask your parent to step in if you feel like you might hit your sibling.If your sibling eggs you on, pull out from the interaction. Say, “I don’t want to fight” or “I think it’s better if we go get mum.”
You can also walk away.
 Fights happen when two people disagree on something.Don’t immediately go tattle on your sibling or blame him or her for your fight. Remember that you had a part in starting the fight or reacting to it in a way that kept it going.


You may try to save yourself from getting punished, but remember it’s not fair to blame your sibling for things. Admit that you had a part, too.
 When you hurt your sibling, apologize.If you say mean words or accuse your sibling of something he didn’t do, make sure you make it right and say “I’m sorry.” Don’t let feuds or fights last days, weeks, months, or even years. Show that you are sorry and make sure your sibling sees that you want things to be different.


Be specific in your apology, don’t just say “I’m sorry” and expect things to go back to normal. Say, “When I said those words, they were really mean. I’m sorry I hurt your feelings, and I’ll do better not to say mean things to you in the future.”

, Especially if your sibling is older than you, you may be jealous of the privileges he has that you don’t. You may feel jealous about attention, privileges, or territory (like who has the biggest room or the nicest things).Find ways to feel more even in the dispersion of these things.


If you feel like things are out of balance, talk to your sibling or your parents about your concerns and see if you can find some compromise. You may find solutions such as having different items in your rooms, having different privileges, or doing different chores.

