 Let it heat up while you are making the batter.
 In a large bowl, add the 1/4 cup of flour, the 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and 1/2 cup of sugar. Blend together., Get out a medium bowl and a large bowl. Crack an egg down the middle over the large bowl, careful to keep the yolk in the shell. Pass the yolk back and forth between the two shells, letting the white drain out below. When you've removed all the egg white, dump the egg yolk in the other bowl. You can also use an egg separator. Do this process for all three eggs.
 Wash the lemon off in warm water, and then dry it. Use a zester to run around the outside of the lemon, grating the zest into the yolks. Avoid the white pith, as it is bitter. Once you've zested the lemon, juice it into a small bowl. Measure out 5 tablespoons, and add it to the yolks, as well. You may need to juice more than one lemon to get 5 tablespoons (73.9 ml).
 To the egg yolk and lemon bowl, add the cup of milk. Use a whisk to thoroughly combine the ingredients., Pour the wet ingredients into the dry ingredients. Stir until well incorporated., Use a hand mixer to beat the egg whites. Once you see soft peaks beginning to form, begin adding in the 1/4 cup sugar until you see stiff peaks. They should be glossy., Pour in a quarter of the batter, and use a whisk to combine. Add the rest of the egg whites, but gently fold them in rather than whisking them in.To fold egg whites in, you gently cut them into the batter with a spoon, folding the batter over the egg whites and vice versa. Egg whites add lightness to baked goods, but they only work if you don't over stir them.
 Grease a pan with oil or butter, and then spoon the batter in. Set the baking dish in another one with higher sides. Pull the oven rack partway out. Set the whole dish on the tray. Pour boiling water into the outer baking dish, so that it reaches the height of the batter on the inside., Leave the cake in the oven for 40 to 45 minutes. It should puff up while baking., Be careful of the hot water when removing the cake.
 Serve the lemon cake warm with a drizzle of raspberry coulis.