 The best way to make sure your children use media in a responsible way is to set the same standard for yourself. When the adults model healthy and appropriate screen time, the children are less likely to pull you into a power struggle of “Well, you get to watch TV!” Setting a double standard is especially likely to backfire with a teen.


Remember, your children learn from your example. If they see you texting instead of engaging in your current environment or lounging on the sofa while binge-watching Netflix, they are less likely to see the benefit of restricting screen time.
Furthermore, research shows that kids with parents who are constantly tuned into their cellphones or other forms of media are more likely to act out.Therefore, setting limits on yourself could be advantageous for the entire household.
 Using screen time to deepen the bond between parent and child is an excellent way to use technology wisely. Instead of letting your young child or teen veg out in front of the TV while you do chores, sit down with them and take the time to not only monitor what they are watching but interact with them regarding the content.


To a younger child, you might ask them to explain the storyline or tell you the moral of the story. For an older child, you might ask trivia questions pertaining to the content of the show or film. This allows you to turn passive viewing into an interactive learning opportunity., It’s easy for adolescents to become so wrapped up in media that they forget the world around them. Make wise use of the time your child has away from the screen to engage in hobbies or activities that don’t involve technology.


Rather than having a toddler watch TV while you do the dishes, come up with little ways they can help you. Get your older child or teen involved in sports, music, or reading.
Plan a family game night or crafts night. Or, have everyone make up a story or joke. Come up with creative ways for your family to learn and have fun without technology.
 In addition to exposing children to violence or profanities and promoting sedentary behaviors, the media also exposes adolescents to negative messages about their bodies.


Have a discussion with your child about these messages. Remind them that human bodies come in all shapes and sizes. Those displayed in the media are often retouched and altered so that every body part appears more perfect than normal. Explain how unrealistic these images are, and discourage your teen from watching programming where such misleading messages are presented.