 Add the pinto beans, salt, black pepper, and red pepper to the slow cooker. Pour 7 1/2 cups (1875 ml) water over the ingredients and stir to combine


Slow cooking the beans is less traditional, but it will result in beans that are more tender and creamier.
The red pepper is only optional, but adding it does provide the pinto beans with a nice kick.
If desired, you could also add margarine to beans for a touch of added creaminess, but the pinto beans will end up being creamy even without the margarine.
You can grease the slow cooker with butter or cooking spray before cooking the beans to make your clean-up easier later on. Similarly, you could also use specially-designed slow cooker liners to prevent the pinto beans from sticking.
 The beans should cook for 7 to 9 hours


Do not open the slow cooker as the beans cook. If you do, valuable steam will escape and you may need to add an additional 30 minutes onto the cooking time.
The total time largely depends on the size and age of the pinto beans you use.
When done, the beans should appear tender but they should not be falling apart. You can test your beans after the 7-hour mark with a fork to determine how tender they are.
 After the beans finish cooking, turn the slow cooker off and let the beans sit until they can absorb more of the liquid.


By letting the beans sit, they will absorb more liquid and become creamier
Leave the lid of the slow cooker on to help the beans stay warm

, Enjoy the pinto beans fresh out of the slow cooker=== Variations===

, Pinto beans are often prepared with some form of pork. Add the bacon or pork to the beans when you would otherwise add margarine or seasonings


Use 1 slice of thick-cut bacon per 1 cup (250 ml) of dry pinto beans. Cut the bacon into 1-inch (2.5-cm) pieces before adding it to the simmering beans
Similarly, cut 1/4 lb (115 g) of salt ham into 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes or strips and add the pork to 1 lb (450 g) of simmering pinto beans.
Pinto beans prepared with pork products are often prepared with chopped onion, as well. Chop up 1/2 to 1 full onion per 1 lb (450 g) of pinto beans.
 You can get creative with your beans. Instead of using plain salt and pepper, try a "pinto bean seasoning" blend or some of your favorite seasonings.


A few dashes of chili powder or paprika can give your beans an added punch
Garlic powder or onion powder are other popular choices.
For an even stronger kick, add chopped jalapeno peppers or a few dashes of hot sauce#Create a healthy version of refried beans. Mash your cooked, tender pinto beans with a fork to create a refried beans dish.
Sauté 1 minced garlic clove and 1/2 an onion, diced, in olive oil until tender. Add the beans and a little of the cooking liquid the beans sat in. Cook for a few minutes before mashing
You could also puree the beans in a blender instead of mashing them with a

,