 Open a blank word processing document and set the font to something readable, such as Times New Roman 12 point. Remember that business letters are single spaced and use block paragraphing, which means you don’t indent with each new paragraph. Instead, you leave a blank line between paragraphs.

You can use letterhead if you have it. Leave enough space at the top of the letter.;
, Insert this information at the top of the page. Include the street address, city, state, and zip code. Look at the letter you received from the IRS to find the address., In the block beneath the IRS address, insert the following personal information:Name, e.g., “Michael A. Jones”
Social Security Number, e.g., “111-11-1111”
Address
Tax period, e.g., “2016”
Tax form if any was referred to, such as Form 1099-MISC

, If you’ve been given the name of an IRS employee, you can use it. Otherwise, use “To Whom It May Concern” and insert a colon., Let them know in the first paragraph what date they sent you a letter and what it was about. This paragraph can be a single sentence.For example, you can write, “I am responding to your letter dated 7/3/2017 concerning my 2016 filing.”

, The IRS probably is requesting additional documentation. Tell them what you are providing.

For example, you can write, “I have reviewed your letter carefully, which asks that I provide proof of my self-employment income. Accordingly, I have printed off my PayPal records, which show $22,455 in income for 2016. To help you, I am sending you a copy of these records. Please adjust your records to reflect this fact.”, Tell the IRS you are available to answer any questions they have. Provide your phone number and thank them for their attention to this issue.For example, you can write, “Feel free to contact me at the above-listed address if you have questions. The easiest way to reach me is by phone at 555-555-5555. Thank you for your attention to this matter.”
Remember to sign your letter. Put the word “Sincerely,” and then a few blank lines underneath for your signature. Underneath your signature, type your name., You might be sending documents to the IRS. Identify what they are at the bottom of the page. Insert the word “Enclosures” and then state what they are.

For example, it might read, “Enclosures: copy of 1099-MISC, copy of W-2.”

, Make copies of whatever supporting documents you are giving the IRS. Never send originals, since the IRS frequently loses them. Keep the originals at home with you.Mail the complete packet certified mail, return receipt requested and hold onto your receipt.