 Stand the book upright on a table. Fan out the pages gently. If your fingers can't disentangle pages without ripping them, use a letter opener and tweezers to separate pages. Alternatively, blow toward the top of your book to fan the pages out.;
, If you would like to speed up the process, you can aim a hairdryer at the pages of your book. Keep it on a warm setting to avoid books becoming affected by heat damage. Continue aiming the hairdryer at your upright book until the pages are dry.
 Either choose a warm spot inside your home or place the book in the sun. Only place the book in direct sunlight if your book isn't valuable. Direct sunlight may fade the book and, especially for older books, this could lead to permanent disintegration, discoloration, and the curling up of the pages. Ensure that every page is dry before returning the book to its shelf.
 You can purchase silica gel packets from an arts and crafts store; these keep things dry by attracting any moisture.Place these within the pages of your book and leave them for about three days. If you are worried about creating indents in the pages, only leave them in the book for one day., You will need a large container, such as a Rubbermaid tub, and a smaller container. Fill the larger container halfway with kitty litter, which will act as an absorbent. Place your book at the bottom of the smaller container. Place it inside the larger container that is filled with cat litter.Leave the book to sit in the absorbent for a few days. Check every few days. If the odor has gone, remove the book or books and dust off (a new paint brush is ideal for dusting). If not, repeat until the book smells better.
Store in a clean, dry place to avoid reintroducing mildew.
 Place a cup of baking soda into a plastic box or bin. Place the book or books (this method is good for more than one book) inside and seal the lid well. Let it sit for 48-72 hours, and then check. Repeat this process until the odor is gone.


Another approach if you live where it's dry and sunny: Sprinkle baking soda between every 10 pages or so. Leave the book open outside during the daytime for a few days in a row, turning pages often. Continue until it smells better. This won't work for all mildew or musty odors, but it can be helpful for some. This is not advised for valuable or antique books.
 Place a sheet of newspaper between every few pages of the book. Leave the newspaper in the book for three to five days. Do not use this method on valuable or old books, since newspaper is acidic and may transfer ink to the book.
 These sheets absorb odors from fabric and they can do so for books, too. Again, the oils in dryer sheets can damage books, so be mindful when using this method. Cut a bunch of sheets into thirds, and put one between every 20 pages or so in the smelly book. Keep the book in a zipper bag a few days, then the musty smell should be gone.Try the following:


This method is good for preventing the musty smell of books as well––just put a piece of a fabric softener sheet in every fifth book, or so, on your bookshelf.
 Place it inside a book. Use 2-3 pieces, depending on the size of the book. Then, place the book inside a resealable plastic bag. Let it sit in a dry spot for a week or two.


Check to see if the fresh odor has been transferred to the book. Continue until the book smells better.
 Add drops of an essential oil like lavender, eucalyptus, or tea-tree oil to cotton balls to a sealable plastic bag. Add the book to the plastic bag and seal. Remove your book after a few days. Due to the risk of oil spots, only do this with less valuable books that you want to read, such as textbooks.
 The storage area should be dry and temperate, as cold can encourage dampness and heat can dry out paper, causing it to crumble. Excessive humidity is bad for books, so either find storage with low humidity or reduce the humidity.Check the attic or basement for leaks, mildew and dampness.
Check your storage facility for bad odors or signs of mildew before storing your book there.
 Choose plastic boxes if the storage area is prone to leaks or dampness. Also, add silica gel sachets in case of condensation.
 Don't overfill your bookshelves. Ensure that there is adequate air circulation between books. Check to make sure that bookcases are not standing against cold, moldy, or damp walls.
 These clear jackets will keep moisture away from your beloved book. It's easier and cheaper to replace dust jackets than to replace the book cover or its binding, so dust jackets offer an affordable solution.

