 Staying fit helps you run faster. Staying sharp helps prevent you from falling into a trap and not panicking prevents you from harm.


Self-defence is the first thing you need to know when you're cornered. Street fighting keeps you alive if you are attacked. If you're not fit, chances are you'll run out of breath or energy before you can get somewhere safe.
Think on your feet. It could help you know what you need to know to get out of the situation. It can help you understand other routes of escape which you would not know it you were thinking of your family. If you lose sight of someone who is after you or if you don't know where they are, quietly hide from them.
Try to stay one step ahead of the enemy.;
,


Knowing your locality can help you know where you can be safest. If you live in a dangerous locality or end up in a location such as this type, don't run from the cops. They'll think you are a criminal too and panic at your every move. This will make them shoot you too.
Knowing your destination prevents it from being your final destination. Going out into the middle of nowhere is not a good idea. Like an isolated part of the beach at night or beneath a noisy train highway where no one is. Stick to populated areas where people are calm and the area is well-lit. Noisy discos make it hard to notice that you are being chased whereas classy restaurants usually have people seated and calm.
Don't travel through an alley. It's dark and gloomy, and isn't very secure. And besides, going through an isolated area is just as bad. Not knowing how to get there and getting lost in some place is a bad idea. This is when you'll love your mobile's map app but not the fact that your lost in an area you don't know is safe.
 Know some alternate forms of getting yourself out of a jam(should you encounter one). Know some street skills like lock-picking. Being able to pick a lock could mean out.
 Wearing high heels is a bad idea. You cannot run in them and you are more likely to break your leg when you try to. You also can't take them off without stopping.
Dressing up to match the people around you can help you avoid unwanted attention. Dressing provocatively gets you attention. If you want to do this, make sure you are surrounded by the right people wherever you go especially when traveling.



well-charged cell phone with lots of range.
First-aid kit. It can save your life or someone else.
irritant spray or security weapon (Make sure you know how to use them.

There are self-defense techniques pertaining to them. Don't spray yourself, know to prepare and aim a gun, etc.


A torch. Light isn't found everywhere.
An ID card. It helps.
Have some cash for miscellaneous expenses encountered.
Leave out unnecessary valuable items like heirlooms.
For those asthmatics, don't forget to carry around your inhaler device.
 Don't trip. As you run look for a place to hide or something you could use to defend yourself or an escape route. It's harder to shoot at a moving target than one that is stationary.Run from anyone else who's brandishing a gun if you find an opening.


Don't run from a cop, however. They may not understand why you did so and may find you suspicious.
 Fighting techniques can help you know how to disarm or incapacitate your criminal. Know street fighting techniques. They are specifically designed for these situations.
 They won't catch you if they can't.
 Lock picking and stealth can get you away without a scratch on you., Depending on what's around you, it can save or hurt you depending on how you use it. Some objects may easily give your location away, such as noisy precariously placed items. Be careful of the garbage truck, if you decide to hide in a garbage bin.



If they know you better they'll call the cops themselves.
If you tell your mom she'll know the area better and can tell you if it's safe or not. If your best friend noticed that you vanished and haven't been seen since that night when so-so, she might realize enough to call the cops, and to have the emergency send the cops to the pier.
If you're new to someplace and don't have any friends around make sure your family know exactly what you plan to do there. Call them frequently until you have real friends and people who know you.
 Stopping the bleeding can keep you from becoming dizzy., Avoid certain areas, if the area has had several occurrences of problems.If you must travel into or through these areas, make sure you don't fit the profile of any of the victims.
 You have to know how the criminal looked like, how many were there, what they did. Carry a notepad and pen to write it down when you are safely away. Even if they did not succeed report it to the police. They will keep you safe if required., If you drive a 3 million dollar car into a shady neighborhood then it is doubtful it'll still be there even if you were a notorious crime boss.
 Your instinct can help you. But it will also tell you do some brash things at the wrong moment. Think through it and choose wisely. Judge your options.


Getting into such trouble can be disorienting. It's because you'll be trying to understand how this happened to you. You could also become demoralized and feel useless. But that isn't the time to be confused or upset. Do anything to save yourself.
 Criminals make mistakes-use them to your advantage. Not all of them are well-experienced so with a bit of spunk you can save yourself.
 Even if it did not succeed, it still needs to be reported to the authorities., You don't want to be robbed, right?

, Your lifestyle, the police, someone like you, a lucky victim, someone you never even knew, some or all of them is or could endanger your life. Try to quit. Get therapy. Do your full time in jail. You might be happier. Needless to say every time you step out the door...karma could kill you.

