 Pour the dry beans into a large bowl and pick through to remove any shriveled or unappealing beans. Cover the beans with two to three inches (5 to 7 cm) of water and leave them on the counter to soak overnight.Soaking the beans overnight (roughly 10 to 14 hours) reduces the cooking time required, helps them cook more evenly and makes them easier to digest by removing most of the sugar called oligosaccharide, which causes flatulence. If you’re in a rush you can speed up the soaking time by covering the beans in water, heating them to a boil for two minutes, then turn off the heat and allow them to sit undisturbed for an hour.Lentils, peas, and black-eyed peas do not need to be soaked before cooking.;
, Pour the beans into a colander to remove the soaking water. Rinse them under cold running water.
 Transfer the beans to a dutch oven or heavy cooking pot.


At this point you can add aromatics if you wish, such as half of an onion, garlic cloves, chopped carrots and/or bay leaves.
 Cover the beans with fresh water and place the cooking vessel on the stove top. Bring the water to a boil over medium-high heat for a few minutes.
 Reduce the heat to low and bring the beans to a very gentle simmer; you should barely be able to see the water moving.


Cover the cooking vessel with a lid that is slightly ajar for creamier beans used in soups, stews and burritos.
Leave the lid off the cooking vessel if you want firmer beans for salads and pasta dishes.
 Simmer the beans according to the recommended cooking time for the particular variety., Once the beans are just barely tender and nearly done cooking, you can add salt for flavor.


Avoid adding the salt too early as it can prevent the beans from becoming tender.
 You can now add your cooked beans to any recipe. If you wish to store them, measure out 1 1/2 cups (354.8 ml) of beans into a two cup storage container and the cooking liquid to cover, allowing 1/2 inch (1.27 cm) of headspace. Seal and store in the refrigerator for one week or in the freezer for up to one year.


Label the containers with the date and contents.

