 If you have gone through the process described in the section about filing a child support order and you are not being paid what is owed, and you do not qualify for assistance from the Office of the Attorney General, you will need to file an enforcement action.
 To start the process, you will need to file your enforcement action with the court that handled your initial child support action. However, if the paying parent has moved out of that jurisdiction, you may need to file in a jurisdiction that has control over that parent.This step will usually only be necessary where the other parent has moved out of Pennsylvania.
 To fill out the required forms, go here and go through the interactive process. This website will ask you a series of questions about your situation and they will use that information to fill out the required forms for you.After you have completed the questionnaire, you can download and print the completed forms., Take your completed and printed documents to the correct local Court of Common Pleas and file them with the clerk of courts. The clerk will take your original documents so be sure to make copies of everything you have. In order to complete the filing process, you will need to pay a fee unless you qualify and apply for a fee waiver.The fees vary from county to county but for example, the fee in York County is $35.50.To qualify for a fee waiver, you will usually need to show proof that you are unable to pay the fee or that doing so would cause you a financial burden. You can usually show this through bank statements or pay stubs. Once you have filed your documents, the clerk of courts will schedule a hearing date.
 When you serve the other party, you will give a copy of your filed documents for them to look over and respond to. To serve the other party, you must provide the required documents to them, either in person or through the mail.This process must be completed within 30 days of filing your documents with the court., You will next attend your scheduled court hearing and present your case to the judge. The case will likely proceed as follows:


Each party will provide opening statements. These opening statements are simple road maps of your case and will provide the judge and the other party with information on how you plan to proceed. For more information about opening statements go here.
Each party will then present their witnesses. In a child support contempt proceeding, witnesses will most likely be employers, friends, family members, bank employees, and other financial officers. These witnesses will provide testimony to the court about why the other party is not paying the required amounts.
Both parties will then give their closing statements, which is the last chance to give the judge a summary of the case and a statement of why the judge should rule in your favor.
Finally, the judge will provide both parties with a ruling. If the ruling is in your favor, the court will use various enforcement methods including passport denial, driver's license suspension, and credit bureau reporting in order to force the other party to pay their fair share of child support.

