 Many people assume pathological liars refrain from making eye contact. While typical liars may dodge eye contact, this is not usually the case for a pathological liar. Instead, you may notice too much eye contact. This is the pathological liar's attempt to look believable.A pathological liar may not break their gaze when speaking to you. It's normal to look away on occasion in conversation. A pathological liar, however, will stare you in the eyes for as long as you talk.
You also may notice subtle signs of lying in the eyes. A pathological liar's pupils may dilate slightly, and they may also blink slowly.
 When normal people lie, they may fidget excessively and show other signs of nervousness. In contrast, a pathological liar feels little remorse over lying. Therefore, they may seem almost too relaxed when lying. Pathological liars may actually appear quite sociable and laid back. Even when you know someone is lying, they may not demonstrate typical signs of distress or nervousness.For example, you hear your co-worker tell a story at lunch. Later, during downtime, the suspected pathological liar repeats the same story, as if it happened to them.
While you know this person is lying, they seem completely unbothered. They tell the story without any signs of distress or agitation and seem at ease with themselves. If you didn't know better, you would have no trouble believing the story.
 Small changes in vocal tone may indicate lying. While not all pathological liars change their tone, some may. A shift in vocal tone, in conjunction with other symptoms, may indicate someone is a pathological liar.You may notice a slight change in pitch. A pathological liar's voice may get higher or lower when lying.
A pathological liar may also lick their lips or drink water when talking. The stress from telling lies may cause adrenaline or the constriction of vocal chords, leading to an increased need for water.
 While pathological liars may not demonstrate typical body language when lying, they may display a fake smile. Smiles are very difficult to fake successfully, so pay attention to their mouths.With a genuine smile, you will notice changes in the entire face. The corners of someone's eyes typically crinkle. With a fake smile, the only noticable change is near the mouth.