 They will bring you the most gold. If you don't play too often, invest in a building that takes a lot of hours for your followers to build up gold, so that when you come back, you'll be showered with tons of gold! Make sure that all of your followers have 100% energy so that they can keep working for long amounts of time. And never forget; go on once you are notified, as you don't want all that hard-earned gold to become spoiled!;
, By just clicking the ad, you can earn 25 gold. Most of the time, it will exit you out of the game and into the App Store or Safari (unless you click the 'Done' button quick enough), but you can always go back to the game and your gold will be there.
 Get your friends to play the game and enchant their followers; you'll help yourself and them. It also dishes out a decent amount of money each time.
 Every day that you launch the app, you earn a random sum of gold in the daily draw. Sometimes you can earn a huge amount, so it's always important to just click on the app every twenty-four hours.
 Sometimes when you level up, the rune gives you some random things, in which you can sell if you really need the money. Most of the time they won't sell for much, but if you're tight on cash, it can sometimes help.
 When you toss a follower into a rainbow made from rain and sunlight, it launches you into a game where you jump from cloud to cloud. On some clouds, there are stars and on some, there are five gold. The downside to this game is that you have to trade in one awe to keep the items you collect, but sometimes it's worth it.
 When you use these mana-powered objects on your followers, your followers will each generate three stars. Tap on these stars to add them to your followers. When you reach your goal for stars, your followers will do a flip and present gold to you. The more you level up in stars, the more gold they will generate each time. Also, followers with a higher star rating make more money when enchanted!

, Try to stay away from buying decorations for your planet until you have enough money to freely spend it. Only buy the important things, such as buildings for your followers to work and rest at.

