 Paperwork that is piled up throughout the office space not only looks messy, but also makes it difficult and time consuming to refer back to important documents when the need arises. There are a number of ways loose papers can be organized during the office cleaning procedure.


Filing cabinets are perfect for storing things like invoices, work orders, estimates, vendor information, product specs and customer profiles. Label files according to their specific use and file documents away whenever you clean the office.
If you must keep certain documents on hand for immediate reference, then you can make use of desktop trays and wall mounted "pockets." This is a good idea for things like bills to be paid, open customer files, paperwork that must be filed away and documents in current dispute.
To save space, consider scanning documents that can be archived and storing them electronically.;
, Not only is this necessary for a clean company office, but also for the safety of your employees and customers. Restrooms are a high traffic area and need to be cleaned every day.


Scrub toilet bowls with a disinfecting cleaner and a toilet brush. Wipe the seat, the lid, the outside circumference of the bowl, the tank and the base of the toilet with disinfectant. Use toilet bowl deodorizing cakes to maintain freshness in between cleanings.
Wipe sink and counter areas with a disinfecting cleaner.
Sweep and mop the floors.
Refill soap dispensers and paper towel holders, and replace toilet tissue rolls.
 Use a duster to blast dust out of tight spaces like keyboard keys, vents and fans. Wipe electronics with a soft rag moistened with a disinfectant spray.
 Because food is often prepared and stored in the break room, a clean break room is necessary to your employees' health and safety. Additionally, a clean break room is good for employee morale.


Keep the refrigerator clean and organized. Make it a point to throw out old food every week and wipe down the interior with a rag dampened with disinfectant.
Spray countertops, sinks, tables, chairs and shelves with disinfectant spray and wipe with a wet rag.
Clean the inside of the microwave with a disinfecting rag. This should be a part of your daily office cleaning, as microwave messes can become hardened and difficult to clean if left to sit over an extended period of time.
If you use a dish drainer, clean it every day along with the dishes to prevent mildew.
Wash hand and dish towels regularly, and replace dish sponges as needed.
 This includes garbage in the break room, office spaces, conference room, public area and restrooms.
 If your customers or clients visit your place of business, then a clean company office is the first impression they will get. Therefore, you need to put a lot of care and attention into presenting a space that is representative of what you want to convey about your business.


Seating should be free of dust, crumbs and stains.
If you display magazines, books, pamphlets and/or brochures for waiting customers to read, those reading materials should be tidy and up to date. Throw away ripped, dirty and old reading materials.
Dust furniture, shelves, knick-knacks, plants, wall hangings, blinds and window treatments.
Wipe the walls clean of marks.
Clean fingerprints and other smudges off of windows and mirrors.
Vacuum the floor, and mop it if applicable.
 Make use of organizational units like pencil holders, paper trays, standing file holders, bookshelves, baskets and drawer dividers to create a place for everything. Wipe the desktops clean of dust, food crumbs and smudges.

