 Several of these foods have been shown to be good natural sources of glutathione, but their GSH content is destroyed by overcooking or processing. To get the most glutathione out of your fruits and veggies, eat them fresh whenever possible.Fruits and vegetables high in glutathione include broccoli, avocado, okra, spinach, cauliflower, Brussels sprouts, collard greens, mustard greens, cabbage, asparagus, grapefruit, apples, oranges, and cherries (though there are many more).Despite the benefits of these foods, you should always strive for a balanced diet. Overdoing it on the fruits and vegetables can create problems for your digestive system if you do not also get enough dietary protein.;
, Three amino acids contribute to glutathione's makeup (so-called "precursors"): cysteine, glutamate, and glycine. Lean protein sources, especially meats, contain naturally high levels of these amino acids, especially cysteine (which is also the most important one). If your diet includes lots of these lean proteins, your body will produce more glutathione.High-quality sources of lean protein include poultry and egg yolks, milk, and yogurt. To get as much cysteine from your diet as possible (and therefore increase your body's glutathione production), you should try to eat at least two servings of lean protein per day.
 Some spices include chemical compounds (such as curcumin) that promote glutathione production.These include turmeric, cinnamon, cumin, and cardamom.Eating foods that already contain high levels of multiple glutathione-promoting spices can help you to further boost your glutathione without much extra effort. Many curry dishes fall into this category.
Cinnamon can be added to many desserts or sweet foods to add a flavorful kick while also contributing to higher glutathione levels. It's a win-win!

, Alpha lipoic acid (ALA) promotes natural glutathione production. ALA is also an antioxidant and can regenerate other antioxidants that have been "used up," including Vitamin C and E, helping to renew their ability to scavenge free radicals in your cells.Foods containing high levels of ALA include: liver, peas, spinach, broccoli, tomatoes, Brussels sprouts, and potatoes. Several of these foods (such as Brussels sprouts) are also naturally high in glutathione, so these are particularly good options.For a high dose of dietary ALA and glutathione, look for recipes that combine some of these food items, such as stews, salads, or casseroles.
 Selenium is a mineral with antioxidant abilities that contributes to GSH production. In addition to being naturally present in many foods, food items from selenium-rich environments will have higher levels. Selenium is also essential for the production of enzymes containing glutathione.Many meats have high selenium content, especially crab, tuna, liver, fish, and poultry; however, their selenium content depends on where the animal was raised and the natural selenium content of the soil and water in its habitat.Several plants are good sources of selenium, as well. The ones with the highest selenium content are grown in soil with naturally high selenium levels. Good plant sources include: Brazil nuts, pinto beans, mushrooms, many seeds, brown rice, cabbage, broccoli, and spinach., Physical activity increases your metabolism, which boosts natural glutathione production. Aerobic exercises (those that get your heart rate up for an extended period) are best for improving metabolism. These include brisk walking, jogging, running, cycling, circuit training, and swimming, among others.Check with your doctor before beginning an exercise routine if you are at all concerned about your current level of health and/or physical fitness.
Adopt an exercise routine that fits your lifestyle and fitness level. Don't try to go too hard right away or you might get discouraged and be less likely to stick with it. Start with 20 minutes of exercise three days per week and move up from there as your fitness improves.

