 The vast majority of a day in the life of sniper in the field is waiting. This time, often spent alone or with one other person, is often silent and in some cases even moving can compromise your position and put you and your team at risk. It is essential to stay calm as a sniper, whether its during movement to or from an objective, while waiting to conduct reconnaissance, or in the face of the enemy.Keeping a cool head will allow you to properly utilize your training and expertise to handle the situation at hand.
There are many stories of snipers being surrounded by enemies in combat situations that survived because of their ability to remain calm and concealed as the enemy passed.
 With all the waiting around one is apt to do as a sniper, it can be easy to lose sight of what you’re there to be doing. After three days of seeing nothing, your mind may begin to wander instead of remaining focused on your objective. Combat this loss of focus by frequently reminding yourself of your objectives and how important it is to your team’s safety that you stay attentive.Getting too comfortable and allowing your mind to drift is a form of complacency. Complacency kills in a combat zone, as you must always be aware of your surroundings.
Mission accomplishment is, and should always be, the number one priority of a sniper.
 Although there may be hours of waiting around, being a sniper also means moments of extreme physical stress. Because of this, physical fitness is paramount for a sniper. Covering ground quickly to put you and your team in a better position to achieve your objectives, or to get to an extraction point means having the cardiovascular strength to run quickly for extended periods of time. Carrying all of the gear necessary for your mission will also require physical strength. Developing a strong body will help you to adjust to stressful combat situations, recover from injuries, and aid team members if they are injured.Snipers must be among the most physically fit combatants on the battlefield.
Incorporate a good deal of running and some weight training into your workout regimen as a sniper.
 Being a sniper in a combat zone will likely mean having to make the decision to end a life. There is no universal strategy for coping with this choice, or the feelings that may arise as a result. However, distancing yourself from your target emotionally can help to lessen the emotional repercussions of killing another person in defense of your country.Chris Kyle, a highly decorated Navy sniper, often taught people to focus on the lives they were saving by engaging the enemy, rather than on the lives of the enemy that they were taking.
Although you may spend a significant amount of time observing your target, it’s important not to allow yourself to become attached to them.
 Being a sniper means long periods of inaction followed by infrequent and extremely intense moments of action. It can be difficult to predict how a person may react in a firefight, but you can minimize the chances that you will make a mistake by practicing every element of your craft frequently and with the same intensity you might in an actual firefight. This includes firing your weapon, exercising and learning new skills. By practicing as though you are in a combat situation, you will be better prepared to handle one when it arises.Just like playing sports, frequent practice can help you to do the things you need to do even when the situation around you is hectic.
By training how you would perform in a real scenario, you can help your body adjust to the stresses of combat ahead of time.

