 Apply whatever face base you want to use- try to keep it natural, as the contouring can look quite made up if done in a certain way. If you want to use blush, apply it only to the apples of your cheeks.;
, Put the highlighter on areas of your face that you want to bring forwards and bronzer on the areas of your face that you do not want to bring attention to. I will tell you how to contour- not bronze - your face with the powder, but you may want to alter some steps depending on your face shape.
 Which brush you use depends on the look you're going for- a smaller, more tightly packed brush will apply the pigment more heavily while a larger, fluffier brush will apply the products lightly and not be as precise, giving a more natural look.


You may want to use a smaller brush for highlighter and a larger one for bronzer, simply because of the respective areas each product is used on- or different sized brushes to contour different areas of your face.
 Swirl your brush in the bronzer section of the Sculpt and Shape palette. Swipe the bronzer down both sides of your nose bridge, knock off any excess product, and use circular buffing motions to blend. Don't blend the product away, but blend enough so that it does not look too unnatural.


Then, sweeping a clean brush through the highlighter, swipe the light shade straight down the bridge of your nose in a fluid movement.
Knock off any excess product and lightly blend- you don't want the highlighter too out of place. And done! You have used the bronzer to create the illusion of shadows on the sides of your nose, and brought forward the center- giving yourself the appearance of a thinner nose bridge.
 Start with the bronzer. Making a fish or kissing face, observe where the natural hollows below your cheekbones are.


Using your brush, apply bronzer to the hollows and slightly above for more definition. Blend with a clean brush- blend more for a more natural look and only blend lightly for a more defined look.
Then, using a bronzer-free brush, sweep the highlighter along the tops of your cheekbones. You can also highlight around the apples of your cheeks so that the light will hit when you smile. Blend- but not too much.
If highlighter gets too misplaced, it loses it's effect. And there you have the appearance of higher, more prominent cheekbones.
 Sweep the bronzer along your jawline to give it a softer, more rounded look. Blend down your neck so it doesn't look like your foundation is too dark or like you're wearing excessive makeup.
 Using a large brush, buff bronzer onto your temples and up onto the sides of your forehead. Blend lightly down the sides of your face. Put highlighter on the center of your forehead and on the center of your chin. Bring lips forwards by using a small brush to outline them with the highlighter. And your finished!

,