 Protecting your skin from dry air with a layer of moisturizing lotion is one of the best ways to make it feel soft and silky. Choose a hydrating lotion for dry skin. Apply it as soon as you get out of the shower, while your skin is still damp and warm, to trap in the moisture that keeps your skin soft.


Carry a travel-sized bottle of lotion with you throughout the day to treat areas that might become dry, especially your face and hands.
Moisturizing sunscreen is a good option for your face, since it keeps your skin hydrated and protects you from damaging rays at the same time.
 When lotion just doesn't seem to be keeping your skin soft, it's time to deep condition your skin with oil. The process might be a little messy, but the resulting silky skin is worth it. Complete the following steps before going to bed:






Rub oil all over your body. Use olive oil, almond oil, jojoba oil, or another cosmetic-grade oil. You can purchase these at grocery stores, natural food stores or beauty stores.
Put on long-sleeved pajamas and pajama pants. Your long-sleeved clothing will keep the oil against your skin and prevent it from getting all over your bed while you sleep. Choose cotton pajamas, rather than silk or another fabric that might get stained by the oil. If you want, you can also wear socks and gloves.
In the morning, take a shower and moisturize with lotion as usual. Your skin should feel unbelievably smooth and baby-soft after your deep oil treatment.
 Not every moisturizer works for every person's skin. You may find that the commercial lotions, even those that are made for extra-dry skin, don't keep your skin from flaking a few hours after application. Experiment with these natural moisturizers until you find one that keeps your skin feeling silky.


Coconut oil spreads on smooth and melts against the skin.
Shea butter is great for treating rough knees and elbows during the winter.
Lanolin is the natural substance that sheep produce to keep their wool soft and waterproof.
Aloe vera is a light, everyday moisturizer that doesn't leave your skin feeling oily.

