 How would you answer the question “What are you really good at?”


For example, are you a meticulous organizer? Are you a natural at public speaking? Are you a skilled reader and writer? Do you know how to program computers? Are you a soccer star?
Think broadly when answering these questions, and don't rule out anything that seems silly or frivolous.
For example, maybe you're really good at doing complicated nail art, which you think is a useless hobby. However, nursing homes and retirement communities often look for volunteers to provide residents with manicures.
 Just as you should know what you're good at, you should think about the type of environment you work best in.Answering the following practical questions can help you figure out where and how to help others.


Do you thrive in an outdoor setting? Do you avoid the elements at all costs, and thus prefer an office-setting? Are you perhaps a bit of recluse, and so prefer to work remotely?

, Beyond knowing what you are good at doing, you should also think about whether or not you enjoy doing what you're good at. To be able to consistently help others, you want to avoid boredom and burn-out. Doing what you are both good at and enjoy can help protect against this.


For example, you may be a great writer, and if so, this could serve you well in your quest to help others. However, if you hate writing, then there's little chance that you'll be able to sustain a commitment to teaching others to write. Surely there are other things you're also good at that you enjoy a bit more.



What causes move you? Are you an animal-lover who would rather interact with non-human creatures than people? Are you a strong advocate of women's rights? Are you passionate about school reform?
Try to identify the causes that either warm your heart or get your blood boiling. Either way, you'll know that you've chosen to commit yourself to something that matters to you.
 Outline all of your current time commitments (work, school, family, etc.) in order to identify open windows of time that you can devote to volunteering or doing good deeds.


Be careful not to make overly ambitious promises about the amount of time you can devote to volunteering or working for others.
For example, if you promise the local shelter that you can help them out fifteen hours a week, they'll depend upon you being there, but after a few weeks you may be burnt out. You need to allow yourself some downtime.
You should, however, make helping others an actual priority that gets written into your schedule and that you take as seriously as any other commitment like work.

