 Crash diets usually involve severely restricting your caloric intake for a period of time, with the goal of losing a lot of weight quickly. Sometimes the 500 or 1000 calories-per-day are supplemented with juice "cleanses," diet pills, or diuretics. While the diet might seem to be working at first, most of this weight loss is due to water loss. Meanwhile, your body's metabolism is actually slowing down, burning fewer calories.You won't be able to get a healthy nutritional balance for most crash diets.
Crash diets also have a negative consequence on your mental health. Not getting enough calories is likely to make you irritable, tired, and lethargic.
You're unlikely to feel more confident when you're not getting the daily nutrition you need.
 Skipping meals increases the amount of fat stored around the midsection, or belly fat. Eating smaller meals throughout the day, rather than skipping meals, is more likely to result in weight loss, according to clinical research.Skipping one meals leads to being hungrier for later meals, and can result in eating more calories later in the day. This can set off a cycle of overeating, followed by fasting, that can lead to a host of health concerns.
Going for extended periods of time without eating will send your body into survival mode: your body will turn to muscle mass for fuel in order to preserve its fat supplies. Clearly, this is the opposite of what you'd like as you prepare for bathing suit season!

, If you're trying to lose weight to gain confidence in your swimsuit, remember that both diet and exercise have a part to play. Each week, aim for at least 150 minutes (2 hours and 30 minutes) of moderate-intensity aerobic exercise, 75 minutes (1 hour and 15 minutes) of vigorous activity, or a combination of the two.


For teens, the amount of exercise recommended is about an hour per day.
Choose exercise routines that you can sustain over time, which means doing activities that you like., finding the mix that works best for your body will lead to feelings of confidence, whether it's biking, jogging, swimming, biking, dance classes, or a combination.
Include muscle-strengthening activities on at least 2 days per week. Muscle-strengthening activities include weight lifting, resistance training, sit-ups and push-ups, and many yoga classes.
 A healthy diet includes plenty of vegetables and fruits, a good amount whole grains. Make sure to include lean meats and other proteins, such as fish, beans, eggs and nuts. Avoid trans fats and saturated fats, but include small portions of healthy fats from vegetable oils, made from olive, sunflower, peanut, canola, and others.Avoid drinking sugary drinks, including sodas, energy drinks, sweetened coffee drinks. Limit juice to one serving a day.
Alcoholic beverages, including wine, beer, and liquor, are high in sugar content as well. Limit your drinks to one per day if you're trying to lose weight.
 Acting confident on the outside will often result in the feelings of confidence inside. In addition, when you sit or stand straight, you’ll improve your blood flow to the brain. You’ll receive more oxygen, which will result in sharper attention and you’ll feel more energetic.Check and see how you are holding your hands. Hands held with palms facing outward are a sign of insecurity.
Poor posture, or slouching, presents an impression of poor self-confidence and insecurity. It also makes your muscles work harder, since they’re being held in an unnatural position, and can result in health difficulties over time.

