 Many children have their tonsils out to prevent them from getting infected. While it is scary and uncomfortable, after you heal you will probably be sick much less often.Your doctor will tell you and your parents about what medications you will get to make you sleep during the operation. When you wake up it will be over.
You will also get medications to prevent it from hurting a lot afterwards while it heals.;
, After the surgery eating cold, soft foods will help soothe the wound as it heals. You can ask your parents to stock up on things like:Ice cream
Popsicles
Pudding
Applesauce
Juice
Yogurt

, Most people who get their tonsils out do not need to stay overnight in the hospital. But even when you are at home, you should stay in bed for a few days. After that you will need to play quietly for about two weeks. Activities to plan include:Getting movies to watch
Finding new books to read
Playing computer games
Doing arts and crafts

, If you have things you are afraid of, they will be able to help explain what the doctor said. They will be able to comfort you and tell you that they will be waiting for you when you wake up after the surgery.


Many adults also had their tonsils out when they were children. Ask your parents what their experiences were.
 These procedures help you get control of your thoughts. This can help you to stop worrying and feeling panicky. These are some easy methods that you can use when you have a few quiet minutes:Deep breathing. During this technique you focus on breathing slowly and deeply. This makes you slow down and fully inflate your lungs. Focusing on it will help you to clear your mind. It is also sometimes called belly breathing because your belly moves as you breathe. When you breathe shallowly, your chest moves.

Meditation. To meditate, you sit in a comfortable position in a peaceful location. You can also do it while lying in your bed at night. Then try to clear your mind so that you are not thinking or worrying about anything. Sometimes it can help to repeat a word or phrase to yourself over and over again until you feel yourself relaxing.

Visualizing calming images. This is another meditation technique in which you image a calm place like a beach. In your mind you explore the beach and experience it with all your senses including how sounds, what it feels like, and what it smells like. As you focus on this, you should start to feel calmer.

