 It could be about your favorite movies, games, bands, books, computers, celebrities--anything that piques your interest. Do a search for “free blogging platforms,” choose a design that fits with the theme of your blog, and come up with a creative title.If your blog features content that’s fun to gather and write, chances are it will be fun for others to read. Put a link to your first post on Facebook so your friends can leave comments.
The great thing about starting a blog is that it can provide endless amounts of entertainment. Update it with new posts every time you find yourself with some time to spare.
 There’s no pressure to make something perfect, since you’re only cooking for one.Make a recipe you’ve always wanted to try or cook up something simple and satisfying like an omelette or pasta alfredo.Try creating your own unique dish without using a recipe at all. Start with a base like pasta or rice and add in your favorite ingredients or things you’ve wanted to try, like kale, tomatillos, buffalo meat, or chia seeds.
Try making a single chocolate chip cookie and savor the chance to make a cookie that’s only for you.
 Go to a craft store and buy a few supplies or just use pencil and paper that you have around the house.


If you aren’t artistically inclined, get a paint-by-number set. They’re fun and satisfying to complete, and when you’re done you’ll have a new decoration for your room.
Make a comic strip or a web comic. Use yourself, celebrities, family, or friends as inspiration for the characters. You can make your comic artistically detailed or use messy stick figures. Put them into funny and ridiculous situations, and then show them to your friends.
 If you have boxes full of photographs, ticket stubs, restaurant menus, and other random knick-knacks, take some time to make a scrapbook.


Buy a blank scrapbook from an art store or a drugstore.
Lay out the items you want to save by date and category.
Arrange the items artfully and then paste them into the scrapbook.
Consider adding witty or sentimental captions.
 The time may never come again when you will have such perfect loneliness--so make the most of it. The silence may help you concentrate. If writing a book seems like too much to take on, try something smaller but equally expressive:


Write a journal entry or start a new journal.
Write a letter to someone you haven’t seen in a long time.
Make a list of your goals for the next month or year.

