 First and foremost, you should know the reasons why girls treat each other this way. Some typical reasons include:


They are jealous of you because you possess something that they don't have, whether it's beauty, talent, good grades, kindness






They see you as a threat because you are different: They might even try to steal your friends. Girls who are insecure about themselves don't appreciate it when a girl who is not like them in any way presents something different that what they are offering - so they view you as a threat to them.






You get positive attention from boys that they don't get.






You have true friends instead of people too scared to be a victim that they suck up to you.






You're the new kid and they don't appreciate you getting the most attention.





;
, A key factor in dealing with any kind of bullying is to remember you are not alone!


Go on YouTube and listen to these songs: Mean Girls by Rachel Crow, Who You Are by Jessie J, Who's Laughing Now By Jessie J, Brave by Sara Bareilles, Wings by Little Mix, Mean by Taylor Swift, and Work What You Got by Mary J Blige.






Look up material about bullying. Search for girls your age talking about their experiences.






Start a thread or a forum and discuss with others their experience with bullies






Ask your parents what they went through when they were your age and how they handled it







, When they are whispering while you're nearby pretend you don't hear a thing. If it's in class, keep your eyes on the task at hand. Whatever you do, don't respond to their rude remarks. In fact, don't even look in their direction. This will be hard to do but do your best; it takes away their ability to turn it into a tit-for-tat fight.
 In the case these girls decide to make it obvious they're talking to you and humiliate you in front of everyone, look her/them dead in the eye and slowly let a wide grin spread across your face without saying one word. Almost like a smirk. Then right when you see they are caught off guard walk away with that same smile on your face and your head held high. They will be frustrated that their stupid insults didn't affect you!

, Make your smile real. How you might ask? As you're watching this bully putting you down think to yourself: "Wow, I bet she still sleeps with a night light and a teddy bear!" sure enough you will begin to smile.
 Go shopping, take a day for yourself to pamper: pedicure, manicure. You get the point. (However, don't get a makeover or do anything that will change too much about your appearance. This might make the girls think they broke down so much of your confidence that you want to look different, which will please them.) Remember you are doing this for yourself, not to fit in with those little snots. They will have something mean to say about this. When they do, just keep on walking: head held high, shoulders back, good posture, and a big smile. Don't care at all, you are beautiful no matter what a stupid bully says!

, This will throw them. Instead of getting hurt, they will be forced to face the fact that you only say pleasant things back to them. This sets an example for them and others, but it also makes it very hard for them to respond nastily without looking really petty and cruel, which will then be noticed by everyone around. They themselves have probably been hurt themselves. By being pleasant to them, you show them how to act, and show that you consider them to be obviously immature and in need of help and guidance., Hygiene is important for increasing your confidence. Keep yourself clean by bathing daily, using deodorant, and moisturizing, and take good care of your skin using a daily cleanser that works for you. Investing time in yourself will boost your confidence.
 Look for people who have personalities like you. Believe or not, there is strength in numbers. You will feel much better if you have friends to take your side.
 If you've gone through all of these steps and you still feel bad, talk to a trusted friend. You could even get a counselor, a professional outside of school, someone you feel comfortable with.
 If you see it happening, go report it to an adult immediately. Wait until a little later and ask the person if they are okay and then invite them to eat lunch with you. You never know this could be the person that helps you get through your problem.

