 Being happy being yourself won't be worth it if you don't have any friends to share your wonderful self with. Having the right friends can improve your self-esteem, make you feel needed, and can improve your self confidence. Here's how to happiness through your friendships:


Treasure old friendships. Your old friends have known you the longest and can help you gain perspective and offer advice that no one else can give you. Be grateful for these friends by telling them how much they mean to you, and making time to see them or at least talk to them on the phone as often as you can.
Turn acquaintances into friends. You'll be surprised by how you can always make room for new friends, no matter how busy you are. If you've met someone who you really click with, don't be afraid to ask him or her on a coffee date to see if you can get to know each other better. This can make you much happier, especially if you've moved to a new place where you don't know many people.
Dump your toxic friends. If you have a friend who makes you feel terrible about yourself or is so negative that she manages to ruin your mood every time you hang out, it may be time to let her go. Appreciating your old friendships is one thing, but being too nice to say no to people you don't like is another.
 In many cases, nobody has done more for you or knows you better than your parents or siblings. Whether you're off at college, living in a different country, or sharing a house with your family members, it's important to be happy with who they are in order to be truly happy being yourself.


Love your parents. Take time to talk to your parents as often as you can, tell them you love them, and think about the things about them you love most. Thank them often. If there's something they did a long time ago that you were too stubborn to thank them for, it's never too late.
Treat your siblings well. Remember that your siblings can be your best friends. Even if you sometimes you feel like you and your sibling live on different planets, you still share a common bond of knowing what it's like to grow up in the same place with the same parents.
 You can be happy with your friends and family, but may still find an empty place in your heart. To be fully happy with the people around you, you have to embrace the romantic aspect of your life as well. Here's how:


If you have a great significant other, never forget how lucky you are. Some people spend their whole life trying to find the right person. If you've found that person already, tell yourself and him or her how much your relationship means to you every single day. This will keep things fresh, and will make you happier because you'll never get complacent.
If you're single and dating lots of people, have fun. Don't get so hung up on finding Mr. Right or Mrs. Right that you don't enjoy meeting lots of people and going on fun dates. Going on date after date may get frustrating, but if you stay positive, you're more likely to find the right person.
If you're single and not looking, that's okay too! If you're not at a point in your life where you want date anyone, whether it's because you're too busy with work or recovering from a painful breakup, tell yourself that that is perfectly acceptable. Don't worry if all of your friends are in serious relationships or if they're always trying to set you up--be happy with who you are and the decisions you're making.
 You won't be able to fully enjoy your relationships if you're holding a grudge or stuck in the past. Learning to forgive the people you love for their past mistakes is the only way to move forward in your relationships. Here's how:


If someone has really hurt you, try looking at it from his or her perspective. Your friend may have hurt you with the best intentions, or might not have been thinking clearly, especially if he was going through a dark time. Try putting yourself in your friend's shoes to see if that makes you understand why he or she hurt you.
Learn to accept an apology. If your friend, mother, or significant other is truly sincere and sorry about something, learn to accept an apology. Try to move on as best you can. Being stubborn won't help the situation and will certainly not make you any happier.
If you were complicit, say you're sorry, too. If you've been hurt, it's likely that you weren't being an angel and played some part in the situation. If you've hurt the person too, then don't be afraid to apologize.
Know when you can't forgive. If your friend or significant other did something so awful that you won't ever be able to continue the relationship, know when to call it quits. For example, if you can't forgive your significant other for cheating on you no matter how hard you try, don't force it and move on from the relationship. There's no need to torture yourself to stay in something that has been too broken to fix.

