 Turn the oven on to 350 degrees F (180 C). Get out a 9 x 13-inch (23 x 33-cm) baking pan and spray it with cooking spray. Line the pan with parchment paper too.

Parchment paper will make it easier to lift the cake out of the pan and return it to the pan. You'll need to do this when you cool the cake and spread the chocolate milk mixture over it.;
, Measure your dry ingredients into a medium mixing bowl. Whisk or stir the ingredients together and set aside the dry mixture. You'll need:1 1/2 cups (180 g) flour
1 tablespoon baking powder
3/4 cup (75 g) cocoa
1/4 teaspoon salt

, Crack 4 eggs and separate the whites from the yolks. Place the egg whites in a large mixing bowl and whisk them until they begin to foam. Gradually pour in 1 cup (200 g) of sugar while you whisk the mixture on high speed. Keep whisking for 3 to 5 minutes.You can use a stand or hand mixer with a whisk attachment.
The mixture should become white and glossy once you've finished whisking it.
 Keep the mixer running on high speed and add the 4 egg yolks one at a time. Whisk the mixture for another 3 to 5 minutes, so the egg yolks are completely incorporated., Turn the mixer to low speed and add half of the dry mixture to the wet mixture. Keep mixing it until the dry ingredients are stirred in.Mixing the dry ingredients in stages will prevent lumps from forming in the batter.
 Slowly pour in 1/2 cup (120 ml) of milk and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract. The batter will thin out when you add the liquids. You may want to stop and scrape down the sides of the mixing bowl at this point., Stir in the rest of the dry mixture on low speed. You can continue to mix the batter for 3 to 5 minutes, so you don't see any pockets of dry ingredients and so the liquid is combined., Pour the batter into the prepared pan and tap it to release any trapped air. Bake the cake for 20 to 25 minutes. If you poke a toothpick into the center of the cake, it should come out clean once it's finished baking. Turn the cake upside down on a cooling rack, but let the cake cool for 10 minutes before you lift the pan off.Cool the cake completely before you assemble the chocolate tres leches cake. You can make the chocolate milk mixture while the cake is cooling.
 Open 1 can (14 ounces or 396 g) of sweetened condensed milk and pour it into a mixing bowl. Open 1 can (12 ounces or 354 ml) of evaporated milk and add it to the sweetened condensed milk. You'll also need to add 1/2 cup (120 ml) heavy cream and 3 tablespoons of cocoa powder. Whisk the mixture until it's completely combined.If your cocoa powder contains lumps, you may want to whisk or sift it before adding it to the milks.
 Take a fork or toothpick and poke holes all over the top of the cooled chocolate cake. These small holes will help the entire cake absorb the chocolate milk mixture., Carefully lift the cake and place it back into the baking pan. Gradually pour the chocolate milk mixture over the top of the cake. Try to pour it evenly, so the entire cake absorbs the mixture.If you notice the milk mixture pooling in spots, you can use a spoon or spatula to spread the mixture across and into the cake.
 Wrap the pan with plastic wrap and put the cake in the refrigerator. It should chill for at least 4 hours or up to overnight. Letting the cake rest allows it to soak up the chocolate milk mixture and become soft., Get out 4 ounces (115 g) of high-quality milk chocolate. Use a sharp knife to carefully chop the chocolate into fine pieces. This will help it melt evenly. Put the chopped chocolate into a medium bowl.If you want a less sweet frosting, consider using bittersweet or semisweet chocolate instead of the milk chocolate.
 Pour 3/4 cup (180 ml) of heavy cream and 3 tablespoons of water into a small saucepan. Turn the heat to medium, so the liquids begin to bubble gently., Slowly pour the cream mixture over the chopped chocolate and let it rest for 30 seconds. Stir the mixture and let it rest until the chocolate is completely melted. Stir the mixture again., Put the bowl of chocolate cream into the refrigerator to chill for a few hours. You can even let it chill overnight before you want to make it. You should also stick the bowl of an electric mixer and the whisk attachments in the freezer to chill.Keeping your ingredients and equipment totally cold will help the cream whip up quickly with lots of volume.
 Pour the chilled chocolate cream into your chilled mixing bowl. Attach the whisks to your mixer and whisk the cream on high speed until it's light and fluffy. This should take a minute or two.Avoid over whipping the cream or it will thicken and become dense.
 Remove the chilled cake from the refrigerator and remove the plastic wrap. Dollop the milk chocolate whipped cream over the top of the cake and use an offset spatula to spread it evenly. Cut the cake and serve it.You can also garnish the top of the cake with sifted cocoa powder or chocolate sprinkles.

