 A sincere compliment is always a good way to start things off with a new friend. Find something that you honestly appreciate or admire and let that show in your voice. Don't hold back! You can compliment something they work on, their personality, their sense of style, or anything else that you think of.


Anatomy may not be the best choice!

, Being a little silly can help someone who's uncomfortable loosen up a bit and see that you're nothing to be intimidated by. Take this approach if you know that people tend to see you as serious or scary. Do something like ordering your drink by saying, "Appletini. Light on the tiny," or reading them their horoscope in a silly voice after asking their sign.
 Straight up admit that you're new or don't get out much and ask for advice on the area, fun things to do, or good places to eat. Asking people to talk about something they love is usually the fastest way to get them feeling comfortable an talkative.
 Pay attention to what's happening around you and you will easily find things to comment on. Changes in the architecture new buildings going up, someone doing something nice for a stranger, upcoming events, etc. All make good ways to break into a casual conversation with someone you're just meeting.
 This technique should be used sparingly, but it can be a good way to break into a conversation with someone. Ask them to do you a small favor (hold a drink, hold your place in line, grab something you can't reach, give you directions, etc). Just be sure that what you're asking of them only takes about 30 seconds of their time. When they're done helping, thank them and then break into a casual conversation.
 If you want to break into a conversation with someone at a restaurant, coffee shop, or other area with food, ask them about the drink in their hands or the food that they're eating. Say something about how good it smells and then ask where they got it or what it is. You can then move into a discussion of food in the area or special ingredients in the item, etc.

