 Eat as much of your food from natural, whole ingredients as possible. If you do this, you can limit any processed or prepared foods that you buy and stick to whole foods and meals from scratch.


Since chemicals can cause asthma to flare up, avoiding chemicals in your food can help prevent asthma symptoms.Talk to local farmers in your area and see if there are any that don't use pesticides to treat their produce.
Preservatives have also been known to trigger asthma symptoms, which are found in prepared foods. For example, sulfites, found in wine, pickles, frozen shrimp, and dried fruits, can trigger asthma.;
, Increased fiber has been shown to ease some asthma symptoms.Try to include more foods with high fiber content in your diet to help reduce your asthma symptoms. Although many high fiber foods contain wheat, avoid these if gluten triggers your asthma. Male adults should get 38 grams of fiber a day, and female adults should get 25–26 grams of fiber per day.High-fiber foods include:


Fruits, such as raspberries, strawberries, bananas, oranges, and figs, as well as fruits and their edible peelings, such as apples and pears
Beans, seeds, and nuts, such as black beans, lima beans, split peas, lentils, almonds, and pecans
Vegetables, such as green peas, turnip greens, Brussels sprouts, potatoes with the skin, carrots, artichokes, broccoli, and corn
Grains, such as whole wheat pasta and breads, bran flakes, brown rice, barley, oatmeal, and oat bran, Red meats can increase inflammation, which may make your asthma symptoms worse. Instead of this, eat fish or skinless chicken instead. Chicken skin is high in fat and may also contain antibiotics and hormones, which both promote inflammation as well.


Get wild-caught fish such as salmon, haddock, cod, and tuna, which all contain omega-3 fatty acids. Omega- 3 fatty acids have many properties which are anti-inflammatory and promote good health. Adults should have between 1.1–1.6 grams per day of omega-3 fatty acids daily.
To avoid hormones and antibiotics in any meat, look for free range, all natural meats., There are many different fruits and vegetables that help reduce inflammation. Look for a variety of colors and types of vegetables, from berries to kale to peppers. Most vegetables are great sources of antioxidants, vitamin E and C, and beta carotene. These vitamins have been shown to help decrease inflammation and reduce lung swelling and irritation.You should get at least 15 mg/day of vitamin E and 75–90 mg/day of vitamin C. Higher doses of vitamin C do not hurt the body because any excess is eliminated when you urinate; however, vitamin E is fat-soluble (meaning your body will store excess amounts it in your fat) and it can become toxic if consumed in large quantities.
Fruits such as berries and vegetables such as carrots are high in these substances.
Pick a variety of fruits and vegetables and incorporate them into each meal and snack.
 There are certain herbs you can add to foods and recipes that can help with inflammation in your lungs. Make sure you test a small amount of each of these herbs before you use too much. Taste a pinch, and if you have no reaction within two hours, it is safe to use. These helpful herbs include:


GarlicTurmericGingerBasilCinnamonCloves
RosemaryBoswellia, There is no miracle food cure for asthma; however, if you follow the anti-inflammatory diet for a few weeks or a few months, you can help relieve and reduce the symptoms of your asthma.This diet will not make you magically better overnight, but it may work within your body to reduce inflammation.Despite this diet being a way to help, always keep your asthma rescue medications handy.

