 If your boss is sympathetic, they will want to know that you need support. (Especially if you work in a high-stress field, you will probably not be the first person they have met to suffer burnout.) Depending on your relationship with your boss, you can bring up burnout in a standing meeting, or set up another meeting to discuss it. Focus on creating solutions together, not complaining, and remember that everyone needs support at work at one point or another.You may say something like "I've been finding it hard to focus on counseling others, because I continue to think about our students' problems when I go home. Do you have advice about maintaining a good work-life balance?"
If you're having trouble managing expectations, you may also say "I feel like I'm having trouble managing expectations and accomplishing everything that's expected of me in the time I have. Can we review my job description again and prioritize my duties?

, If your burnout is due to an external problem--or if your boss is a contributing factor--you may want to skip talking to your boss and shoot an email to HR instead. Again, it’s important to focus on the problem at hand and at finding ways to cope, instead of just dumping your frustrations., Of course, it isn't only entry-level workers who can struggle with burnout: it can happen to those who are managing or working alongside others, as well. The good news is that when you're in a position of power, it can be easier to set boundaries. Express your needs as clearly as possible, and make it a priority to help the folks you manage learn to manage themselves independently.


If a particular coworker is cramping your style by visiting your cubicle when you are working, bring up your problem when they do it.Say politely but firmly, "I'm working to meet a deadline right now, but I'd be happy to chat with you about that this afternoon."
If you're struggling with inefficiency in your employees, meet with them and try to work out a time-management plan. This will help them work better without you having to micromanage.
 Ask your boss if you can shake things up by focusing on different projects for a while. You can even put in for a transfer or a promotion, or simply a move from one department to another.


Those facing nonprofit burnout can look into volunteering in a different department. For instance, if you work in development at a refugee resettlement agency, you might find clarity and focus by volunteering to mentor a newly-arrived refugee for an hour a week.
If you’re looking to apply for a job within the same company, make sure to give your boss a heads-up., If your hands are tied and you have to keep working on the same projects, you can still shake your day up. Check in with your boss about different ways in which you can complete old projects in new ways. A new routine can be a refreshing jolt to your creativity.Work from home or a coffee shop if you’re focused on writing or other flexible pursuits.
If you have to stay in the office, see if you can work in a different room, cubicle, or conference room.
Do tasks in a different order than you might otherwise.
 Your job might be stressful enough on its own; if you feel responsible for other peoples’ workloads, too, that makes your day even harder. If you’re a manager, do your best to strike the balance of making sure your employees get their work done without you doing it for them.


Don’t feel like you have to say yes constantly. If someone asks you for a favor and you really don’t have time, it’s perfectly fine to tell them that you can’t help at the moment.If you have an enormous workload that seems insurmountable, it often really helps to write down all your duties and prioritize them (on paper).Limit this list to your tasks--no one else’s!

, Some jobs may offer non-paid time off or leaves of absence, which are a wonderful way to get out of the rat race if you’re feeling desperate. If a leave of absence sounds like a relief, check your employee handbook to learn about your organization’s policies.In many cases, leaves of absence are unpaid. Make sure you can survive a certain period of time without a steady income.
 Sometimes different responsibilities in a new setting is what it takes to fight work burnout. If you really can’t bear the idea of continuing to work at your organization, consider trying to lock down a different job.


Be careful if you’re still employed. Depending on your relationship with your boss, you may want to give them a gentle heads-up that you’re seeking new employment.When looking for a new job, it’s important to keep in mind what bothered you about your last job, whether that’s long hours or abrasive clients. This way, you know what to avoid.

