 Expectorants are herbs that can increase and thin out secretions which makes it easier to cough up the phlegm. Some of these (like camphor, eucalyptus, and menthol) can also be used to suppress coughs. Easy to find herbal expectorants include:EucalyptusElecampane (Inula)
Slippery Elm
Fennel seed
CamphorGarlic
Hyssop
Lobelia
Mullein
Thyme
Spearmint and peppermint
Ginger
Cayenne pepper and black pepper
Mustard seed

, Steep one teaspoon of dried expectorant herb (or one tablespoon if fresh) in one cup of boiled water for five to 10 minutes. Sip four to six cups of the warm herbal tea throughout the day. If you dislike the taste, you can add honey and lemon. However, do not give honey to children under one year old.


Cayenne pepper, black pepper, garlic, and mustard seed may be strong and irritate your throat so drink them slowly.
If you are giving these teas to a child, cut the amount of herb by ½ or steep it in two cups of water. You should also consider talking to your doctor before using herbal remedies in children.
 Create an herbal steam using herbs or essential oils to bring the expectorant's antifungal, antibacterial, or antiseptic properties directly to your lungs. Use one drop of essential oil or one to two teaspoons of dried herb for every quart of water. Boil the mixture for one minute and remove it from heat. Use one of these herbs or essential oils:


Eucalyptus
Fennel seed
Camphor
Hyssop
Lobelia
Mullein
Thyme
Spearmint or peppermint (which contain menthol)
Ginger
Coltsfoot
Marshmallow
Slippery elm

, Drape a large clean towel over the back of your head while you lean over the pot of steaming herbal water. Keep your face at least 12 inches (30.5 cm) away from the water so you don't burn yourself and close your eyes. Breathe in through your nose and out through your mouth for five counts. Repeat this for 10 minutes or as long as the water is still steaming. Cough during the treatment and blow your nose when you're finished.


Reheat the water till it steams and do a facial every two hours or as often as you can.
 Use natural suppressants like camphor, eucalyptus, and honey. Remember, do not give honey to children under one year old. Try taking one tablespoon of honey three times a day to soothe your throat. Or, add one to three drops of camphor, eucalyptus, or menthol into a steam facial, breathing in the fumes. You can also rub a topical ointment that contains camphor and menthol onto your chest and around your nose to suppress your cough.


In general, a cough is a normal way for your body to get rid of mucus and irritants, so you shouldn't always treat it. But, if you're coughing so much that you can't sleep or concentrate, or your body is sore, you can try a natural cough suppressant.

