 If you don't remove the wrappers, the wax may melt into them and create a greasy, waxy mess. Here are a few simple ways to remove crayon wrappers:









Peel and tear the wrapper off.
Score the paper wrapper with a craft knife and peel the wrapper open.
Soak the crayons in a bowl of hot water for a few minutes to loosen the wrapper, then peel the wrapper off.
Some crayons have very loose wrappers. You might be able to simply slide these off.
 If you have a bunch of crayons, you can sort them into similar colors. This means that you put all of the pinks together and all of the purples together. You don't have to focus on grouping specific colors together, such as putting all of the "bubblegum" pinks together and all of the "rose" pinks together.
 You want the pieces to be about ½ inches (1.27 centimeters) long. This will help reduce the melting time.
 You can use a glass jar or even an old coffee mug. If you have multiple colors, then put each color group into a separate container.









If you wish to make candles out of crayons, then use one part shaved candle wax to one part crayon.You can also add a few drops of essential oil or candle-making fragrance.
If you are making lipstick, then you will need one crayon (you can use one color, or different colors amounting to one crayon) and ½ teaspoon of shea butter, and ½ teaspoon of oil, such as almond oil, Argan oil, coconut oil, jojoba oil, or olive oil.
 You can put multiple colors/containers into the microwave at one time, but don't overcrowd the microwave oven. It is better to heat each color one at a time, or heat in small batches.
 Do not step away from the microwave; keep an eye on the melting crayons. Each microwave is different, and your crayons may melt sooner.
 Once the crayons are completely melted, you may pour the wax into silicone molds or plastic candy molds to make fun-shaped crayons. You can also use the wax to make crayon-based lipstick and candles.









If you want to add any extras, such as glitter, fragrance, or essential oil, do so now. Be sure to stir it in well. Don't add the glitter earlier; it might react with the microwave.

