 This is the very first animal featured on the hunt menu. It is easy to kill, but if it catches up to you, it will stamp on you with its massive forelegs. When hunting the Brontotherium, quietly sneak up on it and fire from a medium to far range from your weapon. However, the only weapon that is effective against this animal is the sniper rifle, although the other weapons can be used against the Brontotherium.


Don't get too close, because this could cause the Brontotherium to charge and eventually kill you.;
, This is the second animal available to hunt on the hunt menu. It is not considered dangerous unless it is either wounded or cornered. It is a plant eater as described, and senses of sight are weak, but senses of smell and hearing are very good. When hunting the wild boar, do not get too close, as it could charge.


The wild boar's killing animation differs from that of other herbivores featured in the game: it kills the player by impaling him on its huge tusks and shaking him around like a rag doll.
 The wolf is the third animal available to hunt, and also the first carnivore in the game. As its description describes, it prowls the land howling for others of its kind, and then attacks and rips any unlucky hunter to shreds. The wolf is labeled as very dangerous on the hunt menu, possibly because it scares a bit easier than most other carnivores.


When hunting the wolf, be very careful. It is the second most aggressive carnivore in Carnivores Ice Age, and its idle animations consist of it panting and howling and producing dog like barks. Once you finally succeed in killing a wolf, you will earn 7 points.
 The fourth animal available to hunt, the woolly mammoth is dangerous when cornered or surprised, and will gore you if you get too close with its sharp horns. It is also commonly seen while not being hunted.
 The Diatryma is a large omnivorous bird and the fifth animal available to hunt. It is the only pointable animal to not be a mammal. Once the Diatryma catches up to the hunter, it will jump to attack its victims and eat them instead of swinging them around in its mouth.
 This animal is also known as the Irish elk or the Megaloceros, and is the sixth animal available to hunt. At close range, the giant deer will gore the player with its huge antlers and shake him around like a rag doll. It is also one of the weakest creatures in the game, capable of being brought down with a close shot of the X-Bow, shotgun, or DB shotgun.
 This is a new animal featured in Carnivores Ice Age. It is also known as the Indricotherium. If a hunter fails to bring down a charging Paraceratherium, it will repeatedly crush the hunter under its mighty front legs, much like the Brontotherium.
 This is another new animal on Carnivores Ice Age. It is slower than all of the other animals featured. If a Doedicurus manages to catch up to you, it will kill you by clubbing you with its massive spiked tail.
 The smilodon is unlocked in Carnivores Ice Age after the player earns 250 credits. It is the most aggressive carnivore in the game, and rightly described as extremely dangerous. Whenever you are killed by it, the smilodon will slam your corpse repeatedly on the ground with its mouth.
 The mammoth is the largest animal in Carnivores Ice Age. Its killing animation consists of it swinging the hunter from side to side and then smashing him into the ground. Often, when using a stronger weapon against the mammoth, it can be bought down while charging. At close range, however, it is considered dangerous, especially when wounded. A smaller weapon such as the pistol is not considered effective against the mammoth at close range.
 The Titanis is a large bird featured in Carnivores Ice Age. It is marked on the map with a yellow "?" and can be killed like any other creature. At close range, the Titanis will use its sharp beak to slice and devour you if you have previously approached it or have attempted to bring it down.
 The hyaenodon is a new and pointable animal in Carnivores Ice Age. It is labeled as a very dangerous predator in the game, and if it catches up to the hunter, it will pin its prey to the ground and rip it to pieces. Caution and stealth must be used when hunting the hyaenodon.
 The Andrewsarchus is a new animal in Carnivores Ice Age. Unlike most smaller carnivores featured above other than the hyaenodon, Andrewsarchus is very aggressive. It will charge the hunter when wounded, no matter what distance it is from it and its attacker. Like the hyaenodon, Andrewsarchus will pin its prey to the ground to eat, instead of thrashing him about.
 The bear is a pointable animal in Carnivores Ice Age. Despite being described as extremely dangerous, the bear is actually a very shy predator. The bear shares its call with the Yeti. The bear kills the player by biting the player`s arm and smashing him into the ground.
 The yeti is a bonus animal kept secret until the player earns 1,000 points. The yeti kills the hunter by grabbing his legs and repeatedly smashing him on the ground. It is incorrectly given the stats of the Tyrannosaurus on the hunt menu. It also has the same call and idle animation as the bear. The yeti has white fur and red skin.

