 People with ADHD have a hard time staying focused and filtering out environmental stimuli.Do your best to keep your work area distraction free.


Try to work in an area that is quiet. Good examples include a private office or a cubicle that is out of the way of foot traffic, water coolers or other distractions. Stay away from fans and other electronic noises, as these can be distracting, too.Consider buying some noise-cancelling headphones. If this is appropriate in your workplace, it can help filter out distracting sounds that might be hard to avoid otherwise.
If possible, control the lighting in your work area. Light that creates shadows or unusual patterns can be distracting to people with ADHD.If possible, control the scent in your work area, too. Strong smells can be distracting for people with ADHD.Avoid using scented air fresheners. When possible, work away from coworkers who wear strong colognes or perfumes.
Find creative ways to get work done in a less distracting environment, if possible. Consider coming in early or staying late. You might also try bringing work home, or finding a quiet conference room to work in.;
, People with ADHD often have a hard time remembering where they put things. If you have a place for each of your work supplies, however, you'll be able to find them more easily. This will save you time and stress.


Buy some file boxes to organize paper documents.Get some small bins for pens, paperclips, and other supplies. Then, make a point of always putting things in the right place. If you do, you'll always be able to find what you are looking for.
Develop a habit of checking at the end of the day to make sure that your desk is clear and all your supplies are where they belong. This helps keep clutter from getting out of control and impeding your ability to work., Break projects into simple tasks, and record them in one place. Check and update your planner often.Use timers or programs with visible or audible reminders to make sure you don't forget appointments or scheduled tasks.
Schedule your day effectively. Avoid over scheduling, and allow enough time between appointments.
Try to schedule time to burn off energy with walks or exercise, even if it's just a walk to the copy machine. This can help you stay focused.
 Keep a notepad to write down details of phone conversations or meetings.Confine your notes to one pad so that you don't have slips of paper all over the place that you can overlook or forget.


Review notes regularly. Transfer any notes about tasks that need to be done to a calendar or day planner.
 Commit to finish up a current project before moving on to another. Try to avoid answering the phone or checking email before completing the current task.


It's a good idea to schedule time in your day for returning phone calls and answering emails.This ensures that you reply to any communications in a reasonable period of time. It also prevents them from distracting you from larger tasks.
 When you successfully follow through on one of these organizational tricks, give yourself a little reward.This will help cement the routine and promote future successes.


What works for you as a reward will be different for each individual. Maybe you'll take yourself out to lunch, or buy the new pair of shoes you've been wanting. If your work allows it, maybe you can take an unscheduled 10 minute break and go for a short walk.
 It is a good idea to both acknowledge your limitations and emphasize your strengths at work. Where possible, volunteer for tasks that let you look at the big picture rather than the small details


Detail-oriented tasks like alphabetizing or counting things are often challenging for people with ADHD. If possible, delegate these tasks to someone else and volunteer for tasks with a lot of novelty and variety. These are tasks that are more likely to hold your interest. Your high levels of energy might even be asset for such work.Strengthen your skills so that you excel at tasks that suit you. If your current job doesn't allow for this, you may want to try to find a job that better suits the way your brain works. When you are successful in the important aspects of your work, the troublesome effects of your ADHD will not be as noticeable or intrusive.

