 Seaweed salad is popular in Japan, and it’s a cinch to make. Just put 30 grams (one ounce) of dry mixed seaweed in a bowl. Fill the bowl with cold water. Let the seaweed rehydrate for five minutes if you like crunchy seaweed. If you like softer seaweed, allow it to rehydrate for 10 minutes.In a small mixing bowl, combine one tablespoon of rice vinegar, one tablespoon toasted sesame oil, one tablespoon soy sauce, one tablespoon sugar, 1/2 teaspoon salt, and 1/2 teaspoon ginger juice. Add an additional teaspoon of rice vinegar for good measure.
Drain the seaweed. Wring out any excess water by squeezing it gently by hand. Wipe the bowl down and put the seaweed back in the bowl.
Pour the ginger/soy sauce dressing over it. Mix the dressing and seaweed so that the seaweed is thoroughly coated. Top with one tablespoon toasted sesame seeds and one diced scallion.
Seaweed salad is great on its own or as a topping for burgers.;
, Sunomono is a twist on the regular seaweed salad. To get started, combine 1/4 cup (60 milliliters) rice vinegar, 1/8 teaspoon soy sauce, two tablespoons soy sauce, and 1.5 teaspoons lemon juice in a small bowl. Set aside.Put 2.5 tablespoons dried wakame seaweed in a bowl with 1.5 cups (360 milliliters) of water. Set aside for about 10 minutes and allow the seaweed to rehydrate.
Slice two or three Japanese or Persian cucumbers into thin slices. In a third bowl, mix the cucumber slices with a generous amount of salt. Allow the salt to remove moisture from the cucumber for about 10 minutes.
Rinse the cucumber slices off in a colander. Gently squeeze any water that may have been reabsorbed by placing the slices between a few sheets of paper towel and pressing the water out.
Mix the cucumber and wakame, then pour a tablespoon or two of the dressing over each serving.
 Instead of making seaweed the star of your salad, give it a supporting role. Heat two toasted nori sheets up in the oven on your oven’s lowest setting. Check the sheets frequently. When they turn slightly brown and crispy, remove them. Break them into smaller pieces and grind them with a mortar and pestle.Pour the nori dust in a blender and combine with one tablespoon orange zest, ½ tablespoon salt, two tablespoons sesame oil, and ¾ cup (180 milliliters) of rice wine vinegar.
Pour it in an empty dressing bottle or squirt bottle. Refrigerate and shake well before use.
Seaweed dressing is great over roasted veggies or salads, and also works well as a marinade for fish.
 Seaweed soup is a popular dish in Korea, where it is known as miyeokguk. To make some tasty seaweed soup for yourself, soak one ounce of dried brown seaweed in warm water for about 10 minutes.Drain the water and gently squeeze out excess water by hand. Cut the seaweed into two-inch (five-centimeter) strips.
Coat a saucepan with two teaspoons of sesame oil, then add 1/4 pound (113 grams) minced beef top sirloin, ½ tablespoon soy sauce, a pinch of salt. Cook over medium heat for one minute.
Stir in the rehydrated seaweed and one tablespoon soy sauce. Cook for one minute. Stir frequently.
Pour two cups (475 milliliters) of water into the saucepan. Bring the pan to a boil. Add one teaspoon minced garlic and four cups water.
Return the pan to a boil, then cover. Reduce heat and simmer for 20 minutes. Remove from heat and allow to cool slightly before eating. Add salt to taste.

