 Determine the length of braid you need and add 1/3 more material to that measurement before cutting.


The process of braiding will shorten the material by the time you have completed braiding, so cutting extra leather will make the braid the proper length once you finish.
Use sharp scissors to cut the leather strip to the desired length. A good length to practice on is 9-10 inches.;
, Your strip of leather should be divided into 3 equal parts. For the following steps, the individual strands will be referred to as 1,2, and 3 from left to right.


Be sure that the two cuts are evenly spaced from each other. The spacing between the cuts should be about 1/3 inches.
Stop the slices at 3/4 inch from the vertical ends, leaving the strip intact. This technique requires the strip to remain as a single piece, as opposed to braiding hair or string.
If you decide to make your cuts with a blade, place a piece of cardboard, wood, or other protective board under the leather to protect the surface you are cutting on.
 Pass it between strands 2 and 3. Pull the end of the strip down from the other side so that it is back in its original position.









Looping the strip through strands 2 and 3 will bend it, making it so that the individual strips are twisted and easier to braid.
If done correctly, your strip of leather should have a kink throughout the middle and should not lie flat. You should also be able to see through the slits you made earlier., Insert strand 1 into the slit between strands 2 and 3.









If done correctly, strand 1 should rest behind strand 3.
 The top of your strip should now resemble a woman crossing her legs as she sits.
 There should now be a gap between strands 2 and 3 at the bottom of the braid.
 Loop it through the gap between strands 2 and 3 and pull it back down.









Doing this "un-loops" the kink you made earlier in step 3 and completes 1 braiding cycle. The braid itself should now be kept to the top of the strip., Make sure you pass the lower end of the strip through strands 2 and 3 to complete the braiding cycle, as demonstrated in step 7.









If you opted to braid a 9 inch x 3 inch leather strip, you should be done braiding after 2 cycles total.

