 You’ll need a pair of thin cone spanners to disassemble a cup-and-cone hub. Place one cone spanner around the cone itself and the other spanner around the lug nut. Twist the lug counterclockwise to remove it.For the rear wheel, you’ll have to remove the cassette in order to access the cup-and-cone. You’ll need a cassette removal tool, which you can find online or at a bike shop, to fit into the cassette and loosen the locking nut.  
Set the lug nuts and any washers or spacers aside in proper order to make reassembly easier.
 Once you’ve removed the cone, you can access the ball bearings, which sit on each side of the hub. Use a scalpel blade or narrow utility knife to carefully pull the balls out from the seat on each side.There are also magnet tools, which look like magnetic sticks, that make it much easier to pull out the ball bearings.If you use a blade, spray a little grease onto it so the balls will stick to it. That’ll make it easier to pull them out from their seat.
Keep the ball bearings separate so you know which side is which.
 Spray the ball bearings with an aerosol degreaser and wipe them down with a rag. Fit a small straw into the nozzle of the aerosol degreaser and spray inside the bearing seat. Wipe inside the seat by wrapping your finger in a rag.Wear gloves when using a degreaser.
 Use your grease gun to pack a thick layer of grease into the bearing seat. Any excess will simply work it’s way out, so pack liberally and don’t worry about adding too much.If necessary, use your finger to work grease all around the bearing seat.
 When replacing the ball bearings, it’s possible to miss the seat, causing the balls to drop through the hub and come out the other side. To prevent this, you can place the axle through the hub, but in the opposite way that it would normally fit. That way, the tip of the axle will prevent the ball bearings from falling through, making it easier to slide them into their seat.Pack even more grease into the bearing seat after you slide the ball bearings back into place.
Once you’ve inserted the bearings one one side of the hub, repeat the process on the other side., Slide the axle through the hub and place the cone over it. Replace any washers or spacers you removed. Twist the lug onto the threaded axle by hand, then tighten it until it’s snug with the cone spacers using the cone spanners.For the rear wheel, place the cassette back onto the hub and tighten its locking nut using the cassette tool.

