 What unique skills, perspectives, or ideas can you use to make your workplace even better. Take some initiative for your work, personalizing it and letting you do the jobs that you love the most. Having a stake in your company's goals and mission will make your work much easier to attach with relish.


These goals can be personal too. Even if you don't love the company you work for, taking initiative is a great way to improve your skills and resume for the next job.
 If you know that a project is going to cause you undue stress, for whatever reason, don't take it. This doesn't mean that you should do the bare minimum of work, it simply means you need to put your own needs before the needs of your company. Don't take extra work just because you are asked -- make sure that it is work you want to do and can handle without hurting your quality of life.
 Put up pictures, bring in a nice set of headphones and music, and place some knick-knacks around your desk. Do your best to make the space yours, not some bland office where you come to work.
 Simply eating enough food and drinking enough water may be the best way to stay positive at work. Feeling hungry or thirsty will lead to tiredness, and that drained feeling will bring you down day in and day out.
 Let yourself plan, but don't feel chained down by a schedule. Instead, use organization to avoid last minute deadlines, to keep everything where it should be, put your affairs in order. A clean, uncluttered mind starts with an uncluttered desk and calendar, so take some time to clean up your life.


That said, the ability to roll with the punches is important to maintain a positive outlook. Plans will change, and that's fine -- you just need to change with them.
Cross off tasks and events as you accomplish them.
 Get up and move around at least once an hour. Sitting in the same place all day can quickly become tedious, but staying active helps you feel better all day long. Take a walk on your lunch break, bike to and from work a few times a week, or try working out before your shift. When your body feels good, your mind feels good, and exercise is the best way to make it happen.
 Let your mind wander from time to time. This isn't just good for your mental health -- it can even make you more productive. The argument that daydreaming facilitates with your work can date back to the 20th century. You can get a unique and competitive insight when you roam your mind.
 Sometimes your work seems incredibly important in your world. You're killing a part of yourself, however, when you let your work nibble your privacy and integrity. Work is for work, not home, so learn to distance yourself. When you leave the office or sign off online, work is over. Move on to other, more enjoyable experiences.


Have an interest/hobby unconnected with your job. This is the part of your life that is totally unrelated to work - and should not include co-workers or work acquaintances. If you play golf, don't play with your workmates - unless it's a work-related event.

