 There should be signs to warn you that you are nearing railroad tracks. Typically, it will be a circular sign with a black X and the letters RR. Once you get closer, you will probably see an X shaped sign that says Railroad Crossing. On the road, there will be another warning that looks similar to the circular sign. Slow your car down when approaching railroad tracks, even if there is no train in sight.Look for signs designating the speed limit. You should not be going faster than 20mph.
If there are no signs, you should be able to see the actual tracks ahead of you. Still approach slowly even if the gate is not down.;
, There are several ways to know if the train is approaching. First, the gate may be down, and you might see the train passing by. If the train has not yet made it to the crossing, you will see flashing red lights signaling its approach. A person might be signaling the train’s approach, but that will not always be the case. You will also hear the train’s horn or bell before actually seeing the train. Look both ways down the track for an approaching train.


You can slowly continue driving across the railroad tracks if you have checked and made absolutely sure that there is no train coming.
Do not at any time stop in the middle of the tracks, even if a train is not approaching.
Roll your windows down to listen for the train’s horn or bell. If music is playing in your car, pause it while listening for signs of an approaching train.
 If there are signs of an approaching train, you should stop your car even if the crossing gate has not yet gone down. Laws vary state by state about how far away you should stop from the railroad crossing. Usually, you should stop within 50 feet, but no closer than 15 feet from the nearest rail. Use your own discretion when deciding how close or far away to stop.If there is a stop sign, you must stop your car even if there is not a train approaching.
 The crossing gate should be down at this point, but do not cross even if the gate has not gone down. Your car should be at a complete stop at this point. Wait for the approaching train to cross the tracks you are waiting at. Continue waiting until the train is out of sight., Although the train has passed, there might be another train approaching. Wait until the lights have stopped flashing and the crossing gate has gone up. You may begin driving again at this point. Don’t accelerate quickly from your stopping position. Slowly cross the tracks with caution in case something has fallen onto the tracks.


Do not shift gears while crossing the tracks.

