 Candy melts are sugar-based candies that are designed to be melted and formed into decorative shapes. To begin making the candy holly from candy melts, open the package of green candy melts and place them in a microwavable bowl. Then turn the microwave on to medium (50% power) and run the microwave for 1 minute.After 1 minute, open up the door and stir the candy with a spoon for about 10 seconds. Stirring ensures that the candy will melt evenly.;
, Run the microwave again for 30 seconds on medium power, then check on the candy melts. By now, they should be completely melted. If they are not, stir the candy melts for a few seconds, then microwave in 10 second intervals, stirring in between each 10-second spurt. Stop when they are fully melted., After the candy melts have completely melted, stir in the corn syrup. Stir for about 30 seconds until the whole mixture has an even texture. Corn syrup helps to smooth the candy melt mixture and make it the proper consistency., Once the corn syrup is integrated into the candy melt, pour and scrape the mixture into a ziplock bag using a spoon. Seal the top of the bag and let it sit for 8 hours undisturbed.Letting the mixture sit will make it harden into a putty-like consistency that makes it easy to shape and mold.
 Once the eight hours are up, take the candy melt mixture out of the bag and place it on a clean cutting board or countertop. Gently knead the candy melt as you would dough, kneading for about 2-3 minutes., Dust a clean counter or cutting board with a thin layer of powdered sugar. Then use a rolling pin to roll the candy melt into an even layer that is about 1/16 inch (1.5 mm) thick., Once you have rolled out your candy melt, use a small holly leaf-shaped cookie cutter to punch holly leaf shapes into the candy melt. Use a sharp knife to cut a central vein of the leaf running lengthwise, and several vein offshoots that angle upwards.Peel away the excess candy melt so you are left with just the leaf shapes.
If you want to use up all the candy melt, roll the excess pieces into a ball, then roll using a rolling pin to 1/16 inch (1.5 mm) and cut out another leaf.
 Place the holly leaves on a piece of wax or parchment paper, then let them sit for 3-4 hours. Rolling the candy melt warms and softens it, so letting it sit will cool the candy holly to the right consistency., Airheads have a moldable, taffy-like consistency that is perfect for shaping into the leaves of candy holly. Take your three watermelon airheads, or as many as you wish, and rub the candy between your hands for a few seconds, still with the wrapper on.Watermelon airheads are a shade of green ideal for making the holly leaves.
Rubbing the candy in between your hands warms it up and makes it easier to cut and shape.
 Once you have warmed up the airheads, take them out of their wrapping. Place them on a clean counter or cutting board so that they are ready for shaping., Use a small, holly-shaped cookie cutter to cut out holly shapes from the airheads. Make sure that the holly cookie cutter has the same width or is smaller than the width of the airhead, or else the shape won’t come out right., Once you have cut out all the holly leaves you can, gently pry away the excess Airhead pieces from the leaf shapes. Eat or dispose of these extra pieces as you wish., Use a small, sharp knife to cut lines in the leaves to resemble leaf veins. Make one central vein that runs vertically through the leaf, then make several offshoots of the central vein that are angled diagonally upward and intersect with the pointed ends of the leaves., There are several red candies that could serve as the berries on the holly, so choose your favorite. Examples include red M&M’s, red Airhead Bites, red Sixlets, Cherry Sours and Cinnamon Imperials.You can also melt and shape red candy melts as in Method 1 to make round berry shapes, or roll part of a red Airhead into a round shape.
 One piece of candy holly comprises of several leaves and berries. Separate your candy to create groups of two leaves and two berries, or three leaves and three berries, according to how big you want each candy holly., If you want your candy holly to be enjoyed on its own, as opposed to stuck to a baked good, you want to be sure that the red candy berries and the green leaves stick together. Create an edible paste by melting 2 parts sugar and 1 part water in a saucepan over medium heat, stirring until the mixture thickens and becomes golden., Use a pastry brush to add the sugar paste the base of the leaves where they will connect with the candy berries, as well as to one side of each candy berry.This sugar paste will dry clear, don’t be afraid to use a lot of it to hold your candy holly together.
 Overlap your leaves at their base, pressing them gently together so that they stick to each other with the help of the sugar paste. Stick the red berries together, adding more sugar paste if necessary, then place the red berries so that they are on top of the base of the leaves.

Let the candy holly dry for at least an hour. If the candy berries fall off of the leaves or unstick from one another, add more paste and let them dry again until all the elements are in the right place.
Now that your candy holly is assembled, it can be displayed and enjoyed on its own.
 You can skip the process of making the edible paste by placing the separate elements of the candy holly together on top of the icing or frosting of a cake or cupcake. The frosting will hold all the elements of the candy holly together, so there is no need to attach them with the sugar paste.Place the leaves of the candy holly so that they are overlapping at their base and span out like splayed cards. Then place two or three red candies next to or on top of the base of the leaves.

