 Depending on your ability level, you can work for a number of companies who hire English speakers to teach. You might be a conversation coach, a classroom teacher or teacher's assistant, or a summer language tutor.If you have your certification in Teaching English as a Foreign Language (TEFL), you may be eligible for more jobs. You can get this certificate in the United States before you travel, or in many foreign schools.
Instructors for college-prep courses or SAT training are also ways to get paid while traveling abroad., If you play a musical instrument, put up a flyer in a popular gathering spot announcing that you're teaching, together with your phone number. If you're a dancer, see if any local people want to learn your style of dance. You might teach yoga classes, art classes, improv classes. Anything that can be learned, can also be taught.This type of instruction can be done formally, through a professional school or training academy, but is most often done informally, in public spaces or in private homes.
Collect references and referrals as you travel. If people like your teaching style, ask them to put it in writing. Post these recommendations on your blog or website.
Always carry a business card with your name and contact information.
 English isn't the only language in high demand. French, Spanish, Mandarin, Japanese, Korean, Arabic, Swahili and other languages are also in high demand, depending on your region. If you know another language, see if you can find students who want to learn it.Good teachers in American Sign Language or other sign languages are also good to teach.
Advertise at cafes and universities where students may wish for additional tutoring.
 If you're a certified scuba instructor, you can find work with outdoor adventure travel companies. Surfing instruction is another way to put your hobbies to good use, and make money while you travel.Keeping a blog of yourself on the water will enhance your job applications, and make you teaching expertise more desirable.
You don't need to be an expert to get hired for a job training beginners.

