 Focus and do the work in class, so that when you sit down to do your homework or take a timed test, you will understand how to approach and solve the problems. If you don’t pay attention in class, much of your homework time may be spent going back through your textbook and notes in order to reteach yourself how to do the work.
 It is helpful to do your homework in the same place each night. This will prompt your brain that it is study time, and it also takes away time you might waste trying to decide where to do your homework. The place you choose should also be quiet, as background noise can raise your stress levels, making it difficult to focus. Also make sure you sit in a comfortable chair when you work. Physical discomfort can also hinder your focus. You might also waste time trying to get comfortable when you should be working., Another big distraction when trying to do homework is a growling stomach. Make sure you eat before sitting down to do your homework, so that you are not distracted by eating. You might also want to drink a moderate amount of caffeine before working, as it can help increase your concentration. Make sure to fix yourself a glass of water and keep it at your table while you work. This way you don’t have to interrupt your work if you get thirsty while doing your homework.
 Make sure you have paper, a pencil, pencil sharpener, and a good eraser at the desk or table where you are working. Don’t forget any extra materials you might need, such as a ruler, protractor, or calculator. Again, the goal is to minimize disruptions while you work.
 Turn off your television. Resist the temptation to check your computer or phone while you work. Electronic gadgets and social media are good ways to keep yourself from getting your work done. Don’t use a computer to help you with your homework unless you absolutely need to. A computer will just present you with the temptation to check Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc. If you do need to use the computer, try completing everything you can without it first.


