 A macho guy should perform basic grooming on himself without spending too much time or money on his appearance. To look macho, you need to be clean, smell good, and dress appropriately, but not look like you spent more than 5 minutes getting ready in the morning, or that you care about your appearance.

Skip things like manicures and expensive haircuts. Instead, learn to trim your own neckline and beard with a trimmer to keep yourself looking good between basic cuts. Trim and clean your fingernails regularly, but don't worry about your cuticles.






Shower and wear clean clothes that fit appropriately and highlight your masculine physique. There's nothing macho about stinking and wearing the clothes a teenager wears. Learn to dress yourself.
 What does a macho guy wear? The simpler, the better. A basic look that features any style of jeans, a clean white t-shirt, and work boots looked good in the 1950s and it still looks cool today.


Dress appropriately for work. Don't wear flip-flops and board shorts to your job, or you risk looking like a chump. Get a solid pair of shoes or boots and get the job done., A macho guy has a macho physique, probably not from spending time at some expensive gym doing pilates, but from lifting heavy stuff in his garage. Develop a muscle-building routine that you can do at home with materials you already have. You don't need to buy expensive weight equipment or trendy gear. Barbells will do the trick.


Focus on your abs and biceps above all other muscle groups. Do sit-ups of different varieties and at different angles to build your six-pack muscles and perform bicep curls and bench presses to work on your chest and arms.
 A macho guy gets his hands dirty and leads a physical life that will probably result in some dings and dents in the ol' dude. Don't worry about it. Embrace activities that you know you can handle, and be adventurous. You only live once.


This doesn't mean that you should be irresponsible and put yourself at risk. Get scars because you dirt-bike and work on your car, not because you get into bar fights or drive like an idiot.

