 When you're in the car, choose several stations and program them into your quick-tune buttons. Listen every time you get into the car, to whichever station cranks your fancy that day. You don't need to listen to the same music all the time - you need to listen to a lot of different music so that it becomes familiar to you, and you become used to hearing music in different varieties.;
, Reading articles in nationally famous newspapers like the NY Times or the LA Times by well known and respected music critics, and checking out opinion pieces by other music journalists in publications like Rolling Stone and Entertainment Weekly can give you insights into current and up-and-coming bands and recording artists.
 As mentioned earlier, Pop music is just another way of saying it's popular. It's not just about your own musical taste - of course you will like some types of music more than other types. But to be truly knowledgeable, you need to open yourself to all sorts of music.
 Listen actively. When you listen to pop music, think about what genre it fits into. Is this a folk song, a rock song, a pure pop tune? Is it a light jazz tune? Is it a country tune? Is it melancholy? Is it up-tempo? Where might this music be most popular?

, Even though pop music really has its origins in early America, starting way back with the influence of slave spirituals and folk songs, it's hard to study those in much detail because of scarcity of material. Instead, it's recommended that you start with the 1930s, when pop music really began to come into its own as a genre (due in large part to the invention of the affordable record player). Going back to the 1920s, there will be some examples of songs that could fit into more modern pop categories, but they will be sparse. Listen to the big band sounds of the 1930s, hear the different vocal styles, and contrast how different singing styles are from the early part of the decade into the later part. When you feel like you're getting pretty familiar with the 1930s, spend another week, then move on to the 1940s, and so on.
 Go out and see local bands. Figuring out which types of bands you enjoy most can give you some great experiences and turn you and your friends on to some cool music and musicians that just aren't big enough (yet) to have burst into the national awareness. You get to see a potentially great, world class band in a small, intimate setting, before they hit the big time. For example: Back in the 70's and 80's, crowds of Los Angelenos flocked to clubs like the Troubadour, Madame Wong's and Club 88 to see the local bands who were creating a buzz around town with their great music and performances. Some of those bands turned out to be The Police, Elton John, The Go-Gos, and The Blasters. In New York, CBGBs and other local haunts were the regular places to see bands like Talking Heads, the Sex Pistols, and The Ramones. These clubs were small, holding audiences of only a few hundred people. You can get up close and personal, take pictures a lot of times, if you want, and be totally cutting edge in your local music scene.
 If you really want an immersible experience, learn to play a pop instrument. Obviously, you will not enjoy pop music sing-alongs as much with a violin or clarinet as with a piano or guitar, but hey, whatever floats your boat. Guitar and piano (or keyboard) are fun, because they leave you free to sing along. Learning pop tunes and playing along help you recognize different forms and musical structures, and identify similarities in the varying types of pop music.
 Sharing your musical knowledge with others can turn them on to the same enjoyment you feel when you listen to pop music. Plus, it's a great ice-breaker at parties to know something about music.

