 It is definitely worth mentioning that, for many, milk and dairy products are recipe for digestive disaster. It is thought that humans did not evolve to maintain the digestive mechanisms that break down dairy into adulthood - in fact, some studies have shown that the majority of adults can't properly digest milk.Generally speaking, dairy intolerance is so common that, if you're experiencing digestive troubles, you may want to try eliminating dairy as your first move.


The exception to this rule is yogurt, which, in many circumstances, can actually improve digestive functioning. See below for more information.
 We all know the telltale "about to burst" feeling that can result from eating an enormous, high-fat meal. In addition to causing uncomfortable bloating, excessively rich, high-fat foods like red meats and fried dishes can lead to painful conditions like heartburn and acid reflux in some individuals.Though a certain level of fat intake is desirable to ensure proper functioning of several important body processes, try to minimize the amount of fatty food you eat to improve your digestive health.
 Alcohol's nausea-causing effects are well-documented. While it's common knowledge that alcohol can disturb a drinker's stomach in the short-term, what's less well-known is that alcohol can cause lingering digestive issues that persist even after a drinker has sobered up. In fact, intestinal distress and an uneasy stomach for a day or more after a particularly prolific binge drinking session. As with all food and drink, use moderation with alcohol to maintain proper digestive health.
 Hot, spicy foods can cause lasting discomfort, especially to people who aren't accustomed to a high-spice cuisine. This discomfort can be accompanied by stomach pain, diarrhea, and/or painful bowel movements. If you have a history of digestive issues, you may want to shy away from spicy, stomach-irritating foods.


If you're trapped at an Indian, Mexican, or Thai restaurant and can't seem to find anything on the menu that's not spicy, ask your server for a mild alternative or try ordering a side dish a la carte.
 It's important to eat protein throughout your life. To keep your digestive system healthy and comfortable, try to get your protein from lean sources like chicken and fish, rather than from red meats. These sources of protein contain less fat than red meat, which means that, for some, they will be easier to digest. They also have not been linked to colon cancer, a deadly digestive disease, while high-fat red meats have., The health benefits of a diet rich in nutritious grains are well-publicized. In addition to providing a variety of crucial nutrients, healthy, neutral carbohydrates can be a great way to soothe an upset stomach. Try mild dishes like rice, quinoa, or whole grain toast to get a healthy amount of carbohydrates without provoking an uncomfortable reaction from your stomach.
 Vegetables, in general, are healthy, nutrient-rich foods. However, many leafy green vegetables can be tough and fibrous when eaten raw, leading to digestive difficulties. To soften the vegetables and break down the nutrients they contain for easy digestion, try cooking them. You can get tasty results by preparing most vegetables alone, with a mild seasoning, or as part of a larger dish.


A variety of methods exist for cooking vegetables - boiling, baking, sauteing, and stir-frying in a low-fat oil are all valid choices.
 Yogurt is smooth, mild, and easy on the digestive system. It's delicious on its own or in dishes with other ingredients (as in, for example, a parfait). In addition, most varieties of yogurt also contain healthy strains of bacteria that supplement the digestive tract's own bacterial flora. Look for a "live and active cultures" label on the yogurt's packaging to determine whether it contains these beneficial bacteria.


Yogurt's digestion-boosting benefits come in spite of the fact that it's a dairy product, which would normally make it difficult for most people to digest. This is because traditionally-produced yogurt contains lactose, an enzyme that helps the body digest the lactose molecule which normally causes digestive problems in people who can't tolerate dairy.

