 When listening to public speakers, note their timing, emphasis, and word choice. Borrow from their presentations to craft your own style.


The Toastmasters (http://www.toastmasters.org/) are an international group which encourages people to improve their public speaking skills. Find a club near you to meet seasoned presenters who can give you advice and answer your presentation-related questions.
If your group is presenting during a second round after an initial day of presentations, listen to what your fellow presenters do. Analyze their presentations and try to incorporate their strong points into your own presentation.
 How many people will be in the audience? What do they know? What might they want to know? Tailor your group presentation around these questions. Thinking ahead about these and other questions will ensure your group presentation is a success.


For instance, if you’re presenting about how to drill an oil well to a group of oil industry insiders, you’ll be able to use a lot of highly technical terminology with them in your presentation. If you’re talking to a group of high-school students about the same topic, you’ll need to use more simplistic language and glaze over some of the specific processes.
 Keep your presentation professional and formal. Don’t introduce each section of the presentation with some banter like, “Hi, how is everyone?” This will break up the flow of the presentation and detract valuable presentation time from your group., There are a number of ways to incorporate visuals into your presentation, but the easiest way is to use PowerPoint. PowerPoint is a program which helps you create a digital slideshow with your computer and a digital projector.


PowerPoint presentations work best when you adopt a minimalistic approach.Do not attempt to jam a bunch of text into a single slide. Instead, use several slides, each with a high-quality image and a single point or sentence.
Don’t use a digital slideshow to replace your presentation. You or your group should always be the focus during the presentation. The slideshow is only there to support what you’re explaining.
 Instead, each member of your group should write a few main points on some note cards and consult them during their part of the presentation.


How much or how little you need written on your note cards depends on you. Some people might need an entire sentence to start them off talking about a given topic. Others might need to see just one word and will be able to launch into the next part of their presentation.
The number and style of the notes each group member utilizes depends on their memory and the amount of time they spent practicing.
 If possible, practice in front of a group of family or friends. Deliver your presentation just as you intend to in class.


If you didn’t feel comfortable with your portion of the presentation, practice it one more time either in front of the test audience or at home. Use your practice time as a chance to work out potential kinks.
 Solicit feedback from your test audience and from your fellow group members. Ask if anything was confusing or needed more explanation. Incorporate changes regarding your visuals, props, and speaking speed (as well as your content) into the final presentation where appropriate.


If the presentation is much too short, revise it to add more material. If your presentation if too long, revise it by eliminating unnecessary material.Don’t guess how long each member of your group is speaking for. Use a stop watch to measure each group member’s time and the overall time for the group.
Group members whose presentation times are too short should be made to lengthen them, and group members whose presentation times are too long should be made to shorten them. If the overall presentation time falls within the correct parameters, however, you group could consider allowing one person to speak for longer than another if both group members feel comfortable doing so.

