  REITs are companies that own or manage commercial real estate.  They allow individuals to profit from real estate income without having to purchase commercial real estate.,  REITs are available in a number of different industries.  REITs in each industry have their own way of earning income from the real estate.  When choosing a type of REIT, evaluate the strength of the overall economy and how that industry is performing.Retail REITs include shopping malls and freestanding stores.  They make money from the rent they charge to tenants.  Choose to invest in retail REITs when the retail industry is strong and sales are high.  

 Residential REITs own multi-family apartment buildings.  They also make money from charging rent to tenants.  Residential REITs are most profitable in large urban areas where home prices re so high that many people are forced to rent.  This drives rent prices up and increases profitability for the REIT.  Job growth in the area affects the profitability of a residential REIT, as well as things like vacancy rate, number of building permits issued, and if there is rent control. 

 Healthcare REITs invest in hospitals, nursing homes, medical centers and retirement homes.  These are becoming more profitable as people are starting to live longer and need more of these services.  They make money from the healthcare system.  

 Office REITs own office buildings.  Their income comes from long-term leases in the office buildings.  Consider the state of the economy and the unemployment rate before investing in an office REIT.  Also, evaluate the economic status of the area where the REIT is.  Some cities are economically depressed, while others are experiencing economic growth.

 Mortgage REITs invest in mortgages and mortgage backed securities instead of in property.  


,  Contact a broker or financial planner to find the right REIT investment for you.  REIT investments can be purchased through a variety of different avenues.  Some are publicly traded on a stock exchange.  Others are not listed or are privately traded.  Another option is to purchase shares in an REIT mutual fund or exchange traded fund (ETF).Many REITs are registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) and listed on major stock exchanges such as the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE).Public non-listed and private REITs are registered with the SEC, but they are not listed on a stock exchange.If you don’t want to worry about choosing a specific REIT in which to invest, choose to purchase shares in an REIT mutual fund or exchange traded fund.  These are available from investment companies such as Vanguard, Fidelity or JPMorgan Chase & Co.  The investment company researches the real estate market and builds a portfolio that will earn the highest return.