 During the winter, it is very important to limit the amount of time indoor pets spend outside. Most indoor pets are unprepared and not used to outdoor conditions, such as cold temperatures, wind, and snowy grounds.


When you take your dog out to use the bathroom, make sure not to spend more time outside than necessary. After your dog is finished, return inside promptly.
If your take your dog outside for walks, consider taking him on several shorter walks a day instead of one long walk to limit the amount of time outside. If possible, come up with indoor exercise alternatives, such as games of fetch, tug of war, or other forms of indoor exercise.Check your dog’s paws during cold weather. Cold temperatures can cause injury to paws, such as cracked pads or bleeding. If the dog starts limping during an outdoor walk during cold temperatures, immediately check the paws to make sure he doesn’t have ice in his paws or another problem.;
, Sweaters are cute fashion statements for pets, but during cold weather, they can be important for your pet’s safety. Short-haired dogs can be extremely sensitive the cold weather, especially during drastic cold snaps or severe wind chills. During severe cold weather, pets can be at risk for frostbite and hypothermia.When you take your dog on walks during cold weather, put a sweater or jacket on him. This is especially important for short-haired or small dogs, but even larger dogs with longer hair can be affected by the cold.
Sweaters can also help while your pet is in the house. Cats and dogs can get cold indoors as well. If your pet is shivering, consider placing a sweater on him.
Noses, ears, and paws can suffer the most damage during cold weather. Consider finding ways to cover these areas during cold snaps, or modify outdoor activities during harsh, severe conditions.
 When you take your dog for walks on treated roads or sidewalks, his paws may pick up salt remnants. This can be harmful for your pet. Salt and other chemicals can irritate your pet’s mouth and feet. If you pet licks his paws, he could ingest these chemicals, too.You can let your pet wear booties to protect his feet from elements and chemicals. Just make sure to buy booties that fit your pet’s feet well.Carefully clean paws when you return from outdoors. This helps remove the salt and chemicals.
Consider wiping down the belly and legs, too, especially if your dog is short and the belly may have come in contact with salt or chemicals., Your pet’s tolerance to cold depends on a lot of factors. If you have more than one pet, your pets may have different tolerances to cold. One may love the cold and enjoy running in the snow, while another may find it difficult and painful. Pay attention to your pets during cold weather to see their reaction. Adjust your exercise and other outdoor routines accordingly.Some conditions may limit the tolerance your pet has for cold weather. Pets with arthritis may have a lot of trouble walking in extreme cold. Conditions like diabetes, heart disease, kidney disease, or diseases like Cushing’s disease may not be able to regulate their body temperature. Watch your pet closely if he has any of these conditions.
Young pets and elderly pets may have more trouble than other pets. Take great care when exposing young and elderly pets to cold weather.
 When you walk your pet, make sure to use caution. Look for slippery, icy areas on sidewalks, paths, or roads. Not only is this a hazard for you, but your pet can slip as well.Don’t let your pet run on frozen lakes, puddles, or other frozen water. Pets can easily fall through ice, which could cause death. If you try to save your pet, you could put yourself in danger as well.

