 Your hands can carry bacteria, which may be harmful if transmitted to the cow. To keep both you and the cow healthy, and to avoid scratching the cow’s udder with rough hands, put on a pair of latex gloves before you start milking.If you prefer not to use gloves, apply a lubricant such as Vaseline to your hands to minimize friction.


Some people prefer to use udder cream (also called udder balm or udder butter) to lubricate the cow’s udder. Like Vaseline, udder cream will reduce friction during milking. You can purchase udder cream at any farm or ranch supply store.
 “Stripping” is the process of pulling down a cow’s teat (using a normal milking grip) in order to pass any dirt, bacteria, or other debris from the milk ducts.Do not catch the milk from stripping in the milk bucket, as it is generally not clean and should not be consumed., This will catch the milk that you squeeze from the udder.Better yet, hold the bucket between your legs. It takes practice, but this can be done easily and comfortably. This position reduces the chance of the cow kicking over the pail of milk.


Some cows only stand still if they’re given grain or hay to munch on while you go about your business. If your cow is demanding, keep an eye on her food. Be ready to replenish it, or else she’ll let you know she wants more by becoming restless and difficult to work with.
 Seat yourself in a position that will allow you to move away quickly if the cow becomes uncooperative. If you sit on a stool to milk the cow, position it very close to the cow. Your body should be very close to the cow—practically underneath it—so that there is as little distance as possible between the bucket and udder.Sitting cross-legged on the ground is not safe, as the cow could easily step on or kick you.
 Choose diagonal teats (front left and rear right, for example). Or, try the front teats first, then the back pair.Begin milking by gently clamping (almost pinching) each teat between your extended thumb and first finger, so that the teat fills your palm as you squeeze down., As you press down on the teat, maintain your grip on the base of the teat so that the milk doesn’t flow back up into the udder. Do not jerk or yank the teats. This motion is performed by sequentially squeezing your fingers from the middle to the pinky to force the milk out. Be gentle yet firm., Often even looking at the quarter just milked can tell you if it’s been emptied enough or not. Whereas a full udder will appear tight and be firm to the touch, an emptied quarter of the udder will look saggy and wrinkled, and feel much softer and more malleable. Experienced farmers can feel the udder to know exactly when all the milk has come down.After you’ve milked one quarter, repeat the motion with your other hand on the adjacent quarter. Most people prefer to alternate (right hand, left hand, right hand, etc.) The downward squeezing motion takes less effort doing it in alternate steps than all at the same time.
 If you began by milking the two teats on the right-hand side of the cow, you’ll need to pick up your stool and move to the cow’s left side to access the left two teats. If you used the diagonal method, switching sides is not necessary.


Watch your feet when moving near the cow. A cow often weighs over 1,000 lbs (450 kg). If she steps on your foot, those 1,000 lbs will hurt quite a bit, and could break your foot.

