 Perhaps the simplest way to teach your child how to be a good friend is to talk about it. Explain how friendships work and what it means to be a good friend. Parents often assume that their children will figure it out for themselves as they grow. However, many children can improve on their friendships if they are given the tools they need to succeed.


Let them know that being a good friend involves being kind to each other, helping one another out, being there, and remembering things like their birthday and their favorite foods and toys. Being a great friend also means including your friend in activities, having fun together, and supporting one another.;
, Discuss what a good friend wouldn’t do soon after you tell them what a good friend would do. They may not understand that another child’s bad behavior isn’t par for the course when it comes to friendship. Teaching them this can prevent them from being mistreated.


Discuss how good friends aren’t mean to each other, make fun of each other, leave each other out, or make them feel bad about themselves. Tell your child it is OK to stop being friends with someone who doesn’t treat them the way they should., Your child may have a difficult time grasping the concept of friendship if they learn about it just from you. Reading a book or watching a video about friendships and what it means to be a good friend may help them to better understand.Examples of books that highlight good friendship skills include Arnold Lobel's Frog and Toad series. However, many children's and young adult books focus on these themes.
You can find free videos on friendship on Youtube., The term friendship covers many different responsibilities, with new expectations added as children age. Be sure that you discuss friendship in a way that is understandable and relevant to your child.


For instance, smaller, preschool-aged children may need to focus on developing skills like sharing and being kind. However, older adolescents and teens may need to learn skills like loyalty and keeping their friends' secrets. Tailor the discussion to your child, and make it an ongoing education.
 Both younger and older kids may get a better grasp on friendship when it is applied to their current lives and experiences. Look for opportunities in everyday life to show your child how to be a better friend.Let's say your teen daughter starts hanging with a new group of popular kids at school. When you hear her discussing them, you might try to emphasize the importance of loyalty by saying, "I'm glad you're making new friends, but you should also be sure to take care of your existing friendships. When's the last time you made plans with Holly?"
Make sure that you are not being over-controlling and intrusive with your teenager. This type of behavior can be annoying to a teenager.

