 It's normal to feel hesitant when confronting your parents because you may still be dependent on your parents' finances or emotional comfort.If you need help talking about your boundary issues, then write out the specifics of what is bothering you. Showing your parents concrete examples will help them understand where you are coming from.


Remember they don't have it "out for you" so don't be afraid to approach them.
Be honest and open, but don't attack your parents. Restrain yourself from insulting your parents in this talk. This could potentially lead to arguments that fail at solving the real problems you're having.
Just knowing that your parents are aware of what you are going through can reduce your feelings of annoyance towards them.;
, Telling a lie can seem like an easy way out of a more complicated problem, but it'll only cause negative complications in the end. Parents are not dumb. If you tell a series of lies then you may trap yourself in a web of lies. In this situation a parent is more prone to see through your dishonesty. Lying hurts the ones you love.Parents can become angry for being mislead or even frightened for the future of your well-being.In the end, lying will only weaken your chances of having your wishes respected.
 Don't expect your parents to freely give you all the space you're imagining. You have to earn their trust. Initiating a conversation could merely be the beginning of a much longer process. If getting your alone time means hurting or causing your parents to cry, then consider if it is worth it.


Think of them as normal adults, rather than as your parents.Approaching them in this fashion could strengthen how open you are with your feelings.
 Studies show certain health benefits in response to actions of kindness whether you are the giver or receiver.Kindness can improve the immune system and increase the brain's release of serotonin.If they see that you are making an effort then they'll be more inclined to listen to your wishes. Try a few things around the house like:


Vacuuming the house
Doing the dishes after dinner
Cleaning your room
Offering to babysit a younger sibling

, Don't let things build up and allow a small problem to snow-ball into a serious issue. Communication is key for any relationship. If you act in an open and honest manner to your parents, both you and your parents could reap the benefits. A good relationship between parents and their children is powerful.

