 If you want to maximize your profits with FanDuel, you need to gain access to paid contests. FanDuel occasionally hosts contests with cash prizes that don’t require an entry fee, but these are too few and far between to make a tidy profit from. You will thus need to buy your way into more contests, and you can only do so if you have added funds into your account. You can do this using PayPal or your credit card.
 Open the sidebar by tapping the three green horizontal bars on the upper left-hand side of the lobby screen. Tap “Add Funds,” and select how much you want to put into your FanDuel account: $10, $25, $100, or $200.


Deposit using PayPal—Select “PayPal” as your payment method. You will be led to a separate screen where you will confirm the information before being prompted for the email associated with your PayPal account as well as the password for the said account. Provide all the information requested in this screen as well as subsequent screens, and wait for PayPal to make the transfer.

Deposit using your credit card—Select “Credit Card” as your payment method, and you will be asked to provide your cardholder name, the card number, the expiration date, the CVV, the state/province where the card is valid, and the ZIP code indicated on your card. Provide all this information, hit “Deposit Funds,” and wait for your bank to make the transfer.
 When you make your first deposit, you get a hefty bonus on top of the amount you paid. This is not the only way to gain bonuses though. Sites like GoodSearch, PromoCodeKings, RotoGrinders, and even FanDuel itself sometimes chuck out promo codes that add extra value to the cash you deposit into your FanDuel account., The aforementioned bonuses will only be credited into your account when you join contests with entry fees. These bonuses will be credited at a rate of 4% of each entry fee you pay to join a contest. Let’s say you a contest with a $100 entry fee. You’ll get $4 credited to your account. Do note that the bonuses you gain will expire after a set period of days. This means you need to join as many paid contests as possible in order to profit from these bonuses.The only exception to this is the first-time bonus given to new players. This does not expire, meaning you can take as long as you want to make use of the bonus cash.
 50/50 and head-to-head contests spreads the risk around. The latter requires you to beat the score of only one opponent, while the former requires you to beat the average points generated by all participants of the contest. You thus stand a better chance of winning if your lineup consists of players that perform consistently well and are able to generate a predictable amount of fantasy points in each game. These “high-floor” lineups are thus ideal for 50/50 and head-to-head contests., League, qualifier, and tournament contests reward a large sum of money for players that manage to place in the top positions. These rewards are huge, but the slots are limited, meaning that you’ll want to pick a lineup that can draw up a huge pool of points if they manage to do well in a particular game. All you need to do is win once, and you stand to gain a ridiculously large return on the cash you put into these games. This is how “high-ceiling” lineups work best for leagues, qualifiers and tournaments., FanDuels sometimes hold contests that allow you to place multiple entries in a single contest. These multi-entry contests give you some wiggle room to experiment with multiple lineups, which in turn allows you to spread the risk by assigning multiple lineups composed of different picks. This is especially useful when you want to try out a bunch of sleeper players that you think will bring in a lot of points despite costing only a little in terms of salary., When you’re forming a lineup for a specific contest, you will need as much information as possible in order to pick the right player for your strategy. Tapping a player’s portrait on the roster screen will lead you to a screen where you can review a player’s game log as well as read up on the latest news about that player’s status in the league. This is an immensely useful tool for drafting rosters with a higher chance for victory, and one that you should not forget to use., It can be easy to overestimate your success when you remember those handful of wins while forgetting those truckload of losses. You can solve this dilemma by creating a spreadsheet. Enter all your entry fees in one column while entering all your winnings in another column. Sum up the earnings, sum up the losses and divide your winnings by your expenditures. You’ll come up with an earnings ratio, a convenient number that you can use to track the profitability of your lineups in each season. The higher it goes, the higher your returns on the money that you put into your FanDuel account., Go to the FanDuel home screen and open the sidebar by tapping the three green horizontal lines on the upper left-hand side of your screen. Tap “Withdraw Funds” and select how you want FanDuel to pay you., Choosing PayPal will, by default, withdraw funds to the account you used to deposit money into your FanDuel account. If you want to withdraw cash into a different account, FanDuel may make additional unspecified security checks to confirm your identity as well as the validity of your alternate PayPal account. It will take FanDuel about 48 hours to process the transfers assuming no problems crop up., If you choose paper checks, this will lead you to a screen asking you for your name, the amount you wish to withdraw, your address, your city, your state, and your ZIP code. This is the information that will be placed on your check, which will be mailed to you. The request for the check will take about 7 to 10 days to check out.

Do note that FanDuel will ask you for a valid mailing address as well as you social security number if your annual winnings exceed $600. This is for tax-related purposes, which FanDuel will handle on your behalf. , Opening the sidebar and tapping “Transaction History” will lead you to a screen where you can review all the cash that goes in and out of your account. This is a very useful feature for keeping track of your profits as it conveniently lists down all the information you need to make your earnings ratio.