 If emotions get out of control during your talk, take a step away and agree to meet again in a day or two. Give yourself time to “sleep on it” and come back to the conversation refreshed both physically and mentally.


It is possible that your parents may avoid having another conversation about these issues. If that is the case, give them some time but continue to enforce your boundaries. If they do something hurtful, tell them, “That is not okay.”

, If you live with your parents, avoid retreating to your room permanently. If you live elsewhere, continue to make your regular visits over to your parents. Don’t respond to a negative reaction by completely disappearing. Show that you are invested in the relationship and want it to work, despite the challenges.


If tension is high, you might give your parents a heads-up before coming over. You could say, “I think I may drop by for a bit tonight, will that work for you?”

, Your parents may be smothering you because they are afraid that you can’t survive on your own. Use your actions to show them that you are a capable, independent young adult. Tell them about your recent accomplishments at work or at school. Discuss challenges that you’ve faced and how you’ve conquered them.


Tell them about a task that was difficult but that you completed after some struggling. This shows your parents that you are thinking of the “long game.” You can thrive even in tough situations.Have these discussions regularly and let them see what you're doing with your life. They may be reassured that you continue to do well without their help.
 If necessary, find a relative who is about your parents’ age who can talk to them about how you feel. This should be someone who you know very well and who you can trust. A family friend will also work, as long as they meet the trust test. Sometimes having an outside party come in can also calm everyone down.


You can also suggest meeting with a family therapist. If they are concerned about the cost, think about ways that you can offer to help pay or tell them that insurance may cover part of the cost.Make the argument that your relationship is worth the investment.
 With all of the negative emotions floating around, it is important to remember what your parents have done for you. Let them know that you are where you are now in part because of their help and guidance. This will make them feel more secure as your relationship heads into new territory.A simple “Thank you” can go a long way toward mending a relationship. If you start this process, odds are your parents will follow your lead.
To find good moments, look to the past. Go back well into your childhood and remember when your parents were the best at parenting. For example, did they take you to the zoo? Get you the best gifts?

