 If you have a laptop then put it in your room.;
,, This is a very good way to pass the time, because who doesn’t like calling their friends.
,, Most people will bring in comic books and drawing books because most people agree that these are the most fun type of books because comic books vary from funny to serious so what ever you like you can be satisfied with comic books, and who doesn't like to draw?

,, These are small and are easy to sneak in.
 Bring games for you hand-held; if you don't, then what would be the point of sneaking it in there anyway?

, Make sure you have a charger for your hand-held gaming system. If you run out of power during your grounding you will be upset.
, Music is an important part of every kid's life, it's a great way to express yourself, and people love music and there are so many different kinds: rock, heavy metal, pop, country, rap, hip hop, blues, and jazz.
 If you need glasses then make sure they're in your room. Your parents will most likely let you get them if you forget, so you don't need to worry about this that much.
 If you don't then you have a problem, because they don't use batteries.
 If you have more than one sibling, than get the one you don't annoy to bring you stuff that you forgot, or have a sudden craving for. Unless you have extremely nice sisters/brothers, they will most likely want something in return, like doing one of there chores, so prepare for a small amount of work.
 If you play a relatively small instrument, then you can sneak it in your room. They are fun and several can be put in a room sneakily. Lots of the instruments are small, hand-held instruments that can be played in a room.
 If you have a pet that is yours and not your sibling's or shared with your siblings, then bring it in. It will have to be quiet so it should be a lizard, frog, snake, something like that.
 If you bring your pet, then bring its food, it must be the right amount for however long your in your room, so it does not starve.
 Not the big one, a mini-fridge. This is good for soda, milk, or whatever you want to drink.
 This is only for if you are gonna be in there for a while, a long while.
