 If possible, buy your shrimp the day that you plan on cooking it. Shrimp thaw quickly and can go bad even more quickly. For the best possible results, buy fresh shrimp on the day that you plan to cook them. Make sure that you buy either jumbo or colossal sized shrimp for easier grilling. Smaller varieties of shrimp are more likely to fall through grill openings.








Shrimp come in all different colors with the commonest colors being brown, greyish green, and slightly pinkish.;
, Shrimp can be grilled with or without their shells. Remove all of the shell except for the part that is around the tail of the shrimp. The tail will serve as your handle for dipping and eating the grilled seafood. Cooking with the shell on will create a more tender meat and stronger shrimp taste. Removing the shell will allow the marinade to penetrate the meat and give the seafood more taste of your spices.








Use a pair of scissors or a sharp knife to cut the shell along the back of the shrimp. Be careful not to tear the meat of the shrimp. In some cases, shrimp have very soft shells. If you find that this is the case, you can peel the shell off with your fingers.
 Use a small, sharp knife to cut down the back of each peeled shrimp. Pull out the back vein while washing the shrimp under cold water. The vein is most noticeable in jumbo or colossal shrimp. You don’t necessarily have to remove the vein, but shrimp veins are often filled with sand, meaning that they can give the shrimp a gritty texture.








If you look over your shrimp and don’t see any vein at all, it has already been cleaned by your seafood grocer.
 The favored way to do this is by marinating the shrimp. There are hundreds of kinds of marinades you can try--from spicy to pleasantly sweet and salty. Put your shrimp in a bowl and pour your marinade over them. Put a lid or foil on the bowl and let them sit and soak up the flavors of the marinade.









You can also simply brush your shrimp with olive oil to help it cook on the grill.
Rub spices on your de-shelled shrimp to give your shrimp a kick of flavor.

