 Most doctors and dentists recommend that parents not try to do anything to speed up the natural process.Teeth that are extracted too early provide less of a guide to the teeth that grow in their place, and pulling to early can also have a negative impact on the correct order of eruption, which may also influence bite and mastication (chewing). Any child will tell you that this, too, is an unnecessarily painful option.;
, Make sure that the tooth and the surrounding gum area looks healthy and is free of decay and infection. If the tooth becomes decayed, it may need to be surgically removed in a dental office.
 Not all parents choose to give their child permission to wiggle the tooth, but those who do might want to instruct their child to wiggle only with the tongue. This is for two reasons:


Wiggling with the hands can introduce bacteria and dirt into the mouth, clearing the way for infection. Children aren't exactly the cleanest creatures in the world, making this a recipe for poor dental health in addition to bad hygiene.
The tongue is generally gentler than the hand. Children run a higher risk of accidentally pulling a tooth out before it's ready when they use their fingers to pull out the tooth. Wiggling the tooth with their tongues lowers the risk because the tongue can't grip onto the tooth in the same way that two fingers can. This way, your child will get used to the idea of a tooth coming out, and the image of a tooth pulled out with their tongue makes them less scared of blood or pain.
 Permanent teeth coming in behind baby teeth, sometimes known as "sharking" because of the two sets of teeth, is a reversible and common condition. As long as the dentist removes the baby tooth and gives it enough room to move into its intended position in the mouth, it shouldn't be an issue.
 If the child lets the tooth come out on its own, expect to see very little blood. Children who have waited the proper amount of time for their old tooth to fall out (sometimes as much as 2 to 3 months), there should be very little blood.


If any wiggling or pulling of teeth causes excessive amounts of blood, instruct the child to stop wiggling; the tooth is most likely not yet ready to be extracted, and shouldn't be aggravated further resulting in inflammation and pain, which can also influence the development of the permanent tooth underneath.
 A dentist will be able to administer a topical painkiller and extract the tooth with the appropriate instruments.
 When the tooth comes out on its own, hold a piece of gauze over the extraction site. Tell the child to bite down lightly on the gauze. A new blood clot should start forming in the extraction site.


If the socket has lost its clot, an infection could occur. However, this is rare. This condition is called dry socket (alveolar osteitis), and is often accompanied by a foul-smelling odor.Contact your dentist if you believe the clot hasn't set appropriately.

