 The following research suggestions will help you to find good examples of Persian, Islamic, or Arabic style gardens:


Obtain books on the subject. Good gardening books will often contain many inspiring images of the layout, the styles, colours, etc., and will explain the principles at much greater length than this brief overview. Visit your local library, or your favorite bookstore.
Check online. The internet has a wide range of pictures, but you need to be aware that many of the images will often end up being those of the more commonly known gardens, namely, the Alhambra, the Taj Mahal, and the Generalife.Many of the more renowned gardens are later renovations, so they may not be as true to original forms as you'd wish - it's really up to you how far back you'd like to research. Good search terms include "Islamic garden design", "Persian garden design", and "Arabic garden design".
If you are lucky enough to be able to afford it, travel. Visit countries such as India, Iran, Pakistan, Turkey, etc., to find suitable gardens. When visiting these gardens, photograph many different angles to help you to reproduce your favorite ideas in your own garden later.
If you have friends living in countries where Arabic, Islamic, or Persian inspired gardens are the usual style, ask them to send you photos and gardening books. Even if you cannot read the language, the photos should be very helpful in your planning.;
, If you live in a hot climate, then it is probably that this garden design is a good choice for your location, as the plants typically found in a Persian or Islamic garden are usually hot climate types, and the shade-producing design features and water-efficient elements are better suited to a hot climate.


While colder climates can work quite well, it is better to incorporate additional colour for the colder periods. See "Tips" also, for winter care.
 There are some key elements of this type of garden that should be taken into account when developing your garden design. On the whole, these characteristics reflect:


Shade for keeping cool: One of the central features is to create shade to keep cool, as a way to cope with hot climates;







Walls for shape and temperature regulation: These gardens are often walled and have private areas which have little association with external scenery beyond the walls. Being able to use walls as a feature piece of the garden design makes this a perfect option for fixing your existing courtyards in need of renovation;







Water features: This garden style will usually have a central water feature, or reflection ponds; indeed water is usually at the heart of a Persian or Islamic inspired garden. (see the step below on installing water features);







Clean lines, vibrant colour: These gardens often present clean alignments and crisp colours;







Mosaics: They occasionally make use of intricate mosaic tiles;







Parterre: These gardens have parterre style beds or long beds;







Formal or informal: This garden style can be both conservative and refined, or more relaxed. The choice is up to your preferences;







Archways: Arches make a good architectural theme when creating this style of garden. These can be made from wooden supports and rendered to make them appear as if made from stonework; and







Symmetrical: Symmetry is a frequent requirement for this style of garden. Matching or mirroring elements can be an enjoyable part of your planning process.
 Many modern gardens or Islamic inspired gardens (the Alhambra, for example, is not in its original condition) feature neat clipped hedges as another wall concept. Some plants to consider include:

Myrtle or other scented hedges, rows of date palms (for large gardens) or any other dwarf desert type palm can be used.






Standardised citrus trees can make a nice feature, both through their fruit and perfumed flowers.






Bay trees are an ideal addition, as well as pomegranate trees, but it is best to keep these trees in pots, as they can be invasive.






Terracotta potted flowering hardy plants such as roses, lavender, geranium (pelargoniums), rosemary are all suitable features that add fragrance, colour, and beauty to the garden.






Feature desert plants such as agave, or other formal upright plants such as yuccas, which can blend in well.
 While having fountains is fine, fountains tend to be a more modern invention because fountains were an extravagance in desert culture. Small fountains are probably the best compromise for both saving water and for being in keeping with the original styles.


Water channels with small fountains are common in gardens in India, Pakistan, and Iran.
Often there are four streams, or the pond points in four directions. This derives from the classical, "Chahar Bagh" layout, which has a fountain at the centre of the garden that flows into four water channels at right angles with one another. These four water channels are associated with the four rivers of Paradise. The four-quartered garden design is also very water efficient as it makes the most of water moving through a grid pattern.Round ponds are not as common as geometrically shaped ones in more formal gardens. It really depends on your space and your budget (the less usual shape and mosaics can be pricey) as to whether or not you can accommodate a geometrically shaped pond.
Turquoise or jade coloured tiles are used frequently with water features. If you can use this colour when laying tiles, it will reflect beautiful blues in your garden.
 Often you can mount the tile mosaic directly on existing blank walls. Bathroom tiling firms occasionally can do this service from their product range but it is fun to try making your own - see wikiHow's article on making a mosaic from broken tiles for an initial idea.
 The colours most frequently found in Islamic, Arabic, or Persian inspired garden design are whites, dusky pinks/terracotta, rich blues, golds (occasionally in small patterns), and rich reds. There is not a great deal of reliance on delicate, pastel colours.


Consider painting wall panels, arches, to match the colours just described, or install coloured pots to reflect the colour theme.
 The moment it appears forgotten, it's a fine balance between adding to its charm, or looking derelict, and it's hard to plan which result you'll end up with! So, err on the side of maintaining a tidy garden at all times. This might mean budgeting a gardener into the overall upkeep, so keep this in mind when planning.

