 If you are experiencing enlarged breasts due to weight gain and/or puberty rather than a hormonal imbalance, you can do exercises to strengthen and tighten this area. The issue can also be helped by maintaining a healthy diet. However, if you suspect that your breast size may be caused by a hormonal issue (i.e., gynecomastia), you should see your doctor for a diagnosis. You may then consider surgical options to remove fat in this area.Before you try any methods to reduce your breast size, work with your doctor to figure out the underlying cause of your enlarged breasts. Your doctor can help you decide if diet and exercise are the best solution for reducing your breasts.
Gynecomastia is often caused by hormonal imbalance, where your body is producing less testosterone and more estrogen. This can then lead to enlarged breasts. You can experience enlarged breasts during puberty and as an adult, with men commonly developing gynecomastia between the ages of 50 and 80. Men with gynecomastia may have breasts that feel tender, sensitive, and appear swollen.
 You can do chest presses using dumbbells at home or at the gym. Chest presses will help to work out your chest muscles, tightening them and reducing the saggy appearance of your breast area.Lay down on a flat or slanted exercise bench with your back against the bench. Hold a dumbbell in each hand.
You can use ten to fifteen pound (4.5 to 6.8 kilogram) dumbbells if you do not use free weights often. Otherwise, use dumbbells that feel heavy, but not impossible to pick up.
Breath in and bend your elbows until your upper arms are parallel to your chest. Then, exhale as you push up slowly holding the dumbbells until your arms are straight. Make sure there is a little bend at your elbows so you do not lock out your arms.
Hold the position for two seconds and then inhale as you return to the starting position, with your upper arms parallel to your chest.
Repeat this for three sets of 10 reps three to four times a week. You may integrate chest presses into a total body workout routine that you do several times a week. Keep in mind it is more effective to do a total body workout to tighten up your muscles rather than target one muscle group, such as your chest muscles.
 You can start with normal push ups, if you are new to push ups, and then transition into more difficult variations, such as decline push ups.To do normal push ups, place your hands a little wider than your shoulders on an exercise mat. Then, stretch your legs behind you so they are hip width apart. Make sure you are on the balls of your toes, with your legs straight and strong. Flatten your lower back so your hips are in line with your shoulders.
Inhale as you hold the starting position and exhale as you slowly bend your arms and lower yourself towards the floor. Only drop down low enough for your chin to almost graze the floor and then inhale as you push yourself back up. Repeat this for three sets of 10 reps, three to four times a week.
To do a variation, like decline push ups, place your feet on an exercise bench or the second step on a set of stairs. Then, place your arms wider than shoulder width on the floor so your upper body is on a decline. Do three sets of 10 reps of decline push ups, three to four times a week.
 Bench presses are a more advanced exercise you can do at the gym or at home using a bench press bar. This exercise is great for strengthen your chest muscles and building your arm strength.Start by determining your hand positioning on the bench press bar. Lie down on the bench and unrack the bar, with no weight on it. Lower the bar slowly to your chest and note where your forearms are. Your forearms should be as close to vertical as possible as you lower the bar. Your grip should be strong and comfortable on the bar as you raise and lower it.
You may want to start with a lower amount of weight on the bar and then work your way up. Make sure your feet are firmly planted on the floor and your knees are bent at an 80 degree angle.
Exhale as you unrack the bar and tighten up your abdominal muscles. Inhale as you lower the bar all the way down towards your sternum until it hovers just above the center of your chest. Let the bar lightly touch your chest, and avoid letting the bar bounce or hit your chest. Then, exhale as you raise the bar back to the starting position.
Start with four to eight reps and then increase the amount of reps you do over time. You may integrate bench presses into an overall workout routine to strengthen your pectoral muscles.
 The rowing machine is a fun way to build cardiovascular strength and work out your back, abs, shoulders, and legs. While the pectorals are not involved in the rowing motion, rowing exercises can help burn calories for all-over fat reduction. Rowing is also a great way to balance out other exercises that focus on your chest muscles.You can find seated rowing machines at your local gym or buy one for home use online. Try to spend at least 30 minutes on the rowing machine and maintain a steady pace as you row. You should be working hard enough on the rowing machine to break a sweat, as this will indicate you are really working your heart and lungs.
 It is often more effective to work out your entire body, rather than try to target one particular area or muscle group. You can create an interval training program where the focus is on your chest muscles as well as your overall health. Interval training involves doing a series of short, intense exercises as well as exercises that are less intense and take longer to perform. This type of training can be great for weight loss and fat burn.You may create an interval training program where you do quick, intense exercises like decline push ups and chest presses, followed by cardio on the rowing machine and bench presses exercises.
You should try to also include exercises for your legs and core in your interval training program so it is well balanced. Ask a trainer at your local gym for advice or look up existing interval training programs online that include upper body exercises.

