 Using a Worsted Weight yarn and an H hook, make a foundation chain. While you're working, stop every few stitches and check to make sure your foundation chain isn't twisted. Smooth it out as necessary, always leaving the row of "V"s facing up.


To make a 36" x 36" blanket, chain 150
To make a 36" x 54" blanket, chain 150
To make a 40" x 60" blanket, chain 175

, Beginning with the fourth chain from your hook, work double crochet stitches all along the foundation chain. Try to keep your stitches as even as possible as you work.
 To proceed from the first row to the second row, you will need to make a turning chain. A turning chain is like a vertical bridge or connector between the rows. The length of your turning chain varies depending on the type of stitches you are using for your project.


When you get to the end of your first row, make three chain stitches (ch 3). This is your turning chain. The turning chain counts as the first stitch of your next row.
 With your turning chain in place, you can begin the second row.


Flip your work over so that the back side of the fabric is facing you, and your crochet hook is at the right. The last stitch of row 1 now becomes the first stitch of row 2.
Skip the first stitch below your turning chain. Insert your hook into the second stitch of row 1, and make a double crochet in that stitch.
Continue all the way to the end of the row.
 The exact number of rows will depend on how tightly you crochet, but here are some guidelines:


For a 36" x 36" blanket, make 48 rows
For a 36" x 54" blanket, make 72 rows
For a 40" x 60" blanket, 80 rows

, It's a good idea to stop and check your work every so often. Count to make sure you are making the same number of stitches in each row. Check for mistakes. Measure your work with a measuring tape to see how close you are getting to your goal. If you notice a mistake, here's what you can do:


Slip your hook out of the yarn loop and pull gently on the end of the yarn. Your work should start to unravel.
Keep gently unraveling the yarn until you get to the point of your mistake. Unravel back to one stitch prior to your mistake.
Insert your hook into the loop for that stitch, and begin crocheting from that point.
 When your blanket is as long as you want it to be, work all the way to the end of your last row. Then, you can add a border, end off your yarn, and weave in the ends.


To make a simple border, flip your fabric over so the right side is facing you, then turn your the fabric 90̊. Ch 1 and insert your hook into the corner of your fabric. Make 3 sc into the corner. Sc all along the edge of your fabric until you reach the next corner, make 3 sc in the corner and continue around in this fashion until you reach your starting point. You can add another row of border in the same manner if you wish.
To end off, ch 1 and make a big loop with the yarn. Slip the hook out of the loop and cut your yarn, leaving a long tail. Pull the end of the yarn through the loop and tighten to make a knot.
To weave in the ends of the yarn, hold your fabric with the back side facing you. Thread the end of the yarn through a tapestry needle. Insert the needle through the bottom of several stitches (about two inches). Skip the last half of the last stitch, then weave the needle back through the same stitches for about an inch. Pull the yarn through, and clip the end of the yarn close to the fabric.

