 Go to http://www.staralliance.com using your preferred browser.;
, Click on the Services menu on the header, then select “Tools and Downloads” from the left menu.
 From the Tools and Downloads menu, click the Flight Status Widget link. You will be brought to the Star Alliance Flight Status Widget page.
 Scroll to the bottom and look for the download link. The link is titled “Download the Star Alliance flight status gadget for Windows Vista (zip, 89.16 KB).” Click this link, and the setup file will be downloaded.


You can also go directly to the download link by using http://www.staralliance.com/assets/doc/en/services/others/Star%20Alliance%20Flight%20Status%20gadget.zip.
 The downloaded setup file will be in a compressed format (zip file). Look for it on your desktop. The filename is “Star Alliance Flight Status gadget.zip.” Double-click on the file and extract the content.
 Double-click on the extracted file, which is a Windows Gadget. Click on the “Install” button to proceed with the installation of the gadget.
 The installed gadget will now be visible and accessible from the Sidebar. It will be clearly identifiable with the Star Alliance logo (2-D triangles formed in a star)., From the Sidebar, drag the Star Alliance Flight Status gadget to your desktop. Place it anywhere, and the widget will expand for usage.
 Refer to Part 4 for details on how to check a status of a Star Alliance flight.
 After using the widget, tuck it away on the Sidebar to reduce clutter on your desktop. Drag it back to the Sidebar area and it will minimize and set there.
 Even when the widget is minimized on the Sidebar, it will still continue checking the status of the flight you just checked. The flight number, source and destination airports, and its latest status will be clearly visible from the gadget on the Sidebar; no need to expand the widget every time you want to check the same flight., On the “Airline” field, select the airline of the flight you’d like to check from the drop-down list. The drop-down list contains all the airlines under the Star Alliance network.
 On the “Flight No.” field, input the flight number of the flight you want to check. The airline code will automatically be populated based on the airline you’ve selected from Step 1. You just need to input the flight number.
 On the “Date” field, set the date for the flight you want to check. Be sure you set the correct date. Flight numbers do repeat for the same routes and times.
 Once you’ve filled up the necessary data, click the “Check” button. The widget will connect to the Star Alliance flight database and retrieve the latest status of the flight you’ve just indicated.
 After getting the data, the result will be shown on the widget. The flight details, including source and destination airports and flight dates and times, will all be displayed. The latest status will be clearly indicated on the bottom, with the flight number.

