 Your feed and feeders will influence what birds come to your yard; for example, if you want to keep away Brown-headed Cowbirds and House Sparrows, avoid white proso millet. If you prefer smaller birds, choose feeders (such as tube feeders), which larger birds cannot use.
 The sugar rich nectar offered to nectar-eaters is highly attractive to insects, such as ants or bees. Using a hanging hummingbird feeder (rather than a window mounted device) can help, or chose a feeder with a built in ant guard, which stops the ants travelling down to the nectar.


Be wary of using other methods such as applying vaseline or sticky agents, because there is a risk of injuring the birds you are feeding by soiling the birds' feathers and reducing their ability to fly.
Bees are more of a problem to deter because they fly. The best remedy is to take care when filling the feeder so there are not splashes of sugary solution to attract the bees in the first place.Never use insecticides to kill ants or other insects. Different types of birds eat different things, and what might be good for a Hummingbird could be very bad news for a different type of bird, such as a Woodpecker, which eats ants., Choose a tube feeder or other small feeder which birds of prey cannot access. Keep the feeder near a native shrub with dense foliage that can offer protection from attacking predators.


Think carefully about putting out food for birds, if you own outdoor cats or there are a lot of cats in the neighborhood. By attracting the birds to feeder, you may inadvertently set up a buffet for the cats.
 Mice and rats are often attracted by discarded seed, and minimizing the amount of discarded seed will keep mice and rats away. To do so, choose seeds (such as black-oil sunflower seeds) that birds in your area enjoy and eat quickly, add a seed catcher tray to the base of a tube feeder, or feed entirely different feed.


Also remove food that is dried out and no longer attractive to birds. It may still be a tasty treat for vermin., Consider using a baffle, a dome-shaped piece of plastic that can be placed under or over the bird feeder, or a squirrel repellent that will not hurt the birds, such as one that contains cayenne pepper. Hang your feeder at least four feet above the ground. If the feeder is hanging from a tree, hang it as far away from the trunk as possible. If the feeder is mounted on a pole, keep the pole away from trees or structures.


See also How to stop squirrels from eating your bird food.
 You may find they'll eat your fruit too! Consider using bird netting one your precious fruit trees and bushes so that you can both live in harmony.


Grow native food plants to attract the native birds to your garden and to discourage them from eating human food crops. This should also work well for saving water in your garden and lowering the intensity of your gardening work, as native plants thrive best in their local environment.
Avoid feeding birds problem plants. The birds will spread these when excreting the seeds, causing invasive plant problems well beyond your garden.

