 Chop the wood for lumber, smash the rocks for material stone, and ship the weeds for some fast cash.;
, Do this every season for a nice heap of gold. Seeds can be bought over the telephone at Karen's Supermarket.
 There are 10 different fields. After your crops are watered, collect more weeds and wild grasses to sell. Chop some branches and stones if you have enough stamina left.
 After a few seasons, you should have enough money to have Gotz build you an animal shed or a chicken coop. A chicken coop will make you more money to begin with.


If you collected enough lumber or material stone, you won't have to buy materials, saving you LOTS of money.
After your coop is completed, buy a chicken. Use your telephone to call the Poultry Farm to buy some bird feed for rainy days. Your chicken will be at the front of your farm near the shipping bin.
Use some stones or lumber to build a small fenced-in area near the chicken coop. If you have enough money you should buy some grass seeds to plant in this area. When it isn't raining or snowing, you can leave your chicken outside so it can feed itself, saving you the hassle of buying more and more bird feed.
When it is bad weather, remember to bring it inside and feed it yourself or else it will get sick.
When your chicken lays its first egg, DO NOT sell it. Go inside of the chicken coop and place the egg in the incubator (on the far left wall). In a few days another chicken will hatch. Until then, you can sell the other eggs.
Repeat this process until you have four chickens; then you can sell one or more of the chickens for an easy 500G or so and then start again.
 You can get a fishing rod from Galen (the old man with the hairnet) after you talk to him and his wife Nina at least once and then go to his house around noon on a sunny Saturday with nothing equipped. You should activate a cutscene where he gives you his father's old fishing rod. Now you can fish in the Goddess Pond, the waterfall, the river, or the ocean. You can sell small fish in the shipping bin for 50G, but Van will buy them for 250G.
 You can go mining with your hoe and hammer at the excavation site. At first, you can only mine on the surface level with your hoe. If you go to the mines around 10pm-12am, Cater should open up the first mine for you. Till the soil to uncover items or smash rocks for ores and gems. This drains a lot of stamina.
 After you collect certain sprites, the Sprite Casino should open. You can purchase medals and play games to win (or lose) medals. The medals can be used to buy special items that can be sold to Van for high prices!

