 Eating non-food items can sometimes be related to a missing nutrient in your cat’s diet. Your cat’s vet can test it for deficiencies such as anemia and recommend any dietary changes you should make.Ask the vet, “Do blood tests show any nutrient deficiencies? Should I add supplements to its diet, or increase its fat or fiber intake?”
If you don’t already, try keeping dry food out at all times so your cat can eat on its own time.
If you have multiple cats, prevent dietary deficiencies due to resource competition by putting out as many food containers as you have cats.
 Chewing or eating plastic bags could be caused by a variety of underlying medical issues, including leukemia, feline immunodeficiency virus (FIV), diabetes, and brain disorders. Bring your cat in for an examination if you haven’t had much luck with steps like providing more exercise or more engaging toys.Ask the vet, “Do you believe this persistent behavior has anything to do with more serious medical conditions? Do you recommend testing for any specific conditions, or can you rule any out through physical examination?”

, Eating non-food items can also result from anxiety. If the vet has ruled out underlying medical causes, ask them if they recommend anti-anxiety medication.They might also recommend calming pheromones, such as Feliway.If you and the vet believe anxiety could be the issue, talk to them about reducing your cat’s stress. Stress-relieving actions include giving your cat plenty of space, making sure it has enclosed spaces to withdraw to, providing it with a cat perch, and limiting encounters with strangers and other animals.
 If the problem persists despite your efforts, you should consult a professional trainer or animal behaviorist. Ask your cat’s vet if they can recommend a local trainer or behaviorist to help you correct the behavior.You can also find a certified professional by using the International Association of Animal Behavior Consultants (IAABC) search tool: https://iaabc.org/consultants


, If your cat is choking, first open its mouth and see if you can remove the plastic with your hand or a sterile pair of tweezers. If that's not possible, call the vet and attempt the Heimlich maneuver. Lay the cat on its side, put one hand along its back, place your other hand on its belly just under the ribs, and push sharply up and in several times.Check its mouth, and repeat giving pushes until you can easily extract the object.
Look for signs like labored breathing, blocked air flow, and panic. Try not to confuse these signs with hairballs.
 Symptoms like vomiting after meals, weakness, weight loss, and diarrhea can indicate an intestinal blockage caused by eating non-food objects. If your cat exhibits these symptoms, bring it to the vet for an accurate diagnosis.The vet will perform an endoscopy using a tube with a tiny camera to examine the digestive system. If they find a blockage, they'll most likely perform surgery to remove it.

