 A fundraising event is a party or gathering intended to raise money for an organization. Typically, revenue comes in through ticket sales, and in some cases, corporate sponsorships. Although events are notorious for being expensive, time consuming and not terribly cost effective, they don't have to be that way. Here are some ideas for simple fundraising events that don't require a lot of money or energy.
 House parties are a tried and true method of fundraising. A house party is a small event hosted at the home of someone close to your organization. The host invites friends and contacts whom he or she believes might be interested in donating to your program. After mingling and refreshments, the president or director of your organization makes a short presentation about your group. Guests have an opportunity to ask questions, then, the host invites them make a donation. Some tips on house parties:


A house party does not have to be fancy. It can be a dinner party or a cocktail party. It can have 20 guests or 6. Refreshments can be catered, or as simple as coffee and cake.
Make sure that the host of the party directly asks guests to donate.
Have staff and board members on hand to mingle and answer questions.
If appropriate, consider asking a program participant to attend. It can be very powerful and compelling for donors to meet and speak with someone who has received your organization's services.
 If you go to the manager of a store ,like Walmart, the you can ask to make a booth in front of the store. This can be very successful.
 Many restaurants have established fundraising programs whereby nonprofits can receive a percentage of sales on a designated day. These programs are very common among big chain restaurants, but smaller establishments offer them too. Search online to find out what restaurants in your area offer this fundraising tool. Once you've identified a restaurant, follow these tips.


Understand the terms. Restaurants have different guidelines and rules for fundraisers. Some donate a percentage of the entire bill; some exclude alcohol sales. Some require that customers present a coupon or other document for your group to receive a donation, others don't. Make sure you are clear on what's expected so you can take full advantage of the event.
Get the word out. Make sure your constituents and everyone in your group knows about your event. Encourage them to invite their friends too.
Provide materials. Set out brochures, postcards or other items to let diners know that their purchases are supporting your organization.
 A dessert party is a fun, simple and inexpensive event. Hold the party at the home of a board member or other friend of your organization. Ask volunteers to make desserts in single serving sizes. Provide coffee, tea and soft drinks. Sell tickets at a modest price. Enjoy the sweets!

, A craft fair is an easy and very inexpensive fundraising event. Your organization rents table space to vendors to display and sell their products. If you like, you can also ask vendors to donate a percentage of their sales to your group. If you have a facility you'd like to show off, a craft fair is a great way to get the community to visit.


Add to the fun and interest of the event by scheduling performances, speakers or other entertainment throughout the day.
Make sure there are opportunities for customers and visitors to learn about and make a donation to your organization during the event.
Consider holding a raffle as an additional way to generate revenue at the craft fair.
 If you want a fun and passionate fundraiser that doesn't take a lot of planning, consider using LoveMyHeart.org. It's simple, fun, and everyone loves the Love My Heart shirts you sell! Not to mention there are no out of pocket costs like the other events listed here!

