 An allergist can help diagnose what is causing the worst of your asthma symptoms. Seeing an allergist is particularly recommended if you have severe, daily asthma attacks, if you have severe seasonal allergies, or if you need help figuring out what your symptoms are. Also, if you've been in the hospital because of asthma, you'll likely need to see an allergist., If you already suffer from allergies, you know you have them, and you don't need an allergist to tell you that. However, an allergist can confirm the diagnosis and help you narrow down what allergens you are most susceptible to, which can be useful. If you know, you can avoid those allergens when the count is particularly high.Skip taking antihistamines for five days before the test, so that your body will actually react to the allergen. You may need to stop other medications, too, so make sure you give a full list of medications to your allergist before having the test done.The main method of testing for allergies is through a skin prick test. A nurse will divide an area of your skin into small sections, usually on your back or arm. Next, they will add a bit of allergen to each area. As they do, they will prick the skin so that the allergen enters it.
You can also have a blood test done, though it generally does not give as much information as a skin prick test., Immunotherapy exposes you to small doses of the allergens that affect you to decrease your allergic response. You have the choice of two main types of immunotherapy: allergy shots and sublingual tablets.With allergy shots, you receive injections of your allergens on a regular basis. This treatment may take several years to work, but over time, it may decrease the severity and frequency of your symptoms.
Sublingual tablets work in a similar way, but you take a tablet under your tongue. Not all allergies can be treated this way. In addition, you shouldn't use this method if your asthma isn't under control.While these methods are designed to treat allergies, if your allergy and asthma symptoms occur together, allergy shots may also help alleviate your asthma symptoms., This medication, sold brand-name as Singulair and identified as a leukotriene modifier, can help both asthma and allergy symptoms.It's a pill you take once a day that works on the immune system by helping to calm overactive immune responses, which cause both allergies and asthmatic problems.Talk to your doctor to see if this treatment option is a good one for you.
However, this pill isn't for everyone, as some people have psychological side effects. For instance, although rare some people have suicidal thoughts while on this pill. You need to monitor yourself closely for these side effects when you're first on the medication.
 This type of therapy is another treatment option to help treat allergy and asthma symptoms that occur at the same time. IgE antibodies mistakenly identify certain allergens as a threat. When they sense allergens, they send histamines to fight against them, which is what triggers both the allergic and asthmatic reaction. IgE medications, such as the injectable omalizumab, work on the IgE antibodies, helping prevent them from initiating the attack.