 Conservatism is currently the most "right-wing" branch of political thought in America, though what conservatism actually is only become harder to define. Currently, conservationism and right-wing ideologies are generally used interchangeably in conversation, and you can usually assume conservatives will consider themselves as "right-wing" and vice versa. Both believe:


A smaller government is a stronger government.
Free, unregulated markets create the most wealth.
Strong moral, traditional, and religious values are key to a strong nation.
 One of the biggest differences among right-wingers comes on social policy. Specifically, the difficult line between "limited government" and "strong social values." At what point, to you, is the government getting too involved in social life, and when is appropriate for the government to get involved at all? Take an issue like gay marriage, for example. Two right-wing people might come to surprisingly different interpretations based on the same tenets:



More socially conservative: The institution of marriage is thousands of years old, and has always been "1 man, 1 woman." This should not change now when it has worked well before.

More economically conservative: The government has no right to get involved in something as personal as marriage, and people should do (or marry) whoever they want. This is not something worth spending tax dollars on.
 There are many degrees of right-wing thought, from the surprisingly moderate ideas of Richard Nixon to the intensely conservative thought of Ted Cruz. While the Republican Party is generally considered the party of the right, the 2016 primary shows just how big that conservative tent is. Far right candidates, in general, believe:


The government must be significantly and immediately slashed down, getting out of health care, taxation, regulation, and social programs like Social Security and welfare.
The government has an obligation to uphold strong Judeo-Christian values across the nation.
The Constitution is infallible and should be the first source of information on legal disputes.
The free market, when businesses and consumers do what they want without intervention, will solve most, if not all, problems over time., In general, the Republican Party is considered America's "right-wing" party. This makes it the frequent "landing zone" for new conservatives, but it is hardly your only option. Republicans generally believe in lower taxes, regulation, and immigration, but stronger promotion (with laws) of stronger social and moral values. As the 2016 election has shown, there are a lot of different views, candidates, and ideas about what it means to be right-wing:



The Libertarian Party: Libertarians emphasize individual rights and freedom over group rights. In the economic sphere, with some exceptions, they are close to traditional conservatism. They favor free markets and want as little government as possible and scaling back economic regulations heavily, but favor the decriminalization of drugs. In the social sphere, they are somewhat liberal. They oppose government discrimination for or against any group, but oppose government influence over social/religious life, and advocate for the right of an individual to choose with whom they associate or do business with.

The Constitution Party: A socially conservative wing that promotes traditional and religious social order through strong government presence.

The American Party: Socially and economically conservative, the American Party specifically hopes to remove the US from world politics, including slashing our foreign aid, position in the UN, NATO, and other world organizations, and stronger civilian oversight on foreign policy.