 Markarth is the westernmost city in the map of Skyrim. To get there, exit the city of Whiterun and take the western road. Take the road all the way west past the town of Rorikstead. Markarth comes right after the Sky Haven Temple.;
, On the right hand side facing the Markarth city gates, you’ll find a small stable housing a few horses. Approach the stable and you’ll find a man with a dog tending the horses.
 The name of the man tending the stable is Banning. He’s a human with short dark hair wearing a brownish green tunic and a leather bracer. Approach Banning and press the corresponding “Talk” button on your game controller as prompted on the game screen to talk to him.
 Banning will ask you if you need a trained war dog. A response box will appear on the screen allowing you to choose an answer you can give to him. Select “I’ll take that dog off your hands,” and he’ll give you the dog standing next to him in exchange for 500 gold.
 Walk away from Banning and you’ll notice that the dog will start following you. It will continue to do so since you are now its owner.
 You can either tell a dog to stay and wait or go home. To give orders to the dog, approach it and press the corresponding “Talk” button on your game controller to interact with the dog. A response box will appear on the screen allowing you to choose an order you can give to it.


Select “Wait here” and the dog will sit and wait for you at the spot you told it to wait for you. It will not move no matter where you go. If you stray too far from your waiting dog and manage to lose sight of it, it will spawn back next to you once the game reloads.
To have it follow you again, approach it and press the “Talk” button on your game controller and select “Follow me” from the response box.
To send the dog back home, select “It’s time for you to go back home,” and it will start walking away from you. When you go back to one of the houses you own, like in Whiterun, you’ll find the dog inside the lodging.
 Dogs can be killed if severely damaged during combat. Don’t worry though because you can get another dog from Banning in Markarth. On the other hand, you can’t get second dog while the first one you bought is still alive.

