 While the spying side of the CIA might be the seemingly glamor filled side you're hankering after, the Directorate of Operations (or "clandestine service" where the spies are located), is but one part of the CIA and a small part at that. The majority of CIA employees work in analytical positions, language positions and science, engineering, and technology positions.Matching your skills and aptitude to what you're best suited for may not see you working in the clandestine service positions at all, so be ready for this possibility. In addition, be prepared to become part of a family when joining the CIA, with expectations to uphold deep loyalty to others, and with possible ramifications on your outside-work socializing and relationships.


Whatever your position, a role in the CIA means that you're part of the first line of defense in warning and protecting your fellow citizens. You will be working with people possessing high integrity, perception, analytical ability and intellectual curiosity.
You'll be expected to work in teams on many occasions, so you will have to have strong team skills.
You'll be able to pursue career goals within the CIA and it's hoped that you'll remain with the CIA for the duration of your career.
The Agency has its own community. The reason for this stems from the academic environment, as well as the nature of the work performed and mission of the CIA. The CIA's George Bush Center has its own food court, fitness facilities, formal gardens and walking paths, company store, recreational and activity clubs, and artwork on display. In addition, there is a museum, a library, and the usual offices.
The Agency considers its community a family, employing people from nearly all fields of study, united in their work and their service to the country.
Before even embarking on the process of becoming a CIA officer, do some thorough background reading on what the CIA is about, what CIA officers do (not just spying.), as well as finding out about how much of the spying isn't what you'd gleaned from movies and TV shows.;
