 It is a good idea to keep track of how many armies your opponents have by counting them after every turn. Doing so will help you to determine who is the weakest and who is the strongest player at all times.Try not to count out loud or let your opponents see you counting their armies or they may become suspicious of you.
 If you get the opportunity to surround an opponent’s territory with your territories, take it. Doing so will allow you to conquer that territory without fear of immediate retaliation. Blocking in an opponent’s territory will also prevent your other opponents from conquering a territory that you want., If one of your opponents is becoming strong and/or is close to conquering an entire continent, then you may want to consider a nailing strategy to slow him or her down. Nailing is when you place a large force on an opponent’s continent to disrupt his or her strategy. Doing so will slow the opponent down and prevent him or her from advancing too quickly., Alliances are very helpful in Risk. When you form an alliance with a fellow player, you can team up against other stronger opponents and have more success in your conquests. Just keep in mind that you may have to fight against each other if you both survive to the end of the game, so the alliance is a temporary measure., If you are deceptive or dishonest, your fellow players may target you more often or be reluctant to negotiate with you. Therefore, it is in your best interest to be honest and try to earn your fellow players’ trust. Avoid lying or making and breaking promises, especially early on in the game.If you often play with the same people, keep in mind that they may remember past deceitful practices in future games that you play with them.
 If you and some other players are competing for a group of territories, then you may end up battling it out until one of you is out of the game. Instead of fighting with a neighboring player over land, try to negotiate with that player to reduce your chances of getting wiped out early in the game.Try to make a treaty with another player. For example, if you have the majority of your armies on Africa and another player has the majority of his or her armies on South America, then you can agree to leave each other alone until you have both had a chance to expand your territories to the north.