 In some plays, where the ball is being run by the running back, or the tight end is just not receiving, they will usually be lined up on the offensive line, blocking. Depending on the play, the tight end will block a few different people, but most of the time, it is the defensive end.;
, On blocking plays, your job is to keep the pocket open for the quarterback to get rid of the ball, or for the runner to get through the gap. If anyone on the offensive line fails to complete this task, the ball carrier will most likely be taken down.
 While it sounds like you have to try your absolute best to keep the defenders out, don't overdo it. While still blocking, make sure you don't hit too hard, or hold the defender. That will result in a penalty and have your team further back than it was before.
 Besides on blocking, the tight end is known for pass receptions. The majority of them are not long passes, but they still do pick up the first down, or get those few extra yards into the end zone.
 If the other receivers are covered, the quarterback is depending on you to be in the right place, in the right time. Most times, failure to complete routes result in a sack, or the quarterback being overwhelmed by defensive players.
 Most people can catch a football, but not all of them can secure it and protect it from being knocked out for an incompletion, or in worse cases, a fumble. If you see an open space after making the reception, go for it. Pick up all the yards you can to get your team further down the field.
 There are few plays where the tight end runs the ball, but there are some times where it's needed to pick up those last few yards for a conversion. It is better to know how to run the ball, rather than not know how, and get a turnover on the field.
 Every running play has offensive linemen ordered to keep an open space on the line of scrimmage, or outside the offensive line. If the route tells you to go between the left tackle and left guard, go there. Have trust in your teammates to get the spot open for you.
 Sometimes the linemen fail to provide an open space for you to run the ball. Don't give up and take the tackle behind the line. Be able to recognize another open spot on the line, or make your way through the line.

