 If you have played previous Battlefield games before, you are pretty much in good shape since most of the controls were kept the same.


Some changes in the controls include team play functions. They are now assigned to bumper buttons (for consoles). Melee attacks are also repositioned and there are vehicle driving improvements, too. So better familiarize yourself with these changes.
Remember that you can adjust the controls settings to your liking. Whether you play the game via Playstation 3, Playstation 4, Xbox 360, Xbox One, or PC – this option is always available.;
, There’s nothing more than practical in terms of prepping up for multiplayer matches than actually playing the Battlefield campaign mode.


Depending on your level of know how when it comes to Battlefield, you can choose whether you want to start your campaign under easy, normal, or hard mode. Dice prefers experienced players to play hard.
Take this chance to get familiar with the game’s weapons and gadgets. You will eventually discover which type of class you are comfortable with.
If you are in a hurry then play, at least the first mission.
 This feature enables you to customize your soldier to your liking. This depends on the play style you are planning to execute during the online match.


You have to actually be in an online game for you to fully customize your soldier. You can customize your loadout, classes, and some other details.
The My Soldier option in the main menu just actually shows your soldier’s progression, awards, and other information. The real customization really happens in an online match.
 The four kits in Battlefield 4 are Assault, Engineer, Support, and Recon. Each has distinct functions in a team so choose your kit wisely!


The assault kit is definitely the most popular among all the Battlefield 4 classes. The assault kit carries assault rifles, medic kits, and defibrillators. Use your medic kit to heal your team whenever needed. Perfect kit for newbies and players not looking into a specific role.
The engineer kit is for vehicle and anti-vehicle jobs. They can repair friendly tanks, jets ect. They can also use their rocket launchers to destroy enemy vehicles. If you use vehicles a lot, the engineer will be the best for you.
The support kit can supply and attack. They carry LMGs, ammo packs, and other explosives. Supply your team with ammo and be a heavy gunner!
The recon kit is the long-ranged sniper. It will take time to learn to snipe. Learn to be stealth and to headshot. Only choose this class if you can use it successfully.
 After a few rounds of online matches, sure enough, you will be a bit familiar with the maps in Battlefield 4. Well, it’s not enough just to get familiar with it – you have to master them!

, After choosing Multiplayer on the menu, you will then have access to quick matches that you can join in.


Conquest. This game mode has been present in in the Battlefield franchise since its humble beginnings. In this mode, 2 teams compete for capture points (flags) on a map.
Rush. This mode essentially gives a team the task of defending certain points in the map (M-COM stations).
Team Death match. This mode is pretty straight forward and seems to be popular among online players. Simple rule of this game mode – kill many enemies as you can. In Team Death match, working together as a team really matters since teamwork affects the tide of the battle.
Squad Death match. This mode puts 4 squads against each other where the squad with most kills at the end of the match wins the 4-way battle.
Obliteration. In this newly added mode, one team is tasked to defend high-value targets while the other team tries to destroy them - thus the name, Obliteration.
Elimination. Another new mode which is a more strict Team Death match. Stricter in the sense that once a soldier is killed – it won’t re-spawn. In short, it is permanently eliminated.
Defuse. The last newcomer in the game mode category. Again, this is a non-re-spawn mode where a team defends a spot while the other attacks it. Pretty much like Rush’s mechanics.
Domination. Another favorite. This game mode revolves around teams trying to capture flags across the map as they battle for territorial supremacy.
Air Superiority. Speaking of supremacy, this mode is all about air supremacy. This is for those who can maneuver air vehicles and eliminate enemies with it.
Capture the Flag. This game tasks a team to get hold of an enemy flag and bring it back to their own home base. The team with the most flag capture wins.
 Battlefield 4 really encourages teamwork when it comes to their game modes. From Team Death match to Rush – it is obvious that working together is a key ingredient in winning online matches.


Chatting with your teammates will surely help communicating strategies to beat the other team. Just be mindful of what you’re saying and avoid offensive words.
 In a team, members have specific functions. Better know what your role is in your squad is so your team’s offense (or defense) will be effective.


If you are an Engineer, make sure you focus on making yourself useful via vehicles. Engineers are most effective when they eliminate enemies inside vehicles.
For Recons, make sure you find a good spot for sniping. After a few kills, you can change location so you won’t giveaway your where about.
For Support, as the name suggests, make sure you support your teammates. Be on the lookout for ambushes and always be there for support firepower for your Assault class.
Assault kit pretty much has a straightforward role. Attack the enemies! Bring them down and if ever you get yourself killed, re-spawn and kill some more.
 Some structures in Battlefield 4 can be destroyed. This can be a good thing for you if you know how to use this to your advantage.


Engineer’s rocket launchers become useful in collapsing these said structures. Of course, using vehicles can be effective, too.
 In case you were killed, choose the best position for your re-spawn. Sometimes respawning at the right spot can give you an upper hand in combat.
 Knowing which tactics will give you more points will really help you boost up your leveling. Like head shots, killing in this manner surely give you more points compared to a simple frontal kill.


In Battlefield 4, once you reach above 75 points, even an assist kill will award you a full kill point!

