 It is important to keep a diary of how many seizures your dog has, and how often it has them. This guides the vet as to how strong the medication needs to be and if the dose is adequate.If at all possible, provide a video of the seizure for your vet to see.
 The vet starts by taking a history in order to rule out possible exposure to toxins which could cause seizures. Your vet will ask you various questions about your dog’s activities, places you two have gone walking, any places he may have gone alone, or materials he may have gotten into and ingested.
 Unfortunately, there is no single test that gives an answer as to whether the dog's seizures are epileptic. To diagnose epilepsy, the vet starts along a logical path to rule out all conditions that can cause seizure. After a history, the vet may perform screening blood tests.These trouble shoot organ function, so as to gain an idea of whether the liver, kidneys, and other organs are functioning normally or if there could be a problem which causes natural toxins to build up and trigger seizures.
 Based on the results of the blood tests, the vet may pursue clues. For example, if the blood creatinine levels are low, the vet may want to run additional liver function tests to rule out a portosystemic shunt. The vet may want to check blood thyroid levels since low thyroid hormone can trigger seizures.He may also look at blood electrolyte levels to check for abnormalities due to disease which could cause seizures.
If the vet is worried about infection, such as meningitis, causing seizures, he may collect a sample of the fluid which bathes the spine and brain and analyze that.
 If all the tests come back normal or negative, the final test is to run either an MRI or a CT scan. This provides a picture of the structure of the brain, and can rule out conditions such as a brain tumor or cysts on the brain., Since epilepsy is a diagnosis of exclusion condition, your vet will only diagnose epilepsy after ruling out everything else. Once all the other tests have come back normal, the vet can then definitively diagnose epilepsy., The treatment depends on the severity and frequency of the seizures. Anticonvulsant drugs are the mainstay of treatment. The aim of medication is to reduce the frequency and severity of the fits while maintaining the dog's quality of life.Anticonvulsant medications have side effects, which includes sedation, so the vet may suggest a compromise whereby the dog's fits are controlled but not totally eliminated, but he is not so sedated that his regular day to day life is not impeded.
The vet may also prescribe suppositories of diazepam to give your German shepherd during a seizure, to calm the brain waves and reduce the risk of another seizure breaking through in the footsteps of the first one.

