 Because of the high speeds the centrifuge spins at, it needs to be housed on a solid, flat surface. Find a level table or counter that is secure and can properly support the weight of the centrifuge.


If you notice the centrifuge sliding around or the counter underneath sagging, relocate the centrifuge to a more stable place.
 The rotor is the piece that spins your sample. Some rotors have arms that you can attach smaller buckets to, while other rotors are one piece that you place the tubes directly into. Rotors are designated for specific tubes and speeds. Use a rotor that fits the tubes of your sample and is within the limit of speed needed.


If your samples are in the wrong type of tube, you may need to transfer them to the proper type before spinning.
 If you are only spinning one sample, you will need to make a balance to load directly opposite the sample tube.If you are spinning more than two tubes, only the ones directly opposite each other have to be equal in mass.
 Centrifugation speed is often given in rotations per minute (rpm), or how many times the rotor completes a full rotation in one minute. Speed can also be given in relative centrifugal force (RCF) or the G-force on the rotor.Modern day centrifuges are digital and have settings for both.


The speed at which you spin your samples is dependent upon what you are spinning.
 Bumping or moving the centrifuge during use can cause an imbalance and lead to injury.Larger centrifuges can spin at very high speeds and are extremely dangerous if they become imbalanced.
 After starting the centrifuge, stay close until it gets up to full speed in case it needs to be turned off. When a centrifuge is off balance it may shake or wobble. This can damage the equipment and can also lead to injury in severe cases. If you cannot get to the power button, simply unplug the centrifuge.Many centrifuges will automatically turn off if it senses an unbalanced load, but older ones may not have this feature. If the centrifuge begins to shake or wobble, it is off balance and you should stop it immediately.
A small amount of vibration is normal, but excessive wobbling is dangerous.
If your samples are balanced and the wobble still occurs, stop using the centrifuge and call for maintenance.
 Older centrifuges may not have this feature so make sure the rotor is no longer moving before opening the lid.


Keep power cords away from the ground to avoid trip hazards that could move the centrifuge.
 You want to gently remove the tubes so that the separated suspensions do not mix again. You also want to check to see if any of the samples have leaked or tubes have broken.


If a spill occurs, clean rotor and buckets immediately.
 To keep the centrifuge clean and running smoothly, lightly clean the rotor and wipe down the centrifuge at the end of a run. When you are finished, leave the lid open so it can air out and remain dry.

