 Intersex people often have to deal with unique challenges. For example, they may face discrimination from family, or even their doctors. When you date an intersex person, you should practice patience.Be aware that these challenges can cause intense emotions. If your partner seems angry or sad at times, show kindness and patience.
Don't make it about you. Be aware that if your partner is upset, it's likely not your fault. Just ask how you can help.
Try saying, "I understand that you're frustrated right now. Please know that I'm here for you." That illustrates that you are patient and supportive.
 Communication is key in any relationship. This applies no matter who you are dating. Make sure to put effort into communicating effectively with your partner.Take time to talk. If you are having a conflict, use words to work it out. Try saying, "Things feel tense lately. Do you have time this week to talk?"
Actively listen. Listening shows respect. Demonstrate that you are listening by paraphrasing, making eye contact, and changing your facial expressions.
Ask questions. In any relationship, it is important to understand the other person's point of view.
Try asking questions to figure out how they feel. You could say, "How are you feeling about our relationship?"

, You don't have to limit yourself to making supportive statements to your partner. You can become more involved by becoming an advocate for intersex people. This will show your partner that you are invested and that you care.Speak out against all types of discrimination. You can contact your local lawmakers if their are any concerning laws in your area.
You can also help educate people that you know. For example, if you hear someone making an incorrect statement about an LGBTI person, speak up.
You can say, "Actually, that's just more of an urban legend. Medically speaking...". Use your knowledge to help other people become more tolerant.
 Sometimes intersex people might face challenges being intimate. For some, it is painful. This can be caused by childhood surgeries performed to "fix" their condition.For others, they may be dealing with discomfort or even shame about their genitals. This might make intimacy difficult.
Intimacy is important in any relationship. Take care to put effort into this aspect of your relationship.
You do not immediately have to figure out how to make intercourse work for you. Instead, you can try different forms of intimacy.
For example, you could try sensual touching or massage. You can also enjoy a lot of kissing, hand holding, and cuddling.

