 Ghosts and ghost stories seem to have one thing in common: the people who become ghosts made a big impression on the world before they died. With your time on earth, it's important to live a big life. Have big appetites and desires. Get your heart broken and heal it. Make mistakes and get over it. Make sure the world will remember your name.


No one knows for sure how to become a ghost, and the very existence of ghosts cannot be verified conclusively. You might have your own powerful experiences with the paranormal, but try to be realistic about your goals. Becoming a ghost has nothing to do with dying under tragic circumstances or doing something terrible.
If you're struggling with thoughts of suicide, seek help immediately. Dying early isn't a fast-track to becoming a ghost.;
, According to the Bardo Thodol, or the Tibetan Book of the Dead, consciousness is split into six categories, three of which are experienced at the moment of death. The way that a person negotiates these states of consciousness relates specifically to what will happen to their essence following death. How a person transforms into a ghost, then, is affected by their negotiation of consciousness while alive, and while dying.


The living states of consciousness are life, or ordinary waking consciousness, the consciousness of meditation, and the consciousness of dream-sleep. To experience the full range of life and better understand the transition into death, be fully present in the different states of living consciousness.
Make a practice of keeping a dream diary to help explore your dreams and better understand your different states of conscious and unconscious life. Practice meditation on a regular basis.
 In the Book of the Dead, the dead experience a long journey, during which an elaborate ceremony is performed to ease the transition. The dying states of consciousness are “the clear light of reality,” “the experience of reality,” which features an intense series of hallucinations, and “rebirth,” in which the soul transmigrates to another form. Some people think that during this transition, some people become lost, and end up as ghosts.


The Clear Light of Ultimate Reality is the first stage, occurring at the moment of death, in which the dying person is said to experience bright light and god-consciousness.
The Second Bardo is more complicated. It lasts for up to two weeks, and according to some, souls that become “lost” at this second dying state of consciousness are the souls that become ghosts.In the third bardo, the soul will be reborn into a new vessel, or ascend into the afterlife. If a person is to become a ghost, it must happen before the third bardo.
 This is the part of some people that sticks around and becomes a specter or ghost. Whatever you believe about the afterlife, it’s a good idea to develop your subtle body in positive (or negative) ways, if you want to stick around. The subtle body consists of:


Ego. The bigger your ego, the more you desire power and recognition, the more tainted and present your subtle body will be. If you want to ascend into the afterlife, be ego-free. If you want to stick around as a ghost, be ego-mad.
Desire and anger are also powerfully connected to the subtle body. People who have difficulty controlling their tempers and difficulty controlling their desires are often said to become ghosts.
Fear can be a powerful component of the subtle body, as well. Mortal terror, the fear of death, is often said to be connected to transitioning the consciousness energy into ghostdom.
 For many paranormal enthusiasts, ghosts are thought to remain in the mortal sphere because they have some task, or unfinished business that they seek to finish before finally being laid to rest. How much of this is actually true and how much of this is good for ghost stories is difficult to verify, but it's a common theory regarding ghosts.Consider moving around a lot. Uproot yourself frequently, and leave hanging threads of your life scattered about. Make it so that lots of people remember you, and seek closure of some kind.

