 Are they adequate measures or not? Are there some species still not protected? Does your country ban the importation of shark fins or other products? What are the assumptions about sharks held by the politicians and bureaucrats in your country? Once you find out, you can then write letters of concern along with suggestions for how your country could be better protecting sharks.For example, The Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora has pushed to protect a variety of species of sharks that are targeted for their fins. These include all hammerhead sharks, the oceanic whitetip shark, and the porbeagle shark.These protections have led to more clampdowns on illegal shark fin shipping and trade.One person you can write to is the Secretary-General of the United Nations. Request that international action be taken to ban shark finning and the trade in shark fins.
 There are numerous organizations that are raising awareness and actively putting programs into place to help keep sharks thriving in ocean waters. For example, one such organization, The Sea Shepherd, has turned its attention to sharks, as well as dolphins, in light of the dire threat facing sharks. Sea Shepherds is confiscating illegally taken fins, pulling in long-lines and freeing caught sharks and defending against poachers, among other actions.Other organizations that are raising awareness and acting on shark protection include Protect the Sharks Foundation, The Humane Society, Oceana.org, Wildaid.org, The Dorsal Fin, Saving Sharks.com, and more.
Many local environmental groups you might be a part of could have an interest in sharks too. If not, your query might spark their interest!
You can become involved in these groups in a variety of ways. You could simply give them money so that they can continue their work. You could also become an active member, working on projects with the organization that actively help to eliminate the killing of sharks. Whatever level of involvement you are comfortable with you should do.
 Help spread the news about the fate of sharks to other people. Provide information in the form of pamphlets, speakers, movies, and other means for getting the information across.


You could turn it into a fundraising event as well. Pick a shark organization you believe in and send the money to that organization once the fundraiser is over.

