 Simmer the necessary amount of water in a saucepan and transfer the hot water into a large bucket. Add powder or liquid dye and stir until evenly dispersed.


The amount of dye you need will depend on how much lace you want to dye. If you have 1 lb (450 g) of lace, you will one package of powder dye or 1/2 bottle of liquid dye, as well as 3 gallons (12 L) of hot water.If working with powdered dye, dissolve it in 2 cups (500 ml) hot water first before adding it to the large bucket of water.
The ideal water temperature for your dye bath is 140 degrees Fahrenheit (60 degrees Celsius).
Make sure that you add the dye to the water before adding the lace. If you add the lace first, you may cause spotting to occur.;
, Place your lace into the bucket of diluted dye. Make sure that it is completely submerged.


You might want to use a wooden or plastic mixing spoon to help keep the lace submerged. You could also use your hands as long as you have thick rubber gloves on.
It is highly recommended that you wear rubber gloves, a smock or apron, and clothes that you do not mind dirtying while working with dye.
 After the first 5 minutes, 1 cup (250 ml) salt to the dye bath or 1 cup (250 ml) white vinegar. Doing so will help intensify and set the color.


Use salt if your lace contains cotton, rayon, ramie, or linen. Use vinegar if your lace contains nylon, silk, or wool.
 For the strongest, richest hue, dye the lace for 30 minutes, stirring slowly and gently throughout the process.If you want a more subtle effect, only keep the lace in for 8 to 10 minutes. Lace absorbs dye quickly and does not need to sit in a dye bath for very long.
Stirring the lace is highly recommended since doing so helps the fabric dye evenly.
 Remove the dyed lace from the dye bath and rinse it under warm water for a couple of minutes. Afterward, rinse it under cool running water until the water runs clear.


Warm water rinses off the surface dye better, but cool water is recommended after you get this surface dye off since it discourages the color from bleeding out.
 Hand or machine wash the lace under a gentle cycle. Use mild detergent and warm water for the cleaning part of the cycle, but use cool water for the rinse cycle. Hang dry.


Note that the lace will be a slightly lighter shade when it dries.

