 These plants should grow well in cold weather and may or may not be frost resistant. They should also be hardy, not delicate. See the list below for some choices.;
, You could either buy the plants that are already grown from a nursery, or you could buy the seeds. It is easier to buy the plants, but also much more expensive. If you are a beginner, you may want to choose the plants, but if you have a green thumb, think about using seeds.
 Choose a place where the plants you have chosen will get an adequate amount of sunlight. Make sure there is enough room too. Some plants start out tiny, but in a matter of weeks have grown several inches, so keep that in mind when choosing where to plant.
 Most plants grow well if they are in rows, but they will need to be spaced out. Make sure you know which plants you are planting where. If you need to, make signs to place in front of each row. For example, there would be a sign saying “lettuce” in front of the lettuce row.
 Plants need to be able to grow and develop their roots in order to stay healthy, but if the soil is too hard or rocky, they won’t be able to. So you need to make sure that the soil your planting in is loose enough for the plant’s roots to grow in. To loosen the soil, take a trowel and shovel up the dirt over and over, until it is light and loose. Some plants only need the soil to be a little loose, while others need it to be as light and sandy as possible.
 Make sure you plant the seeds at the right depth. Some plants like to be closer to the surface while others grow better deeper underground.
 This can insulate the soil and help prevent frost. You can use wood chips, leaves or compost. It should be several inches thick.
 Water your plants every day, more or less if you find they prefer it that way. If the ground freezes, water at a time when it isn't frozen. The amount of water you give depends on the plants and the temperatures, but the minimum is at least every five weeks. Remove weeds if they grow and kill any harmful bugs.

