 Do your homework, study for tests, etc. The last thing you want to do is fail a class. It can make middle school ten times more stressful.;
, It may seem like a good idea to impress your friends by acting up in front of the teacher, but it won't be all fun and games for long. Things will become a lot harder for you if you act out in class. It's not "cool."

, Electives will bring new friends, new interests and new ideas. But don't choose an elective just because your friends are doing it. Do something that you enjoy! In the beginning, it may seem like a great idea to choose "Typing" as a class. But think about the homework load, the tests, and other things that might prevent you from enjoying more free time. Classes such as PE, choir, or art are super fun, with a smaller homework load.


Take fun electives such as: Chorus, journalism, art, Spanish, and peer counseling, just to name a few. Usually the sixth graders only get a few elective choices, but in seventh and eighth grades, many more become available.
Other electives in seventh and eighth may be a teacher's aide. It can be fun, boring at times, but extremely easy. Tutor kids, organize papers, and run errands for the teacher.
 Even if you are of a mind to be antisocial, middle school is much more fun when you have some friends by your side. Find something in common with someone, and go from there. You never know where it may take you in the future!

, First impressions are important. You may not like everyone you meet, but try to get along with them.
 Being you is all that is important. Trying to be popular is not going to help you make friends. It might even make some people not like you!

, If you hear a rumor making it's way around, don't be the one to spread it. Most likely it's not true, and it can end up coming back at you. Become friends with people who won't backstab you, or anyone else. Don't socialize with mean, rude, or immature kids. They could ruin you entire middle school "reputation" and they've got a lot of growing up to do, so you probably don't want to be their experiment or their nursemaid.
 School can get really stressful. So, go take a break at the local pool, or at the mall. This is a great way to relax, and make memories that will last forever.


Join clubs and sports. It's a great way to meet new people, and they're kind of like additional electives without the grades and homework. Student council can be extremely fun. Look for clubs such as a book club, an animal club, a Bible club, an anti-drug club, and a math club.
 Choose things such as the dance. It's a great way to meet new people from your school and have fun at the same time!

, You don't need it. Going through a breakup will make your world fall apart, so why bother with the time and emotions? It won't make you any cooler, whether or not you have had your first kiss. Just enjoy your middle school years before things get really complex.
 Middle school is only one part of your life. It's okay if you get embarrassed, it's not the end of the world. If you get a bad grade, don't stress about it. Middle school is a place to get through your awkward stage, and it won't all matter when you are an adult. Make good choices, and keep yourself in order.
 If you are having troubles in your classes, get help. Maybe you shouldn't go to that movie tonight, it would be wiser of you to study for that really big test. It's okay if you miss out on one event. Getting good grades comes before going out.
 Be yourself! It's the best way to make friends. Don't change your attitude to fit in with the "popular crowd." Remember that none of this stereotyping is going to matter once you become an adult.


Don't be stereotypical. Judging someone because of how they look or who they are friends with is not right or nice. Preps, jocks and nerds are just names for people who are social, enjoy sports and are smart. Judging people like that will make you some enemies, so it is best to judge someone on who they are.
 Wikihow is a great place to get information from real people. YouTube can also help you get through middle school. Plus, your actual school can be a great resource to help you learn about having an Amazing time in middle school.

