 As much as you may enjoy helping others, you should be aware that the job duties require physical strength and good health. Indeed, the U.S. Department of Labor notes that home health aides suffer job related injuries and sickness more frequently than people in other occupations.Imagine lifting another person who has limited physical strength and the inability to assist you in moving them from place to place. A home health aide must be able to maneuver their patients in and out of wheelchairs, cars, and ambulances.
Taking a shower, using the toilet, sitting up to eat, and changing clothes are things we do every day without thinking about it. As a home health aide, you will have to help others do these tasks multiple times a day.;
, Home health aides work under the direction of a nurse who is not always available. Therefore, as a home health aide, you will be responsible for many of the basic medical needs of your patient.You must be competent in observing and recording any changes in your patients and report it immediately to your supervisor. Both sudden and gradual changes in a person’s daily routine and liveliness could signal a major health issue that needs immediate medical attention.
You should be knowledgeable in taking vital signs, blood pressure, administering medication, oxygen equipment, and other life-supporting duties such as CPR.
 A home health aide must have patience, interpersonal skills, dependability, and good time management skills. A good balance in these characteristics will help with the high levels of stress that can sometimes be a part of the job.Since home house aides enable the elderly, convalescent, and disabled persons to live in their own homes, responsibilities include maintaining the patient’s personal hygiene. Bathing, dressing, grooming, and assisting with toileting or cleaning bedpans is not a pleasant task. Therefore, you should be aware of how personal and private your responsibilities will be.
In some cases, the working environment can be stressful from the demanding nature of the job, so it is important to relax, eat properly, exercise, and get enough sleep.
You can be exposed to environmental hazards such as second hand smoke, pest infestations and unsafe neighborhoods.

