 Find something you are interested in learning more about and sign up for classes. This can be a great way to meet new people who have similar interests.If you are in school try taking a class you've never taken before. In college you can consider an elective outside of your main field of study.
If you're not in school consider a class at a local community college. The YMC, library, local arts center, or park district might also offer classes for kids and adults.
Classes like salsa dancing, cooking, or acting involve a lot of participation and interaction with other students.
Ask your classmates if they would like to have coffee or go out for drinks after class. You can talk about that day's lesson or how you became interested in the class in the first place. Both are great jumping off points for getting to know new people., Many park districts offer intramural sports leagues like softball, basketball, or touch football. These teams are usually made up of amateur players and tend to be just as much about socializing as they are about competing.


Don't worry if you're not very good at sports. Most of these leagues are more about having fun rather than winning. That said, ask around. Consult the league president or park official. Ask them what the league is like. Tell them what you are looking for and they may be able to put you on a team with some like minded people.
Be encouraging to the other players. Congratulate them on good plays.
 Parties can seem overwhelming, but they can be great places to meet new people and expand your social circle. If your friend or family member is having a birthday party or other celebration make sure you attend.Don't just stand in the corner. Move around and mingle with lots of different people.
Ask your host to introduce you to some new people. This will take some of the initial pressure off of you.
If you don’t get lots of invites to parties don’t worry. As you increase your social circle using some of these other steps the party invites will come soon enough. , Look for events in your neighborhood like concerts, literary readings, or special events at bars and restaurants. These events often have a party atmosphere and rarely require an invite to attend.
 Websites like meetup.com are a good place to search for like-minded people. Try searching for meet ups that are centered around a hobby you have like playing video games, collecting baseball cards, computer programming or bird watching. You can also search for people who share similar beliefs as you and are interested in discussing and sharing knowledge. Things like religious studies, gender equality, or amateur philosophy are great things to search for.