 It's important to plan your escape route, and be aware of your surroundings. If there are possible positions along the route where the shooter could potentially ambush you or others, recognize this, and anticipate how you would respond if that were to happen.Most shooters aim at arbitrary targets. The harder you are to see and hit, the safer you will be, so try to be rational and avoid entering into the shooter's line of sight.If you're in the vicinity of the shooter, try to find an escape route that gives you both concealment (to stay out of view of the shooter) and cover (to protect you from bullets)., When an active shooter is in your vicinity, even though you're afraid, it's important to keep moving and to get as far away from the situation and the shooter as possible. Don't stick around to watch or figure out what is going on, but put as much distance between you and the shooter; this will make it difficult for the shooter to shoot you and reduces the chance that you'll be shot by random fire.Note that this is only possible if the shooter has not noticed you, if you're lost in a crowd, or if you hear gunshots from a distance but have not yet seen the shooter.
If you can help others without endangering yourself, try to do so.Try to escape even if others insist on staying. Encourage the other people you pass to leave with you.However, if others are uncertain about running, don't wait for them to decide. It's important that you get out first and foremost., Remember that your life is what's important, not your phone or other belongings. Don't delay your escape trying to grab material items, and if you see anyone else trying to gather their things, tell them to leave their material possessions behind., Take any exit you can to escape, including emergency exits and emergency windows. Most restaurants, movie theaters, and other public places have doors and exits designated for staff (in stockrooms and kitchens, for example), so look for and use these if possible., Once you are removed from the situation and have made a safe exit, call 911 or find someone with a phone to make the call.Stay as far away from the building as possible once you're outside.
Prevent passersby and others from entering the situation. Alert people outside the building of what is happening inside, and advise them to also stay as far away as possible.

