 Either of these materials work well for removing rust as their acidic properties help to dissolve the stain. White vinegar (acetic acid) and lemon juice (citric acid) are both weak acids, which loosen the iron oxide (rust).
 Find a plastic container deep enough to ensure your tinware can fit. Cover the tinware in white vinegar for roughly 24 hours until the rust has dissolved.


Be sure to use enough white vinegar to submerge the tinware. If you don't have enough white vinegar to cover the entirety of the object, you can soak a clean cloth in vinegar and wipe the tin.
Scrub the rust off of the tinware using a rough sponge or aluminum foil,
The longer you soak your tinware, the easier it will be to scrub the rust off. It's still effective to submerge the object in vinegar for a few hours, but prepared for putting some extra work to remove the rust.
 Initially, only start with about a tablespoon of lemon juice. You may have to use more lemon juice for larger areas of rust, but start small first so you're not over-saturating the area with citric acid.


Apply the lemon juice first so the salt will stick. Make sure to have lemon juice leftover to reapply after you pour the salt.
Add the salt. Start with roughly half of a teaspoon of coarse salt (or table salt will do the trick) and apply it to the rust stain. Make sure the salt is sticking and that you used enough to thoroughly coat the rust stain.
Reapply the lemon juice. Add the same amount of lemon juice you used initially and pour it onto salt. The lemon's natural acidity makes it a great candidate for dissolving rust.
 Make sure you use a clean cloth so no other contaminants get onto the stain. Thoroughly rinse the stain afterwards and scrub vigorously to remove any remaining rust.
 It's very important to clean the surface with water after the rust has dissolved. If any vinegar or lemon juice is left on the tinware the acidity could damage the metal. , The acidity of both products work in tandem for a potent method of rust removal. The lingering lemon smell will leave your tinware with a fresh citrus scent.

