 You will need to learn the various terms for the different parts of an animal, as well as where their location. This is so that you understand what is judged in a dairy cattle show and what isn't.


Consider attending a bovine anatomy class at a local agricultural college. Also, many of their websites (through their extension services) have documents that clearly outline the various parts of a bovine.;
, This will help you immensely especially if you are dealing with judging mixed classes of livestock. The wikiHow article How to Tell the Difference Between Bulls, Cows, Steers and Heifers is a great how-to article to start with.
 The the Purebred Dairy Cattle Association developed this scorecard for Judging Junior Dairy Fitting and Showmanship Contests.


The scorecard describes the ideal dairy conformation. There are five major categories that are identified for judging: frame, dairy character, body capacity, feet and legs, and udder.
 Watch the movements and signals closely given by the dairy show judges. Certain things such as getting handlers to take their cattle around the ring, when to stop and get them into position to best judge them are all things in a judge's control.


Observe and learn the various words and phrases used by the show judges, including the differentiation between positive and negative terms.
Take note of the reasons given by the dairy show judge as to why certain animals received a low score and others a high score. Often understanding the poorer qualities of an animal will give you a better understanding of what a well put-together an animal should be, as well as certain things to look for when you judge cattle yourself.
Develop a checklist from the Unified Scorecard and try to judge the animals yourself. See how closely your ratings match those of the judges.
 This will help you become acquainted with the local dairy how judges and others involved in the competition. It will also give you the opportunity to learn more from the judges themselves other than what you can learn by yourself. A judge may be more than happy to answer any questions you may have about judging dairy cattle given the opportunity.
 This will also help you to identify dates of local events and meetings. Make yourself available as a volunteer.
 This can be for local levels, state/provincial levels, and national level judging. It is also advisable to learn judging rules and procedures for these levels. These can be found through your local 4-H or FFA group or county extension offices. Certain cattle judging organizations may have this information as well.
 This code covers the ethical treatment of dairy animals in their transport from show to show to ensure that they will be presented at the dairy show in a healthy state. It also states that the humane treatment of exhibition livestock will at all times be in accordance with dairy quality assurance practices.


This code is provided to protect the animals as well as the public.
 Note, however, that it requires many years of experience in order to be able to participate at the National level as a Dairy Show Judge.
 It's a great experience to be a good dairy show judge and a lot of fun to see the various cattle that you would have to look at and judge.

