 Wash your face everyday, with a cleanser (that works with your skin type-- you don't want irritated skin!!), followed by a moisturizer and sunscreen with a minimum SPF of at least 15. Keep your hair tangle-free and well kept. Brush your teeth twice daily with a whitening toothpaste (pretty, white teeth for a pretty smile to enhance your beauty!) Shower everyday, wear clean clothes, spray perfume, wear deodorant, etc.
 (Make sure not to use hair products containing alcohol or else it'll dry out your hair.), Water will flush out the toxins in your body and keep you looking fresh. A good place to start is about 8 glasses of water a day., Try walking, jogging, lifting weights, etc. for at least 30 minutes a day to keep your body in shape. Exercise can improve your attitude and make you feel much more confident., If your skin is acne prone, try use acne treatments, such as: face cleansers, spot treatments, etc. Also, if you'd like soft skin, exfoliate. You can use homemade face scrubs every once in a while to keep skin soft. Follow with a moisturizer., You can find out if you're warm or cool-skinned and what season you are. Certain colors can make you look less flattering than others, so try to only wear the colors that suit you., If you want natural beauty, then embrace your face as is. Unless you enjoy wearing makeup, that is. Natural-looking makeup styles always look nice or you can just wear makeup for special occasions. (Natural look: Conceal blemishes and red areas with foundation or concealer, wear sunscreen (to protect your skin from sunburns), cover with powder, wear nude/light eye shadow colors (or none!), a tad bit or mascara and blush, and you're good to go. If you want, you can always add Chapstick or lip gloss too., Not only does it give your whole body a lift, but it makes you appear taller and more confident. Keep your head up and you'll seem more approachable and pretty., A beautiful smile is always inviting and beautiful, so say cheese and face the world with that naturally gorgeous face of your's!