 Having a game plan for what you and your family will be eating each week can be a game changer. With a meal plan, you will be more likely to eat healthy foods, even if you are on the go. Sit down with your family once a week and make a plan for what you will be eating at each meal during the upcoming week., Once you have your healthy meal plan put together, you will need to make a shopping list. Go through all the recipes you will be making and list all of the ingredients you will need to make your meals. Be sure to go through your pantry, refrigerator, and freezer to see what ingredients you already have on hand., Making sure your kitchen is stocked with healthy food is one of the most important parts of successfully preparing healthy meals. Pick a day that you can make a weekly shopping trip, and make it part of your weekly schedule., When you come home from a long day of work, chopping and preparing ingredients for a healthy dinner can seem overwhelming. You can get ahead of the game by taking an hour or two on the weekend and prepping ingredients for your meals.


For example, you can chop the veggies you’ll need for weeknight dinners on the weekend.
If you’re planning on making meals with rice, you can try cooking a big batch on the weekend.
 You can make the most of your time in the kitchen by giving batch cooking a chance. Batch cooking is when you prepare multiple portions of several meals that you will eat at a later date. You can store the portions in your refrigerator to eat later in the week, or in your freezer if you plan on consuming them later that month., You can be even more successful at preparing healthy meals on the go if you have a plan for your leftovers. For example, you can use Monday’s leftover roasted pork in Tuesday’s pork barbecue sandwiches.
 Crockpots will do the cooking for you while you are at work, school, or running errands. For example, you can place four chicken breasts and a can of salsa in a crockpot for 4 hours on low heat. When you come home, shred the chicken and place in corn tortillas for some healthy chicken tacos. You can also top with chopped vegetables, such as lettuce, carrots, cabbage, or radishes.