 You can use any fabric to create this skirt, and you will need elastic that measures ½ inch -1 inch (2.5 cm) wide. To create a more structured skirt, use a stiffer fabric material. To create a looser more flowy skirt, use a light and airy fabric.;
, Use a soft measuring tape to find the distance around the widest part of your hip, smallest part of your waist, and the total length of the skirt. To find the length, you can use the measuring tape from your hips to the desired level on your legs and add 2½ inches extra for the elastic casing.
 Use your measurements to cut 2 large rectangular pieces of fabric the length of your choice by the distance around your hips. Cut your elastic band to be the length of your hips, minus one inch (if your hips measure 30 inches, your elastic should be cut to 29 inches).
 Lay the two rectangular pieces on top of each other so that they are even. Give each piece a ½ inch seam allowance, and sew them together. Use an iron to flatten the seams when you are finished (or before if you are having trouble keeping your fabric flat).
 The elastic of this skirt will be hidden inside the fabric, so you will need to make the fabric casing to cover it up. Fold the top ½ inch of fabric over and use an iron to press it. Then, fold the fabric an additional 2 inches (5.1 cm); use a top stitch to secure this section along the pressed area to the body of the skirt. Leave a 4 inch (10.2 cm) opening near one of the seams to add the elastic.
 Fold the bottom section of the skirt over ½ inch. Use your iron to press the fabric and pin if necessary to hold it in place. Use a top stitch to sew the hem in place.
 Slide your cut elastic into the elastic casing you’ve created. Pull the elastic through the loop, and when you get to the other side sew the two pieces together using a straight stitch. Use a safety pin to hold the elastic in place while you slide it through, if necessary. Use a top stitch to close the opening, and a backstitch to reinforce the seam.
 Adjust the gathered ruffles around the top of the waistband so that they are evenly spaced. When you have the gathers adjusted to your liking, stitch in the low areas to attach the ruching to the elastic. Don’t stitch across the gathers as this will flatten them out; only stitch in the spaces between the gathers.








