 Begin your research early. Especially if you have a deadline, don't wait until the last minute to write your article. Instead, find spare time here and there to learn more about the organization.;
, The online presence of an organization can tell a lot about their branding and give a staring point. Gather information about what industry it is in and how big it is, visit the official website and social media sites of the organization, and find some interesting quotes. It's a good idea to look at online reviews, too.
 Use financial statements, annual statements, strategy plans, and other publishings of the organization.
 Find out what kind of market the organisation is operating on, who the stakeholders and competitors are. If you know how the industry works, you'll be able to understand the organization's workings more easily.
 Talk to an employee about the quality of the work environment. Email a manager asking about about future growth. This is a great thing to do whether you're working with a small-scale company or a multinational organization.
 Focus on topics you want to write about. If you want to give a overall write up, read more broadly. If you want to be more detailed, focus on some area in your reading. You might want to focus on an event such as recent market entry or focus on a trend such as development in the past two years.
 The key is to write down a list of points that will each become a paragraph or two. This is important so that you don't stray away from what is important and stick with an efficient way of writing. The basic components should be the introduction, issues you want to highlight, and the conclusion. Depending on the size of you report, you might want to have a executive summary or abstract near the beginning or other things such as discussion of future potential. Be sure you mention the good and bad parts of your topic.
 Try organizing your data, if you are gathering it yourself, in a table through Microsoft Excel or Google Sheets. Put the numbers together and see if your data matches what the organization advertises. If you are using a premade data analysis, find some indicators both for the industry and other key competitors that you can compare with the organisation and make those into tables.
 You can start writing even when your plan isn't quite finished. Make sure you flesh out each point well and make the article easy to understand. Explain your points well, since most of the readers of your article will not understand the topic or the industry as well as you do. It is a good idea to write fewer points and elaborate well on them than write about a lot of things and not explain those things.
 Get someone who is not an expert to read it and make sure it is clear. Edit carefully for language and style. Don't hesitate to get as much help as needed with proofreading and editing so that you know your article is clear, precise, and interesting.

