 You want your oven to be ready when you’re ready to bake the bread, so it’s important to set it to the right temperature. Set it to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (177 degrees Celsius) to preheat.Pay attention to your oven so you know when it’s reached the right temperature. It should beep or turn on an indicator light when it’s fully heated.
 Take a loaf of bread, and use a bread knife to slice it horizontally and vertically in a checkerboard pattern without cutting all the way through the bread. The goal is to create 1-inch (2.54 cm) cubes across the top of the bread that are still connected to the bottom so the loaf remains intact.You want to choose an artisan bread that has a crunchy crust and some holes in its interior. Round loaves typically look more impressive, but you can also use an oblong-shaped batard or a flat loaf of ciabatta.
If any pieces of bread come loose while you’re cutting, don’t worry. Just stick them back inside, and once the cheese melts over them, no one will be able to tell that they’re loose.
 In a bowl, toss together 1 ½ to 2 cups (150 to 200 g) of Monterey Jack, mozzarella, provolone, swiss, cheddar, or some combination of cheese with your chosen mix-ins. You can add ½ cup (50 g) chopped green onions or chives, ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) red pepper flakes, ¼ teaspoon (1.25 g) chili powder, and/or 1 cup (80 g) cooked, crumbled bacon or sausage, depending on your preference.While one of the cheeses that you use should be a melting cheese, such as mozzarella or swiss, you can also add in cheeses that don’t melt as easily, such as blue cheese or brie.
 When you’ve mixed the cheese and your other fillings, begin placing the mixture in the sliced bread. First add the cheese between the vertical cuts, and then add it between the horizontal cuts.It can help to have someone hold the bread cubes apart while you stuff the cheese between them.
 Transfer the stuffed bread to a piece of foil, and drizzle the top of it ¼ cup (57 g) unsalted butter that’s been melted. Work slowly so you can be sure to spread the butter evenly over the entire loaf.It’s usually easiest to melt the butter in a microwave. Cut it into pieces and place them in a microwave-safe bowl. Microwave it on medium (50% power) for 30 second intervals until it’s completely melted., Fold the foil around the bread, so the entire loaf is tightly wrapped. Place the bread in oven and bake for 20 minutes. Unwrap the top of the bread and allow it to bake for another 10 minutes, or until the cheese melts completely and the top of the bread is toasted.Don’t remove the foil from the bread entirely, or cheese may wind up melting onto the oven rack and bottom.
 When the cheese is completely melted, remove the bread from the oven. Remove the foil, and place it on a plate. Serve to your guests while it’s still hot. There's no need to cut it because they can just pull at the individual cubes to tear off their piece(s).