 Ideally, you should have at least two red clays, two yellow clays, one white clay, one translucent clay, and one black clay.

Try to include both one warm red clay (with a hint of orange) and one cool red clay (with a hint of violet).
Likewise, grab one warm yellow clay (with a hint of orange) and one cool yellow clay (with a hint of green).
Note that you can use more than two hues each of red and yellow, if desired, but using at least two should still allow you to observe the principle and understand how it works.
 Using your fingers, pinch off equal portions of warm red and warm yellow. Press the two pieces together and knead them between your fingers until evenly blended.When finished, you should see a solid orange color without streaks.
This combination of red and yellow should produce a fairly vibrant orange since both starting clays leaned toward the orange portion of the color wheel.
 Make three more samples by combining equal parts of one red and one yellow clay. Follow the same procedure used to make the first orange sample.

Warm red and cool yellow should create a medium-tone apricot color.
Cool red and warm yellow should create a medium-tone melon color.
Cool red and cool yellow should create a dull orange with hints of brown in it.
 Pick your favorite created hue of orange and duplicate the color twice more. You can lighten orange clay in two ways, and using two samples of the same hue will make it easier to compare results.

Add a small pinch of white clay to one orange sample, blending until no streaks remain. The color should have a lighter tint while also looking less bright.
Add a small pinch of translucent clay to the other orange sample, blending until no streaks remain. The color should look less bright but should not change value or tint.

Note that adding too much translucent clay will create a semi-transparent wash instead of an opaque orange.
 Create another sample of your favorite orange clay color. Pinch off a small piece of black clay and mix it into the sample, blending until no streaks remain.

The resulting orange will have the same hue, but the black should give it a darker shade. As a result, the orange may look slightly brown.
Black clay can have a dramatic effect on other clay colors, including orange, so you should work in very small amounts to avoid darkening the shade too much.

