 Baggy shirts were all the rage in the 80s. A white shirt will show colors the best, but you can use a colored one as well. Make sure that the shirt is blank, without any colors or patterns on it., The cardboard needs to be the same size as the shirt. It will prevent the paint from getting onto the back of the shirt., Start by making a large rectangle on your shirt with painter's tape. Lay down more strips of tape at different angles and lengths to create a geometric pattern. Smooth down the edges of the tape against the shirt.

Cut the tape in half lengthwise to create thinner pieces and borders.
For a simpler design, create large squares over the shirt. Make some tilted at different angles.
 This is only necessary if you will be splattering the paint on. If you will be painting it on, you can skip this step., Try to use a few different colors, the brighter, the better., You can apply the paint as a solid color, or you can splatter it on instead. Use a new foam brush for each color; if you are using a bristle brush, simply rinse it.

Use a sponge brush to pounce the paint onto the shirt. Don't drag it, or you might get paint under the tape.Use a stiff-bristled brush to splatter the paint onto your design., If you wait until the paint dries, you will risk peeling the paint away too. Be careful not to smudge the wet paint., Every so often, run your hand inside the shirt to separate it from the cardboard. If you don't do this, the shirt may stick to the cardboard., This is a great idea for shirts painted a solid color, but you can do this for splatter painted shirts too. Use black or a contrasting color to draw free-hand designs onto your shirt. Try using round or organic shapes, such as spirals, squiggles, or suns to make them stand out.If you painted your shirt a solid color with a foam brush, consider splattering paint over it with a stiff bristle brush.
 Puff paint usually needs to dry overnight. Once it's dry, pull the cardboard out of the shirt. Your shirt is now ready to wear!