 This includes comforter, pillows, and top sheet.


You may be able to get away with leaving the fitted sheet and mattress pad in place, depending on how secure they are. e.g., If they are shrunk and barely hanging on, it is best to remove them.;
, You will need an especially large space at the foot of your bed for the mattress. If you only have room on the side of your bed. You will have to adjust each step accordingly.
 Make sure that you keep your mattress in line with your box spring and bed frame.
 Half of the mattress should be on the floor and half rising vertically toward the ceiling so that it resembles a super tall couch at the foot of your bed. Make sure the top part of the mattress is folded over the bottom portion so the curve is resting on the base of your bed.



You may want one to two inches extra bed skirt material passing past (or below) the mattress edge for assurance of a perfect outcome.



You want the remainder to sit at the foot of the bed. This allows the remaining skirt to feed through when you push the mattress back up the bed.
To save your upper body, use your feet to roll the mattress slightly away from the bed by pushing the top half of the mattress further down towards the part on the floor. You will be able to make enough room so that you can work each section of the skirt between the mattress and the bed frame as you work your way across the mattress.
,,, The weight of the mattress will bring the bed skirt with it so there should be no need to handle the skirt.
 You should be able to tell how it is going to look before you finish getting the foam mattress completely into the final position.


Check to ensure the bed skirt is not crumpling and is sliding smoothly with the mattress as it advances toward the head of the bed. If you need to return to an earlier step to make adjustments, do so now.
 Ensure that the mattress is sitting perfectly in line with the foundation and that your bed skirt is straight.
 You can't enjoy the fruits of your labor, until you can perch on it.

