 If you're not already spread out in a comfortable spot, do so now by transferring your packed case or bag to a suitable spot.;
, That's right! This is to ensure that nothing you put back in the case goes back in without good reason.
 Remove the following:


Anything you have the slightest dislike of. Don't fall for the "it might come in handy" excuse. If you don't like it, if it's too tight/small/dark/bulky/ugly/last year, out it goes.
Anything you have never worn before, that has been sitting in your wardrobe. Adding something you've never worn before just because it might get worn on the trip is asking for space to be wasted. If you haven't already been enjoying it, why will the trip change this? If you have a valid answer, by all means include it but if not, leave it out. The only real exception is a swimsuit, as these tend to need seasonal upgrades--be sure it fits properly though.
Anything you have worn once and never worn again.
More than one evening item. When traveling, you can make one evening dress or suit work all the time.
Awkward shoes, or too many pairs of shoes. Move out what's unnecessary. Have one good pair to walk in, one pair for work meetings (if relevant), and one pair that can double as smart casual and evening. Prefer a shoe with a lot of versatility over several pairs; for example, flip flops are great for pools, beaches, sauna rooms, and slippers on the go, and they don't weigh a lot.
Heavy sweaters. If you must take one, keep it to one. It'll last and do double duty all times. Take a layered approach to warmth and you can carry less.
 Remove anything that is packed in heavy or large containers. Try to avoid carrying glass bottles or jars. Avoid taking full size shampoos, etc. If the contents are absolutely needed, transfer a small quantity to a suitable travel container.


For perfume or aftershave, take a small solid perfume stick. While it may not be your usual scent, neither is the trip your usual home and work routine.
Choose makeup items able to double duty, or avoid wearing certain makeup items altogether.
 It is a fact of travel that you will never read as much as you intend. Halve it, then halve it again. There will be reading material wherever you go (except if it's in a foreign language), and for some reason, it's always more inviting than what you've brought along anyway.
 Only this time, put back in the quantity and quality of items that you are totally positive will be used, will combine well to create varied outfits from fewer items, and that serve a real purpose for your intended trip.


If you're still stuck, have a family member or friend help you to make the decision. Just be sure it's someone who is more objective than you!
Do not put back in anything that you have never worn before, unless it is a swimsuit.
Do not put back a single thing that is impractical. Home is where impractical things belong -- when traveling you lack the space, time, and luxury to be hassled by them.
Remind yourself that extra weight is an extra burden on your ability to get around easily.

