 Even if it is true that the world always obeys physical laws and that determinism is true, it is still the case that a) we do not know how events will unfold until they do because b) the world is incredibly complex and difficult to predict.


This means that you won't know what the outcome will be until you have tried your best. Remember this next time you are thinking of giving up because you think the outcome is already determined.
To think about how complex the world is, try to imagine all the people in it (about 7 billion). Then imagine all the different ways that their lives might intersect over one year. Our lives are connected directly, such as when you bump into someone at an airport, and indirectly, such as when you eat a piece of fruit that was harvested by someone halfway across the world. Then remember that people make up just one small aspect of the world: there are also some number of millions of different kinds of species of animals, and there's complicated weather systems, and other physical laws of nature, for example. The number of ways that all these things can interact with each other is staggeringly complex!
For example, think about the butterfly effect, the idea that slight changes in initial conditions can change the ultimate outcome of the weather, or the idea that it is so difficult to roll dice to the same number each time because tiny differences in how the dice are thrown affect the ultimate outcome.Now spend a few minutes thinking about other ways that the world is really complex and how small changes to the initial conditions of something can have interesting consequences for the final outcome.
 If you adopt a fatalistic attitude because you view your behaviors as controlled by neurons firing in your brain, consider that the brain and its trillions of connections is probably the most complex system, and therefore one of the least predictable, in the universe.


In most cases, it is very difficult to accurately predict how people will behave in the future, because there are often many underlying variables that influence any individual's behavior that may not affect another's behavior.This means that even if behavior is ultimately determined by the physical laws that govern the brain, the actual output of the brain (behavior) is influenced by so many things it may as well not be determined. There is often no way to know what an outcome will be without trying your best to get the outcome that you want.
To learn more about how complex the brain is and what this means for predicting future behavior, try reading some articles pulled from an internet search using the keywords, complexity + human brain.
 If you have a fatalistic attitude, try the following thought experiment. Imagine that the outcome of your goal, say, finishing your math degree, will ultimately be positive, but that you have to first get over an initial hump of negativity and passiveness.


This means that your current fatalistic view is actually just part of the determined path where, through hard work and persistent effort on your part, you ultimately succeed in your goal, finishing your math degree. Sound far-fetched? Well how do you know until you try!?
Or, try the following thought experiment. Think about how complex and uncertain the world can be. This will help you to realize that even if things are determined, outcomes are often unknown due to all the possibilities; from this perspective, even if determinism is true in theory, in practice it is not because the world is so unpredictable due to all the ways that things can unfold. Imagine all the ways that 16 billiard balls could be arranged. Seems simple enough, and yet, there are actually 3,360 ways to arrange them (16 x 15 x 14).The world, human behavior, and so on, is so much more complicated than arranging billiard balls! Try to imagine all the ways that all the forces of the world might interact.
 Being fatalistic is associated with having goals that are very difficult to achieve. It may be the case that, when something seems impossible to achieve, we default to believing in fate: what will be will be. This may be a kind of rationalization that allows us to wash our hands of incompatible feelings whereby we want to achieve a goal but know that we actually cannot To change your goals, make them more concrete and actionable. Vague goals feel impossible to achieve because they are not clearly defined, so it is unclear how they could actually be achieved.
To make goals more actionable, break them into smaller more digestible chunks. For example, if you want to learn the coding language Python but this feels like an insurmountable task, break it down further:
Start by researching books that can teach you Python.
Once you select a book, set a goal to read one chapter per week. Write this down and cross it off every time you succeed at it. This may help you to build your confidence while getting rid of your fatalistic attitude.

