 Food is an important part of each culture. To many people, food represents not only nourishment, but history and heritage. Make an effort to try foods from other cultures.Ask some friends to join you at an Ethiopian restaurant. Not only will you get to experience delicious food, but you will probably have fun eating with your hands.
Ask your Orthodox Jewish friend to tell you about her favorite Kosher meal. Ask about how it is prepared.
Try cooking something new each week. You can make dinners from around the world and involve your family in your cultural exploration.
 Different cultures have different leisure activities. Try joining a rugby team or go to a pub to watch soccer (football). You'll likely meet some people from elsewhere in the world.Listen to a new type of music. Consider attending a recital of African tribal music or listening to an Italian opera.
Watch a foreign film. Go to a local art house and see a film with subtitles.
Look at different types of art. When your local museum as an exhibit of Egyptian art, make a point to go.
 If you can speak the language, you will be better able to communicate with people from other cultures. Also, learning some key phrases can help you feel more at ease if you are traveling abroad.Learn new greetings. Your new neighbor will feel very welcome if you make an effort to greet them with a friendly "Bonjour!" or "Konnichiwa!" instead of hello.
Take a class. Many community centers offer affordable (or free) language courses. Take advantage of their offerings.
You can also take online courses or download a translator app for your phone.
 One of the most effective ways to learn about another culture is through travel. By traveling abroad, you can immerse yourself in the daily life of a new culture. Don't be afraid to explore new areas of the world.Be a respectful traveler. For example, if you decide to travel to the United Arab Emirates, be aware that women are expected to dress modestly.
Try some "local" activities. When you travel, there are many typical tourist sites that you will want to see. But don't be afraid to ask a local to point you towards their favorite neighborhood.
Be aware of your safety. You want to enjoy yourself, but make sure that you are always aware of your surroundings and using common sense.

