 It is most useful for fiction book series and TV series. Examples include the Harry Potter series, A Song of Ice and Fire (and the associated TV series, Game of Thrones), Breaking Bad, Gilmore Girls, and Star Trek. To begin with, identify the most prominent existing fan websites, including wikis, forums, and personally maintained websites by fans.
 For instance, there is a Harry Potter Wiki, a Gilmore Girls Wiki, and a Game of Thrones Wiki. You might also be able to find wikis unaffiliated with Wikia but using the same MediaWiki software that powers Wikipedia, Wikia, WikiHow, and many other sites, so you should be able to locate corresponding metrics on those sites (an example is A Wiki of Ice and Fire, a wiki related to the book series that inspired the Game of Thrones TV series).


Some relevant numbers that you should generally be able to get for wikis are:

Number of pages on the wiki.
Number of active contributors to the wiki.
Number of edits to the wiki.
Number of pageviews of the wiki.


For standard MediaWiki installations, you can get these numbers by going to the page titled Special:Statistics. You should be able to get to this page by typing Special:Statistics in the within-site search bar, or putting Special:Statistics in the part of the URL structure that is for the pagename. This by default contains all the information described above, but some high-load wikis disable calculation of the number of pageviews. The number of pageviews as measured here is also unreliable as it includes all page loads, including those by bots. There is also a similar page called Special:PopularPages that includes the most popular pages with their lifetime pageviews.
For Wikias, Special:Statistics is available and includes the information above with the exception of pageviews. There is also a separate Special:Insights page with more in-depth insight information. In particular, Special:Insights/popularpages provides information on popular pages. Example links for the Harry Potter Wiki: Special:Statistics, Special:Insights, and Special:Insights/popularpages.
 For broad topics, there are usually associated Stack Exchange websites.
 If the topic involves specific actions, then how-to guides might be an interesting way to gauge their popularity. For instance, if you want to gauge the popularity of a sport or athletic technique, looking at the number of edits and pageviews of how-to guides on the subject can be useful.


Each WikiHow page, when viewed on a desktop (with a wide enough screen) shows the number of views, number of contributors, and average rating of a page.
How-to guides at other places like LifeHacker generally display total pageview counts, and you can use Facebook's API to get information on the number of likes, comments, and shares of the articles.



The number of people who follow or subscribe to a subreddit is listed in the right column on the subreddit's page. The noun used to describe such people varies by subreddit. For instance, the Taylor Swift subreddit calls the followers "Swifties" whereas the Katy Perry subreddit uses "Readers" for their followers.
, Websites such as Ranker include ranked lists of various kinds of items (ranging from characters in specific pieces of fiction to actors to books).


You have a number of filtering and sorting options.
You can also, for any given item, look for all the ranked lists where that item appears.

