 Cultivating a rebellious style today is not the same as it used to be. Style rebels like Johnny Depp, Pharrell Williams, Rebel Wilson, Madonna, Amy Winehouse, Ke$ha, Taylor Momsen, Miley Cyrus, Lady Gaga, and Andre 3000 have become new icons for rebelling from fashion trends.


You might not think your Batman or Bart Simpson shirt is rebellious, but if you look at fashion styles by designers like Jeremy Scott you can see how easily it can be. He designs styles for celebrities that are style rebels, like Katy Perry, and many of his designs can be easily mimicked without spending too much money.
 Dressing rebelliously is more than just ripping your jeans or getting a piercing. To cultivate a rebellious style notice what everyone else in school wears. Then be brave enough to wear something different. When people can tell you are dressing differently intentionally, it will make you seem more accomplished and improve your perceived status.

Consider getting a permanent or temporary piercing if your school doesn't allow them.
Fake a tattoo.
Wear your hair messy.Instead of ripping your jeans to fit in with the style of a certain group of kids, wear some sneakers with dress slacks. Creativity in your style is the key to being a rebel.
 You don't need to go over the top, but you want a bold element to your style to make your look pop. No matter what crowd you gravitate toward, you can still keep the same social circles while dressing like you want.


For example, Young Thug is a well-known hip-hop artist and fashion rebel. His style of puffy blouses with preppy blazers goes against everything you thought hip-hop style is about., Take a page out of Pharrell William's style book and use some neon paint to write and draw on your sneakers.Purchase sneakers that are one shade to have your writing stand out. You can even write something that your support of a cause.
 Leather jackets have always been a staple of a rebellious look. Guys can wear it over a dress shirt or sweater, and girls can drape it over dresses to add a rebellious look without trying to look like James Dean throwback.
 It is not permanent like piercings or tattoos, but edgy makeup can help stand out and go against the trends. Try some metallic glitter or black nail polish., Having a couple of perfect accessories can help to polish your rebel style without spending too much on entirely new wardrobe.


Wear your sunglasses indoors. No matter what your style, a cool pair of sunglasses worn indoors is the sure sign of a rebel.
Find a unique hat. You can pick a traditional fedora, a top hat, or a baseball cap with studs or gold bling all over it. A really good hat can be like a trademark for your style and can show your individuality.
 If your school has a uniform, you alter it or add an accessory to declare your individuality without getting in trouble. You can cut off some holes in the elbows of a school jacket and add patches, or add some buttons. Depending on what the school dress code is, you can figure out a way to get around them and express your inner rebel.

