 Some digital thermometers are designed to be used either rectally, orally or in the armpit, while others are designed to be used specifically in the rectum. Either type of thermometer will give an accurate reading. You can find digital thermometers in the drugstore.


Look for a model that has a wide handle and a sip that can't be inserted too far into the rectum. This will make the process easier and help prevent you from inserting the thermometer too far.If you have an old glass thermometer, dispose of it instead of using it to take a temperature. Glass thermometers are considered unsafe now because they contain mercury, which is poisonous to the tough.
 A warm bath or a snug swaddling session could affect the child's body temperature, so wait a good 20 minutes to make sure you get the most accurate possible reading., Clean it with rubbing alcohol soap and warm water, then rinse it with cool water and dry it thoroughly. Cover the tip with petroleum jelly to make it easier to insert., Place the child either tummy down across your lap, or tummy up on a firm surface. Choose the position that's most comfortable for the child and makes it easiest for you to access the rectum.
 Most digital thermometers have a clearly labeled button you press to power on the device. Allow a moment or two for it to get set to take the temperature.
 Use one hand to hold the child's buttocks apart and the other to insert the thermometer about three quarters of an inch to once inch inside. Stop if any resistance is felt.Keep the thermometer in place by holding it between your first and middle fingers. Meanwhile, keep your other hand hand firmly but gently on the child's bottom to prevent squirming.
 Read the thermometer to determine whether the child has a fever. A temperature of 100.4ʡF (38.0ʡC) or higher indicates a fever.


If the child is under 5 months old, call the doctor for a fever 100.4ʡF (38.0ʡC) or higher.
If the child is over 5 months old, call the doctor for a fever 101ʡF (38ʡC) or higher.
If the person with the fever is an adult, call the doctor if it's 104ʡF (40ʡC) or higher.
 Use warm, soapy water as well as rubbing alcohol to cleanse the tip thoroughly.

