 Your iPad drains battery power when searching for and attempting to connect to the nearest Wi-Fi or cellular network tower, so if you're not planning on using Safari or apps that require these features, shut them off.


Go to "Settings", "WiFi option" or "Cellular", and tap the off switch.;
, Data that is updated regularly includes email notifications and RSS feeds.


Go to "Settings". Tap on "Mail, Contacts, Calendars" and go to "Fetch New Data". Tap "Manually".
Alternately, tap "Hourly" to increase the fetching interval.
 The usefulness of this step depends on how many emails or IM+ you usually receive; if you get a lot, this step is probably worth using as this can deplete battery life.


Go to "Settings", "Mail, Contacts, Calendars" and "Fetch New Data". Turn off Push.
 It goes without saying that the brighter the screen, the more battery power your iPad consumes. Turn the brightness down to the lowest setting you find comfortable, but make sure you can still see your screen.


Go to "Settings", then "Brightness & Wallpaper".Select "Auto Brightness", which will allow the iPad to adjust brightness depending on the brightness of your location; or
Drag the slider to the left to lower the default screen brightness. 25 percent to 30 percent brightness should be sufficient for daytime use, and for most people, it should also work during nighttime.
 Active use of maps and other location services will drain battery life. If left on, Maps updates continuously, and you do not need that app draining your battery.
 For example, BrickBreaker HD looks great in high-definition, but playing for long periods of time drains battery life like a hose.
 It's a quick and convenient way to disable all of the iPad's wireless features like cellular data, Wi-Fi, GPS, location services and will increase battery life. It's also a good idea to use Airplane mode in areas where 3G is patchy or weak.
 Extremely high or low temperatures can cause the battery life to decrease. Keep the iPad environment between 32ºF and 95ºF(0ºC and 35ºC).Be careful of using an iPad case when charging the battery, as this can prevent adequate ventilation, increasing the temperature of the iPad and potentially damaging the battery (charging releases heat).
 Apple recommends updating regularly because engineers look for new ways to optimize battery performance and when they find any ways of doing this, they pass these on via software updates., This means that your iPad's screen will turn off after a set period of time if left inactive. It doesn't power off the iPad, just the screen.


Go to "Settings", "General", and tap on "Auto Lock". Set the interval to a short space of time, such as one minute.