


Put your first two fingers close together at the top of the ball on the seam.
Rest your thumb on the seam underneath the ball.
Make sure that you angle the shiny half of the ball away from the batsman. The rough side needs to face the direction you want to swing it.;
, The run up is the preparation a bowler makes for delivery as he builds momentum and approaches the crease, which is demarcated by a painted line. Run quickly toward the line to create the maximum amount of momentum possible, while still allowing you to stay in control of your ball, body, and posture. Front-on bowling often uses a high speed run up.Swing bowling is a type of pace bowling, and in this type of bowling, the run up has been shown to contribute almost 20% of the ball’s velocity. It's important to run quickly.In cricket, the length of your run up is a personal part of the game. Many great cricket players have different approaches to the run up, approaching from different distances and angles. Practice to figure out what feels most natural.
As you are running and when you land, keep your weight in the balls of your feet.This will increase your speed and give you great control over your movements.
When you are running, utilize your back. Before you reach the crease, bend backwards so that you will be able to create a stronger forward momentum at the moment of delivery.
 During the run up, the delivery stride begins three or four strides before the crease. In these final few steps, acceleration stops, and your pace should remain steady. Your footwork is an important part of creating a smooth delivery.


As a front-on bowler, in the very last step before you deliver the ball, land with both your feet pointed toward the wicket, in other words, in the direction the ball will travel.
Though both your feet are pointed in the same direction, your dominant foot should be positioned in the back, to give you leverage when you release. Usually, right-handed bowlers use their right foot as the back foot.
 Like your footwork, your body positioning is an important aspect of successful delivery. As a front-on bowler, you will look down the inside of your bowling arm to sight the target. Place your non-bowling arm to the side of your head.


Your hips and shoulders should be open wider than 180 degrees.
Usually, the non-bowling arm is held vertically right before the delivery motion.
 After you reach the crease, it’s time to deliver the ball. At the point of release, you will be directly facing the batsman.


Make sure your delivery arm is stiff, rather than bent. You want to maintain a relaxed wrist but keep the position of your grip.
Release the ball at the highest possible point for maximum swing. Use the downward motion of your non-bowling arm to create additional power.
Run through the crease. Many front-on bowlers continue through the crease after they release the ball. This allows for a stronger release and a continuity of movement.

