 Remember that you are an amazing person and you will find love again. To help lift yourself back up again, it might be helpful to work on improving your self-esteem.


Make a list of all the good things about yourself that make you lovable and able to love someone else.
Tell yourself, “I am lovable and can be successful at love because I am…” Fill in the rest of the sentence with things from your list.
Every day try to add one new reason why you are great to your list and constantly remind yourself that you can be happy.
 You may feel like isolating yourself and just being alone, but this isn’t a good idea and won’t help you be happy. Being around people that love you is one way to remind yourself that you are lovable.Your friends and family want to help you because they care about you, so it's okay to rely on them for a little while to help you recover.


It’s okay to ask someone to just be with you – not doing anything or talking, but just being present with you for support.
Talk to them about how you are feeling about this love failing and how you feel about yourself.
For example, you might say, “I feel a lot of different emotions because of this love failing. I feel confused sometimes and optimistic at other times.”
Don’t resist their attempts to cheer you up. They just want to see you happy. Laugh and have fun with them.
Ask them to help you avoid texting, calling, or obsessing over your ex.
 Research indicates that break-ups can also actually weaken the heart, so treat yourself well.Eat balanced meals, get enough sleep, and participate in regular physical activity. This will help you physically and mentally.Take the time to do something different or special with your appearance. Try a new hairstyle or put on a flattering outfit.
Do something special for yourself like buy yourself some fishing gear, or a have a spa day.
 If you are having trouble completing everyday activities, eating, or sleeping you may want to talk to a counselor. You should also see a counselor if you have started or increased using alcohol or drugs. Counseling can help you with these things so that you can be happy and is just a way of loving yourself.


Research has indicated that chemical changes occur in the body after love failure that may cause you to feel depressed.In some cases, your therapist may prescribe an antidepressant to help your body regulate the chemical changes that are going on.
 Sometimes you may need to use specific coping methods to help you deal with the emotions your love failure has you feeling. Using these techniques can help reduce stress you are feeling right now, as well as help you be happier in the long-term.


Practicing deep breathing techniques can help you think more clearly and decrease some of the negative emotions you may feel.Try meditation as a way to calm your mind and heart. For a few moments each day, sit or lie quietly and focus on your breathing, a mantra, or just being present in the moment.

