 You need to tune your drum regularly to keep their sound sharp and clean, as opposed to uncontrollable or muddy resonance. Resonance is when the linger effects of the sound, such as how quickly the sound dies out.


You must tune your bass drum if you've replaced either head.
If you're having trouble with the sound, particularly with "decay" (kick drums generally want very little sustain),, you have issues with your front head. Check it first before you get to the batter head -- both sides are important for sound.;
, It should feel tight to the touch, but still have some give. It shouldn't feel hard, but it shouldn't have a ton of give, either -- 1/2" at most.


The front, or resonant, head is the one that faces the audience while you play., You're not tuning just yet, simply getting the process started. You don't even want to get the bolts as tight as possible, just to the point of light resistance.


For a way-out-of-tune drum, it can help to first loosen everything and then start from scratch.
 Turn your key clockwise 180-degrees to tighten the bolt. But topmost bolt, the the bolt at 12:00, or nearest that, if the drum was a clock. Press your thumb into the head right next to this bolt when you're done -- it should be tight, but still have some give.


If you've gone too tight, loosen it a quarter turn. Don't worry if it isn't tight enough yet.
 After you finish the 12:00 bolt, you need to tighten the 6:00 bolt, or the bolt in a straight line across from the one you just finished.


Think of the head as a perfectly even tug-of-war match. Each bolt pulls evenly against the ones across from it, keeping everything from sliding or stretching unevenly., Keep working in pairs -- a half turn at the 3:00 bolt followed by a half turn of the

, After each spot, lightly tighten or loosen the bolt to ensure that the drum feels the same the entire way around. You want the exact same tightness across the drum. Remember, as always, to test and tighten in opposing pairs.


Visually, the front head should only have a few (if any) wrinkles on it.
Remember, you need some give. Kick drums, in particular, can be left a little looser to get a deeper, lower-frequency tone.