 The official Nook help site recommends charging the battery before you first use your new tablet. Use the included charging cable to connect the Nook HD to a wall outlet. The small light next to the charging port will turn green when the battery is fully charged.


Charging the battery completely usually takes about four or five hours.If you don't want to wait this long, you are unlikely to experience problems if you simply plug the Nook in and proceed through next steps while it's connected to the outlet.;
, The power button is located on the top left edge of the Nook HD and the top right edge of the Nook HD+. Press and hold it for two seconds before releasing. Your Nook should power on.
 You should begin to see instructions appear on your screen. These may ask you to supply basic information about you and your Nook (like, for instance, your email address and your timezone.) After finishing each step, press "Next" or "Submit" to proceed.
 Next, select the Wi-Fi network that you'd like to connect to. If you're at home, this will be your personal internet network. If you're out and about, many public locations like coffeehouses, libraries, and airports will offer free Wi-Fi.


For networks that appear with a lock icon next to the name, you'll need to supply a password to connect. If you don't know the password, ask the person who set up the network (or, in a public location, one of the employees of the business that operates the network.)
Note that all Barnes and Noble stores offer free, instant Wi-Fi to Nook users.
If you're having trouble connecting to the internet, see the "Connecting to the Internet" section below (or see our Nook Wi-Fi article.)

, After connecting, you'll be presented with the standard Nook terms of service. Simply check both boxes and hit "Agree" to continue.
 Next, you'll be asked to log in to your Nook account or register a new one. To register a new account:


Click "No, I need to create an account."
Enter your name and email.
Choose a password and confirm it by typing it again.
Input a security question that only you will know the answer to, then type in your answer.
 Finally, set up your profile by selecting the genres that appeal to you out of choices like Biography, Comics, Mystery, and more. On the next screen, you'll be offered several free samples to start your Nook library with. Tap the ones you want and proceed by tapping "Next."


You're all done! Your Nook HD is now ready for use. Keep reading to learn how to add to your library and solve common internet issues.

