 Licensing is the primary way for you to become a professional electrical engineer. Each state crafts their own particular licensing requirements. Look up the licensing board for your particular state and carefully read through all of the required materials and information.The NCEES website actually has an interactive map that can send you directly to the site for your state’s licensing board. This is a good place to start.
It is important to know that without licensing your professional opportunities may be limited. For example, Texas and other states will only hire licensed, professional engineers for public works projects., Passing this 8-hour test is the first of many requirements for professionalization. It assesses your theoretical and practical knowledge of the field of electrical engineering. PE exam registration can be limited to only those engineers who have received prior board approval, so check your state’s guidelines.It is highly suggested that you study for this exam well prior to taking it. You can look at practice exams or discuss potential questions with your fellow engineers. However, the PE exam also allows you to bring in reference materials to use.
Be aware that you will have to pay a fee for both the FE and PE exams. This fee varies depending on your location. And, your PE results will be ready 2-3 months post-test., Many licensing boards will require that you transfer your diary information into a narrative format known as a SER essay. This 6-12 page piece of writing should trace your professional development from college onward.Pen your essay from a first-person perspective and keep your language engaging by using active verbs, such as, “calculated, or “evaluated.” Place your individual contributions at the center of the narrative.
 All licensing applications will require that you submit the contact information for, or a statement from, at least three professionals with whom you’ve worked. It is best if these persons are licensed professional engineers working out of the same state as you. It is quite possible that your references will be called upon to verify information found within your SER., When you’ve gathered all of the necessary materials go online to the licensing board’s website and fill out your application. Double-check to make sure that everything that is requested has been included and then hit the submit button. You can usually track the progress of your application online.If you dislike paperwork, you may want to consider the N Records Program offered by the NCEES. This program gathers all of the application information for you (with your data prompts) and completes the submission process as well. Be aware, however, that there is a per-submission fee for this service.