 The most important part of wearing any type of clothing is its fitting. However, you should pay extra attention to fit when looking for short shorts.A few common problems you want to avoid:



Muffin tops. Make sure your short shorts are wide enough at the waist. They shouldn't pinch your stomach.

Sliding off. The opposite problem of the muffin top is when your short shorts are too wide at the waist, causing them to sag or slip off. Watch out for this problem if you have narrow hips.

Riding up. The wrong pair of short shorts is one that rides up along the thigh. Not only can this be painful, but you may find your butt cheeks hanging out of your shorts.;
, Pay close attention to the underwear you put on underneath your short shorts. If your shorts are extremely short, your underwear may peak through. Additionally, if your short shorts are made of a tight material, they will highlight bagginess.


Styles you may want to avoid are boxers and boyshorts.
On the other hand, briefs (especially high-cut briefs), bikini, and thong underwear styles are the safest.
Always double-check in a mirror that your underwear is out of sight.
 For the most part, you can treat your short shorts like any other type of bottom. If your short shorts have a print, don't wear a patterned top. It's also a bad idea to mix dark neutrals. For example, if your short shorts are navy blue, don't wear a top that's black or dark brown.
 Pairing short shorts with oversized T-shirts and tunics is generally a bad idea. This combination can make it seem like you aren't wearing anything underneath your top. You'll be more likely to draw the wrong type of attention if people think you're going around with no pants in public.
 You can wear any type of shoes with short shorts. However, there are a few shoe types that work better than others:



Simple flat tennis shoes. Short shorts and tennis shoes are a classic summer look.

Stiletto heels. Short shorts will draw attention to your legs, so you want them looking their best. Ultra-high heels will make your legs look longer and more toned.Thigh high boots. This is an extra sexy, on-trend look. Pick boots that are made from a thin material that could pass for stockings., Since you'll be baring your legs with short shorts, an extra layer up top will help to balance your outfit. Matching your jacket with your short shorts is extra chic and on trend. This will go a long way towards making your short shorts look more fashionable and less childish or sloppy., Confidence can make even the most unconventional fashion choice look great. Act like short shorts are something you wear every day. Don't let other people's negative comments get you down.

