 When you receive an application form, either electronically or hard copy, it will normally come as part of an application pack. This pack will contain the application form along with a job description and a person specification sheet. Be sure to read all the information the organization provides you, paying special attention to the person specification sheet; this contains essential information you can use to write your supporting statement.


The job description will tell you what is involved in the job itself, whereas the person specification will tell you what person they need to do this job. At this stage in the hiring process they are looking to shortlist candidates based on how they match the essential criteria in the person specification.
If you do not have a person specification sheet, you should look the list of skill requirements the company thinks a person should have when applying for this position. This list may be on the initial job listing you found for this position.
 The person specification contains a list of skills and experiences that the company wants a person to have for this specific position. The list of skills may be divided into sections on education, work experience/skills, and personal qualities. The list of points may also be divided into essential and desirable skills. Essential skills are the skills you must have to get the job. Desirable skills are the skills the company hopes you have, but do not require you to have. For example:


The person specification may include categories like essential and desirable qualities. Essential qualities might include: excellent communication skills, excellent computer skills including ability to use a range of desktop packages, prioritizing a large workload, bookkeeping, and ability to work in a team.
Desirable skills may include: experience in the IT industry, negotiating skills, and knowledge of Wordpress.
 The more complicated and higher up the job, the more complicated the person specification will be. Do not worry about the length of your answers at this point; the more points the person specification has, the longer your supporting statement will be. It is better to focus on the format, which will be addressed later on in this article.
 Don’t be alarmed if there are not many instructions given for the supporting statement. Some companies may only write ‘Use this section to show how you are suitable for the job’. Some may go further and say ‘Show us how you meet the criteria set out in the person specification’; and some may specifically tell you to ‘address each individual point on the person specification sheet’.


Even though some companies may not specifically ask for it, addressing each individual point on the person specification is essential in showing them succinctly that you are exactly what they are looking for.
 Try to take each separate bullet point and write a paragraph for each one showing how you meet these criteria. Consider using a formula for each paragraph. Using this format will enable you to write short succinct paragraphs that tell the employer what they want to hear. This formula could include:


Address the skill or quality in question. For example: “I have gained excellent communication skills from my 3 years experience in customer service.”
Write about how you gained these skills. For example: “During my previous role as a receptionist, I used my communication skills to build professional relationships with customers.”
Give a practical example of how you used these skills to achieve a positive result. For example: “I build relationships though trust and was able to find out their needs and opinion though conversation and customer surveys. My communication skills resulted in an improvement in customer retention and satisfaction.”

, Once you have written each paragraph, add an introduction and conclusion, as well as transitions, to make your essay feel complete. If you do not, you will simply have a list of paragraphs, which may sound awkward.
 Once you are done writing, read over your essay. Try doing this out loud to make it easier to spot awkward sentences. You can also ask someone to read over the essay and pretend to be your potential employer. Make any corrections to complete your essay.


If you have someone read over your essay, give them the person specification sheet or requirement list so that they can double check that you discussed every skill or quality listed on the sheet.
 Remember to keep the language of your essay professional.


For instance, if you want to tell them how passionate you are about the job, you don't want to say, "I think this job is awesome, man! I would be the best!"
However, just saying, "I find this job interesting," will not win you points either, as it doesn't show who you are.
Instead, say something like, "I have always been passionate about writing. I have been writing poems and stories since I was a kid, and I followed that passion by pursing the education needed to be a professional writer. Now, I have the skills I need, and I want to gain the experience to match it."
Don't use slang. Don't say anything you wouldn't say to your grandmother.
Also, make sure you aren't repeating yourself. Whoever reads your essay will appreciate it if you can say what you need to say concisely.

