 It may seem boring and just like a chore, but will be useful and make looking through your clothes much easier. Take out everything and put on the bed. If something no longer fits or you just don't like it anymore, then put in a plastic bag ready to take to the appreciative charity shop. There's nothing wrong with getting rid of unwanted clothes. Tutus,stripy tights and woolly jumpers may have been your thing back then, but chances are you have moved onto other stuff,which is fine. If you find clothes which are too badly ripped,damaged,stained or worn for someone to wear or ever look good again, use as rag or put them in the bin. Now to organizing. You could fold jeans, dresses or skirts in one area and hoodies, jumpers,t-shirts and vests in another. If you have a wardrobe, you could fold items such as jeans, dresses, skirts, next to that fold up hoodies and jumpers and hang t-shirts and vests up on hangers. Put your underwear somewhere private and shoes maybe in a drawer. If you find any dirty clothes, take to the washing. Iron and put away.;
, There are so many to choose from- Girly, Rock, Emo, Parisian Chic, Glamorous, Casual.. the list goes on. Also, there's prints, patterns,pictures and textures to think about. Look at the internet or magazines for inspiration, and think about how you could put outfits together.
 It's a perfect opportunity to seek out some bargains and find pieces you love. Don't feel that you have to go to really expensive stores- TXMAXX, Primark and New Look are all great as they have loads of clothes,shoes etc, as well as some great jewelry. Shop wherever you want, and you can buy anything. Some great things to own as essentials are below, as long as some others which are just for fun but will add a real interest and look to your wardrobe.


Jeans- boot cut, wide leg or skinny.
Hoodies- like jumpers and cardigans, they come in bright colors and are casually cosy.
Jumpers- forget heavy, itchy uncomfortable sweaters- a colorful, stretchy one in either V/round necked is much better.
Cardigans- so cardigans may not be your idea of fashion, but have you considered long ones? They are simple but elegant.
T-shirts/shirts/vests- some basic ones in block colors like blue, green, red, white and black are good and you could get some with really cool pictures or patterns which look great on everyone.
Dresses/skirts- they don't have to be plain or boring! Dresses with a plain top but a ruffle/any other effect skirt look amazing, and you can choose from classic styles to more modern trends. Skirts don't come in just plain black or cotton- how about a colorful pattern? One big print? High or low waistband? They aren't essential but for a party or glamorous event, they are a good choice.
Pyjamas- still look good at nighttime! A pair which are quite heavy should be worn in winter but for spring/summer when its getting a bit hotter, a lighter pair are good to have as spares. Find a pair with a really sweet design.
Underwear- should fit perfectly, and not be boring! There are lots of of knicker and sock styles, and bras should be supportive and so you can't' feel them very much, i.e. not too small or too big.
 Now for shoes. Sneakers, trainers, pumps, heels, sandals etc are all in the shops. For a rock and roll twist, biker/military lace up boots look good teamed with something simple and to wear with almost anything, a pair of awesome Converse All Star in your favorite color. Shoes make a real statement, so have fun finding some nice ones.
 Bead bracelets and bangles look great worn as a set. Charms are cute. Long pendants or big chunky necklaces worn against a simple top make a maximum impact. Earrings and rings are pretty. Details like flowers, stars, flowers, prints and even your favorite things look amazing on jewelry too.

