 To teach your dog to sit, stand in front of her and say “Sit” while raising your hand in the air or holding a treat in the air to keep her attention.You may have to do this a few times before she gets the idea. If it does not work the first time, keep trying.
If your mini pin does not respond to the command and hand gesture alone, then you can also try gently pushing her bottom down towards the floor while saying “Sit.”

, To teach your mini pin to stay, wait until he is sitting down and then label the behavior as “Stay.” Reward your mini pin with praise and a treat for staying seated.


After doing this few times, try giving the command while slowly backing away from your mini pin. Reward her if she stays put. Over time, your mini pin will learn that “Stay” means don’t move.
You can also train this command while your mini pin is on a leash and just back away as far as the leash will allow., Training your mini pin to come towards you is another important basic command. To train this command, say “Come” and pat your legs with your hands. This should entice your mini pin to walk towards you. If she does, then reward the behavior.


After a few times of saying “Come” while patting your legs, you can progress to just giving the command. Say “Come” and see if your mini pin approaches you. If she does, reward her with a treat and lots of praise.
If your dog does not respond to you standing up and patting your legs, you can also try squatting down with your arms out to her.This might be a more comforting position for a puppy.
 You can teach this command by first doing something to get your mini pin to speak, such as knocking at the door. Then, while your mini pin is barking, label the behavior as “Speak” and reward her.Repeat this exercise a few times and then try to get your mini pin to speak without knocking at the door. Just say “Speak” and see if your mini pin barks. If she does, then reward her with some praise and treat.
 You can also train the “Quiet” command along with the “Speak” command. To train your mini pinscher to be quiet, wait until he stops barking on his own and then label the behavior by saying “Quiet.” Make sure to reward your mini pin for being quiet as well.After labeling the behavior a few times, try to command your mini pin to be quiet while he is barking. Reward your mini pin if she goes quiet in response to your command.

