 In most cases, you want to be sure you have a nice safety net in the bank (the equivalent of a few months' salary) before you begin investing money. Similarly, you need to be sure your debts are paid off as soon as possible prior to investing any excess money you may have each month.Investing can be a nice way to earn a bit more money, but its only a smart option if you can afford to lose the money you invest. An investment can end up making you money, but it can also end up costing you money, so it is a gamble you have to be able to afford taking.
 Most experts recommend that beginning investors start with around $1000 on a first investment. That amount will pay a nice dividend if you make a smart investment, but hopefully won't be too painful if you lose it in a bad trade. You can make investments in different amounts, but this is a good amount to start with.If you don't think you can spare $1000 for investing because you're afraid you might need that money soon, that's a sign you need to build a bigger emergency fund before investing., You might think that you need a fancy portfolio with lots of high-risk individual stocks in order to invest. But that's not true. You can more safely invest money in mutual funds or exchange-traded funds (ETFs). These are simpler and offer less risk while you're still learning the ins and outs of investing.The benefit of mutual funds and ETFs is that instead of focusing your money on one stock, which could succeed or fail, they spread your money over many stocks-- sometimes dozens or even hundreds. That means there is a lot less risk for you, since even if some of the stocks fail, you will almost always see some return on your investment.Even if you're investing in relatively low-risk securities, you should still diversify your portfolio to reduce your portfolio risk. Diversification involves placing your money in different investments, rather than throwing it all in one or two.
It may be beneficial for you to engage in dollar cost averaging (DCA) so that you can invest the same amount each month. DCA involves regularly purchasing the same dollar amount of an investment.
This means that you still invest the same amount each month, regardless of price changes., Investing is a longterm game, not a way to get rich quick. Some experts refer to a "seven year rule" that implies that you are likely to double your investment every seven years.


The seven year return is based on a 10% rate of return on your investment, so if your particular investment has a higher rate of return, you'll double your money faster. Of course, that also means if you have a lower rate of return, it will take you even longer-- and you may want to look around for a new investment.
 Some fancy full-service companies will try to get you to put your money into complicated accounts without explaining the details to you. They may be taking advantage of the fact that you're a novice investor, and these types of investments could end up costing you a lot of money.


It's often a good idea to choose a discount broker with low fees for your first investments. Many of these brokers will be able to offer mutual funds with no commission, which makes the process much more affordable for you.