 Now that you've identified what you've been using credit for, and what it's costing you, focus on two things––the first is paying off the debt, and the second is not using credit for anything that cannot be paid back within the no-interest period. For many people, it is easiest to go cold turkey and stop using the card until it has been paid off, then reassessing its usage after the change. Remove credit cards from your wallet––except for your debit card. This maneuver may be a little painful at first, especially if your first inclination is to reach for your credit card; however, it's likely to be your best line of defense. Some ideas for putting use of credit temporarily beyond your reach include:


Keep your credit cards in a safe location at home. Don’t just throw them in a junk drawer or in an area where someone can pick them up and use them. Consider placing them in a file or even a home safe.
Place the card into a plastic container, fill water and place in the freezer. You have to think long and hard before using it now!
Resolve to reduce multiple cards to one. You could cut up all the other cards and put the chosen one somewhere safe for now. Some people don't recommend taking the scissors to all of your credit cards though, as you may need them in the future. For any cards you do decide you no longer want, be sure to go through the steps of actively closing your account, or your credit card provider may eventually apply inactivity fees to your account.
Remind yourself constantly that anything placed on a credit card tends to cost you twice as much, thanks to fees for payments outside the interest-free period.
 Understand the consequences though––if your checking account is empty, you may be rejected at the register. If you're concerned about being rejected, talk to your banker about arranging for overdraft protection (which may mean a fee) or linking your checking, savings and a line of credit account to be used as backup. However, a few times of embarrassment can pay dividend in a lifetime of keeping an active memory of just how much money you really have to spend...


Use Internet banking to keep tabs on your expenses. In order to know what you have in your account, log onto your bank’s Internet banking system at least once daily to keep tabs on what you have (and don’t have). Also, consider using direct deposit for your checks to reduce the amount of time it takes for your paycheck to clear.
Some companies will only accept credit cards, such as airlines and stadium venues. In this case, you may need to keep a credit card handy but keep to the rule that you should be able to cover the cost either immediately or within the non-interest payment period. Another alternative is to give the exact cash to a friend or family member who can pay using their credit card on your behalf.
Consider switching to pre-paid credit cards with a limit for online purchases. This protects you from fraud (the card limit is all that there is to use) and it will stop you from overspending on online shopping.

