 When deciding whether to seek a fault-based divorce or a divorce based on irreconcilable differences, the advice of an experienced family law attorney is crucial. Particularly if your attorney has been involved in many divorce proceedings with clients in situations similar to yours, they can give you a good idea of what to expect.If you haven't already hired an attorney, try searching the website of your state or local bar association for experienced family law attorneys who are located near you.
Family law attorneys typically provide a free initial consultation, so you can discuss what type of divorce you want to get at that time.
In the event you do decide to seek a fault-based divorce, make sure any attorney you hire has experience representing clients who allege adultery on the part of their spouses.
Your attorney can give you a break-down of the legal requirements in your state and answer any questions you may have about the process.;
, If you and your spouse signed a prenuptial agreement, go over its clauses with your attorney. It may require a finding of fault before you're eligible for certain types of recovery, such as alimony.Your prenuptial agreement may include an infidelity clause. This clause can have significant implications regarding the amount of money or specific property you get to keep after a divorce.
For example, if your spouse had significant income and assets when you were married, the prenuptial agreement may state that you're entitled to a large share of those assets if your spouse cheats on you during the marriage.
A premarital agreement with an infidelity clause is one of the main reasons many divorcing spouses use to justify adultery as grounds for divorce.
 In some circumstances, you may want to seek a fault-based divorce because you feel it would help you save face. Close friends and family members can help you assess this situation.Often, people see a divorce as some sort of failure on their part, because they were unable to make the marriage work.
If you're looking at your divorce this way, fault-based grounds can relieve you from that responsibility.
However, if you talk to family and friends you may find that the reasons for your divorce matter very little to them.
Talking to family and friends can help you identify sources of emotional support as well as relieve some of the burden you feel weighing on you as a result of this difficult decision.
 Some religious traditions only allow divorce for specified, fault-based reasons. If you are a member of one of these religions, a trusted religious official can explain the consequences of getting a divorce that isn't based on fault.In some religious traditions, there may be religious rituals you must complete in addition to the civil divorce proceedings in court if you want to have your divorce formally recognized by your faith.
For example, the Catholic church does not recognize civil divorce. The church will still consider you married until you get the marriage annulled from within the church.
In that case, proof that your spouse cheated on you may help with the church annulment process.
Other religions give more power to men than to women in heterosexual marriages. If you are a Jewish or Muslim wife and want to divorce your husband, there may be additional religious requirements that you must follow.
 Each state's divorce law lists the specific elements you must prove in court if you want to base your divorce on grounds of adultery. These elements typically are based on whether you rely on direct or circumstantial evidence.Direct evidence is fairly self-explanatory. This means you have specific proof of your spouse's affair, and can include situations where they were "caught red-handed" in the act of cheating on you.
Circumstantial evidence, however, relies on proving motive and opportunity to cheat, rather than providing direct evidence of the fact itself.
To understand what you have to prove in a circumstantial case, it can help to remember the adage "If it looks like a duck, walks like a duck, and quacks like a duck, it is a duck."
Essentially, you must prove that your spouse was motivated to cheat or had the disposition to cheat, and that they had the opportunity to cheat.
 A divorce is a civil case, like when someone files a lawsuit after an auto accident. The burden of proof in civil cases typically is described as a "preponderance of the evidence." This is a much lower standard than the "beyond a reasonable doubt" criminal standard with which you might be familiar.To prove something by a preponderance of the evidence, you basically must produce enough evidence to show that it was more likely than not that your spouse cheated on you.
In a more circumstantial case, you're essentially building evidence to show that your spouse, more likely than not, had the motivation and the opportunity to cheat on you.
Keep in mind that in a circumstantial case, your spouse may be able to defeat your argument by presenting direct proof that they did not cheat, despite having the motivation and opportunity to do so.
 Proof of adultery is grouped into two categories: direct and circumstantial evidence. Direct evidence shows that your spouse actually cheated on you with a specific person.Circumstantial evidence, on the other hand, generally concerns your spouse's motive and opportunity to cheat on you – even if you have no direct evidence of their cheating.
For example, proof that your spouse cheated in other relationships in the past can show that they had the disposition to cheat.
Dishonesty in other contexts also may be used to show that your spouse does not take commitments seriously or is not trustworthy.
Opportunity can be provided through evidence of frequent overnight business trips, or unexplainable late hours at work.
As for direct evidence, it may be possible to find text messages, voicemail messages, or emails sent by your spouse to their paramour.
 Friends or coworkers who knew of your spouse's extramarital affair may be able to testify on your behalf in court. However, keep in mind that many people will be unwilling to betray the confidence of someone they consider a friend, even if they don't agree with what the person was doing.For example, suppose part of your case relies on circumstantial evidence that your spouse took frequent overnight business trips and stayed late at the office.
Coworkers of your spouse may be willing to testify that your spouse was not required to take those business trips, or did not stay late at the office.
It's important to tread lightly when it comes to talking to potential witnesses – especially if you have not yet filed for divorce.
Particularly if you're talking to someone who is relatively close to your spouse, assume that anything said will get back to your spouse.
 In most cases, you can prove adultery in court through circumstantial evidence. This means you don't need to hire a private investigator to uncover direct evidence.Talk to your attorney before you make the final decision on whether a private investigator is needed. Your attorney may be able to point out other places where you could find evidence yourself where you haven't yet looked.
Private investigators can be a tremendous expense, depending on your case and how much work you need them to do.
You can limit the cost of a private investigator by only hiring them for a discrete purpose. For example, if you know your spouse is going on an overnight business trip, you can hire a private investigator to follow them solely on that trip.
 Suddenly hitting your spouse with divorce papers is a good way to ensure your spouse fights your every move and refuses to cooperate. If you begin on the same page, the process may go a lot more smoothly.Depending on your relationship with your spouse, you may want to work with a counselor or mediator to have your initial divorce discussions.
If you have direct evidence that your spouse was cheating on you, make that evidence known to them.
Likewise, if you need a fault-based divorce for religious or personal reasons, be prepared to explain these reasons to your spouse.
In some states, you must be legally separated for a period of time before you can get a divorce for irreconcilable differences. This wait time may not be required for fault-based divorces. If that factors in to your reasons for seeking a divorce on the grounds of adultery, let your spouse know.
 Whether seeking a fault-based divorce will take longer than a divorce based on irreconcilable differences depends on the laws in your state as well as other details about your specific case.Because you need to compile evidence to prove your spouse's adultery in court, you can generally expect the pre-trial litigation process to take a little longer than it would if you were seeking a divorce based on irreconcilable differences.
However, some states require divorcing couples to be separated for a period of time – sometimes as long as a year – before they can get an absolute divorce.
In these states, seeking a fault-based divorce can drastically decrease the amount of time before your divorce is granted, even taking into account the additional time you'll need to gather and evaluate the evidence.
Estimates of duration also will vary depending on how cooperative your spouse is. If your spouse (and their attorney) fights you every step of the way and refuses to provide requested information or complete forms in time, that also could make your divorce take longer.
You also should keep in mind that how long it will take to get your divorce depends on other issues unrelated to the reasons for your divorce, such as the amount of income and assets involved, whether you have children with your spouse.
 Getting a divorce is stressful enough on its own, but it can be even worse if you and your spouse are at odds and unable to cooperate on any aspect of the split.Getting a divorce on the grounds of adultery can result in you and your spouse needing to "air your dirty laundry" in public. If you have a strong desire for privacy, this can be difficult to handle.
During the process, you may learn things about your spouse, or about your marriage, that you didn't know before. These things may be devastating and can fuel anger and resentment.
Additionally, if you and your spouse have children, consider the effect a nasty divorce will have on them before you decide to seek divorce on the grounds of adultery.
Keep in mind that it may not be within your power to completely shield your children from what happens during litigation or in the courtroom.
 If you want to justify adultery as grounds for divorce, you must first come to terms with how it will affect the procedure and outcome of the divorce itself.Many divorcing spouses believe that proving their spouse cheated on them means they stand a better chance of getting custody of the kids, or of getting more alimony.
However, in most states adultery has very little to do with whether a spouse is granted alimony or the amount of alimony awarded.
Even in states where judges are permitted to consider adultery in awarding alimony, it is only one factor considered among many. While it may tip the scales in your favor, the most important considerations are the financial equity between the spouses.
All states use the "best interests of the child" standard in determining child custody. One spouse's infidelity may come into play in specific situations, such as if your spouse was cheating on you with someone who was a negative or dangerous influence on your children.
However, in most cases adultery has little to do with the court's custody decision.

