 The Russian Blue is distinguished because of its beautiful grey-blue coat. The coat is called a “double coat” because of the two distinct layers, which make the cats appear much bigger than they actually are. In order to maintain their beautiful, thick coats, you should brush a Russian Blue 1-2 times per week. Russian Blues typically enjoy being brushed because they like the attention.Use a medium to small toothed metal comb.Weekly brushing will help remove any loose hair and can prevent your cat from ingesting a fur ball., Prior to brushing your cat, get into the habit of doing a quick, at home, eye exam. This will help you identify any potential health issues related to tearing, crust, cloudiness, or inflammation. In order to conduct a basic eye exam follow these steps:In a brightly lit area of the house face your cat directly and look into their eyes. They should look clear and bright, and the area around the cat’s pupils should be white.
Roll up your cat’s eyelid with your thumb and examine the lining of the eyelid. It should appear pink in colour, not red or white.
Gently remove any gunk or crust from your cat’s eye using a damp cotton ball.
Talk to your vet if you notice cloudiness or change in colour, red or white eyelid lining, excessive tearing, and crust build-up.
 Cat’s should have their nails trimmed every 10 days to 2 weeks, in order to avoid splitting and breaking. The best way to trim a cat’s nails is to find a quiet, stimulus free area of your house. Do not try and clip your cat’s nails in front of a window because they may get distracted by animals or sounds outside and try to leap out of your arms.Cradle the cat in your lap and gently press the bottom of their pads so that they display their nails.Russian Blues have clear or translucent nails, which makes it easier to see the pink vein (or quick) that runs about half-way down the nail.Using a pair of nail clippers that can be purchased at a local pet supply store, clip the nail just below the pink vein. Do not clip the vein because this will cause the cat to bleed, be in pain, and likely not trust you to cut it’s nails in the future.If you do accidentally cut the vein while trimming your cat's nails, you can stop the bleeding by using styptic power. This powder can be purchased at your local pet supply store.You can give your cat a small treat following the nail clipping to reward them for good behaviour.
 It is also important to check your cat’s ears periodically for wax build-up and any other health issues that may develop. Examine their ears weekly. If you notice any wax build up, simply place some olive oil on a Q-tip and swab out the ear. In addition to wax removal, pay attention to the following signs when conducting an ear exam:Persistent scratching of the ears.
Redness and swelling.
Black or yellow discharge.
Odors.
Hearing loss.
If any of these occur talk to your vet immediately.
 In order to keep your cat in overall good health, brush their teeth once per week. Talk with your vet in order to find out what toothpaste and brush they recommend. You can purchase feline toothpaste and toothbrushes at your local pet store. Gently brush your cat’s teeth. In order to get the cat comfortable with this process you will need to introduce the brush and toothpaste slowly over time.