 This particular type of bankruptcy—also called a "wage earner's plan"—is a tool that individuals who earn regular income can use to reschedule the payment of their debts over an extended period of time, usually three to five years. Over this period, the individual is allowed to keep most of his or her property, provided he or she makes regular payments under the new payment plan.If you file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, your creditors must cease their collection efforts for the duration of the proceedings.
Once your debts have been rescheduled, you will pay all debts to a trustee (appointed by the bankruptcy court), who will then pay your creditors.;
, There are several reasons that this form of bankruptcy is more desirable than others. First, if you file for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, you can protect your home from foreclosure, so long as you make payments under your rescheduled plan. The rescheduling of your debts under Chapter 13 also allows you to extend the time over which you must make payments on other debts, such as credit card debt, giving you more flexibility over meeting your financial obligations.Your debts are also consolidated under the Chapter 13 rescheduling plan, allowing you to (1) pay all your debts to a single source (and avoid direct contact with your creditors) and (2) potentially lower your payments through this consolidation process.
 Federal law makes any individual (i.e., not a corporation or a partnership) eligible for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, so long as your unsecured debts are less than $383,175 and your secured debts are less than $1,149,525. You must also not have had any type of bankruptcy petition that you filed dismissed in the preceding 180 days (i.e., a court dismissed your bankruptcy petition because you didn't show up for your hearing or you didn't comply with the court's terms).An unsecured debt is a debt that does not have collateral attached to it, like medical payments, credit card bills, or utility bills. Most debts are unsecured. Secured debts are those that have specific property attached to them that your creditor may seize if you fail to pay on time., Within 180 days before filing for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, you must receive credit counseling from a government-approved organization.During this session, you will answer questions regarding your finances and a counselor will advise you how best to proceed.


The United States Trustee Program provides a list of government-approved organizations for consumer credit counseling on its website, organized by state.Use this to find a government-approved course nearest you.Upon completion of this counseling, you will receive a certification saying that you have completed this requirement and can now file for bankruptcy., Once you have completed your credit-counseling session, you are ready to file a Chapter 13 bankruptcy petition with the bankruptcy court that serves the area in which you reside.Conduct an internet search with the terms "<<your city>> <<your state>> bankruptcy court" and look for the appropriate court's website. Look for the website of the appropriate bankruptcy court, which will represent your judicial district and have a ".gov" domain. This is the court in which you will file your petition. The petition must include:A list of all your creditors (people to whom you owe money), and the amount you owe each one.
Information regarding your income (i.e., how often you get paid, from what source, and your salary).
A list of your property.
A list of your monthly living expenses (think things like food, clothing, rent, utilities, transportation, etc.)
A copy of your income-tax return for the previous year.
The court will charge you $310 to file, which you must pay to the court clerk when you file your petition.
All forms required to file your petition are available online., After you file your bankruptcy petition, your creditors (in most cases) must cease their collection attempts against you. The court then appoints an independent individual to manage your case—known as a "trustee"—who will be your point of contact during the proceedings that follow. You will meet with this individual and develop a plan by which you can pay back your existing debts over time.This plan will reschedule your payments over the next three to five years., After you file your bankruptcy petition, your creditors (in most cases) must cease their collection attempts against you. The court the appoints an independent individual to manage your case—known as a "trustee"—who will be your point of contact during the proceedings that follow. Between 21 and 50 days of filing the petition, your trustee will set a meeting in which you and your creditors will attend to discuss the terms of your repayment plan.You will be placed under oath and will be required to answer questions regarding your financial affairs.
Be sure to meet with your trustee before this meeting to make sure your petition and plan are accurate and complete. This person will also be able to help you understand what this meeting will entail.
 Within 45 days after the meeting of the creditors, a bankruptcy judge will hold a hearing to evaluate the repayment plan.If the judge approves the plan, you will begin making your agreed-upon payments to the trustee, who will then disburse the funds to your creditors. After you have made all scheduled payments under the repayment plan, the rest of your debts will be discharged in full.If the court does not approve the plan, you will have to modify it with your trustee so that it meets the court's requirements.
 Because Chapter 13 proceedings are designed to relieve those with an unmanageable amount of debt by providing alternative repayment terms, it is not easy to incur new debt while these proceedings are ongoing.However, it is possible—and sometimes unavoidable—to incur new debt during the pendency of your bankruptcy proceedings. You will, however, likely have to ask the court for permission to do so and, as a result, should take time to evaluate whether you truly need to obtain the loan.


Picture yourself before a judge explaining why you need the loan in question. If you don't think you could convince him or her, consider another option such as borrowing from friends or family.
Loans for necessary or emergency expenses—like a car, medical bills, or taxes—are much more likely to be approved by a judge., If you are trying to obtain a loan in order to make ends meet at home or to comply with the terms of your repayment plan, you should consider attempting to modify your repayment plan.Schedule a meeting with your trustee, explain the situation to him or her, and see if he or she can help you lower or reschedule your payments so you can fulfill your court-ordered obligations under the plan.
 If you have filed for Chapter 13 bankruptcy, any potential lender will be aware of this fact when you apply for a loan. Because of this, they will know that you are (1) behind on your current payments and (2) are likely in need of additional funds to pay your debts. Because you are in a position of financial hardship, there are lenders out there that will seek to take advantage of you. You may even receive unsolicited offers. When evaluating potential lenders, keep the following in mind to avoid taking a bad loan:Watch out for payday loans. This type of loan allows you to postdate a check and pay back the loan at a later date. However, lenders usually charge very high fees for this type of loan, and you may be required to pay up to 400% interest in addition to the principle when taking this type of loan.
With any potential loan, you will want to take note of two things: (1) the interest rate and (2) additional fees. If someone is offering you a loan with an interest rate well above the going market rateor charges additional fees that are unreasonable based on the amount you are borrowing, strongly consider finding other sources for short-term financial needs.
 Avoiding predatory lenders, while necessary, will not help you with your primary goal—to obtain a loan. Depending on the type of loan you are looking for, you have several options. For instance, if you need a car, you might be able to work out a financing deal with the vendor. If you need a personal loan, you can try talking to a local bank and asking them for financial help. Whoever you do decide to speak to regarding a potential loan, the following information might be helpful in convincing your potential lender to offer you a loan under reasonable terms:Discuss your situation with your potential lender. Tell them that you have filed for bankruptcy in order to eventually repay your loans as you can over time, not to avoid them entirely. You will have to convince your lender that you are able and willing to repay any loan they might offer you.
Because Chapter 13 bankruptcy lasts for a period of several years, it is likely you will already have been responsible for making payments under your repayment plan. Provide evidence to your potential lender showing that you have been making these payments on time, and that you have the funds to continue to do so.
Be prepared to show your potential lender proof of income. This can go a long way towards assuring the lender that you have the ability to pay back the new loan.
If you are offered a loan, make sure that the interest rate, repayment terms, and additional fees (if any) are reasonable given your particular circumstances. Be sure to get any potential loan agreement in writing.
 If necessity forces you to incur new debt during open Chapter 13 proceedings—such as for a car to get to work—your first step is to obtain the exact terms of the loan in writing from your potential creditor. This documentation should include:The length of the loan.
The interest rate.
The repayment plan (e.g., monthly installment amounts).
 Once you have paperwork detailing the terms of the proposed loan, schedule some time to talk it over with your trustee. Tell him or her why you need the loan and why it makes sense that you incur new debt during a time when you are tasked with repaying previous debt., If your trustee approves the new loan, you must file a motion with the court asking for the judge's permission to incur the additional debt. Be sure to send a copy of this motion to all your creditors and your trustee.You will then have to attend a hearing in which the judge will decide whether or not to grant your motion. If the judge grants your motion, you will receive an "order" (an official document detailing the judge's decision) confirming that the judge has given you permission to obtain this new loan.


Your motion should explain exactly what type of loan you are seeking to obtain, what the loan is for, and why you need the loan.
You can ask your trustee to file the motion for you, if you prefer. You will, however, still have to attend the hearing.
 If the court grants your motion to incur new debt, you will likely have to show this to your prospective lender in order for them to give you the loan.Once you have done so, you are free to take the loan and use it for its intended purpose.

You will, of course, be responsible for paying back this loan in addition to following the terms of your repayment plan.

