 Steam is a good way for PC users to get GTA 5 and over 1,500 other games. Go to steampowered.com/ to download the Steam installer.


Once at the Steam-powered website, click on the green “Install” button on the top-right side of the window.
Wait for the installation of Steam to finish.
 Once Steam has finished installing, open the application. It should be located on your desktop.
 You need a Steam account so you can start purchasing games from Steam. Click the “Create Account” button on the Steam log-in window.



Sign into your account and look for your account name on the top right of the Steam window.
Click on your account name, and a drop box will appear showing three options. Click on “Account Details.”

, This will bring you to the menu where you can add funds to your Steam Wallet using your credit card.
 Make sure you choose the amount that is enough to purchase the GTA game you want.


After choosing the amount, you will be directed to another menu where you will checkout that amount to complete your Steam Wallet purchase.
 After purchasing funds for your Steam Wallet, click on the Store tab on the upper-left side of the Steam window. This will bring you to the place where all games and in-game items are sold through Steam.
 Do this by using the search bar on the top-right side of the window.
 Once you are at the menu to buy the GTA game you’ve chosen, on the bottom of the window will be the button “Add to Cart.” Click on it to add the game to your cart.
 After adding it, it will bring you to a menu that will show you what is inside your Shopping Cart. Click on the green “Purchase for Myself” button to add the game to your Steam Library.


After clicking the “Purchase for Myself” button, click on the “Checkout” button to complete the purchase of the game.
 After purchasing the game, go to the Steam Library and start downloading the GTA game you purchased. Wait for the download to finish, and you can start playing the game.


If you want, and if you have enough funds in your Steam wallet, you can repeat steps 7 to 11 until you have all the GTA game series.
If you need to add more funds so you can buy more GTA games, just repeat the steps from step 4.

