 Although your bipolar disorder may be seasonal, there may still be certain things that lead to you having a manic or depressive episode. Being aware of the situations, people, and places that cause you a lot of stress can help you recognize what may trigger an episode.Once you know the things that stress you, you can work to avoid them.


Triggers are events, places, people, or situations that may make it likely that you will have a bipolar episode. For example, very stressful situations like starting or ending a new school or job may trigger a bipolar episode.
Pay attention to the things that are going on during the season that you usually have the most trouble with your bipolar disorder. For example, is it all of the extra activity but less structure of the summer that causes you problems?

, There are several indicators that you may have that a depressive or manic episode is coming. Some of the signs are common for people with bipolar disorder, while some signs of an episode will be specific to you. Handle seasonal bipolar disorder by paying attention to thoughts, feelings, and actions that suggest an episode may be starting.Keep in mind that you may experience more manic episodes during the warm months and more depressive episodes during colder months.For example, many people feel irritable, restless, and unfocused at the onset of a manic episode and may begin to have difficulty sleeping.
On the other hand, feeling fatigued, hopeless, and withdrawing may be signs of a depressive episode.
Use your journal or another log to keep track of your feelings, emotions, and actions so that you can identify patterns in your behavior and signs of an episode.
 Although you may already have a treatment plan established, if you are experiencing a bipolar episode you should contact your mental health professional or primary care provider. Your treatment team can provide you with the resources and support you need to work through your episode, as well as handle seasonal bipolar disorder.As soon as you feel you may be experiencing a bipolar episode, you should tell your treatment team, “I need to come in immediately because I think I’m having an episode.”
If possible, ask someone close to you to intervene if you’re acting irrationally. For example, you might tell your sibling, “If I start taking stupid risks, please let my treatment team know I might be having a bipolar episode.”

