 There is a standard arbitration process for reporting and resolving cybersquatting. Someone “cybersquats” when they buy your business’s domain name for the sole purpose of selling it to you for a profit.For example, you might own a business, “PulseStar,” which you have also registered as your trademark. If someone buys the domain name “pulsestar.com” for the sole purpose of selling it to you, then this person has committed cybersquatting.
When someone registers a domain, they agree to arbitrate any dispute involving the name. Arbitration is like a trial, except it is much simpler and involves a private person (the arbitrator) deciding the dispute instead of a judge. If you win your dispute, then you can get the domain name transferred to you.
 To report and arbitrate a domain name dispute, you need to find who registered the domain. You can use “WHOIS Lookup.” Visit www.whois.net to search for the domain-name registrant.You can enter the web address and click “enter.” The name of the registrant should then appear on the next page.
Sometimes the registrant’s name is protected. In this situation, you should contact the “registrar”—the company the person registered the domain with. You will have to work with the registrar to show that you have a legitimate reason to get the registrant’s name., The Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers (ICANN) is the corporation that oversees the registration of domains around the world. They have created the Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP), which you use to report and challenge the use of your trademark in a domain.ICANN publishes a list of approved arbitrators you can choose from. The listing is available at their website.Click on the links to one of the approved arbitrators to start the complaint process.
 Each arbitrator will require that you submit roughly the same information. Before sitting down to file your complaint, gather the following so that you can complete the complaint in one setting:


contact information for the registrant
domain names you are disputing
registrar’s contact information
information about your trademarks or service marks (such as registration numbers, and the services or goods you use the marks with)

, You will start your complaint by identifying that you are bringing a UDRP case. For example, at the National Arbitration Forum website, you first click on “File a Claim,” which is near the top of the page.Then you select “Uniform Domain Name Dispute Resolution Policy (UDRP) Case” from the drop-down menu.
 After entering your basic information (contact information, domain names, etc.), you need to explain why the defendant is cybersquatting. In particular, you need to prove these three elements to win your case:


Explain how the domain name is “confusingly similar” to your trademark. This element is easily satisfied if the domain name uses your trademark.
Argue that the registrant has no rights in the name. The registrant does not have any rights or legitimate interests in the name if it is not being used with a bona fide offering of services or goods.If the domain name leads to a blank website, then you can prove this element.
Allege that the registrant has acted in bad faith. You can argue that the registrant acted in bad faith because its primary purpose for registering the domain was to sell it to you or a competitor, or because it wanted to confuse consumers for the registrant’s commercial gain., In your complaint, you have to request a remedy. For example, you could ask that the domain name be cancelled. However, someone else could subsequently register it again.


Accordingly, you should ask that the registrar transfer the name to you.
 You will have to pay to use arbitration. The amount differs depending on the arbitration association you use and whether or not you have a one-person or three-person arbitration panel.


It usually costs around $1,300 to request a one-person arbitration panel.You can pay fees electronically when you submit your complaint.
 The registrant will receive a copy of your complaint and has the option of filing a response, which is called the “answer.” Typically, the registrant has 20 days to file his or her answer.You will receive a copy of the answer. Read it closely.


If you want, you can usually file a reply to the answer within five days. You are not required to. However, you might want to file a reply if the registrant made false statements and you can correct them quickly.
 You will probably receive a decision within 14 days. Arbitration goes much faster than a trial because there is no court appearances or lengthy fact-finding.The domain name should be transferred within 10 days if you win the arbitration.

