 The era of traditional, high heeled, white, wedding shoes is over. Nowadays, you can get away with wearing any type of shoe to your wedding - be it dress shoes, sneakers, cowboy boots, or sandals. The most important thing is that whatever shoe you pick suits your personality. So you want to find one you’ll feel completely comfortable and happy in. For example, if you never wear heels, you probably don’t want to wear them on your wedding day. You’ll likely have trouble walking in them and will, in turn, feel awkward and uncomfortable.Or, if you commonly wear vintage items, buy a 40s or 50s inspired shoe from a site like Modcloth. In the same vein, if you’re the type of person always in workout gear, try a new pair of sneakers!;
, You can opt for the traditional and choose a color that matches your dress - which may mean having to bring a swatch along with you to ensure that your colors are identical - or you can go outside the box and pick a bright, standout color. The most popular colors for bridal shoes are white, neutral, yellow, violet, purple, gray, and black. However, picking a jewel tone like an emerald or a ruby is a great way to add some extra character to your gown and showcase your personality.Keep in mind if you can’t find the color you want, most shoes can be dyed.
There is also the option of picking a shade that diverts from your dress but matches your accessories, such as silver or gold.
You can also change up the color through embellishments, such as pearls, beads, sequins, and rhinestones.
 Raw silk, crepe, or satin shoes are common choices because these are often the fabrics of the dress. However, diverting from the norm and selecting a different fabric from the dress, like leather or metallic, can add a unique touch to the overall ensemble.


Keep in mind if you choose shoes that are vinyl or plastic, they are likely to pinch and rub awkwardly against your feet. They also don’t breathe well, which can cause your feet to swell more., Weddings are all day events and you don't want to kick your shoes off, at least until you have finished the formal dancing. The reality is that comfort is a very significant factor to consider when choosing a shoe, more-so than looks, and you don't want to find this out while you are cringing during the photo session. Heels should only be an option if you are used to wearing them, and if you are not, but you really want to wear them, then buy them well in advance to break them in and get used to them.


The shape of the shoe can also affect your comfort level. For example, a shoe with an open or rounded toe is likely to be more comfortable than a shoe with a pointed toe., Take into account the formality of the wedding, the style of your dress, and the season when selecting a wedding shoe. For example, a satin, open-toe, off-white slipper would work well with an off the shoulder, open back, satin gown during the summer. In contrast, a plain raw silk closed shoe would complement a traditional raw silk, full-skirted gown during the fall and winter months. Informal weddings allow for casual looks, such as ballet slippers or embellished sandals.
 Though it may seem like you can save the shoes for last, you ideally want to have them before you start your dress fittings. This is because the hemline of your dress, as well as the train if you have one, are dependent on the height of your shoes. For example, if you are wearing high heels you will want to have some extra room at the bottom of your dress to cover them.This will also help ensure you aren’t tripping over your dress if you don’t have enough of a heel.
If you don’t have shoes before your first fitting, try bringing a pair close to the ones you want - or think you’ll want. That way the seamstress has a good idea of how to alter your gown.
 Don’t just buy the first pair of shoes you find. Instead, if you see a style you like, shop around online for a similar pair for a better deal. Wedding shoes can cost anywhere between $20-$150 normally, and you want to make sure you aren’t overspending on shoes hardly anyone might see.Try online shoe stores like Zappos, RetailMeNot, or Walkin on Air.
You should also make sure whatever site you use offers refunds in case there is a problem.
 Regardless of the type of shoe you buy, you can always purchase extra items to help them reach an optimum level of comfort. For example, cushion insoles or non-slip sole stoppers will help make sure your shoes fit you correctly while helping prevent blisters.You can find these items at any drugstore like Walgreens or CVS. They are also relatively cheap, in case you want to purchase multiples.
 Since wedding planning is stressful enough, it’s always a good idea to bring along a support system. Not only will they be there to pep talk you when you get stressed, but they will also be able to offer their advice and opinions on your shoe choices. Just make sure whoever you bring along has a good idea of your personal style, if not, you may end up clashing over shoe styles.
 No matter how comfortable your wedding shoes are, it’s always smart to have an extra pair or back up. For example, you never know if you might break a heel or tear the fabric. For these reasons and comfort, most brides keep one pair for the wedding ceremony, pictures, and first dance at the reception, then change into a second pair for the rest of the evening. This second pair can be anything from flip-flops to sneakers, it’s up to you.


If you want something cheap and simple, try a pair of Fast Flats from Dr. Scholl’s. This is a small package you can keep in a purse or bag that only costs about $8.