 Think of filing a lawsuit as a last resort. Anything you can do to resolve your dispute before resorting to litigation will save a lot of time, money, and stress for all involved., Many states have separate courts, each with their own limited jurisdiction.


For example, probate courts deal with wills, trusts, and estate matters. Family courts deal with family law issues such as divorce and child custody.
Beyond those special courts, the general civil court can only hear your claim if it has personal and subject matter jurisdiction – meaning it has the power to order the person you're suing to do something related to the subject of your lawsuit.
To have personal jurisdiction, the court generally must be the located in the county where the person you're suing lives, or where a company does business.,, You may not have gone to law school or passed the bar exam, but if you represent yourself the judge expects you to know the rules to the same extent as the attorneys who have., Many states have form petitions available for common types of cases. These forms are pre-approved by the courts and include all the necessary information to state a claim.Typically these forms include instructions for filling them out, along with basic formatting instructions.
For example, you usually aren't allowed to change the formatting of the form itself, such as by retyping it yourself. If you print the form and handwrite your answers, most courts expect you to print legibly using blue or black ink.
You also should find out if there are any other forms you need to include along with your complaint or petition. Typically you will need a summons or a certificate of service. You also may need a cover sheet or other documents such as a notice of hearing., Before you start working on the documents you're going to file with the court, take a moment and make sure you have all the correct information to include in them.


Double-check the name of the person or business you want to sue and make sure you've got a full legal name. For example, if you file a lawsuit against "Bob Jones," but the man's legal name is "Robert Jones," he can effectively ignore your lawsuit., If you couldn't find a form for your particular claim, you may be able to find a similar case previously filed in the same court that you can use as a guide., In addition to online resources, many courts have self-help centers at the courthouse, or clinics that meet a few times a month.Attorneys at these centers or clinics can review your forms or even offer you limited legal advice on your claim free of charge, as well as walk you through the process of filing a claim and help you better understand your state's rules of evidence and civil procedure., You must sign your complaint or petition before you can file it. In some cases you also must sign it before a notary public, or include an affidavit signed before a notary.


If you don't know where to locate a notary, call your bank. Many banks offer notary services to their customers free of charge. You also can find a notary at the courthouse or in a private business such as a check-cashing company, although you'll have to pay them a small fee.
After you've signed your documents, make enough copies to have one for your own records plus one for each person you're suing – the court keeps the originals., Once you've completed your complaint and any other documents, take the entire packet together with any copies to the clerk's office.You'll have to pay a fee to initiate your lawsuit, which can be as much as several hundred dollars.
If you can't afford the fees, ask the clerk for a form to request a waiver. You probably will have to provide information about your income and assets before the judge will approve your request., Before the court will hear your case, the other side must know that you are suing them, and for what. Having them served through a judicially accepted process provides this notice.Typically you can have the lawsuit served personally by the sheriff's department or a private process serving company. You also may be able to use use certified mail in some courts.You also can get anyone over the age of 18 who isn't involved in your case to deliver the papers to the other side, if you know someone trustworthy who is willing to do so. If you go this route, give the person your proof of service form so they can fill it out and sign it once they've completed service., If you use the sheriff's department or a private process serving company, they typically will file the proof of service on your behalf.


However, if you have the papers served on your own, you must file a document letting the court know the lawsuit was served on the other party.