 That means when you think "I'm not going to sit around all day today.",your mind focuses on "I sit". Instead, set goals and motivate yourself with positive statements such as "I will go for a walk." or "I can do my homework after dinner.";
, Faced with a difficult situation or person, it is natural for all of us to feel frustrated. The challenge here is to put effort into looking for something positive, even when you don't feel like it.


If your boss has berated you in front of colleagues, you will feel embarrassed and angry. And justly so. But you are the one who will come out ahead when you find something positive in the situation. Even the thought that he or she is the one who behaved inappropriately, and that everyone is aware of it, can help you to deal with the range of emotions you're experiencing. Rather than think about changing jobs, especially in this job market, look for clues that will benefit you.

While delivered poorly, was the information accurate?
Have you been taking your responsibilities lightly?
Is there a reason why someone might misinterpret your actions?


If none of that applies, and you are on top of your game, sometimes it helps to label the other person with a naughty title, and decide that they just aren't capable of good manners right now, and go on with your day.
 Sometimes life deals hard blows - job loss, financial strain, the death of a loved one. Even minor difficulties, such as a fender bender, your teenager's poor grades, or a burnt roast, can engender feelings of anger, depression, or a misplaced sense of deserving "bad luck". Remember that, while life is what we make it, and our attitude contributes greatly to what comes to us, life also just happens. Some of the best people have had to deal with extreme difficulties. So, what makes them the best people? They've learned to shine in spite of those hard times. Or maybe they shine because of them.
 All of the events of your past have contributed to who you are now. Look for the strengths you have gained through your experiences. Look for the people who have come into your life, even if for a short time, and what a blessing they are. Look for the wisdom you've gained in learning how to get through the tough spots.
 Whatever your situation is, imagine it going as badly as you are able. Take it to the ridiculous, terrifying, ludicrous extreme. Let yourself experience that low, and imagine how you would deal with it. Now begin to construct your reaction. What you are doing is becoming pro-active. You are creating a situation of growth and learning. Your mind will utilize your abilities and strength, and you will have hope.

