 Once a strawberry has started to decay or turn mushy, freezing won't save it. The ripe, bright red strawberries will preserve best.Moldy or mushy strawberries should be discarded in the compost, garden, or trash.
 Most strawberries are sold with a green cap where the stem was attached, or with a small stem segment. Cut these off before freezing.
 You can freeze strawberries whole, but if you intend to use them in recipes or as toppings you may wish to chop, slice, crush, or puree them first. Once frozen and thawed, they will be more difficult to cut, although pureeing always remains an option. Larger strawberries may also freeze and thaw more evenly if you cut them into smaller pieces first.If you're not sure how you want to prepare your strawberries, look at a few recipes first. Pureed strawberries work well in slushies or smoothies, while sliced ones go well as toppings on cakes or waffles. Whole strawberries can be dipped in chocolate.
 Packing strawberries in sugar or sugar syrup will preserve more flavor and texture, but not everyone enjoys the extreme sweetness that can result.If you do decide to go this route, use 3/4 cup (180 mL) sugar for each 1 quart (1 L) berries, regardless of how they are prepared. Alternatively, create a heavy sugar syrup by mixing equal parts sugar and lukewarm water, then chill in the refrigerator and use it to cover the berries completely.While it may make more sense to add sugar or syrup after packing the strawberries, decide whether to use it or not before you begin packing, so you know whether to leave additional space in the containers.
 This is a good option if you prefer an unsweetened strawberry, but you want to preserve the flavor and texture better than a "dry pack" with no additional ingredients would. This requires purchasing powdered pectin, and boiling it in water. Different brands may require different amounts of water per packet. Let the pectin syrup cool before covering the strawberries.


Note that this may not preserve it as well as the sugar or sugar syrup.
 Thick, rigid glass and plastic containers typically work best, but make sure they are freezer-safe before using. Freezer-safe plastic zip lock bags are another option. Pack the strawberries loosely to prevent them forming one large mass. It's generally a good idea to leave 1/2 to 1 inch (1.25–2 cm) of space at the top of the container to allow for expansion while freezing.


If the strawberries are packed "dry," without any sugar or syrups, you may wish to spread them loosely on a tray and freeze them for a few hours on the tray. Then transfer to a more compact container as described. This makes it easier to remove individual strawberries instead of a large, icy lump.
 Remove the strawberries and let thaw in the refrigerator for several hours before using. If you wish to speed up this process, put the strawberries under cold running water. Heating in a microwave or by another method may cause the strawberries to become unpleasantly mushy. Eat while there are still a few ice crystals on the surface, as the strawberries may become mushy when fully thawed.

The exact length of time this process takes depends on the temperature and the size of your strawberries. A large mass of strawberries frozen together may need to be left overnight or even longer.

