 Find a hard and flat surface, like a table, to work at while you untangle the knot.The flat and hard surface will provide stability when you begin working through the tangles and will prevent other tangles from forming during the process.


Be sure that your workspace has plenty of light so you can see the knots and tangles clearly.It helps to work on a black or white background, so the knots in the necklace stand out against the stark colors.;
, If you have one necklace that is tangled, unclasp the fasteners connecting the two ends of the necklace.If you have multiple necklaces tangled together, undo the clasp or latch for each one.


Undoing the clasp will separate the necklace strand, allowing the ends of the necklace to slide more easily through the knotted areas.
 Whether you have one tangled necklaces or numerous, lay them on your work surface, and gently spread them out so you can identify the tangled sections.


Be careful not to pull your necklace too hard as you spread it on your workspace. You could end up tightening the knot or breaking the necklace., Dab a couple drops of baby oil or olive oil to the knotted parts of the necklace.The oil will allow the strands of the necklace to slide past each other more easily as you untangle the knot.


Lubricating oils like baby oil or olive oil are safe to add to necklaces, and can be easily washed off., Poke the sharp tips of two needles into the center of the knot. While in the middle of the knot, gently pull the needles away from each other to open and loosen the knot.Once you get an opening in the knot, use the needles to pull apart each strand of the necklace within the knot.Be very patient during this untangling step. It can be very easy to get frustrated working with such concentration on such a small scale.


Any fine needle such as a sewing needle, safety pin, or thumb tack will work for this untangling process., Once the necklace has been untangled, you can remove the oil or baby powder you previously added by dunking the soiled portion of the necklace into a mixture of mild detergent and water.Rinse off the necklace with clean water, and gently dry the necklace with a paper towel or a soft cloth.


You can also use store bought jewelry cleaner to remove the oil on the necklace. Just be sure to rinse the necklace with clean water, and gently dry it.

