 In the United States, it is illegal to steal someone’s copyright work and publish it on your website. However, website owners can avoid liability if they immediately remove a work after being sent a “takedown” notice. If they don’t remove the challenged content, then they can be sued. Accordingly, you should send takedown notices to websites that are hosting your copyright work.


You will send the notice to the website’s agent. You can find the website’s agent by looking on the website. Search for a “Contact Us” or “Terms and Conditions” link.
If you can’t find anything posted on the website, then you should search the database at the U.S. Copyright Office.You can search by the name of the company that owns the website.
 Set it up as a standard business letter. Make sure that is typed using a legible font size and style. Also be sure to include the date. The date will help establish when the website owner received notice of the theft.
 You need to specifically identify which photograph has been stolen. If someone has taken many different works, then provide a representative list., Tell the website owner where the stolen photo is being hosted. If there is a link to your work, then provide the link.To make this easy, you can print off the pages which contain the stolen image. Include these pages with your notice.
 The person might need to contact you, so make sure to include both a day and evening phone number, email address, and mailing address., The language you use here is key. Specifically, state that you have “a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent, or the law.”, You also need to state that “under penalty of perjury” that you are the copyright owner or you are authorized to act on the owner’s behalf., If you are sending an email, then sign with an electronic signature.Otherwise, sign the written copy and mail it certified mail, return receipt requested.


Be sure to keep a copy for your records.
 You can sue for copyright infringement if the website owner does not remove the photographs in a timely manner. You should meet with an intellectual property lawyer to discuss your options.

