 Wunderlist is available for free on Google Play Store. Downloading applications from third-party websites is illegal and the risk of virus infection always prevails in such cases.;
,, Select the install option and agree the user permissions to start the download.
 It will display a welcome screen asking to create an account.
 Once you are registered to Wunderlist, it will sync all your lists so that whenever you log in using other device, all your lists will be available for you. In the welcome screen, you are offered three options through which you can register to Wunderlist:



Sign in using a Google account: Use your Gmail ID and password to sign in to Wunderlist.

Sign in using a Facebook account: User your Facebook username/registered phone number and password for signing in.

Register using e-mail ID: If you want to use your e-mail ID, select this option to fill in Name, e-mail ID, password, etc. and create an account.
 Wunderlist has a selection of lists for their users to get started. You can create more lists after the setup has completed. Choose the lists as per you choice and select 'Continue' to complete the setup.
 It will ask you to create:



New List: This will create a subsection on the home screen under which all you to-do will be listed.

New to-do: This will create a to-do under the subsection of your choice.
 This will open a window asking you to type the name of the List.
 Select a name which is small and which tells what this list is about. For example, you may have a list named 'Places to visit in India' which will have all the tourist destinations listed in it.
,, This will open a window to create a task.
 Enter a task in such a way that as soon as you see it, you get an idea of what you are supposed to do. For example: Walk a dog, Call Mom, etc.
 Select the list section to see all the lists you have created. For example: 'Writing an article' can come under the 'wikiHow' list and 'Call Mom' can come under the 'Family' list.
 Select 'Set due date' to set the due date of a task.
 Select 'Remind me' to set the time to set a reminder for a task. You will receive an e-mail as well as a notification reminder for the task.
