 The easiest way to decide what to make for your girlfriend’s birthday is to think about her favorite foods and find recipes that you think you can handle. If you’re not an experienced cook, it’s usually best to keep it simple by making a basic pasta dish. To get some inspiration, visit a few cooking websites and skim the recipes until you find the perfect options for your girlfriend.Steak and baked potatoes is a relatively simple meal to prepare, particularly if you cook the meat on a grill. Make the meal a little more special by adding a marinade to the steak, such as soy sauce, lemon and garlic, or a balsamic vinaigrette.
Roast chicken can be an easy recipe to follow if you swap a whole chicken for several individual skin on, bone-in pieces instead. Place them in a baking dish with your favorite marinade and roast until they're brown. Add your girlfriend's favorite vegetable or starch side dish, and you have an elegant, but simple dinner.
Once you have selected the recipes you’ll be using, make a list of ingredients and head to the grocery store. You don’t want to find out that you’re missing an ingredient when you start to prepare the meal.
Don’t forget the cake! If you’re feeling overwhelmed by preparing the meal itself, go with a store-bought option that you know she’ll love.
You don’t necessarily have to make dinner for your girlfriend’s birthday meal. Surprise her with a delicious, homemade breakfast in bed instead.
 It’s not just about the food when you’re planning a birthday dinner for your girlfriend. Make it special by dressing the table up a little more than you would for a normal meal. Use a tablecloth and cloth napkins, and set out the best dinnerware and glasses that you can find. You may also want to add flowers or balloons.If you don’t have a nice tablecloth, napkins, dishes, and glasses, ask a friend or family member if you can borrow some for the evening.
Make the table setting even fancier by learning how to Fold a Cloth Napkin in elegant shapes.
 It’s important to give yourself plenty of time to cook your girlfriend’s birthday meal, so you don’t feel overwhelmed at the last minute. Make sure you know when she’s going to arrive, and consult the recipes to see how long it should take to prepare the food. Add an extra hour or so to the time in case you run into any trouble.If you’re nervous about cooking the meal, ask a friend or family member who has experience in the kitchen to help. Just make sure that your assistant leaves before your girlfriend shows up.
 As the food is cooking, take the time to make sure that you have the right mood to celebrate your girlfriend’s birthday. Dim the lighting, and light some candles on the table and around the room for a more romantic feel. Make a playlist of your girlfriend’s favorite songs, and have it playing when she arrives.If you don’t want to light candles, you can opt for string lights. Hang a few strands throughout the room for soft mood lighting.
Help maintain the perfect mood by making sure that your phone is turned off or on vibrate during the meal. You don’t want any interruptions to ruin the celebration.

