 If you are a student, your own school is the best place to start when looking for volunteer work. Visit the guidance counselor or ask a teacher about any opportunities they might be able to direct you towards.

]

If you are in college, try the office for student involvement. There are likely a good amount of student organizations based around volunteer work that you could look into or get information from.
Find out about using your volunteering to get academic credit. Some college programs incorporate volunteer work into the normal curriculum, but there is a chance that other programs might offer a way to earn credit hours through volunteering. If you are a junior or senior in high school, you might be able to work volunteering into your school schedule. See your academic advisor or guidance counselor.;
, They might be looking for ongoing volunteers or need help with special events. Your local Chamber of Commerce would be a great place to start when looking for locally-based volunteer opportunities.


Even if there are no specific programs that exist through the city itself, they still might be able to direct you to organizations or groups that need help from volunteers nearby.
 Little League teams are often looking for help from older kids, teenagers, college students, and parents. Visit your local sports complex for a practice schedule, and to get contact information for coaches and leaders.There may be summer camps that are looking for young people or parents to volunteer to help with the kids while they attend camp. If you are looking for an opportunity geared more towards outdoor activities like sports or camp, try an internet search for summer camps in your area and contact the directors.
 Churches, synagogues, or mosques in the area might need volunteers for a myriad of different projects, including after school care and Sunday school. They can also help you find volunteer opportunities with other groups and organizations they serve.


For example, the United Methodist Church has an online database of volunteer opportunities that you can search and find something local. But, simply driving up to a nearby place of worship and asking about opportunities might be just as effective.
 The Rotary, Lions Club or United Way have many chapters across the US. Try contacting these organizations and inquiring about what volunteer work they might need help with in the near future, and how you might go about becoming involved.


The Lions Club is a great place to seek different types of volunteering opportunities. Head to their website, find a club near you, and see a calendar of events. They help with everything from serving the community to disaster relief.
 Local stores, restaurants, and recreation centers might have bulletin boards advertising for volunteer opportunities in the area. Check these places, or just keep your eye out while you’re out around town for these kinds of advertisements or posts.


You can also get on the phone and call local youth groups, organizations, and health clubs to see if they might have any suggestions or opportunities for you.
 Use the search feature on their website to locate the chapter closest to you, and follow the procedure for signing up to volunteer. They have a small questionnaire you can fill out that will match you with ideal volunteer opportunities through the organization.\


Most of the Red Cross’s work is done by volunteers, so contributing to this organization will really have an impact on your local community. If there has been any kind of natural disaster nearby, the Red Cross can connect you with projects and teams helping those affected by it, as well.

