 You'll also need good attachments for your weapons. When being stealthy the best weapon for ground war (excluding sniping) stealth would be the MP5, which is a SMG weapon.

There are a lot of different attachments and perks to use. When using the MP5, the best attachment you can have would be the silencer. Using the silencer will cause everyone in the game to not know where you are or shooting from. Plus, you will not appear on the enemies' radar with the silencer.



 

;
, When choosing your perks, be smart - using the perks as followed would be good when using your MP5 silenced.

For the first perk it's a good idea to use the Bandolier perk. Although the MP5 is an excellent weapon in Call of Duty 4, it may run out of ammo pretty quickly. It depends on your style of play and shooting. If you don't need the Bandolier perk (you conserve ammo and/or find ammo along the way) then Bomb Squad is a useful perk. It will allow you to see enemy claymores and C4 and avoid them. It's essential to avoid them, since shooting and blowing them up will alert enemies to your presence.






For the second perk use UAV Jammer. Not using this will negate the use of a silencer as the enemy will inevitably acquire a UAV and discover your location anyway. Don't make the mistake of using Stopping Power, as this defeats the purpose of using a stealth kit in the first place. The whole point is to sneak around the back and kill your target before they know what's hit them.






For the third perk it is very wise to choose the Dead Silence perk. Using this will just add more of the stealthier style to your class, because you will be completely silent when moving with this perk. Using Extreme Conditioning is also a good idea as you'll be able to sneak around a lot quicker, giving you an edge. When sneaking up on a group, simply crouch, as this works the same as Dead Silence and makes you less of a target.
 (A sidearm is a pistol.) Probably one of the best weapons for the stealthier class would be the m9 with a silencer. This is because the m9 and mp5 use same ammunition, so instead of starting out with 90 bullets you will start out with 120. Make sure you are using a silencer on your pistol or it will reveal your location to the enemy.

