 Over-the-counter medicine is that which can be purchased without a prescription from a doctor. In particular, you should try non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). NSAIDs come in tablet, capsule, and spray form and help to relieve pain as quickly as possible. This sort of medicine works to block prostaglandins — involved in the inflammatory process, which can cause pain. When they become blocked, inflammation is reduced, relieving pain. However, keep in mind that you should never go over the dosage directions written on the bottle of the medication. The main NSAIDs are:Ibuprofen: This is a regular NSAID — it reduces prostaglandin production and reduces muscle aches. The most common form of ibuprofen is Advil and Motrin.
Naproxen: This works to reduce inflammation caused by bone and muscle strain. It is also an effective pain reliever. The most common form of naproxen is Aleve.
Aspirin: (Not very affective) This works to reduce inflammation. Common forms of aspirin include Bayer and Excedrin. Children and teenagers should not be given aspirin without doctor's approval, as it can increase their risk of Reye's syndrome, a potentially fatal condition.Acetaminophen: This drug is not an NSAID, but it helps to block pain centers in the brain and control the central nervous system. The most common form of Acetaminophen is Tylenol.;
, If you are experiencing muscle spasms that are causing pain, use a hot pack. The heat will work to soothe the pain, calm the muscle spasms, and reduce joint stiffness.Wrap the hot pack in a towel and then gently place the hot pack on the affected spot. Leave the hot pack on for 20 to 30 minutes.
 Cold compresses can be used on strained muscles. Ice is generally more useful to reduce swelling and inflammation.In the case of a cold compress, you should cover the affected area for 20 minute increments over the course of 24 hours.If you don’t have a cold compress, you can make your own by wrapping an unopened bag of frozen vegetables in a cloth.
 If you are experiencing extreme back pain, it may be your back telling you it needs to rest. Stop doing whatever activity was causing the pain and lie down or do something that is not physically demanding. Keep in mind that movement is a part of pain relief as well — you should resume doing some undemanding physical activities after the intense pain has subsided.

