 Interpreting your dream starts with remembering what your dream was about. Developing the habit of writing down your dreams as soon as you wake up is the best way to train your brain to remember the dream. Keep a notebook beside your bed to use as a dream journal.You can also use apps developed for your phone. Some apps even check for patterns, or help with dream interpretation.
You can also use a voice recorder on your phone, if writing is hard for you upon first waking up.;
, Your feelings about seeing the whale or dolphin provide useful information about its meaning. For instance, if you felt happy upon seeing a dolphin, or if you were swimming among dolphins with delight, this might mean that you want to be more carefree in your life. If you are scared of a dolphin, it might mean that you're going through a stressful time, and are afraid of losing control.Write down every feeling you have in association with your dream, even if it doesn't make sense. Don't allow your conscious (waking) mind to filter out the messages you're being given by your unconscious (dreaming) mind.
If you are the whale or dolphin in your dream, think about how it felt to take that shape. Did you feel more free, confident, happy? Or were you lonely, fearful, and uneasy?
Remember that all elements in the dream are potentially meaningful. It's a mistake to focus on only one element if your dream.
 Was the whale or dolphin in the water, or was it on land? If you dream about an animal out of its natural habitat, this might indicate that you're feeling uncertain about your place in the world. If it's underwater, be aware that often underwater dreams may symbolize the dark side of human nature, elements of our being that we may not want to look at.Dreaming about a dolphin indicates your willingness to listen to your subconscious, or your emotions.Dolphins are usually inspirational images in dreams, symbolizing optimism and social altruism.
 In a dream, every element is important. When you're trying to interpret your dream involving a whale or dolphin, think about everything you can remember from your dream. Even the most minor dream details have meaning.Some dream interpreters feel that the dreamer is every element within his dream. For example, if you dream about a school of dolphins playfully swimming in the surf until a fishing net captures them, one interpretation would be that you're trying to control your own playful nature.
If you dream about trying to save a whale or dolphin, this may mean that you're trying to salvage an important relationship, or some part of yourself that's in danger of dying.
 As mammals who live underwater, both whales and dolphins symbolize the merging of the conscious and the unconscious. When either appear in a dream, this may be a sign that it's time for you to act on something you've been holding inside, or speak your truth regarding an issue that's important to you.A whale often symbolizes awareness and intuition. Dreaming of a whale often means its time for you to listen to your inner voice.
Because a whale is the largest mammal in the world, dreaming of a whale may symbolize that you're feeling overwhelmed.Do
Think about anything specific you can recall about your animal. For example, was the dolphin in your dream swimming alone, or in a group? Did it appear healthy? Or was it sickly? If you dream about a whale or dolphin that is dying, this might mean that you are feeling disconnected from your inner self., When did you first see a dolphin? Are you fond of dolphins, or do they make you feel uneasy? Did you have a negative experience at the seaside or on the water, which you might associate with dolphins? If you went to the ocean following the death of a close friend, you may associate dolphins with grief.Because dreams are different for everyone, you are the best interpreter for your dreams.
Even though dolphins are often regarded as positive symbols, only you can know what they mean for you.
 Your dreams are unique to you, and your experiences in life. Therefore no two people will share the same dream interpretation. For example, whales might be associated with feelings of calm, independence, and strength for you. Or, you may think of whales as dangerous, "killer whales," or unmanageable fears.A dreamer's life experiences shape the meaning of anything appearing in her dreams.
Your feelings will be the best guide to interpreting the meaning of a whale in your dreams.
 Have you recently watched documentaries involving ruthless animal slaughter? Or have you recently been talking to a friend about going to the ocean? If whales or dolphins have been a part of your waking life recently, they might well recur in your dreams.If your feelings when you see a whale or dolphin in your dream have recently changed, consider whether current events may have created this change.
Remember that whales and dolphins, like other dream elements, are not meant to be interpreted literally. Dream interpretation is based in emotions rather than rational thought.
If your feelings about whales change in every dream, look to other dream elements for more information.
 If you have recurring dreams about dolphins or whales, notice whether these dreams have anything in common. For example, are you usually happy to see these images appear in your dreams? Do you usually see them following an narrow escape from something scary? Or are they part of a larger landscape, seen only in the distance? If you have repeated similar experiences in your dreams, it might indicate a strong need to work out a situation in your life.
Notice recurring thoughts and feelings as well we recurring images in your dreams. For example, if you have repeated thoughts of, "I'll die if that happens again," think about what you might mean by that.
 Research shows that most adults experience at least 4-6 dreams per night. Dreams occur during REM sleep, a period during which your sleeping brain is as active as it is when you are awake. The best way to remember your dreams is to keep a dream journal.As you become more aware of your dreaming life, you may start to better understand what dream symbols are important for you.
There is research that shows how dreams can help you better understand your waking personality. Dreams may even be valuable in diagnosing psychological issues regarding personality dynamics.