 Left untreated, hypothyroidism can cause serious health problems like infertility, heart disease, joint problems, and obesity.Seeing your doctor is essential for proper treatment of hypothyroidism and it is the first thing that you should do. Your doctor will need to run blood tests to check your thyroid function and determine the best treatment options. Ongoing blood tests may be necessary if you are on thyroid medication but are still unable to lose weight despite reducing your caloric intake and getting more physical activity.Weight gain is a common symptom of hypothyroidism, but you may also notice:Fatigue
Constipation
Feeling cold when other people feel comfortable or warm
Dry skin
Puffiness in your face
Hoarseness in your voice
Feeling achy or stiff in your muscles and joints
Having weak muscles
Losing hair
Feeling depressed
Not being able to remember things
Elevated cholesterol
Reduced heart rate
Heavy periods;
, You will need thyroid medication if you have hypothyroidism, which can help regulate your thyroid hormone levels balance and normalize.Thyroid medication won’t automatically cause you to lose weight. However, it can help relieve symptoms and regulate your metabolism so weight loss can occur.
Without thyroid medication, you will not be able to lose weight even with diet and exercise. The medication is necessary for regulating your metabolism so that you can lose weight.
 Levothyroxine is the most commonly prescribed medication for hypothyroidism.Make sure that you follow all of the instructions for taking your medication.


For example, you may need to take the medication on an empty stomach with a glass of water.Check with your doctor or pharmacist if you are unsure about the correct way to take your medication.
 Though there are no foods you should eliminate when you have hypothyroidism, there are foods that interfere with your body's ability to absorb your medication. You should avoid eating the following foods for an hour or two before or after you take your medication:Walnuts
Calcium supplements
Iron supplements or multivitamins with iron
Soybean flour and cottonseed meal
Antacids that contain aluminum or magnesium
Certain ulcer medications, like sucralfate.
Certain cholesterol-lowering drugs including colestipol and cholestyramine.

