 If you already blow dry your hair, the way you position your blow dryer may be contributing to your frizzy hair. When drying your hair, shake the dryer over your head, back and forth, until your hair is 80% dry.Keep your blow dryer’s nozzle face down, otherwise your hair will frizz.
When hair is 80% finished, apply a smoothing or anti-frizz serum, before completing your blow out.
For the ultimate smooth, polished look, use a boar bristle brush.;
, Spray a thermal protectant on your hands before rubbing it through your hair. When rubbing the protectant through your hair, steer clear of the roots. Covering your roots with product is a surefire way to make them greasy.


Perform this step before blow drying or straightening your hair. The serum will help protect your hair from all the heat.
Use serums only on the days when you're applying heat to your hair. Do not use serums when your hair is already dry and straight.
 Brush the hair, then use a ceramic iron to gently glide over the hair, without applying too much pressure. Do not clamp the iron down on any of the sections of hair.The coarser your hair is, the higher the temperature on your iron should be. If you have thinner or finer hair, heat your iron to 300 or 350 degrees, max.Divide your hair into sections before straightening. This will accelerate the straightening process, and help prevent you from going over the same sections of hair multiple times. If you own hair clips, use the clips to hold the hair you're not currently straightening out of your way. Try to grab 1/2 inch of hair in each section.
 Brush your hair and section it off as you would if you were using a straightening iron. Grab a section of hair and clamp the curling iron down on the hair, so the iron is facing the floor; this will keep your hair from crimping. Hold the bottom of your hair taut to create tension and slowly run your iron down the length of your hair. Repeat this motion for your entire head.Hold the iron at the bottom of your hair for an additional two seconds to really straighten the ends of your hair.
Go slowly, especially near your face, to avoid burning yourself.

