 Friday at the office can be a great opportunity to hone your casual dressing skills if, of course, your company declares Fridays a casual day for dress. Men can try wearing dark jeans with a wool blazer and loafers. Women can take advantage of Casual Friday by wearing dark denim jeans or a skirt and a nice blouse., The key to dressing smart casual is a chic ensemble that looks put together. Women can try a skirt and jacket over a brightly colored blouse accessorized with unique jewelry and a pair of closed toe pumps. Men can pair dressy slacks with brightly colored or patterned shirts and ties, topping off the look with a sports coat or jacket and a pair of monk-strapped shoes or loafers., Men can rock the “business casual” look by wearing shirts and sweater in a variety of patterns and colors paired with slacks or corduroy pants and elegant, yet relaxed shoes. Women can try fashionable combinations of skirts, tops, vests, and slacks with closed or even open toe shoes., Dressing casually on the weekends doesn’t have to mean sweatpants and an old t-shirt. Women can dress casually on the weekends and still look put together by pairing distressed denim skirts or jeans with more refined pieces such as a nice handbag and coat. Men can try wearing nice jeans and a V-neck shirt topped with a sweater or sports coat., It is becoming increasingly acceptable to don your athletic wear on a regular basis as long as you’re not wearing it to work. Make sure you keep up with seasonal trends and accessorize appropriately. For example, you can try wearing leggings with a long sweater and a scarf.If you are a student, be sure to consult your school’s dress code before wearing certain athleisure items to class.
 The key here is opting for fabrics that move with you, such as denim that contains spandex. This is a way to stay comfortable while looking great - you can be casual and comfortable while still looking put together. Try wearing stretchy jeans with your favorite comfy sweater and then accessorizing with a nice pair of earrings. You’ll come off as cool and casual while still feeling good in your clothes.

