 To wash a white cotton or polyester hat, you will need one cup of hydrogen peroxide, one tablespoon of dish liquid, and one scoop of a product like Oxi Clean White Revive. For a white wool hat, you will need a detergent specially designed for wool like Woolite. You will also need a sink or washtub to wash the hat in, and an old toothbrush or dish brush to remove tough stains., If you are washing a cotton or polyester hat, fill a sink or washtub with warm water. As you are filling the sink with water, add one scoop of a product such as Oxi Clean White Revive, one cup of hydrogen peroxide, and one tablespoon of dish liquid. Once your sink is about 2/3 full, turn off the water and swish it around to combine.For a wool hat, fill a sink or washtub with cool or cold water and add one capful of detergent designed for wool, such as Woolite., Once your sink is about 2/3 full and you have swished around the cleaning agents to combine them, place your hat in the sink. You will want to make sure the hat is fully submerged in the cleaning mixture.


Let a cotton or polyester hat soak in the mixture for 10-15 minutes.Soak a wool hat for at least one hour., After you have soaked the hat for 10-15 minutes, you can work on removing tough stains. Grab an old toothbrush or a dish brush. Gently scrub any tough stains. Then scrub the entire hat to remove any remaining dirt.


If your hat is made of wool, you should avoid scrubbing the hat as this can cause pilling of the wool.
 Once you are done cleaning the hat, rinse it with water. If the hat is made of cotton or polyester, rinse it with warm water. If the hat is made of wool, rinse it with cool or cold water. Make sure all of the cleaning agents are rinsed from the hat., Once your hat is rinsed, you will need to air dry it. You should not put the hat in a dryer. Instead, place the hat over an upside down bowl and allow it to dry in the sun. This will help the hat keep its shape. If you cannot place the hat in a sunny spot, dry it indoors. You can speed up the process by placing a fan near the hat.