 Start by removing any old nail polish and cleaning your nails. Next, trim and file your nails into a shape that you like. Finish off by pushing back your cuticles and applying a little cuticle oil.;
, When you are done with your nails, all you have to do is simply wipe the petroleum jelly away, along with any mistakes. You can also use white school glue instead, but be sure to let the glue dry first.


If you have a steady hand, or if you are experienced at creating nail art, you can skip this step.
 This will not only protect your nails against potential staining, but also help the manicure last longer.
 For best results, choose something that is light and neutral, such as beige, tan, white, cream, or ivory.If you want to create Halloween-themed nails, however, you could try black instead.


You don't have to do this nail art on every nail. You can use it as an accent by painting your nails a solid color, and then doing the nail art on your ring fingers.
If you decide to keep this nail art as an accent, consider painting your other nails a matching, but contrasting color, such as sparkling/shimmering orange.
 If the polish you are using is very sheer, you may need to apply a second coat.


The half-circles should be just a little bit narrower than your nail.
The half-circles should be no more than a third of your nail's length.
 Make the center stripe straight down the middle of your pumpkin. Let the other two stripes angle inward at the top of the pumpkin, and outward towards the edges of your nails. This will make your pumpkin look more like a pumpkin.If you can't find a light orange nail polish, try a dark orange one instead. The idea here is to create contrast.
 Make the stem using a few strokes so that is it not too thin. Remember to keep the stem short, however; the overall nail art should not go more than halfway up each nail.


If you only have one thin brush or striper brush, be sure to clean it first using nail polish remover. Blot the brush dry on a piece of paper towel before dipping it into the brown nail polish.
 This will make the "vine" part of the pumpkin. If you'd like, you can also add a small, star-shaped leaf as well.


Again, if you are going to use the same brush, remember to clean it first!

, The top coat will help protect your work, and help it last longer.
 If you used any petroleum jelly or white school glue in the cuticle area, simply wipe or peel it away. Next, use a thin brush or Q-tip and some nail polish remover to clean up the cuticle area.

