 Skin specialists tell us that despite stories you may have heard about milk and chocolate, diet doesn’t directly cause acne. However, recent research examined diets of indigenous populations around the globe where there was no acne in the teenage subpopulations. When diets were compared between the controls in the US who had more than 70% acne and the indigenous teenagers without acne, it was clear that milk products in combination with too much sugar were missing in the diets of the acne free teenagers, but present in the US controls.This explains why for some people, certain foods including dairy products and diets high in processed sugars increase the risk for acne. These foods increase inflammation and provide an environment where bacteria can flourish.Studies have indicated that low glycemic index foods (GI) reduce the severity of acne.Low glycemic index foods are those foods that release sugars into your blood more slowly. The lowest GI foods are:Bran cereals, Natural Muesli, rolled oats
Whole wheat, pumpernickel, whole grain breads
Most vegetables except beetroots, pumpkin and parsnips
Nuts
Most fruit except watermelon and dates. Mango, banana, papaya, pineapple, raisins, and figs have medium GI.
Legumes
Yogurt
Whole grains are low- to- medium GI. The lowest GI are found in brown rice, barley, and whole grain pasta.
 The vitamins that appear to be most important for the skin are vitamins A and D.Work the following foods into your diet:Vegetables: Sweet potato, spinach, carrots, pumpkin, broccoli, red peppers, summer squash
Fruit: Cantaloupe, mangoes, apricots
Legumes: Black-eyed peas
Meat and Fish: beef liver, herring, salmon
Fish: Cod liver oil, salmon, tuna
Dairy: Milk, yogurt, cheese

, Though many foods are fortified with Vitamin D, it doesn’t exist in abundance in the foods we eat. While you can try to increase your Vitamin D levels through eating, the single best way to get Vitamin D is to expose your skin to the sun 10-15 minutes a week. Sunlight triggers Vitamin D production by the skin.Do not wear sun screen, and leave as much skin exposed as you feel comfortable with.


Do not over-expose your skin to sunlight without sun screen, as it is very dangerous and could lead to cancer., Studies suggest that omega-3 fats can benefit those with acne.Omega-3 fats limiting the body’s production of leukotriene B4, which increases sebum production and leads to inflammatory acne. Sebum is a natural oil produced to moisturize the skin, but when it's over-produced, it clogs the skin and causes acne. By increasing the omega-3 fat in your diet, you can help control your acne. Foods you should look for include:


Seeds and Nuts: flaxseeds and flaxseed oil, chia seeds, butternuts, walnuts
Fish and Fish oils: salmon, sardines, mackerel, whitefish, shad
Herbs and Spices: basil, oregano, cloves, marjoram
Vegetables: spinach, sprouted radish seeds, chinese broccoli

