 Journaling your meals, snacks and drinks can help motivate you to stay on track. Also, people who journal typically lose more weight and keep it off longer compared to those who do not track their food.


You can either purchase a journal or download a food journal app. Try to track as many days as you can. Again, you're more likely to stay on track and stick with your meal plan the more often you record your foods.
Keep track of your food journal. This may be a good resource to evaluate how well your diet is going and how effective it is for weight loss.
 Sleeping seven to nine hours each night is recommended for general health and wellness.However, adequate sleep is also important for weight loss. Studies show that people who sleep less than six or seven hours nightly or have poor sleep weigh more than those who get adequate rest.Go to bed earlier. If you have to get up early, try to get in bed earlier to help increase your total sleep time.
To make sure you have a sound and undisturbed sleep, remove all electronics — like your phone or computer — from your bedroom.
Practice good sleep hygiene to ensure you get the most out of your sleep.
 Baseline activity is activity that you already do everyday — walking up stairs, walking to and from the car, and doing daily chores.This type of activity does not burn a lot of calories, but can help support your weight loss.


Although it's very possible to lose weight without going to the gym or working out regularly, there are definitely benefits of being moderately active. Even by simply increasing baseline activity, you may notice more weight loss, improved mood, or increased energy.Try to increase your baseline activity each day. Try: parking father away, taking the stairs instead of the elevator, standing during commercial breaks, or delivering messages to co-workers in person instead of email.
Encourage social gatherings that are a bit more active. Frisbee golf, swimming, or a simple picnic in the park with friends are activities that will get you moving (and get you fresh air). If weather is an issue, do something indoors like dancing.

