 To improve your relationship with work and alleviate anxiety or OCD symptoms, you can develop a self-care plan that covers every area of your life. If you are obsessed with working, the rest of your life may be neglected. A self-care plan helps you balance your life and pay attention to each part of your life.Your self-care plan can focus on work, relationships, leisure time, the self, and your spiritual life. By breaking down your life into concrete categories, you can see where you are lacking and what needs improvement.
For example, you may have 90% of your energy into your work. Your self-care plan allows you to schedule an hour each evening for leisure, where you watch television, an hour of exercise to focus on yourself, and two hours to spend with your family. On the weekends, you spend Saturday with your family and friends, and Sunday you focus on yourself.
Start working on balancing your life. All of your energy now is focused on work. You should think about what’s important to you, like family and friend relationships or improving your leisure time. Put more effort into those areas of your life and less into work.
Becoming more balanced in your life, improving relationships, and working on yourself can help reduce stress that leads to anxiety and OCD.;
, Many people who work all of the time don’t sleep enough because they are too busy working. This can worsen anxiety and OCD symptoms, making you feel even worse. Worsening anxiety and OCD symptoms may also affect your work quality. To help with this, strive to get into a healthy sleep routine.Most people need seven to nine hours of sleep each night.
You should go to bed at the same time every night and wake up at the same time every morning. This helps you adopt healthy sleeping habits.
 If you are spending all of your time focusing on work, your stress levels may be extremely high. This can increase your anxiety or OCD symptoms. To help alleviate your anxiety, take small breaks from work throughout the day to relieve stress.For example, take a 10 minute walk around the building or block. Exercise can help boost your mood and improve your anxiety.
Go to lunch with coworkers or friends. Spending time connecting with people can help reduce anxiety and OCD symptoms.
 When your anxiety or OCD symptoms get too bad because you are not working, you may need to use stress-relieving techniques to alleviate the symptoms. At first, you may even experience anxiety attacks as you fight compulsions or obsessive thoughts about working.


Try deep breathing to help relieve anxiety. Whenever you feel overwhelmed by anxiety or OCD symptoms when you aren’t working, take a deep breath through your nose as you count to five. Hold it for a count of five, then exhale through your mouth for a count of five.Regular exercise is a great way to treat anxiety and OCD symptoms. A thirty minute walk each day can reduce your symptoms. Try getting active each day, or try stress-relieving exercises such as yoga or tai chi., One good way to learn how to calm down and let go of work is to meditate. Meditation helps you learn how to clear your mind so you can reduce stress. Mediation is also a good treatment for anxiety and OCD. Mediation helps you get rid of negative thoughts, stress, guilt, and anxiety.Meditation may also help you be able to control compulsions and obsessive thoughts.
Guided meditation is a good starting place if you’ve never meditated before. Guided meditation walks you through the process, so you are coached to relaxation and towards your mental goals., When you work too much, you may begin to lose yourself and forget to focus on anything that is enjoyable or enriching in your life. To help work on your sense of self, revisit old hobbies or develop new interests that have nothing to do with work.


At first, you may have to tell yourself that spending time not working is okay. Remind yourself, “Spending time engaging in hobbies helps me be a healthier, happier person. I have completed my work and I deserve something good.”

