 Crush the graham crackers first, then dump them into a mixing bowl. Add the sugar, then stir everything together with a spoon.


You can crush the graham crackers in a food processor or in a plastic bag with a rolling pin.;
, Fill the bottom of each jar with 2 tablespoons of the crumb mixture. Pat the mixture down with the base of a wooden spoon.


You have enough mixture to fill about 7 mason jars. Each jar will be enough to serve 2 people.
You can make smaller servings instead. Use 14 4-ounce (120-milliliter) jars instead.
 Scoop the cream cheese into an electric mixer. Beat the cream cheese using a medium speed setting for 2 minutes. Every so often, pause the mixer, and scrape down the walls of the bowl with a rubber spatula.The cream cheese must be softened and at room temperature.
If you don't have an electric mixer, you can use a food processor fitted with whisks instead.
 Scrape any cream cheese down the walls of the bowl first. Add the sugar and cornstarch. Beat them on a medium speed setting for 2 more minutes., Scrape the mixture down the walls of the mixer first. Add in the vanilla, eggs, and cream. Beat everything together for 2 more minutes using a low speed setting.If you don't have any heavy whipping cream, or would prefer a lighter option, try half-and-half or whole milk., Use a rubber spatula to help guide the batter into the jars. Be sure to scrape the bowl clean so that you don't waste any batter.


If you got any batter on the outside of the jars, wipe it away with a damp cloth.
 You don't have to screw the lids on tightly. You will be taking them off shortly. They are there simply to protect the batter from the water in the next step.


If you do not own a crockpot, preheat your oven to 325°F (163°C)., The water needs to come up ¾ of the way up the sides of the jars. Once the crockpot is filled, you can remove the lids and set them aside.


If you do not own a crockpot, place the jars into a roasting pan or casserole dish. Fill the dish hot water until the water is halfway up the jars., The cheesecakes are done when they no longer jiggle. If you poke a knife into the cake, ½-inch (1.27-centimeters) from the edge, it should come out clean.If you do not own a crockpot, bake the cheesecakes in the preheated oven for 30 minutes., Turn off the crockpot. Leave the jars inside for 20 minutes. Remove the jars. Set them down on a counter. Let them cool for 1 hour.If you do not own a crockpot, remove the jars from the pan with a pair of tongs. Set them on a wire rack to cool., Once the cheesecakes have cooled off, cover the jars with lids. Place them into the fridge. Leave them there for several hours to overnight., Top the cheesecakes off with whipped cream and fresh berries. You can also garnish it with chocolate chips or chocolate sauce instead. One ½-pint (240-milliliter) jar will be enough for 2 people. A 4-ounce (120-milliliter) jar will serve one person.

