 Research is being done to determine the extent of dietary supplements' impact on sinus headaches. The following supplements may prevent or treat sinus headaches:Bromelain is an enzyme produced by pineapples, which may help reduce sinus inflammation. Do not take bromelain with blood-thinners since the supplement can increase your risk of bleeding. You should also avoid bromelain if you're taking angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, a class of medications commonly used to treat high blood pressure (hypertension). In the due this case, Bromelain can increase the chances of a precipitous drop in blood pressure (hypotension).
Quercetin is a plant pigment responsible for producing vibrant colors in fruits and vegetables. It is thought to act as a natural antihistamine, but more studies are needed in humans to see if it behaves like an antihistamine.
Lactobacillus is a probiotic bacteria that your body needs for a healthy digestive system and effective immune system. The supplement decreases both the chances of developing allergies and gastrointestinal side effects such as diarrhea, gas and abdominal pain related to using antibiotics.
 There are many herbs that may reduce the chances of getting sinus headaches. They do this by preventing or treating a cold, boosting the immune system, or reducing sinus inflammation. Studies have shown that the herbal supplement, Sinupret, can decrease the symptoms of sinus inflammation. It's believed that it works by thinning mucus, allowing for improved sinus drainage.Other herbs that have traditionally been used to treat sinus headaches include:


Chinese skullcap. Make a tea by pouring 1 cup of boiling water over 1 to 2 teaspoons of dried leaves. Cover and steep the mixture for 10 to 15 minutes. Drink two to three cups a day to feel sinus relief.
Feverfew. Make a tea by pouring 1 cup of boiling water over 2 to 3 teaspoons of freshly chopped feverfew leaves. Steep the mixture for 15 minutes, strain it, and drink it up to three times a day.
Willow bark. Make a tea by combining one teaspoon of chopped or powdered willow bark with 8 – 10 ounces of water. Bring the mixture to a boil and simmer for five minutes. Drink the tea three to four times a day.
 Studies have shown that certain essential oils applied to your temples (next to your eyes on the side of your face), can relieve sinus and tension headaches. Create a 10% solution of peppermint or eucalyptus oil in rubbing alcohol and dab it on your temples using a sponge.To create the solution, try mixing three tablespoons of rubbing alcohol with one teaspoon of peppermint or eucalyptus oil.


This mixture can relax your muscles and reduce your sensitivity to the sinus headaches, according to research., Homeopathy is a belief and alternative therapy that uses small amounts of natural substances that are meant to cause the body to heal itself. Chronic sinus sufferers usually use homeopathy, with studies showing the majority of patients reporting improved symptoms after two weeks.Homeopathy has a large number of treatments targeting sinus congestion and headache including


Arsenic album, Belladonna, hepar sulphuricum, iris versicolor, kali bichromicum, mercurius, natrum muriaticum, pulsatilla, silicea, and spigelia.
 This is an ancient Chinese discipline that applies thin needles to acupuncture points. It is believed that these points can correct imbalances in your body's energies.To treat your sinus headache, an acupuncture practitioner will treat the sinus inflammation (or dampness) by strengthening points along your spleen and stomach.You shouldn't try acupuncture if you're pregnant, have a bleeding disorder, or have a pacemaker., Your chiropractor may be able to help your sinus headache by adjusting and manipulating misalignments within your body, although there are no trials that support this claim. In sinus adjustment, the practitioner targets the bones and the mucous membranes lining the cavities of sinuses.


Manipulation adjusts joints to correct misalignments that stimulate the nervous system. This may restore function to affected areas of the body.