 Before you start painting, it's best to figure out the size and style of your design. To do this, first, measure the height and width of the wall you want to paint with a measuring tape. Once you've made note of both numbers, decide how many stripes you want to paint and in what fashion. For example, let's say you want 5 stripes on your wall with 5 peaks on each line.

This will help you graph the pattern of your design in the future.
 This drawing doesn't have to be exact, but it will help you figure out where and how to space out your stripes. Simply draw a mini-version of your wall with the height and width clearly marked along the side and bottom. Then, draw in the horizontal and vertical lines of your grid and make sure they are relatively even.

If you are concerned about getting an exact number for the spacing between your horizontal stripes, try using this simple formula - ceiling height/2x. For example, take the height of your ceiling divided by 2x to get the number of inches between each line. The 'x' in this equation would be the number of chevron stripes you'd like on your wall. So, if your ceiling is 90 inches and you want to paint three stripes, then the formula would follow 90/2(3), and you would get 15 inches (38.1 cm) between each stripe., Keep in mind that this base color will be the color of one of your stripes. You also need to make sure you cover the wall in at least a coat or two and let it dry overnight. Depending on the condition of the wall, you may also need to first use a primer before applying a coat of color.

Be sure to follow the directions on whatever paint you choose.
 Use measuring tape, a yardstick, and a pencil to draw horizontal and vertical lines in a grid pattern across the surface of your wall. Then, use painters tape to mark the boundaries for each chevron stripe. You may also want to use any extra bits of tape to label which stripe gets colored in.

Refer to your drawing to make sure you are spacing correctly.
 Once the base coat has dried and you've set up your grid, simply paint in the areas between the painter's tape. These should be the lines you've marked with bits of tape. Go over each area with a thick paintbrush or thick roller, and then let it dry.Once all the paint has dried, carefully pull off the painter's tape and voila!

