 As a criminal defendant, you should have an attorney representing you. Under the Constitution, you have a right to legal help. People with low incomes generally can get public defenders to represent them.


Call your attorney and explain how and why your bail has been revoked. Also tell your attorney that you want to try and get it reinstated. Your attorney should know what documents to file on your behalf.
If you don’t have an attorney, then now would be a good time to get one. Contact your local or state bar association and ask for a referral.;
, You may have posted bail by paying money into the court. However, you may also have posted a bond, which you got from a bond company. If you posted a bond, then the bond company needs to agree to reinstate the bond.


The court may have a form for the bond company to fill out. It may be called a “reassumption agreement” or something similar.Likewise, if someone else paid your bail money—for example, a relative or friend—then they need to also sign a “consent to reinstate bail” or similar form.
 Your court might publish “fill in the blank” forms that you can submit to ask that your bail be reinstated. You should check with the court clerk. The form may also be published on the court’s website.If you can download the form, then enter the information directly into the PDF. This makes your form look neat and legible.
 You will need to submit a written document to the court called a “motion.” If the court doesn’t have a printed, “fill in the blank” form for you to use, then you should format your own. Open a blank word processing document. Set the font to 14 point Arial or Times New Roman.Also give the document one-inch margins and double space it. You want your motion to be easy to read.
Check the other court documents filed in your case. You may have to print the motion on “pleading paper,” which is paper that is numbered up the left-hand side.
 The caption information goes at the top of the first page of your motion. You can find the caption information on any document filed in your case. It stays the same throughout your prosecution. The caption should contain the following:the name of the court at the top, in all caps
the name of the state prosecuting you and your name as “Defendant”
the case number

, The title of your motion will differ depending on whether you are trying to reinstate a bail bond or cash bail. If you are trying to reinstate a bail bond, then title your motion “Motion to Set Aside Notice of Bond Forfeiture and Reinstate Bail Bond.”If you are trying to reinstate cash bail, then title the motion “Motion to Set Aside Notice of Bail Forfeiture and Reinstate Bail.”

, Not all violations are harmful. For example, you might have missed a court hearing innocently. You could argue the following as to why your bail should be reinstated:You weren’t aware you violated the conditions of bail. For example, your bail might have required that you not have contact with a witness. Unknown to you, you might have ended up at the same restaurant as the witness, who then reports you for trying to contact them.
You didn’t intentionally violate your conditions of bail. For example, you might have missed a court hearing because of a family or medical emergency.
The government didn’t spend any money locating you. For example, you might have voluntarily turned yourself in as soon as you realized you missed a hearing.
The government didn’t suffer any prejudice because of your violation. If you turned yourself in quickly, then the case can proceed normally.
 In the body of your motion, you want to give the judge important information. You can start by writing “Date of Notice of Bail Bond Forfeiture” and then insert the date. The rest of your motion should explain why your bail should be reinstated.


For example, if the bond company needs to file the motion, then the body could read: “Acme Bond, having posted bail bond for the Defendant, and having received a Notice of Bond Forfeiture from this Court, asks this Court to set aside the Notice of Bond Forfeiture and grant an order to reinstate the bond for the following reasons: Defendant inadvertently missed the court hearing because of a medical emergency, which required that he visit the emergency room.”You can revise this paragraph if you posted the bail yourself. In that situation, you would write, “I, Jon Jones, having posted cash bail, and having received a Notice of Bond Forfeiture…”

, If you posted cash bail, then you would sign the motion. However, if a bond company posted bond, or if someone else posted cash bail on your behalf, then they need to sign the motion.The bond company should include the following sentence just above its signature line: “By this motion, I consent to the reinstatement of the bail bond previously posted.”
The bond company should then include information such as the date of the bond, its amount, and its power of attorney number (if applicable).
 You probably also have to give the court a proposed order. The order is what the judge signs after he or she has made a decision. In many courts, you have to draft a proposed order and file it along with your motion.


Insert the caption information at the top of the document and title it “Order to Set Aside Notice of Bond Forfeiture and Reinstate Bail Bond” or something similar.
The body of the order could read something like “IT IS ORDERED THAT the Notice of Bond Forfeiture is set aside and the bail bond reinstated under the same conditions and terms as previously imposed.”Insert a line for the date and a line for the judge’s signature.
 You may have to pay a fee before the court will consider vacating a bond forfeiture.You should check with the court to find out the amount and acceptable methods of payment.


If you can’t afford the fee, then ask the court clerk if there is any way to get the fee waived.
 Assemble all documents that you are filing and then make a copy for your records. You may have to send a copy of your paperwork to the prosecutor, so you should make an additional copy., If you are trying to reinstate bail from inside jail, then you will need to mail the motion to the court clerk or the court administrator.Ask someone in the prison for the address.


You should send a copy of your motion to the prosecutor. If a bond company or another person posted your bail, then send them a copy as well.
 The judge may hold a hearing to determine whether to reinstate your bail.The person in charge of the jail will take you before the judge. The judge may ask you questions about why you missed the court hearing or violated other conditions of your bail.


Answer every question honestly. Also remember to call the judge “Your Honor” and don’t interrupt the judge.
If the judge grants reinstatement, then he or she should sign your order. You may be responsible for sending copies of the order to relevant parties, such as the bond company or the person who posted bail on your behalf.
 This article describes the general process for getting bail reinstated. Your state’s rules on bail reinstatement may be different. You can find them by typing “your state” and “revocation of bail forfeiture” into your favorite search engine. If you can’t find anything, then you should consult with your attorney.
 Your “bail” includes more than just the money you paid into the court. Bail also includes certain conditions you have to fulfill. If you failed to fulfill one of them, then the judge may revoke your bail. The following are common conditions:You can’t contact witnesses or the victim.
You can’t break the law.
You must remain sober and stop using drugs or alcohol.
You might need to take drug tests.
You must report regularly to a court official.
You might need to wear an ankle bracelet.
 If you violated your bail, then the bondsman can arrest you and turn you over to the sheriff’s office. At that point, the bond company can file a document with the court stating you have been turned over. The bondsman does not need to agree to reinstate the bond.


Instead, the bondsman may pay the full face value of the forfeited bond and then turn around and sue you for the amount paid.If you put property up as collateral, then the bondsman could close on the property and sell it.
 Some people would prefer to represent themselves because they think they know more than a lawyer or because a lawyer is too expensive and they didn’t qualify for a public defender. However, if you face criminal charges, then you definitely need a lawyer’s help. A lawyer can help with your bail in the following ways:


A good local lawyer knows what factors the judge considers when deciding whether to reinstate bail. Every judge is different. A lawyer can tailor their arguments to a particular judge based on their past experiences with the judge.A lawyer is trained to make compelling arguments. You might not feel comfortable speaking in court. In that situation, you don’t do yourself any good by refusing to get a lawyer.
A lawyer has the time and knowledge to file your motion correctly. It might be hard for you to file documents and schedule hearings when you are in jail. Although your family outside can try to help, they may feel overwhelmed. An attorney knows what to file with the court and when to file it.

