 Grains, particularly whole grains, provide quick energy and can be a large part of your diet if you're trying to gain weight. Grains are especially good if you're an athlete and need a good amount of fast-acting energy; grains, along with other carbohydrates like fruits, should make up half your diet.When choosing grains, stick with healthy whole grains, such as oatmeal, whole wheat pasta, whole wheat bread, quinoa, barley, corn, bulgur, millet, buckwheat, brown rice, and wild rice.You can also eat cereals that are especially grainy and calorie-dense, such as granola or raisin bran.;
, Protein is also an important part of increasing your weight. However, you should still choose lean proteins even if you're trying to gain weight, as the saturated fat in fattier cuts of meat (think steak) can be unhealthy, particularly if you're eating them in high quantities.Enjoy lean proteins like skim milk, egg whites, fish, poultry, nuts, beans, and tofu. Of course, you can splurge on fattier cuts of meat at times, but try not to eat them as often.
If you're trying to gain weight for medical reasons rather than for athletic reasons, you may opt for fattier cuts more often as they are much higher in calories. You could also eat whole eggs and whole milk instead of the lower-fat versions.
 Fats are an easy way to increase your caloric intake, as they are more nutrient dense than protein or carbohydrates. However, it's best to stick with healthier fats, such as unsaturated fats. For instance, add more olive oil, nuts, seeds, nut butters, and avocado to your diet.Try cooking with healthy oils, adding them to salad dressings, or even adding them to random dishes you won't notice, such as mashed potatoes.
Other fats, like butter, lard, animal fat, and whole-fat dairy are high in calories, and they can help you gain weight. However, they can cause damage to your health when you eat too many. Unsaturated fats are equally high in calories, and less likely to cause damage to your health. Keep saturated fats to no more than 10% of your total calories (200 calories per day for a 2,000 calorie diet)., While vegetables aren't as nutrient-dense as other foods, including fruits, you still need to make them a part of your diet. They provide important vitamins and minerals, as well as fiber to your diet.You definitely need a wide variety of vegetables, including leafy greens. However, for weight gain, you can also focus in on more nutrient-dense vegetables and fruits, such as potatoes, corn, carrots, peas, butternut squash, acorn squash, avocado, bananas, pineapples, mangoes, and almost any dried fruit., Another way to get more healthy calories in is to drink them instead of eating them. That doesn't mean you should simply reach for soda or juice, though you might if you are just looking to add calories to your diet. Rather, try making green smoothies that are dense in fruits, vegetables, nut butters, and yogurt. Low-fat milk such as skim or 1% milk are good drink options. To add extra calories to smoothies, use 2% or whole milk.The basic proportions for a green smoothie are 1 cup of dark leafy greens (spinach, kale, romaine, collard greens, etc.), 1 cup of liquid (milk, almond milk, water, coconut milk, etc.), and 1 1/2 cups of fruit (pretty much any combination you want).
For extra calories, add nut butters, flax seed, chia seeds, or yogurt. You can also add protein powder or powdered milk.You can also try adding an Ensure or Boost to your daily diet to help add some calories and nutrition.
 It's always best to discuss your options with a dietitian, as everyone's dietary needs differ. A dietitian can help you decide what the best plan is for you when you're trying to gain weight. Sometimes, dietitians are covered by your insurance plan if you need to gain weight for a medical reason.
 Every time you can, try adding additions to your meal to make them heavier in calories. For instance, try topping foods with eggs, cheese, sour cream, or avocado. You can also use dried milk to bulk up foods like yogurt or soup.Things like flaxseed and wheat germ are also weighty additions. Both of these additives are healthy and high in calories. Add them to yogurt, cereal, or really any kind of food you want.Nuts are also a good option to sprinkle on top of foods like cereals and yogurts., When snacking, pick things that are high in (healthy) calories, such as peanut butter, nuts, or cheese.You can also try trail mix, particularly ones that have granola, nuts, and lots of dried fruit.Hummus can also make a healthy, delicious snack.


For instance, try hummus with tortilla chips or an apple with peanut butter and a glass of milk. You can also add a slice of cheese to either snack.
 Another way to increase calories is to replace skim or even whole milk in recipes with something more calorie-dense. For instance, you could substitute half and half, heavy cream, or even cream cheese in some cases, though it depends on the recipe. You can add calories without even noticing.


This option works really well in foods like creamy soups, casseroles, and mashed potatoes. However, be aware that both cream and half and half can thicken up a recipe quite a bit. Try using 1/2 of what the recipe calls for and 1/2 of a heavier product.
 If you're trying to bulk up, you need to skip foods that fill you up on fewer calories, as you need more calories for weight gain. That means not eating things like air-popped popcorn, broth-based soup for dinner, and even large amounts of less-nutrient dense vegetables, like raw spinach.However, you can blend spinach into smoothies or saute it down to make it more compact.
 Another way to add more calories is to include some treats. Of course, you don't want to only eat chocolate cake and ice cream, but adding in some treats helps add some calories. For instance, try zucchini, pumpkin, or banana bread. Frozen yogurt is also a good option. You can even throw in some oatmeal raisin cookies.One way to make these healthier options is to bake the breads with whole wheat flour and cut back a bit on the sugar.
Another dessert you could try is a milkshake with peanut butter, as it's high in protein.
 If you drink water or even eat a brothy soup before your meal, it can fill you up, leaving less room for the calories you're trying to consume. Wait to drink water until you start eating. You can even drink your water after your meal to help cut down on this problem., Of course, this step may be easier said than done, but just increasing how much you eat every time you sit down to eat can help you gain weight.You may have trouble with feeling too full at first, but your stomach will stretch over time, allowing you to eat more.


One way to help increase your portion sizes is to purchase bigger plates. You'll have a tendency to put more on them without even thinking about it., You may have a hard time eating more at each meal, but another option is to simply to eat more often than you normally do. Eat six meals a day to increase your caloric intake overall for the day. Just be sure you're actually taking in more food, not just eating the same amount spread out over the day., If you like to workout, make sure you are eating something afterwards every single time. Your body needs the calories to help with the recovery process, and it will start sucking them from other places in your body if you don't give it food. Any healthy snack will do, just be sure to include some protein.