 A petrol-driven generator with a rated power of about 3500W will serve for lighting, TV, fans and a fridge or freezer. The rated power is usually written on the body of the generator and it is that power the generator can deliver continuously for an average of 12 hours on a single tank of fuel.;
, A typical microwave, for instance, uses 1500 watts, while a whole circuit of lights with CFC bulbs may only require 150 watts. Refrigerators use about 1200 - 1500 watts, but have a starting capacitor which increases the wattage momentarily when the compressor starts. Televisions use less the 1000 watts, depending on the type and size, a small room fan may use about 500 watts, and so on.
 There are several different wiring systems that can be used to connect a generator to a home. The main two are discussed here. Contact your local Department of Labor and Industries, Planning Department, or Power Company to find out what is legal in your area. Do not consult the internet to find out which system is legal in your area. There are many people that are unqualified to offer advice doing just that, and the law can vary significantly between countries, states, and even cities.


Consider an interlock kit. These are fairly simple to install yourself and they are the cheapest option. However, they are illegal in many areas and can be very unsafe. They must be installed absolutely correctly. Safe installation also requires that you have several extra spaces in your existing breaker box or that you install a new one, which must be done professionally. It is also a strict requirement that you get a kit that is approved for your specific breaker box (should be made by the same company).
Consider a manual transfer switch. This is a slightly more expensive piece of equipment which will require a professional install. However, it is the only guaranteed legal option and it is accordingly the safest. This will help keep you from accidentally electrocuting someone else or even yourself.
 This hookup will go on the outside of your house and will have a recessed male connector (prongs that stick out, rather than holes you plug in to). It will connect to whichever panel system you installed inside your house. The installation should be performed by a professional, both to keep you safe and to make sure your system remains up to code. If you do not have this done by a professional, your insurance may be unable to cover your home, the city you live in could enforce a heavy fine, and you are very likely to hurt either yourself or someone else (in a hospital-if-you're-lucky kind of way).
 You will find a lot of advice and instructions offered on the internet that are unsafe and put you at risk for injury, electrocution, or serious house fire. Be sure to always check with your city specialists before doing anything that will put you or your family at risk. Some common Do Nots include:


Do not connect your generator directly to your breaker box without an approved transfer switch.
Do not connect your generator to a washing machine or dryer outlet.
 This is especially important if you do not have experience with electrical work. You want to be sure that your family stays safe and, in the event of a fire, that your insurance company cannot dispute your claim because of "faulty wiring".

