 In the early game, Murky is more of a nuisance than anything else. For the first few levels, Murky doesn’t have much more health than a creep, so any single hero in the game can kill him in a couple of hits. This is why it’s important to stay out of team fights at the start, because you won’t be able to do much more than throw a Pufferfish and run away. It’s best to stay to your lane and keep pushing because you’ll pressure the enemy team into leaving a hero to defend instead of joining the fight.
 It’s extremely important to know exactly when to use each skill, and how to combine them properly. Since you shouldn’t join team fights before level 10, you should stay on a lane and push while everyone else is fighting. Your trait allows you to set an egg that allows you respawn after you die, so it’s important to place it as close to the action as possible. Try to place it in hidden places, or behind your gate and towers, since it can be killed fairly easily.

Your Pufferfish skill is excellent for pushing, and if you aim it properly you can clear an entire creep wave or damage a tower plus the gate. Your Slime is a skill that does low damage at first, but increases if you apply it to an already slimed target. It’s spammable, so be sure to use it on creeps at all times. Your Safety Bubble makes you invincible for a short period of time, so use it to escape.
 Murky relies on his talents and skill more than any other hero in the game. His auto-attack damage is so low that most heroes won’t even feel an attack, so it’s important to select the right talents if you want to be able to contribute to team fights after level 10. His talents also help a lot with pushing, since they provide ability power that turns your Pufferfish into an excellent minion wave clear tool. Here’s what talents you should choose to go from a nuisance to a possibly dangerous hero:

Block at level 1 – 50% damage blocked from hero basic attacks may not seem like a lot, but it adds up as the game progresses. Adds a lot of survivability!
Living The Dream at level 4 – This is a talent that relies on you staying alive. If you can do that, the extra 15% ability power provided provides a lot of extra damage for pushing and harassing on lane.
Slime Advantage at level 7 – Apply a slime and then auto-attack an enemy hero to see the effect. 100% extra auto-attack damage to slimed targets means you finally pack a punch!, You’re going to die a lot as Murky, but it’s extremely important to have your egg close-by so that you can appear right back in the fight after several seconds. Hide your egg in bushes or in hidden areas to avoid discovery as much as possible. During team fights, enemy heroes won’t have time to start looking for your egg, so you’ll be able to die and re-appear numerous times, providing a real benefit for your team. You’ll see that after a while of doing this, the enemy team will simply ignore you, because they know there’s no point in killing you without killing your egg as well. Move your egg after team fights, because the enemy team will be looking for it in that area!

Warning: bad egg placement can lead to some disastrous games!

, First of all, here are the talents that you should get:

Octo Grab at level 10 – After taking this you will finally be useful in team fights! Cast this on the enemy damage dealer, and you’ll take him out of the fight for 3 seconds.
Continuous Slime at level 14 – Since most of your damage comes from your Slime skill, it’s only natural that you lower its cooldown with this talent.
Slimy Pufferfish at level 16 – This is basically an extra slime, right where you throw your Pufferfish. An excellent combo that goes even better with your ultimate.<rev> http:
These will truly turn you into a hero that is feared in the late game. Always be sure you have your Pufferfish off cool-down, and throw right under the hero you want to catch with your ultimate. This will not only stun him for 3 seconds, giving your team enough time to kill him, but it will also do a lot of damage once the Pufferfish explodes. This combo is enough to kill most fragile heroes such as Valla and Nova in one hit, if you’ve harassed them a little with your Slime before that.
 Murky can clear mercenary camps extremely quickly with his Pufferfish and Slime. Whenever you have the chance, run to a creep camp and clear it, because it will help with your push even more! You’re not able to steal enemy mercenary camps like stealth heroes can, so don’t try that. Just focus on your mercenary camps as soon as they appear.

Warning: the boss is an entirely different story, as you won’t be able to take him down alone.
 Upgrade your ultimate at level 20 and get ready to terrorize most assassins in the game. Your upgraded ultimate now does a lot of damage as well, and your Slime allows you to easily remove from stealth heroes. This means you can chase all stealth heroes without any problems, and actually kill them when you catch them. After level 20 Murky becomes extremely dangerous, and most players don’t realize this. Use this to your advantage!, Heroes will still be hunting you after level 20, even though the tables have turned a little. This is an excellent opportunity to ambush and kill them when they least expect it. You’ll see that most heroes will chase you even if they have low health, because they think you’re an easy target. Simply run into a bush, throw your Pufferfish, then use your ultimate when they enter, and you should be rewarded with a kill!, You can’t kill the boss on your own, but this doesn’t mean you can’t prevent the enemy team from getting the boss, after level 20. A Pufferfish thrown in the right location can cause the enemy team to run right into a boss stun. Combine that with your Safety Bubble and you may even be able to steal it if timed properly. Don’t be afraid to use your combo on enemy damage dealers if they’re low health, because it doesn’t matter too much if you die, but they probably have a 60 second respawn time.