 In some situations, cutting might be a symptom of another issue such as depression, anxiety, or other psychological disorder.Cutting often gains the person a sense of relief from intense feelings such as anger, guilt, anxiety, isolation, grief, or hopelessness. It can also be seen as an expression of those feelings and pain.


Other reasons that people cut include a need for control over your body, especially when you feel out of control. Some people self-harm to feel something when feeling numb. Others do it as a response to trauma or other issues like anxiety and depression., If you have trouble breaking the cycle of cutting through coping techniques or other methods, you might need professional help to change the situation. A counselor, clinical psychologist, or psychiatrist will talk to you about why you're harming yourself and they will talk with you about what you're feeling and how to change your behaviors in relation to these behaviors.


Consider going to group therapy, where you'll be able to see that there are other people struggling with the same issue.
If you're a minor, tell your parent or guardian that you need to see a mental health professional as soon as possible. Emphasize that this is an emergency.
If you're an adult and have health insurance, call your primary care physician as soon as possible and ask for a referral to a therapist or psychologist who specializes in self-harm. If you're not insured, investigate free or low-cost mental health clinics in your area, or ask a member of your clergy for help if you are religious., If you've harmed yourself to the point of severe injury, you need to seek medical help immediately. Severe injury is any cut that that bled for more than 10 minutes, a cut that won’t stop bleeding, or a scenario where you accidentally or intentionally nicked a major vein or artery.


You should also seek help immediately if you are having thoughts of suicide.
 Self-harm is not the same as suicide but the two are often mistaken for each other. A major difference is the intent to ending life. A person thinking of suicide often sees no other way out and wants to put an end to his or her life. Someone who self-harms, however, is often the exact opposite because the person intentionally harms themselves to feel alive or cope with life.Research does show people who self-harm are more likely to commit suicide later. This is often correlated with other factors such as depression, feeling as if there are fewer reason to live, or feeling hopeless. Make sure you take any suicidal thoughts seriously and seek help.
Look for distinct signs of suicide, such as talking about wanting to die or to kill themselves, looking for a way to kill themselves, making statements about being hopeless, or talking about having no reason to live.If you or someone you love are thinking about suicide, get help. Call 1-800-273-TALK (8255) to talk to someone about helping the person who is contemplating it, or call 911 if an attempt has already occurred.


