 Read the safety precautions below in the "Warnings" section of this wikiHow article before beginning work. Position the lawn tractor onto a clean, level, and unobstructed work surface. Set the tractor into gear and then securely chock both front wheels (fore and aft) as a safety precaution.



NOTE: The part names (typically capitalized) specified in this wikiHow are the proper names used by the OEM directly from their parts manual to assist the owner should components require replacement.;
, Insure that the weight of the deck is now fully resting on the deck wheels.



NOTE: A method of support under the lip of the deck maybe necessary to insure that the Deck's full weight has been taken off the tractor's frame.
 Pull the (2)-3/8" cotter pins out of the rear deck bracket followed by the (2)-1/2" flat washers.



NOTE: The OEM (MTD Corporation) utilizes the terms "Cotter Pins", "Hairpin Clips", and "Hairpin Cotters" interchangeably in their parts manual. Only the part number associated with the specific component changes to designate size.
 With a pair of pliers, pull the (2)-3/8" cotter pins out of the front deck bracket followed by the (2)-1/2" flat washers.



NOTE: The OEM (MTD Corporation) utilizes the terms "cotter pins", "hairpin clips", and "hairpin cotters" interchangeably in their parts manual. Only the part number associated with the specific component changes to designate size.
 Pull the two(2)-hairpin clips out of the deck rear connecting rod.



NOTE: The OEM (MTD Corporation) utilizes the terms "cotter pins", "hairpin clips", and "hairpin cotters" interchangeably in their parts manual. Only the part number associated with the specific component changes to designate size.
 Allow the deck stabilizer to remain seated in the front of the mowing deck.
 Once it has been removed, pull on the spacer downwards, sliding it off of its mounting pin.



NOTE: The OEM (MTD Corporation) utilizes the terms "cotter pins", "hairpin clips", and "hairpin cotters" interchangeably in their parts manual. Only the part number associated with the specific component changes to designate size.
, Remove the (2)-5/16" x 5-1/4" hex bolts (one on either side of the engine pulley) that serve as engine pulley spacers. Once the bolts have been removed, un-mount the belt from the engine pulley.



NOTE: There is a 5/16" hex nut and a matching flat washer mounted to the top of each of the bolts. DO NOT adjust these nuts as they are set to the proper depth to retain the belt on the pulley. Also, take care not to lose the washers when removing the two hex bolts.
 Move the cable out of the way to prevent it from snagging on the deck as it is being removed.




CAUTION! If the deck is not properly supported when the links are disconnected, the deck will drop down causing possible personal injury or damage to the deck assembly.




CAUTION! If the deck is not properly supported when the links are disconnected, the deck will drop down causing possible personal injury or damage to the deck assembly.
 Once the assembly has cleared, allow the stabilizer to drop back down. The mowing deck is now available for servicing.

