 Warm water can shrink or damage the fabric of your handbag. Fill the sink or tub with enough water to fully submerge your bag. Leave room to work the fabric with your hands., Soap with bleach will fade the colors in your bag. Harsh chemicals wear on the fabric. Delicate soaps are created to protect your fabrics from damage and fading.Dr. Bronners and Woolite are a couple of examples of soaps to use with delicate fabrics.
Use about a tablespoon of detergent and mix it around in the water before adding your bag to make sure the soap is dispersed in the water.Check for a care instructions label inside your handbag. This will give you information on what kind of soap to use on your particular fabric, as well as warnings if you should not wet the fabric., Make sure that every pocket of your handbag is empty, then push the entire bag under the water until it is fully submerged.


If you are worried about the effect the soap may have on your fabric, test it on a small part of your bag before submerging the bag in water. Choose a portion which is least visible, like the inside or bottom of the bag.
 Using your hands, gently knead the bag for several minutes to work the water and detergent into every part of the bag. Let the bag rest in the water for another several minutes to soak up the detergent., Completely drain the sink or tub, then rinse it clean to be rid of all of the detergent and dirty water. Refill the tub with cool water and swish it around to rinse it completely.Repeat this process several times until you feel all of the detergent has been rinsed from the bag and it does not look or feel soapy.
 Lift the bag out of the water after the final rinse. Gently squeeze out as much excess water as you safely can without damaging the bag. Reshape your bag and lie it on a clean towel until it is dry.Try rolling your bag in a clean towel to remove more of the excess water after squeezing it out. Use another clean, dry towel to lie the bag flat and allow it to finish drying on its own.

