 If you are scared, your body reacts by tensing. Therefore, it makes sense that manually relaxing your tense muscles will make you feel a little less scared. You can roll your shoulders back quickly, but if that doesn't help, adjust your posture using some of these tips.


Let your arms hang loose at your sides when you stand. If your elbows are stiff for no reason, let them drop naturally so they hang at your sides.
Relax your neck. People who are scared or panicking pull their heads back, so letting your head float to a more natural position will help.
Lift your chin. This will make your voice sound more resonant and you seem more confident., If you feel nervous or fluttery and relaxing your body isn’t helping, try to comfort yourself with encouraging thoughts. Positive self-talk can power you through hard times, so try to concentrate on what you will find most comforting. If you have a mantra that you repeat when you’re stressed, think of that.Otherwise, try these thoughts.


Picture your classmates as friends from preschool. This will make you feel safer and friendly.Remember that no one knows how nervous you are but you.
Remind yourself that if you do a decent job, you may not be called again for some time because the teacher sees how well you do and moves on to other students who need more practice.
 No one is perfect, and sometimes embarrassing things happen, even if you've prepared to read. Remember that no one is flawless, and do your best to fix the problem. In many cases, no one will even notice that you did something wrong.


If you mess up a word, or make another small error, it's okay to go back and correct yourself.If you've made another, more time-consuming mistake (like repeating a whole line), push forward as soon as you notice the problem.
If your body betrays you, and you sneeze or feel your voice crack, try not to make a big deal out of it. Quickly excuse yourself (if you need to) and get back to the material., In the worst case scenario, others might laugh at your mistakes. If you hear laughter and you feel comfortable enough to laugh at yourself, go for it. If not, smile your most patient smile and wait until everyone's done.Keep your face as blank as possible, and your poise will be more memorable than whatever small mistake you made.
 It's a blessing that your reading in class will probably not be the most interesting part of anyone's day, including your own. If you don't want to talk about your performance, that's okay--you don't have to bring it up as a topic of conversation. Just do your best to move on with your day.If anyone brings it up or tries to tease you, and you don't want to talk about it, switch the conversation to something easier. "I thought that reading would never be over, just like that video series we're watching in Spanish! How many more episodes could there be?"

