 “Seasonal allergies” is a blanket term used to describe a diverse set of allergies. For instance, people who are allergic to grass pollen, mold pollen, and tree pollen all experience seasonal allergies, but they are rarely allergic to all possible seasonal allergens. If you can identify your particular allergen, you’ll be better equipped to garden even if you have a seasonal allergy.To identify exactly which seasonal allergies you have, visit a doctor.
 An allergist is a medical professional trained in how allergies affect people. They can help you develop even better plans for gardening if you have seasonal allergies. With the allergist’s help, you’ll be able to find even more techniques and tricks for gardening with seasonal allergies tailored to your specific locale and circumstances.Ask your doctor to recommend an allergist for you.
You might have questions for your allergist. For instance, you might want to ask, “What can I do to alleviate my seasonal allergies?” or “Do you recommend medication for my allergies?”
Use apps like My Nasal Allergy Journal to track your symptoms and triggers. Your allergist will be much interested in this information.
 Mowing the grass can kick up all sorts of pollen and plant spores that might worsen your seasonal allergies. Additionally, do not garden when someone else is mowing the grass. Wait at least an hour before heading out to garden in areas where the grass was recently mowed.For similar reasons, do not rake the leaves. Leaves can collect the mold spores and pollen that cause seasonal allergies. Ask a friend or family member to rake the yard.
Have your yard mowed and leaves raked regularly throughout the fall, especially if your seasonal allergies continue into the autumn season., Invite your friends to join you in gardening and charge them with the tasks that tend to cause you the most intense seasonal allergic reactions. For instance, if you have a strong allergic reaction to certain weeds, have your friend pull the weeds while you plant the tulips in another part of the garden.You can invite your friends to join you in the garden by asking, “Would you like to join me in the garden? I would enjoy the pleasure of your company.”
Your friends will have a great time while gardening with you. Use the opportunity to bond with them.

