 The first step in setting a long-term running goal is to pick a start running date. This is particularly important if you have limited running experience. Once you have determined to start a long-term running goal, pick a date in the near future to start running.Ideally, this goal should be within a few months of the present. If it is too far off, it is easier to put off starting. Take advantage of any motivation you currently have and start as soon as possible.
 If you are new to running, give yourself one to three months to build your running base. Start with at least three runs a week and gradually build up your endurance. Each week, speed up or lengthen your runs slightly. Be sure to take it easy. Pushing yourself too hard can lead to injury and burnout.Focus on meeting your weekly goal and do not get overly concerned about your long-term objective.
After a few months, you should be running five times a week.
 After you have built a base and feel comfortable running long distances, start pushing your pace. Speed up your runs and try to push yourself for intense spurts. Incorporate some interval training where you run sprints at your mile pace for about 30 seconds before slowing back down. This will help you build your endurance and increase your pace.Depending on your comfort level, you might consider inserting one speed run into your weekly running schedule after the first or second month. Around month two or three, you might consider doing two speed runs a week.
Use a fitness tracker, like a Fitbit, or a stopwatch to monitor your pace and track your intervals.
 Around nine months, you might consider substantially increasing your distance. Add a mile to a couple of your weekly runs, doing this for three to four weeks. Once that feels comfortable, do it again. Building your endurance in this way will prepare your muscles, joints, and bones to adapt to more intense runs.As you are building your endurance, slow your pace a little and run on soft surfaces as often as you can. During this stage, you are more susceptible to injury. Be sure to listen to your body and try to limit any wear and tear.
 In order to test out your fitness and preparation, run the next race below your target race at ten months. Run a 10K if you intend to run a half marathon and run a half if you intend to run a full marathon. This will allow you to test out how your body will handle all of the various stresses that a longer run entails.This is a great opportunity to test out your race-day outfit, fueling strategy, and pacing strategy.
 Most new runners will be ready to run a half or full marathon after a year of proper training. Ideally, you will have already run a shorter race to test out your running strategy. You do not want your long-term goal to be ruined because of a clothing or gastrointestinal problem.In order to stay healthy, you should only run one marathon a year and shorter races every six weeks.

