 You'll need to make a spirit board to channel the energies flowing from the spirit world into answers to your question. This method is less dependent on the skills of the medium, so it's a good option for beginners. To make your spirit board and communicate with a ghost, you'll need:


Paper
Pencil
Candles (5)
Lighter/matches
Salt (rock salt preferred)
Friends (optional)

, Bright light and loud noise can interrupt the flow of spirit energy from the spirit world into your spirit board, making it difficult to get the answers you seek. You might consider:


Waiting until late at night.
Finding a remote location.
 Take your blank sheet of paper and write every letter of the alphabet on it along with the numbers zero through nine.You should use large handwriting and leave some space between the letters and numbers to make interpreting the message from the spirits easier.


You may also want to include the words initium and terminus on your spirit board. These terms mean "start" and "end" in Latin, respectively.
 Lay your spirit board so that it is flat on the floor or table where you intend to summon your ghost. Around your spirit board, sprinkle a fine line of salt to create a circle of protection.Then:


Place a candle at each of the four points of the compass around the outside of the circle of protection and light each.
Place your fifth candle above the topmost edge of the middle of your board and light it as well.
 Do not place your coin on any letters or numbers, instead place it on a blank space on your spirit board. Then, join hands with any friends that are with you around the spirit board, and say:


"Spirit, we call to you from beyond the veil. Answer our call."

, Sometimes, the alignment of the stars or other factors in nature can close the doors of the spiritual world, making communication with spirits all but impossible. To make sure you have a good connection with the spirit world through your spirit board, you should first ask:


"Spirit, are you willing to speak with us tonight?"

, You do not want to exert pressure on the coin, you only want to provide it with enough of your energy to reveal the answer of the spirit.


After waiting a period of time, the coin should begin to move, pausing for moments on letters and numbers.
Record all places the coin pauses until it either stops moving or comes to a rest on the word terminus, or "end" in Latin.
 Messages from the spirit world are often unclear, out of context. You may not be able to decipher a message right away. If you are talking to a particularly lively spirit, you may want to have a member write down each of the letters or numbers indicated by the pausing of the coin.