 If you have not previously done weight training, you will need to select a set of dumbbells that will meet your needs at the beginner level. You can buy a set that has a wide range of dumbbell weights, so you can start light and work up. Alternatively, you can buy adjustable dumbbells which you can increase the weight of as you go.If you're trying to tone your muscles and build endurance, rather than significantly increase muscle size, select weights that allow you to do about 12 to 20 repetitions of a given exercise before feeling overly tired.
If your goal is specifically strength training and building muscle mass, opt for a weight that you can only use for about 8 repetitions before being too tired to continue.
Scale to heavier weights once the repetitions lose their challenge by the end of the set.;
, Concentrate on using the best possible form and technique, rather than trying to rush through repetitions, to keep your workout safe and focus on your muscles. Because weights strain your muscles and require stabilization and muscle resistance, slow and deliberate movements can help you maintain control and focus on the muscle you are trying to work.


Slow movements also help build muscle and give your body a better workout, because it forces your muscles to stabilize and support the weight in every phase of the motion for longer.
Take particular care not to overcompensate with another part of your body. For example, if you are doing a bicep curl, make sure you keep upright and maintain good posture. Don't transfer the work to your back., When you are working out with dumbbells it's important to pay attention to your form and body position, to get the most out of each repetition, but also to avoid the chance of an injury. Holding your wrists, elbows, arms, and legs in the proper position can prevent injury and improve the workout you receive from your efforts.Performing exercises in front of a mirror may help you to ensure that your form is appropriate for dumbbell routines.
Check videos online, magazine articles, and speak to gym staff if you need some guidance on proper form. A trainer can help teach proper posture and body mechanics for dumbbell workouts.

