 To feel less stressed, you need to get up out of your seat at least once an hour. Taking a short walk for just ten to twenty minutes just once during your work day can help put your body at ease. Make a goal of taking the stairs instead of the elevator and of walking to a coworker's desk instead of asking him something over email. Any simple movement will make you feel more loose and and less overworked.Even doing twenty jumping-jacks near your desk can make you feel invigorated and more alert.
 Stretching your body from time to time can help release your tension and can make you feel much more calm and in control. You can stretch your arms, neck, shoulders, and your back right at or in front of your desk by making just a few easy movements. Here are some things to try:


Just stand up and touch your toes. Hold this position for ten seconds. This will create a great stretch for your back.
Roll your shoulders backward and forward. This will release the tension in your back and neck.
Stretch your neck by moving your head to the left and right, as if you were going to press your ear to your shoulder.
Stretch your forearms and wrists by moving one hand straight out in front of you with your palm up, like you were saying "Stop!" and then bending back your fingers towards you.
Stretch your upper and lower back by holding one side of your chair with both of your arms and twisting in that same direction.
 There are certain foods that can help you feel more centered and less agitated and stressed out. Some studies show that eating an orange or even just sucking on an orange slice can make you feel more at peace.Some other foods that are known to relieve stress are avocado, salmon, almonds, and spinach, so try to add these foods to your lunch routine or to snack on them periodically., The caffeine in coffee, soda, and especially energy drinks can make you feel more jittery and stressed out. Though caffeine may make you feel more focused, alert, and productive for a while, you'll feel anxious and shaky when you come down from a caffeine high. If you drink a serious amount of caffeine, try to slowly wean yourself off of it instead of quitting cold turkey.


There is also caffeine in tea, but drinking caffeinated tea in small doses is more soothing than sipping coffee. Drinking from a non-caffeinated tea like a peppermint tea can make you feel more relaxed., Yoga is touted for its ability to soothe your mind and body. Going to a yoga class before or after work can make your workplace experience more enjoyable, and taking a lunch-break to take a short yoga class can also help you feel more centered and in touch with your mind and body. Find a friend from work to be your yoga body, and enjoy the benefits you'll feel -- both for your mind and your body.

