 Little kids hang onto excuses even when it's obvious they're wrong. If you made a mistake, own up to it. If you messed something up, come clean. Adults respect when kids tell the truth. It's a sign of maturity.


Don't lie under any circumstances. Adults are usually able to tell, and lying will only make things worse.Apologize and accept the consequence. If you're going to get in trouble for something, don't make it worse. Say, "I'm sorry. I'll try not to let it happen again."

, Kids often just talk at adults, instead of talking with them. Kids usually like to just talk about themselves, focusing on really small details from their day. If you want to seem more mature when you talk to adults, you should be the one who asks questions.


Be curious about what adults do. Curiosity is a sign of maturity. If your dad's friend comes over, ask, "How do you know my dad?" Ask questions about his kids, and what his family is like.
It's also good to know when to leave adults alone. Sometimes, adults don't like to be pestered, especially by lots of questions. If an adult is happy to talk with you, feel free to ask questions. If they become quiet, or seem annoyed, leave them alone.
 Kids and other immature people will often complain a lot. If you're bored, if you're tired, or if you're hungry, you only need to mention it once, and preferably less than that. If you don't have something positive or interesting to say, just be quiet.


If you don't like something that's going on, don't just say, "I hate this." Offer a suggestion for something else to do. If you're playing with your siblings, don't just complain about the game, say, "This is ok, but what if we played tag instead?"
If you have to do something that's boring, try to be quiet and find something to do. If you have to go with your dad to the hardware store and it's boring, turn it into a game. try to come up with silly names for all the pipe pieces. Find the piece that looks most like a monster.
 Little kids often have giggling fits. It's nothing to be ashamed of, because being a kid can be a lot of fun. But, when you're around adults, it's good to be a little more serious and quiet. Even if you think something is funny, try to just smile about it, rather than bursting into hysterical laughter.
 When you're really young, the kids who curse may seem older and more mature. When you get a little older, though, you'll be able to see that as being a sign of immaturity. You don't need to use four-letter words to seem older that you are. It'll only last for a short time, and adults won't be impressed.


As you get older, try to scrub offensive phrases out of your vocabulary entirely. Some kids think it's funny or normal to call things "gay," which is really immature and offensive. Even words like "chick" and "dude" can seem immature to some adults. Speak in a mature way.
 Little kids who try to act like 30 year olds aren't necessarily more mature than little kids who act their age. Maturity happens slowly. It's much better to be a 10 year old who acts like a 10 year old, than to be one who acts like some different age. Enjoy being the age that you are.


Adults don't expect that little kids will drink coffee and play tennis with them, so you don't have to pretend like you do things you don't. Just act calmly and be cool around adults, and you'll seem mature.