 You shouldn’t want to deprive yourself, especially while on vacation. But make sure you are practicing self-control when splurging on a treat. Try limiting treats to one per day or employing the 80/20 rule: make 80% of your daily caloric intake healthy foods, and reserve 20% for your treats.


For example, have a bite or two of your favorite cake at dessert but don’t eat the entire piece.
Think of your calories as an allowance. Save up your calories by making healthy choices so that you can spend more on the items you really want.
 Your goal is to look at your nutrient intake over the course of the entire trip. If you have a calorie-heavy meal, make the next one healthy. If you had cookies as a snack, eat veggies next time. This is known as the “never two in a row” rule. While on vacation you don’t have to stay 100% on track, but you don’t want to lose your momentum either (it will make it difficult to bounce back after vacation).Another way to balance out your meals is by eating less carbs if you plan on drinking alcoholic beverages. Alcoholic beverages such as beer and mixed drinks are loaded with carbs. If you plan on drinking, be diligent with your carb intake during your meals.
Make a conscious effort to eat lighter throughout the day so you have some wiggle room when it comes to your splurges.
 If you’re restricting calories or counting carbs, alcohol can waste a good portion of your allotted amount. Having just one frozen margarita can account for up to 700 calories.


Portion control is important with alcohol, even on vacation. Alcohol has more calories per gram than carbs or protein (7 calories/g compared to 4). Limit portions to one to two for men and one for women — 12 oz beer, 5 oz wine, 1.5 oz liquor.
Make better choices to limit your sugar intake. For example, instead of mixed cocktails that are high in sugar content, opt for low-calorie drinks such as a white-wine spritzer, light beer, flavored vodka with club soda, or tequila on the rocks with lime.
Even one night of binge drinking can cause a lot of problems for a healthy diet in terms of calories. In addition, people tend to snack/eat while binging and use poor judgement on food choices.
Avoid using soft drinks, fruit juices, and energy drinks as mixers. These will increase your calorie and sugar intake. Look for calorie-free mixers or drink it on the rocks.
 While it sounds easy enough, being in the vacation mindset can often cause you to overeat by eating when you’re not hungry and stuffing yourself until you are miserable. Try using a rating scale (such as zero to five) to determine if you are indeed hungry.Likewise, stop eating when you are satisfied, not stuffed.Your hunger scale should account for all levels of hunger and satiety. For example, zero should be starving, three should be satisfied, and five should be stuffed, couldn’t eat another bite., Buffets can be damaging to diets because many times they offer all of the foods you love in a single place. It’s difficult to avoid splurging when everything is in front of you for the taking. If you’re unable to avoid a buffet, build your meal around vegetables and grilled meats and avoid high-fat options.It’s okay to treat yourself to one of your favorites but remember that portion size and balance are very important.
Avoid going back for additional helpings at the buffet.

