 Eve can choose one of the three classes when she reaches Level 15 and each classes holds different kinds of skills, combat combos, and weapon type.


In order for you to take the quest, you need to reach Level 15 or higher in order for it to appear on your Quest Log. Simply accept the quest and then proceed to completing it.;
, You are given three dungeon quests where you get to kill monsters and gather quest items.


First, head out to Suburb of Wally's Castle and clear it under the Very Hard Mode. This will complete two of the quests in your list which is completing the dungeon run and killing 15 Bomber Mong and the leader, William Phoru.
If the kill quest isn't completed due to the lack of monsters in each floor, you can do rerun anytime as the kill count won't reset to zero every after you step out from the dungeon.
You can do this quest with party members as well and there is no time limit. Checking every floor will be advisable for mini bosses which has a chance to drop rare items.
 The next quest requires you to get quest items from White Ghost Magicians. These monsters can be found in the Underground Waterway.


Make sure to enter the dungeon under the Very Hard mode, otherwise the quest item won't drop. Party members can help you with gathering the quest item as well. You can do dungeon rerun if quest item isn't complete. Leaving the dungeon without clearing the run won't reset your item count either.
 Now that you have completed all three quests, head back to Elder Village. Talk to Echo, the Alchemist, to complete the quest. You can find her at the eastern part of the village, next to the blacksmith.
 After completing the first leg of the chain quest, you can now choose one of the three Eve advance classes which are Code: Exotic, Code: Architecture and Code: Electra. For this quest guide, make sure to choose Code: Exotic using the Bulletin board or in your Quest Log.


Eve uses Drones as her weapon. Meanwhile, in her advance class which is Code: Exotic, she will be able to obtain a new weapon which is a spear.
From mid-range attack, Eve's range will decrease to melee but her magic attack and physical defence increase dramatically. Aside from higher PDER and MATK, her health doubles which gives her higher chance of survival compared to Battle Magicians.
 You will be given four quests which will be done within one dungeon, the Wally's Castle. This is the final and last dungeon to be completed in Elder Village before you can proceed to the next level.


The quest in this map contains 3 item gathering and time limit dungeon run. First, enter the dungeon while in the party and make sure that the difficulty level is set to Very Hard.
Kill Wally's Guardian and Little Soldier in order to obtain two of the required quest items. For the third quest item, you will have to kill the final boss, Wally No. 8. Items may or may not drop during your first try but you can do reruns without worrying about your gathered items to reset.
During your dungeon run in Wally's Castle, make sure you're able to complete the Very Hard difficulty within 15 minutes, once. This will complete the 4th part of the quest.
 After completing your quest, head back to the Elder Village and click the Bulletin board to complete the quest, or simply click the quest log, found at the bottom right of the screen. After handing in your completed quest, Eve will become Code: Exotic.
 This is commonly seen in the PvP ring, especially when you come face to face with a good Code: Exotic user. This combo will release the new class weapon, which is the spear, along with the magic that lunges the enemy into the air before striking them down with spear.


Due to the short combo and energy ball that throws enemy in mid air (making them vulnerable), Code: Exotic players tend to execute this repeatedly. To do this combo, press the arrow button twice towards your enemy to run and then press X for the magic ball, followed by Z that unleashes the spear and then repeat. (>> or <<, X, Z)

, Now that you're enemy is accustomed to your Spear Launcher, they will either try to attack ahead then jump into the air to avoid the energy ball. You can counter this using your Spear Dash where you get to run towards your enemy and then unleash the spear right away.


This attack will send your enemy back, knocking them down and give you a chance to connect it with your Spear Launcher combo. To use this, dash towards your enemy and then press 'Z' three times. Per tap, the spears grows bigger and so does the magic damage it causes. (>> or <<, Z, Z, Z).
 It's unavoidable to have your 'Z' combo canceled because the enemy either found an opening or managed to escape. Spear Riser prevents your opponent from canceling your moves, and on top of that, you can end it with either the two combos mentioned above, depending on the situation.


When you press 'Z' three times, Eve will use her normal combo, but when you press down, followed by two 'Z', Eve will unleash her spear from the ground that will send her enemy flying.
The spear will surround her so even if the enemy manage to jump above you, by the time they're about to land behind, they'll be greeted with a spear. Once hit, the enemy will be thrown in the air where they become vulnerable for another set of combo. (Z, Z, Z, Down, Z, Z).

