 Following the Mediterranean diet involves eating lost of vegetables - both cooked and raw - such as tomatoes, green kale, spinach, carrots and broccoli, etc.


Vegetables are low in sugar and provide many vitamins and nutrients that are important for you and your growing baby.Try to eat at least four portions of these vegetables per day - one with breakfast, one with lunch and two with dinner.
However, it is important that you avoid eating starchy vegetables such as corn, winter squash, peas and potatoes as these foods cause your blood sugar to rise more dramatically, increasing the risk of gestational diabetes.;
, Try to eat three servings of fruit per day, as fruits are high in vitamins, nutrients and fiber. Avoid drinking processed fruit juices, as these can be very high in sugar. Try to get your fruit intake from whole fruits instead (with the skin on, if possible) or blended smoothies.


Choose fruits that are lower in natural sugars like oranges and bananas. Fruits that have high amounts of sugar include watermelon, apples and mangoes. These can still be eaten, but less frequently.
If you do drink fruit juice, consider diluting it with water to reduce the concentration of sugar.
 High fat dairy products should be avoided during pregnancy as they are usually broken down into sugar in the body, increasing the chances of gestational diabetes. Opt for low fat diary products instead, or switch to soy milk.


However, dairy products should not be eliminated entirely, as they are important for the growth of the baby's bones and teeth. Try eating 1 cup of low fat yogurt per day.
If you significantly reduce your dairy intake, it may be necessary to take vitamin D and calcium supplements to make up the difference. However, you should consult with your doctor before taking any supplements while pregnant.
 Whole grains contain more fiber and have a reduced effect on the body's blood sugar levels. This helps to balance the amount of sugar in the body.


Whole grains also help you to stay full for a longer period, therefore causing you to eat less. Foods that contain whole grains include brown bread, whole grain crackers, brown rice and whole grain cereals. Try to avoid processed grains, which are found in white breads, cracker and pastries.
It is recommended for one to take 4-6 servings daily. Foods rich in whole grains help to provide the body with energy that is needed for the development of the baby.
 Each serving should weigh approximately 3 ounces and the fish can be baked, poached, roasted or grilled.


It is advisable to choose fatty fish, like sardines, herring, mackerel and salmon. This is because these fish contain healthy fats which are important for the normal functioning of the body's cells. These fish also provide the body with proteins that help to build immunity, which is extremely beneficial for the immunity of the baby.
Fish also has a minimal effect on the sugar levels and this helps in the prevention of gestational diabetes.
 It is advisable to eat more foods that are rich in healthy, unsaturated fats instead of foods that are high in saturated fats.


This fat does not raise the cholesterol levels, but they should still be taken in some moderation because they are still high in calories.
Foods that contain healthy unsaturated fats include olive oil, avocados, fish, seeds and nuts.
 It is advisable to take at least 1 or 2 servings of nuts and legumes. Legumes provide the body with proteins, minerals and fiber, while nuts provide the body with unsaturated fats that are essential for the development of the baby's heart and body cells.


Examples of good nuts and legumes to eat include sesame seeds, pecans, almonds, baked beans, lentils, pinto, soy, navy beans, split peas,peanut butter and peanuts.
These foods do not raise the level of sugar in the body as they have a very little effect on sugar. This foods help in prevention of gestational diabetes.
 The Mediterranean diet usually encourages people to reduce their alcohol intake. However, pregnant women are advised against drinking alcohol at all, because the toxins contained in it can affect the health of the baby.


In addition, some beers contain a lot of sugar and this increases the amount of sugar in the body predisposing one to gestational diabetes.
It is advisable to take a glass of grape juice once a day instead of wine. Grape juice provides the body with essential nutrients that are needed for building of blood components for the mother and the baby.
 Aim to reduce your intake of red meat to 3 times per month. This is because red meat leads to increased amounts of sodium and uric acid, which increases the chances of getting gouty arthritis and other systemic conditions.


Red meats usually cause metabolic changes in the body and this interferes with the balance of glucose. Therefore, the intake of red meats should be avoided to help in the prevention of gestational diabetes.
Example of red meats include beef, lamb, pork and veal. Try switching to healthier white meats such as chicken and turkey instead.
 Try to limit your intake of sweets and sugary foods during pregnancy, as these foods increase the sugar levels in the body, making you more likely to develop gestational diabetes. Try eating a piece of fruit after dinner instead - the natural sugars should help to satisfy your sweet tooth.

