 Relapse is an unavoidable aspect of your recovery. It’s possible that you’ll revert back to your old ways. That’s why it’s so important to celebrate those small victories. You can work with your therapist to choose the right rewards and make sure that they don’t compromise your recovery.


For instance, show your therapist your journal entries or logs regularly in case they spot any patterns you don’t. Discuss your rewards system in advance to verify that your choices are safe and healthy additions to your recovery.Also, never use avoidance of relapse itself as a reward. Therefore, you are not diminished mentally if it does happen.
 Preventing relapse means avoiding triggers as best you can. While medication and therapy can help you overcome debilitating conditions, you may remain susceptible to them in the future. Maintain your recovery by choosing rewards that support health, not jeopardize it.


For example, if you are in recovery for drug abuse, it may not be a good idea to reward yourself with sweet treats. Many people with addictions may replace one for another during recovery, so it’s better to avoid anything that causes dependency.Also, if you are a recovering alcoholic, "just one drink" is not a suitable reward. Even a taste of alcohol compromises your sobriety and can quickly lead to several drinks.
Instead choose something appealing that won’t stimulate addictive habits. This will depend on your personal circumstances, so discuss this with your treatment team.
 You can sustain yours by staying connected to your purpose. Why did you want to choose a healthier lifestyle? Why is maintaining your recovery important? Answer these questions and hang them on your mirror to remind you daily.Keep in mind that reviewing your “why” daily is the most important thing you can do to keep yourself motivated in recovery.
 After figuring out your triggers and defining your purpose, it can help to write all this down in a carefully laid-out crisis plan. This is a plan to enact when you start experiencing triggers or early warning signs that your condition has returned.Write down your triggers.
Write down the signs of a relapse in your condition (e.g. with depression, this may be sleeping too much)
List the people you want to activate and what you want them to do. (e.g. your mom needs to call your doctor)
List the people who need to be notified in an emergency (e.g. your doctor, therapist, social worker, boss, etc.)

