 Do your research on both parties and find out what they represent. You shouldn't support or oppose a specific party just because your parents do. Instead, it is your free choice to make an informed decision. Acquaint yourself with past and present officeholders and candidates' views, and their actions. A good place to start your research is by visiting each of the party websites, scanning and reading about their current issues and convention platforms (party statements of methods and objectives).By having a broad understanding of the Republican and Democratic party platforms, you will be better equipped to have a meaningful political conversation with your parents.
It will be easier to maintain your Republican views if you are satisfied with why you have chosen to support them in the first place. For instance, you can explain that you are not supporting the Republicans to disagree with your parents. Instead, you have made an informed decision.
Sufficiently understanding arguments and issues often presented by Democrats will also help to strengthen the basis and details of your own position, if you end up in a disagreement with your parents.;
, Another way to clarify your political views and consequently help maintain your political affiliation is by listening to debates of some of your legislators, representative, senators and governor, or candidates for such offices. There are two primary reasons why people support one candidate over another: (1) You support their platform and policies or (2) you like their presentation of their views and their leadership qualities. You are more likely to maintain your Republican affiliation, if you support both the party policies and party leadership.Research into the past work and outcomes on issues of the Republican Party in local, state and U.S. House and Senate and their leadership in order to find reasons why you appreciate their views and support them.
 In order to maintain your own political views and not be influenced by others, specifically political commentators and your own parents, you should personally view speeches on TV or videos, and read election materials to get info directly. This will allow you to more clearly articulate why you are supporting one party over the other. For example, watch a debate that takes place between candidates, read a wide variety of political analysis (especially written by people on your side of the political divide, realizing that the other side will often disagree with Republicans on many basic issues). Also, become involved in a campaign if you find it desirable.It is important to educate yourself on the major issues in any given election in order to develop your own views and opinions, rather than becoming a carbon-copy of your parents. You will be able to maintain you own views more easily if you follow elections closely.