 Sketch out the shape of a dinosaur body, including the torso, tail, neck, and head. Use scissors to cut out the body.


Simpler body designs often work better than more complex outlines for this project. Do not include any spikes or details.
The legs should not be included in this outline, either.
Draw the body freehand. If you need help, look at a reference picture or print a free dinosaur pattern and trace everything but the spikes and legs. Free patterns can be found at:

http://www.firstpalette.com/tool_box/printables/dinosaur-jurassic.html
http://printables.scholastic.com/shop/prcontent/Dinosaur-Patterns/9780439503785-026
http://www.freeapplique.com/dinosaurpatterns.html



, The number of spikes will vary based on your design. Usually, though, 10 to 12 spikes is a sufficient amount.


Each spike should be shaped like a diamond.
The spikes should all be somewhat similar in size but should not be precisely even. Ideally, the spikes you plan on positioning toward the head and tail should be slightly smaller than those you plan on using in the middle. Make the largest spike no bigger than the head of the dinosaur.
 Draw two upside-down "U" shapes. Make each one roughly as wide as the neck of your dinosaur, if not a little wider. Cut the pieces out with scissors.


Note that the curved end will be positioned at the top. The bottom ends of each piece should be as flat and straight as possible.
 Apply white craft glue or a glue stick to the back of each piece of construction paper. Press a piece of cardboard or heavy cardstock onto the exposed side of the glue. Let everything dry, then cut out your pieces again with the cardboard attached.


The cardboard you use should be about the same thickness you would expect to find with a standard cardboard box.
If you do not back the paper, your dinosaur may not be sturdy enough to actually stand on its own.
Note that your dinosaur will only be decorated from one side if you follow this method precisely. If you want the dinosaur to be decorated from all sides, you will need to cut duplicates of each body, leg, and spike piece and glue those duplicates onto the exposed back of the cardboard.
 You need to cut slits into the bottom of each spike and in the top curved portion of each leg set. You should also cut slits into the dinosaur body at the spots where the legs and spikes will connect.


Cut a slit halfway into the curved portion of each leg set.
Cut a slit into the bottom half of each spike.
Lay the dinosaur body flat. Mark the placement of the legs on the body using a pencil. Arrange the spikes above the body to get an idea of where each one should go, then mark each place with pencil. Cut a slit along each mark, but make sure that no slit in the body is longer than the slit in the corresponding leg or spike piece.
 Turn the leg portions so that they are now perpendicular with the dinosaur body. Slide the slit of the front leg portion into the front leg slit on the dinosaur body; repeat with the other leg portion. Follow the same procedure with each spike as you place them along the back of the dinosaur.


You should not need to glue or tape the pieces in place. They should remain snug enough on their own.
Check your dinosaur. At this point, the dinosaur should be able to stand on its own. If not, try bending the tips of each leg forward into a flat foot, since doing so will provide a larger and more secure surface to support the rest of the dinosaur.
At the conclusion of this step, your standing dinosaur should now be complete.

