 Enter your car’s information onto a website, such as Kelley Blue Book or Edmunds, to get an instant appraisal. Or, scour the local classified ads to see if there are other people selling cars similar to yours. Find a price point you're comfortable with, keeping in mind that the buyer might try to negotiate with you and you'll probably end up getting less than your asking price.Private party sellers generally see the best results with a price that is rounded, such as $11,000.
After you receive the online estimates, price your car between 97-102 percent of those figures.Give potential buyers more information regarding your openness to negotiations by stating “firm” or “best offer” in your ad., Provide as many details regarding your car’s condition, model, mileage, and extras as you can. The more details that you provide the fewer random buyer questions you will need to answer. Do your best to avoid cheesy phrases, such as “like new,” as they are just narrative dead weight. Read through your ad’s text a few times to check that it sounds approachable and interesting.For example, if your car has a clean accident history, then point this out and state that a vehicle history report is available upon request.To draw in thrifty buyers, state if your car has exceptional gas mileage or other cost-saving features. Also, include a brief mention of any warranties that still cover the car.
 To establish trust with a potential buyer, briefly mention any mechanical issues that might need to be addressed. You could even list your car’s Vehicle Identification Number (VIN), so that interested parties can do some research on their own.Don’t take this too far and list everything that is wrong with your car. Just pick out one or two potential concerns to point out in your ad.
 It’s easier for a buyer to envision themselves in a car when they can actually see it. If you are posting online, add photos up until you reach the limit. If you are creating a flyer, choose one or two shots that show off your car’s best features. Include photos of both the interior and exterior, if possible.Get a bit creative and add in shots from a variety of angles. You can even include a video ad if the website will support it.