 A puppy with a PSS often grows less quickly and is of a smaller stance than its healthy littermates.The puppy may be poorly muscled and generally look 'weedy' and underweight.


However, it can be difficult for an owner to recognize the puppy is stunted if it is an only dog.;
, But more serious than this, the dog can develop neurological signs. The neurological signs are due to toxic metabolites acting on the brain. In the same way that alcohol can make people drunk and their coordination suffers, the dog with a PSS may stagger and have poor coordination.Some dogs walk in circles or sit staring into space. Others may 'head press,' which means they sit in a corner and literally push their head against the wall.
Other symptoms include seizures and disorientation.These signs may be worse a short time after eating and may wax and wane over the course of the day, with the dog being more alert at some times than others.
 Some dogs also show gastrointestinal signs and may have diarrhea. They may also drool heavily after eating and their vacancy or disorientation worsens.If any of these signs sound familiar then you should get your puppy seen by a vet.
 Most commonly, signs start to develop before the dog's first birthday.There are a number of variable factors which can influence when the dog shows signs and how severe the symptoms are. These variables are the size of the shunt and the type of diet.


The larger the shunt the less blood flows through the liver.
High protein diets produce more of the toxic waste products of digestion, and more severe clinical signs.
 A puppy in the womb derives nutrition from the mother's blood via the placenta. Thus, the fetus' liver does not need to function in the same way as an adult dog's liver does. With PSS, the liver does not switch to normal operation once the puppy is born.


In the womb, the fetus has a blood vessel that bypasses the liver, thus taking it out of the circuit.The name of this bypass vessel is a portosystemic shunt, or PSS. When a normal puppy is born, this bypass vessel closes down and blood is re-routed through the liver, which then starts its work of detoxing the blood.
In dogs with a clinical PSS, the bypass vessel remains open, so blood circulates around the liver rather than through it. This means the liver is not given the opportunity to cleanse the blood of natural toxins that occur as a result of digestion.
 The vet will perform a thorough clinical examination to rule out other problems, such as a severe heart murmur, which could cause weakness and disorientation. The next step is screening blood tests, again to rule out kidney problems and other conditions which could affect the puppies growth and mentation.Screening bloods won't definitively diagnose a PSS but certain changes on the panel can point in that direction. The vet may choose to run an addition blood test looking at blood ammonia levels, since these are often elevated in dogs with a PSS.In addition, the vet may run a bile acid stimulation test (BAST).This test compares the levels of bile salts in the blood before and after eating. The pattern of response to eating (the levels of bile acids are high both before and after) can point strongly towards a shunt.
 If the vet is suspicious of a PSS then more detailed imaging is necessary to confirm the condition. This is essential if surgical correction is being considered, as the surgeon needs to know where the shunt is in order to plan surgery. If you do not intend to correct a potential problem with surgery, then the cost of these tests may not be worth the information you can get from them. These imaging techniques are quite specialized and your dog may need referral to a specialist center in order to access the equipment and expertise necessary. Each center has their own preferences but the options include:


An ultrasound scan by a specialist: Shunts are difficult to visualize using ultrasound but experienced scanners can use the doppler flow of the blood to check for a shunt. This technique has the advantage of being non invasive so no surgical procedure is necessary to reach a diagnosis.
Scintigraphy: This involves giving the dog an enema of a radioactive substance. The distribution of that substance is measured with a special scanner, and the amounts in the heart and the liver compared (it will be much lower in the liver).Portogram: Blood vessels don't show up well on x-ray but this technique involves a contrast agent injected into a major blood vessel so that the passage of the contrast can be followed on x-ray. This gives a clear 'map' of the blood vessels and highlights the shunt. The disadvantage is the patient needs an anesthetic in order to inject the contrast (a small surgical incision may be made into the abdomen) and to take the pictures.MRI or CT scan: These can give a 3D image of the abdominal content including the shunt if present., Once a diagnosis is made, the decision is made about treatment. Surgery is successful in most cases, although a second operation is needed in a small percentage of cases.


However, the procedure is expensive and requires specialist care and postoperative nursing.
The alternative is to manage the patient with a low protein diet and medications that lower the levels of toxins in the blood. This is not a cure and patients may still have flare ups of clinical signs and are likely to lead shortened lives.

