 Open any web browser on your computer and visit the Facebook web page.;
, If you already have a Facebook account, enter your registered email and password at the top right side of the page, and click “Log In” to proceed.


If you don’t have an account yet, you need to create one in order to make an organization page. It’s easy to create a Facebook account; on the Facebook home page, below the login fields, is the Sign Up heading. Below this heading is a sign-up form. Just fill it up with the required information and click the green “Sign up” button at the bottom of the page to instantly get an account.
 You will be directed to your News Feed page on Facebook. At the top right is a small upside-down triangle; click this and then select “Create Page” from the options.
 Since you will be creating an organization page, select the second option at the top (middle): Company, Organization, or Institution.
 A drop-down option menu and a text field will appear in the category box of “Company, Organization, or Institution.” From the drop-down option, select the organization’s category. There are several to choose from, like Computers, Education, and Food/Drink, to name a few.


In the text field below the category, enter the name of your organization. When you’re done, click the “Get Started” button. Note that by clicking “Get Started” you will be agreeing to the Facebook Page terms and conditions.
If you want to view the full agreement, click the “Facebook Page Terms” link at the top of the “Get Started” button.
 There will be 4 steps to the setting up of your organization page, which you can see at the top header of your current page—About, Profile Picture, Add to Favorites, and Preferred Page Audience.


In Step 1 (About), add a description of the organization in the text box provided. This will help improve your Page ranking during search. You’re limited to 155 characters for this, so make it brief but interesting.
Next, add a website in the text box below Description. Here you can add your organization’s official website (if any), a Twitter account, a blog, and so on. Separate websites with a comma.
Last, choose a Facebook web address for your organization page. It will look like this: https://www.facebook.com/. Make it unique, and make sure that it’s one you want to use all the time since you can only change this once later on.
When you’re done, click the “Save info” button to go to the next step: Profile Picture.
 In the next step, you have two options on uploading a profile picture for your organization Facebook page: “Upload from Computer” and “Import from Website.”


The former will open a file explorer you can use to navigate through your computer’s folders until you find the image you want to use. Click it, and click “Open.” Once it’s uploaded, click “Save.” It would be best to to use an image that’s related to your organization, like the organization logo.
If the image you want to use for a profile picture is in your organization’s website, select the latter and a text field will appear where you can enter the website’s URL. Click “Import” and results will display images from the website for you to select. Click the one you want to use, and then click “Save photo” to upload it as the Facebook page’s profile pic.
 Favorites are shortcut links to your favorite pages and apps on Facebook. This is located near the top section of the left panel of your News Feed page. Adding the Facebook page to your Favorites will enable you to quickly access the page when you need to view it. To add to Favorites, just click the green “Add to Favorites” button or, if you want to opt out, click “Skip.”

, This is the last step in setting up your organization’s Facebook page. Here, enter the locations you’re targeting (e.g., your hometown, a certain city, a postal code, and so on) in the first field.


Set an age restriction if your organization is targeting certain age markets (e.g., for young adults, you might want to restrict the page for ages 18 to 25).
 If the organization is specifically for a certain gender (e.g., men’s golf club or women’s latest fashion trends), you can set it next to the Gender option. You can set to “All,” “Men,” or “Women.”

, If your organization is targeting a particular interest (e.g., a cause for animal abuse or an organization for checkers players), you can add this information in the last text box.
 When all is done, click the “Done.” You will be taken back to your personal account’s News Feed. To access the Facebook page as an admin, just click the link on the Favorites section on the left panel (if you opted to put it there), or click the upside down triangle at the top header, and select “Use Facebook as .”

