 The handstand is a basic gymnastic move that you'll need to be fully capable of doing in order to execute a back limber. If your handstand is a little rusty, practice until you can do it easily without the help of a spotter.


Practice using good form - keep your shoulders in and your legs together.
Be confident that you can hold your handstand for several seconds.;
, The bridge position is a key element of the back limber, so practice it until you have a good feel for how to do it. Start by lying on a gym mat with your knees bent. Place your hands on the mat behind your ears and lift your body with your hands and feet until your body forms an arched bridge shape.
 Starting in an upright position, arch your back and bend toward the floor until your hands are firmly planted behind you. This move is the first part of a back limber, so it's important that you can do it confidently!

, A back limber is a pretty advanced move, so it's a good idea to start with a spotter the first few times you do it. Ask your gymnastics instructor or coach, or a gymnast more advanced than you, to help you out. Practice the move in a soft area, like on a gym mat or in the grass. The s

, Warm up your muscles by stretching your back, arms, wrists and legs before proceeding. This will make it easier for your body to go through the motions of a back limber. Do the following stretches to get ready:


Stretch your back by doing a few backbends.



Pull back on your fingers as you hold your arm out straight to stretch out your wrist, then switch to the other side.
Jog a lap or two to get your blood circulating and stretch your legs.
 Hold your legs together and raise your arms so that they're pointed toward the sky. Your back and legs should be in a straight line with your arms.
 It can help to keep your feet a little apart if you're a beginner, but more advanced gymnasts should keep them together. Arch backward until your hands are planted firmly on the ground and your body is in the bridge position.
 As your hands land and your body forms a bridge, rock your body upward and pull your legs upright into a handstand. This part of the move takes some practice! The key is to move from a backbend to a handstand in one fluid motion, keeping your legs together and pointing them upright to finish.
 This is the most formal way to end a back limber. Keeping your arms and back in a straight vertical line, hold your legs together and bend at the waist. Your legs should stay straight and move together to the ground, like a hinge. Land with your feet firmly planted on the ground.
 The finishing position is the same as the starting position: keep your legs and back straight with your arms stretched overhead.