 From looks, intelligence, compassion and enthusiasm for life in general to Star Trek knowledge in the specific, decide which qualities are most important before pursuing your Star Trek girl. If you don't have suitable qualities in mind, you might be dazzled by her Star Trek knowledge but not take the time to work out whether she's the right person to spend your time with for more reasons than just Star Trek. You'll definitely want to be on the lookout for a girl who shows that she is open-minded, tolerant of quirkiness and lets you be yourself, regardless of her level of Star Trek interest.


As part of drawing up your list, decide whether you want to end up being involved romantically or casually with this girl, or whether you'd like to be really good friends with a common interest of Star Trek. She might even be someone you're happy to only meet up with at particular conventions.;
, If having an online girlfriend is preferable, especially if you're mainly seeking to engage in conversation, an online Trekkie-loving lady may be ideal. There are less logistics involved in trying to find her in the flesh, although you may eventually decide to meet up at a convention or meeting. In choosing whether you want an online or face-to-face relationship, think about what would make you feel most comfortable and what lets you be yourself when first getting to know someone.


If you want a romantic relationship, a real life relationship would be more realistic than an online one, especially if you're after a long-term commitment. Then again, the love of Star Trek is not a widely shared trait, so connecting online first and then meeting later might be your only true means for meeting the absolute Star Trek girl.
 Most people have a preferred age range when dating or finding friendship but in the case of finding a connection with someone who has a specific enjoyment of Star Trek, you may need to be somewhat flexible. This is because you might find that older women have more of a love for the 1970s version of Star Trek than Voyager, which is the newer, updated and vastly different version. Be open-minded about age or the specificity of the Star Trek interests and be guided by what you want from the relationship.
 If you're afraid that you'll get glazed looks and get called a "geek" for mentioning Star Trek or your passion for sci-fi, then you're never going to find the girl who will connect at the same level as you. Be bold and be prepared to mention your love for Star Trek and all things associated with this genre. If she doesn't like the mention of Star Trek, then she's not the girl you're seeking––it really is as simple as that. Remember that when you connect with people, it should be a genuine connection, so that the other person likes you for who you are.


If you like to dress up and do cosplay, unless you're at a Star Trek cosplay convention, then it's probably a good idea to leave off mentioning this aspect of your interest until you're better acquainted with the Star Trek girl and you're sure of her interest level. Once she likes you for the person she's already connected with, it'll be easy for her to accept any elements of your Star Trek fan expression that might not necessarily be something that she's already doing. Be patient!

, Where you look will depend both on what you've decided in terms of the type of relationship you're after (romantic, casual, friend, etc.), how you want to connect (online or real life) and what level of interest you're hoping this Trekkie-star crossed girl will have. For example, if you want to meet a girl who gets into the comic aspect of the series or even cosplays as a Trek character, trolling comic book stores or turning up at conventions may be your best strategy. However, your strategy may differ if you simply want to meet a gal who appreciates the show, but may not be so deeply immersed in the Trekkie culture. The remaining steps

, One of the best ways to meet singles that love Star Trek is at a local sci-fi meet-up. The club or meet-up doesn't necessarily have to be focused on Star Trek alone but can be science fiction focused in general––there's bound to be some Star Trek fan girls amid the sci-fi lovers. To find a local club or meet-up, Google, “sci-fi club meet-up” and your city and state. Find out about costs, dress requirements and times, etc. and arrange to spend as much time at the meet-up or to attend as many club meetings as possible. And be ready to proudly proclaim your love of sci-fi and Star Trek!


You could also look further afield but accept that if you do connect with someone, it'll be harder to initiate a relationship if you're not there for long and then you'll have to take the time to maintain the relationship long distance.
 Star Trek comics are often a popular draw at local comic book stores. In addition to generally hanging out at the comic book store, ask about Star Trek comic book author signing parties or other events where you could possibly meet the girl of your dreams.


If you know the owner of the bookstore well, let him or her know you're trying to find female Trekkie friends. The owner might be able to suggest someone, talk to someone he or she knows to see if they'd be interested in meeting you or might even be happy to put up a notice in the store to help connect you with someone.
 Star Trek conventions continue to be as popular today as they were 30 years ago. Visit the Star Trek website in order to retrieve the latest convention information and dates. You'll meet a lot of women interested in Star Trek at these conventions but you'll need to polish up your small talk skills because it's small talk that serves as the social lubricant to bring you together with others, whether you have similar or different interests. And it's through starting a conversation that you'll discover the extent of her passion for Star Trek!


Read How to make small talk, How to conduct small talk in cyberspace and How to start a conversation when you have nothing to talk about for further details.
 In addition to ComiCon, some of the local comic book conventions are a great place to meet Star Trek girls. Ask the local comic book store owners for a list of upcoming conventions or a quick search on Google will produce a list. As with the Star Trek conventions, be prepared to mingle and talk in order to get to get to know the interests of the girls there.
 Spending time on sites such as trekpassions.com is one way to connect with other singles who love Star Trek. Additionally, Facebook offers numerous groups and fan pages devoted to the love of Star Trek. Don’t discount other dating websites such as Match.com or local dating sites, as you can often search profiles for women who are expressly interested in science fiction.
 Everyone knows someone who loves science fiction and/or Star Trek. If you aren’t the type who talks non-stop about Star Trek or haven’t voiced an interest in girls who love Spock, consider asking close friends or family members if they could recommend a girl they know as a possible date.
 If you've tried all of the above ways to find the Star Trek girl but you haven't yet made a genuine connection with someone, try the subtle method of having a girl you do fancy watch some Star Trek with you once she's either become a good friend of yours or is firmly romantically attached to you. Show her some of The Original Series (TOS) or Voyager (VOY), depending on your own preferences, and see how she reacts. She'll know these mean a lot to you so it's very likely she'll do her best to be engaged with watching them. Afterward, spend a little time explaining why you love Star Trek but don't go into copious details about its background and characters or you risk turning her off. Keep the focus on how much Star Trek means to you, to help her understand that being a part of your life means also understanding your passion for Star Trek. By all means let her know she can ask you anything at all about Star Trek and that you'll be happy to help out.
 As much as you want your girlfriend to accept your Star Trek affiliation and your need to spend time watching, reading and toying around with all things Star Trek, accept her too. If you do find the girl of your dreams, but she may not necessarily want Star Trek in her life the way you do, but she sure knows that she wants you in her life, then she's likely the one all the same. Her respect for your interest is all that you really need confirmation of. You can work out all the rest around that!

