 Oatmeal is naturally exfoliating, making it ideal for dry skin.It is also great for acne because it helps absorb excess oil, sooth inflammation, and reduce redness., Pumpkin contains many beneficial vitamins and minerals, including zinc, which helps control oil production and hormone levels. It can also help prevent pimples, acne, and blackheads., Oatmeal is great for your skin in many ways. Not only is it gently exfoliating, but it is also naturally soothing, making it perfect for sensitive skin. It may also help fight acne.If you'd like, you can grind the oatmeal in a blender, food processor, or coffee grinder first. This will give you a finer texture, which will make the mask gentler. This is great if you are looking for something that is more like a mask and less like a scrub.
If you want to make the mask more soothing, cook the oatmeal first; this will make it more effective at reducing inflammation.Combine 1 tablespoon oatmeal with 2 tablespoons of water, then cook it in the microwave for about 1 minute. Let it cool, then use it in your mask.
 If you can't get any jojoba oil, you can use any other food grade, skin safe oil, such as sweet almond oil, olive oil, or even coconut oil. You can also use honey instead, which is naturally antibacterial and antimicrobial.
 While not completely necessary, this will give your pumpkin mask a wonderful aroma.If you have sensitive skin, however, you might want to skip this.
 Scrape the bottom of the cup or bowl from time to time so that all of the ingredients get evenly mixed. You want the oatmeal to be distributed evenly throughout the pumpkin.
 Wash your hands using soap and warm water, then clean your face using your favorite facial cleanser. Gently pat your face dry, then apply the mask using your fingertips. Take care to avoid the area around your eyes.


This mask may drip, so it might be a good idea to clip or tie your hair back, and drape a towel over your shoulders.
To get some exfoliating benefits out of this mask, apply it using circular motions, gently massaging it into your skin.
 Sit or lay down some place comfortable and try to relax. The more you move around, the more likely the mask will drip. You can listen to your favorite music, read a book, or daydream during this time.
 Use circular motions while washing the mask off; this will turn it into a scrub, and help the oatmeal exfoliate your skin. Once you have the mask all off, splash your face with cool water, and pat your face dry with a soft, clean towel. If you need to, follow up with some toner and moisturizer.

