 Many bladder control problems are caused by weak pelvic muscles that have become stretched during childbirth. As a result, the bladder sags and stretches the urethra’s opening. If you believe your bladder control issues are due to childbirth, do Kegel exercises regularly to tighten pelvic muscles.To do a Kegel exercise, first identify your pelvic floor muscles by stopping urination in midstream. The muscles you use to do this are your pelvic muscles. Get a sense of what it feels like to move these muscles.
Tighten these muscles for five seconds, and then relax them for five seconds. Repeat four or five times in a row. Work up to to the point where you are contracting the muscles for 10 seconds at a time.
Make sure you are not simply contracting your abdomen, thigh, or butt muscles. Try not to hold your breath. Perform the Kegel exercises three times a day, making 10 repetitions at a time.
 These drinks are diuretics, which means that they take fluid from swollen areas of the body and direct it to the bladder. The bladder fills fast, causing it to leak.Choose decaffeinated drinks. Drinks with caffeine in them, such as sodas or coffee, will fill the bladder up fast. It’s normal to pass urine every three to four hours, but the urge can be more frequent if you’re drinking large volumes of these beverages.
Try not to drink a lot of fluids at once if you have this issue. By losing weight, you can also also reduce pressure on your bladder. Quitting smoking can also help you control urine leakage, according to some studies., If this is a persistent problem – if you pee frequently when laughing or performing minimal duties – you should see a medical professional to diagnose what’s causing it. Your doctor may suggest adult diapers, and may be able to provide advice on the types to wear. As with anything medical-related, you should see a doctor to make sure that there is no underlying cause that is particularly serious. It’s better to get it checked out than to guess what’s going on.If your leaks are usually light, you may be able to get by with a pad or guard over a full on diaper. You can place these items inside regular underwear, and they may make less noise.
However, if you need a diaper, you can pick a brand that's easier to conceal. Try a variety of brands before deciding on a product that works for you. Experiment with different types of pants and clothing to see what best conceals the diaper.
Be prepared when wearing a diaper in public. Carry around scented disposable bags you can use to discard wet diapers. If there isn't a garbage can around, a disposable bag can be used to temporarily hold a soiled diaper until you find a place to discard it.
 If your bladder is not full, you’re obviously not going to have as much of a problem with peeing in public. Thus, you should make sure you empty your bladder on a regular basis.


It's more risky to try to hold a full bladder for a long period of time, and if you do so, you will increase the chances of urine leakage.
Try not to delay trips to the bathroom. Just go, especially if you’ve been drinking a lot of water-based beverages, such as beer, soda, or coffee.
Before you launch into that funny story, recognize the signs of a full bladder and head to the restroom to empty it out. Try to go to the bathroom at set times and before you actually feel a strong urge to do so, as well.
 If you pee simply by laughing, it could indicate an underlying issue. If it happens more than one time, see a doctor. Incontinence can be a sign of a variety of underlying health conditions.


There is a specific term for this kind of bladder control leakage because it's relatively common. It’s called “stress incontinence. It doesn’t mean that you have emotional stress. It means there is stress placed on the bladder.
Menopause can also increase urine leakage in women. Damaged nerves can also cause urine leakage as a result of ailments such as a stroke or diabetes. Urine leakage can be caused by trauma, such as pelvic surgery. Being overweight can also effect the bladder.Once your doctor has figured out the cause of your incontinence, the two of you can go over a treatment plan. There are a variety of ways, such as medications and lifestyle changes, to treat incontinence and help you better control your bladder.

