 Simply put, leadership is the ability of someone to guide their peers towards a goal or an outcome.In order to write a scholarship essay on the subject, you need an even deeper understanding of the trait. Look for books, articles, and Web sites that focus on the concept of leadership.


Web sites such as amazon.com and goodreads.com offer lists of leading titles on leadership.Some classics in the field include The 21 Irrefutable Laws of Leadership, by John C. Maxwell; Good to Great, by Jim Collins; and Strengths Based Leadership, by Tom Rath and Barry Conchie.A quick Internet search will provide you with countless articles on leadership, which will help you understand its core principles.
 Now that you’ve researched the topic, think about what it means to you.


Are you inspired by the ambition and risk-taking of good leaders? If so, focus on those in your essay.Maybe you are more interested in the fact that good leaders are knowledgeable of their mission and have a strong vision of how to attain it. You can highlight these traits in your essay.Don’t forget that good leaders also exhibit strong communication skills and are comfortable delegating duties to a dedicated team. Write about these characteristics in your essay as well., Most essays about leadership require you to reflect on ways you have demonstrated the trait in the past. By spending time brainstorming before you begin to write, you will make the writing process much easier.


If you are not yet in the work force, think about how you may have demonstrated leadership abilities in sports and on academic or debate teams.
Volunteer work and club memberships are other possibilities to consider when reflecting on your leadership experience.
If you are in the work force, think of projects or teams you were on that gave you leadership experience.
Some specific leadership traits you may be able to find in yourself include trustworthiness, reliability, and consistency.Be specific when thinking about your own leadership experience. Think of specific goals or successes that resulted from your leadership.
 You don’t always need to be in charge of something to exhibit leadership. For children and young adults, leadership can be shown by helping people, making the right choices, and being independent.You may have shown leadership in your neighborhood by helping older neighbors with yard work or organizing games for kids after school.
Another way you could have shown leadership is in your own family. Maybe you helped care for a younger sibling while your parents were working or taking care of an elderly relative, or you took on more responsibilities around the house during a difficult time.
You may have demonstrated leadership at school. Did you confront a bully for a classmate? Did you help tutor a friend after school?

