 You may also call this the floor of your mouth. This provides an easy to access boundary for your tongue. You will be using the inside of your mouth as a guide while you learn. You really do not need anything else. The bottom of the mouth along with the teeth and lips should provide all the necessary surfaces for the tongue taco shape.;
, Try to touch all three sides (don't worry about the back) of your mouth at the same time. Stretch your tongue so you are applying pressure to each side. You may even feel like your tongue is going under your teeth.
 Now try to move each side of your tongue independently. Keep your tongue flattened. With pressure on each side of your mouth, release one side a little and move it up that side of the mouth. For example, while keeping pressure on the left side, attempt to touch your teeth with the right side. Try touching the top of your mouth. Switch to the other side and do the same thing.
 As you learn to move each side independently you will gain more tongue dexterity. Hold your tongue down flat and move one side up. Then move the other side. You should now be holding your tongue flat while the sides are touching each side of your mouth on or above your teeth. If you look in the mirror, you will see your tongue is beginning to fold.


If you look in the mirror and your tongue doesn't appear to look flat, keep practicing flattening your tongue and moving the sides independently. What's happening is you are using muscles in the middle of your tongue to raise your tongue. These muscles should be holding your tongue to the bottom of your mouth.
 Once you open your mouth you should have the start of your tongue taco shape inside. As you push your tongue out of your mouth, keep pressure on the sides. Press the bottom of your tongue against your bottom front teeth. As your tongue exits, use your lips to hold the round shape.


You may find it easier to keep your tongue wrapped around something like a drinking straw as you push your tongue out. Keep the sides of your tongue against the sides of the straw. If you feel the bottom of your tongue pushing the straw up and away from the sides, back up and regain your tongue's shape. Keep trying until you don't need the straw at all.

