 Unzip the hydration pack and fill the water bladder within. Some manufacturers require you to unscrew the water bladder, then fill it. With other types of water bladders, you might have to unlock the clip that holds it together at the top. Still other varieties of hydration packs feature water bladders that require you to slide open a locking mechanism at the top of the bladder. With the bladder open, fill it with clean water, then close it once it’s full.Use cooler water if you’re headed out for a summer run, and warmer water if you’re headed out during the winter.
Consult manufacturer directions for specific steps on how to fill your hydration pack.
 Make sure that you always rinse out the water pack before and after you use it. To rinse your water pack, fill it with warm water, shake the water around, and then empty it. Also, make sure to run water all the way down through the hose and out of the mouthpiece. Do this every time you use your water pack to help keep it clean.
 Once you’ve filled the water bladder, replace it within the hydration pack. Zip the hydration pack closed. Place your right arm through the hydration pack’s right-side strap, and place your left arm through the left-side strap.The process is similar to putting on a backpack.
 Bite down on the tube and suck inward, just as you would when drinking from a straw. The suction power should allow the water to come out of the tube. Swallow the water until you’ve had enough, then release the drink tube. Clip it to the hydration pack strap on your chest. Detach it when you’re ready for another drink.Some drinking tubes might require you to twist a valve on the bite piece open.If you have a pressurized hydration pack, you’ll need to build the pressure inside the pack by squeezing the pressure valve (attached to the air tube) eight to ten times before biting down on the drink tube., Depending on the model, you might be able to get a brush inside the bladder and scrub away with warm water. This is especially important if you’ve used electrolyte/sugar mixes in your pack. If you have an unusually-shaped bladder – like some of the vest-shaped hydration packs – cleaning the interior completely with a brush is impossible. Instead, you’ll have to swish some mixture of hot water and an antibacterial powder additive around inside, then rinse thoroughly several times with warm water.When you’re done cleaning the interior of the bladder, open it up as best you can and hang it upside down for several hours so that all excess liquid drains out.
Always consult manufacturer directions for cleaning in order to clean your pack in the optimal way.
Never use bleach or boiling water to clean the reservoir.Clean the bladder every time you use it if you’re putting sweetened drink mixes into the bladder. If you’re using only water in the bladder, you can get away with cleaning it once a week or even less.
 As with the bladder, drinking water only requires a less rigorous tube cleaning schedule than does drinking a sweetened drink mix through the hydration pack tube. Most packs offer a specially-designed hose cleaning kit (not included with the pack) to help you clean your hose regularly. You’ll probably need to scrub the inside of the tube with an elongated brush (similar to a pipe cleaner) and a mixture of warm, soapy water.Always consult manufacturer directions for cleaning in order to clean your pack in the optimal way.
 In below-freezing temperatures, your water will freeze in its hose. Many manufacturers sell specially designed insulation sleeves for the hoses, but you could probably get creative and cut a couple of long tube socks into a functional insulation sleeve for your hydration pack’s tube.Because the water in the actual bladder stays closer to your body, there is little chance that it will freeze.
Another tip to prevent water from freezing in the hose is to blow water back into the bladder after drinking when the temperature is below freezing. (This only works with non-pressurized hoses, of course.)