 Goomy is the first evolutionary form of Goodra. The only place in X and Y where you can catch one in the wild is on Route 14.Route 14 is located in Northern Kalos, between Lumiose City and Laverre City. It is also called the Laverre Nature Trail.Your best bet for encountering a Goomy is to get into battles in the swampy areas of Route 14, where a Goomy has a 20% chance of appearing per encounter. In other parts of the area, they can appear 10% of the time or not at all.As a Dragon-type Pokémon, Goomy is weak against Ice, Dragon, and Fairy attacks. It is resistant to Fire, Water, Grass, and Electric.;
, Once you capture a Goomy, add it to your party and start to battle with it. It will evolve into Sliggoo at level 40. The best way to evolve it quickly is to give it lots of rare candies, though this is an expensive option.


If you don't want to fight with your Goomy, you can use the Exp. Share item to have it receive experience from fights it doesn't participate in. This item is given by Alexa in Satalune City., While catching a Goomy and evolving it manually is usually the easiest option, you also have the option of starting with the second evolutionary form. The only normal area in the game where a Sliggoo can be found is Route 19. This area is in Eastern Kalos between Couriway Town and Snowbelle City.Your best bet for finding a Sliggoo is to get into battles in the yellow flowers. Sliggoos have a 20% chance of appearing per encounter here.You can also catch a Sliggoo in the Friend Safari (on a Dragon-Type Safari). Sliggoos have a 50% chance of appearing in Slot 3.See our Friend Safari article for more information.
 Whether you catch your Sliggoo in the wild or evolve it from a Goomy, this step is the same. Continue to battle with your Sliggoo (or use rare candies) to get it to level 49. Battle a few more times to get to the point where another battle will level it up.


If the Sliggoo is already over level 49, just get it to the point that it will evolve to the next level after a successful battle or two.
 Unfortunately, there are no areas that are permanently rainy. The "raining" area status is partly random. However, there are areas where rain is more likely than usual. These include Route 14 and Route 19 — the places where you can catch a Goomy and Sliggoo, respectively.


Any rainy area will work. If you notice that it's raining in an area other than Route 14 or 19, feel free to proceed.
 It doesn't matter who or what you fight — you just want to get into a battle and use your Sliggoo. Ideally, however, the fight should be difficult enough that the experience will make your Sliggoo level up (otherwise you may need to fight again to get to the next level).


Be sure to use your Sliggoo during the fight. If you don't, it won't gain experience unless you're using an Exp. Share item.
 All that's required is for you to win the fight. If you're fighting a wild Pokémon, you can make it faint or catch it. If you're fighting another trainer, just make it faint.
 After you win the fight, if you got enough experience to level up, your Sliggoo will reach level 50 and immediately start evolving. Enjoy your new Goodra!


If your Sliggoo didn't evolve, make sure you met the requirements for evolution:



The Sliggoo must reach level 50 (or any higher level) from the fight.
The fight that caused the level up must have been in an area with rain.





