 Just because you aren't a big company, that doesn't mean you shouldn't have a vivid professional brand. Here are a few points to consider:


Decide whether you will use your own name or work under a business name.
Don't be afraid to invest in business cards, a logo, uniforms and a sign to put outside your home or business. Make sure all of them are consistently branded.
 Make it clean and professional. Use a logo or imagery that conveys your business or service. Include details about your offering and your prices and try to demonstrate your skills. If you are a designer or a writer, put up samples of your work. Let people know how to contact you.
 Actively marketing your services is vital to get your name out there, and it shows prospective clients that you're available for work. Consider these avenues:


Investigate online advertising. This could include setting up social media accounts for your business, sending emails with special offers, or signing up for ads.
Pursue print publishing. Buy up space in your local newspaper, or find a trade publication that caters to people in your industry and pursue an ad there.
If there are publications or web pages that compare different contractors who offer the same services, make sure to get yourself listed.
Describe your services in brochures. You can hire a professional to make them for you, or build them yourself using software like Microsoft Word or Open Office.
Consider enlisting the help of a copywriter to highlight your unique skills and strengths.
 The right connections can make all the difference in running your own business.


Attend networking events and join organizations. If you work mostly locally, consider joining your city's chamber of commerce.
Notify other contractors in your field about your availability—and find out their's. If another contractor is too busy to take on a gig, they might pass the client on to you. Do the same for them, when you can.
Partner with those that can send you business leads. For example, if you are a copywriter, connect with graphic designers whose clients may also need marketing copy for their websites.
 Contact friends, family members and former colleagues to inform them of your services. Ask them to spread the word to potential clients.

