 Watch how the child walks and notice if they have a limp or refuse to put weight on one leg.Measure both of their legs from the hip to the bottom of their foot while it’s flexed, and notice if one leg is shorter than the other. Feel their leg muscles to see if one leg is atrophied (the muscle is smaller and weaker), which can suggest they’ve avoided using that leg due to pain. Ask if they have pain anywhere else – children often feel pain from their hip in their knee, thigh, groin, or back.Younger children may demonstrate hip pain by refusing to walk, walking on their tiptoes or with their toes turned outward, or crying while walking or moving.Infants may demonstrate signs of pain by being fussier than usual.;
, The most common cause of hip pain in children is transient synovitis, which is an inflammatory reaction that generally occurs after having a cold or other respiratory infection.However, hip pain sometimes occurs as a symptom of a more widespread problem. If your child has hip pain, pay attention to whether they have – or have ever had – any of the following problems that may indicate a systemic illness:Recent weight loss or failure to gain weight appropriately
Pallor (paleness and/or sweating)
Fatigue and excessive tiredness
A red rash that looks like a bullseye, which can indicate Lyme's disease
Changes in bowel habits (diarrhea, constipation, going more or less often)
Pain in other joints

, Hip pain can be caused by injury to the hipbone, leg bone, muscles, tendons, or ligaments. If the child is old enough to tell you, ask them what they did that day and listen for activities that could have caused injury – playing sports, jumping off a swing, getting into a fight, etc.

Hip pain can be caused by physical injury such as a broken leg (femoral fracture) or muscle strain., Because hip pain can be due to so many different causes, keep track of any associated signs or symptoms they have. This can help your doctor understand and diagnose the problem. Pay attention to and write down the following information:Does the pain occur all the time? Only at night? Only after exercising or sitting for a while?
Does anything relieve the pain, such as pain medicine or stretching?
Did the pain occur suddenly or gradually?
Does the child have stomach or abdominal pain? Back pain?
Does the hip pain cause pain in other places like the knee, thigh, or groin?
Does the child have a fever or chills? This is especially important because it can indicate osteomyelitis or septic arthritis - potentially life-threatening infections.
Is the hip red, warm, or swollen?
Have you recently been camping or hiking somewhere the child may have gotten bitten by a tick? They may be at risk for Lyme's disease.
 You must be able to give your child’s doctor a thorough history of the child’s medical history and recent past. Be able to tell your healthcare provider the following:If there’s been any recent accident or trauma
If the child has recently been sick with a virus
If the child has a family history of hip problems
If the child has a diagnosed condition, such as sickle cell anemia or rickets
What medications the child takes

, Pediatric hip pain must be diagnosed. It can be caused by joint and muscle problems, infection, inflammation, other illnesses, and cancer. Your doctor will do a thorough history and exam of the child and likely perform some tests, including x-ray, ultrasound, CT, MRI, blood tests, and more specialized tests if needed. They can treat the problem once they know what caused it., Reassure the child that the doctor wants to help take their pain away. Keep them company throughout testing and provide pleasant distractions, such as reading or singing, during stressful tests. Give them warm physical contact.