 If you think you've heard it all before, switch off by focusing on something else. For example, you could look at all the posters in the room, count stars on reward charts or look at class artwork more intently.;
, Concentrate on a part of the playground or some landscape (if you can see any). Try to work out what people are doing if you can see activity outside. Imagine yourself doing that too.
 There are lots of things you can do mentally, such as looking around the room and playing a game of snog, marry, avoid. Or, do a game of tic-tac-toe with an invisible opponent, all in your head.
 You could stare at a piece of paper on your desk or the hair of the person in front of you and try to move it with your 'powers'. Or, you could imagine what would happen if you had a magical wand that could whisk you and your friends away to a strange land.
 Turn all of the lessons on your timetable into magical lessons instead. For example, English could become charms and math could become defense against the dark arts. If you have house colors and can see these colors on people, sort each person into a Hogwarts house.


Stare at everyone you hate and 'cast a curse on them'.
 Make it as convoluted and crazy as you like, as it's all in your head. It could include people in the class, your friends or made-up people. In fact, it doesn't even need to include people. Be creative in your storytelling.
 Use it to draw interesting and intricate doodles. Perhaps do your name as a doodle, or something relevant to the class.
 There's no time like the present to get on with it.
 Develop your own secret code. If you have a friend in class, invent a secret language using winks, ear pulling and nose blowing.
 Be careful not to let out too loud a breath when you start to breathe again, or to let tears stream down your face after not blinking.
 Try to find the useful points and write them down slowly. Perhaps write down your own opinions about each of the points, to help spur you to think instead of switch off.

