 Quarter length sleeves were popular during this time period. The shoulders were fitted rather than puffy. However, sleeveless blouses were also popular. Small collars close to the neckline, called Peter Pan collars, were typically round in shape.;
, This type of clothing was hemmed at the hip level to emphasize a woman's small waist. Collars on jackets were often small and rounded in the Peter Pan style, just like on the blouses. There were many types of decorative pockets and big buttons on jackets in the 1950s., There were several different types of skirts that were popular in the 1950s. Here are some of the most common styles:


Full skirts. These had more fabric, often with layered petticoats to make it more full. The material could be sewn in many different ways including circle, gathered, pleated or gored.
Pencil skirts. These skirts were narrow and straight.The skirts were designed to emphasize the woman's slim waistline, which was a very important factor in the 1950s
Swing skirts. These were knee high skirts that were also called poodle skirts. However, poodles were not the only animal featured on swing skirts. Nearly any animal, insect, or flower could be depicted on this kind of skirt.
 Shirt dresses were very popular. These had a shirt-like bodice, with no gathered/exaggerated waistline. A narrow belt was often worn with this kind of dress.
 Here is a run down of silhouette styles after 1955:


The A-line look (narrow shoulder to wide hem) was very popular.
Looser fitting dresses were also seen mid-decade.
Sac (or Sack) dresses became common; these were loose and baggy.
At this time, the hemline for most skirts and dresses was near the knee.
Jackets became boxy and the Chanel look (a type of woman's suit) was worn. This look had contrast trim around the jacket edges, no collar, and small pockets with contrast buttons.
 There were several different styles of pants popular for women in the 1950s. Pant legs became narrow during the '50s. Pants were very popular and worn at home and for leisure.


The capri was mid-calf length; the peddle pusher was a long short; Bermuda shorts were knee-length. These were worn with flat shoes, ballet-type flats, and simple sneakers (like Keds). Socks were optional.
 Small hats worn close to the head were popular during the early 1950s, but during the latter years flower pot hats were seen. These kinds of hats were worn higher on the head and were bigger in shape.
 Early in the '50s hairstyles were short and close, much like Audrey Hepburn's style, with short bangs in the front and short, flat layers on the sides and back.


Later, women's hairstyles became larger and bouffant, in the fashion of Elizabeth Taylor.This style was often worn shoulder-length with buoyant roll curls in the front that continue into the sides of the hair in the wavy pageboy style.
 Gloves of all colors were worn with dresses. Longer (above the elbow) gloves were worn at night with bracelets for a more formal look, while shorter (wrist length) gloves were worn in the daytime.Shoes often had pointed toes and thin kitten heels.
 In the 1950s, handbags grew smaller, often envelope in shape. The "Kelley" bag was a simple hand bag with handle. Wicker and gold lame were popular handbag material.Most handbags had shorter handles (no long straps).

