 Iron is forged in the range 1200 F to 2550 F (650 C - 1400 C), brass or bronze at somewhat cooler temperatures.;
, Natural gas, propane, or liquefied propane gas are readily available in most locations, but for an authentic, old fashioned forge, coal/coke or charcoal fires would be the first choice.
 For craft and hobby work, a small pit will be sufficient. If you have ambitions for forging swords or other long "weapons", you may find you need a "deeper", or larger fire area. For very large heavy forgings, a forging oven with an overhead hoist may be more suitable, but for this discussion, we will look at smaller, hearth-type furnace forges to heat the steel.
 If you are going to use it for long term work at frequent intervals, you may want to enclose it in a woodshed or building, but this will require ducting the excessive heat out of the work space, so we will look more along the lines of hobby work, and assembling it in an outdoor area.
 A fairly useful size and configuration might be about 19X29 inches. Install reinforcement bars, and place concrete in the form. Float the concrete flat and fairly smooth.
 Leave an opening in the back "wall" of this box for removing ash from the fire pit, about 12X12 inches. You may decide later to have a metal door built for this, but that really doesn't matter.
 You may choose to fashion a bellows assembly or buy an electric blower for this purpose, but for this project, a 4 inch (10.2 cm) cast iron pipe should work for your air duct, regardless of what you use to supply the air.
 This should have a depression of about 3 or 4 inches (7.6 or 10.2 cm) in the center, and can be formed out of 12 or 16 gauge stainless steel, or 1/4 inch (10.2 cm) cold rolled steel plate. It must be strong enough to support the fire brick liner or packed clay which is the base for the fire. You will need a hole near the center of the depressed area of the pit liner for the fresh air supply pipe described earlier.
 You will want one layer of brick to line the fire pit "floor" so that the metal pit form does not burn out from the high temperatures. The sides should be laid up with fire brick and mortar to form a ledge to support the work pieces or tongs with which you will hold your workpiece. The working height of this ledge depends on how tall the forge-worker, or smith, is. Waist high is a good average height.
 This is not absolutely necessary, but helps keep the temperature more comfortable at the front of the forge.
 Depending on climate, this is usually 28 days. If you are anxious to begin using the forge sooner, build a small "curing" fire in the fire pit to temper the masonry before getting it really hot.

