 Most teachers will note certain parts of curriculum that they want to be highlighted in your analysis, such as characters, figurative language or themes.


Highlight potential thesis topics, if given prior to the reading.;
, Use a pencil and highlighter to analyze the material as you read. Annotated materials will result in a closer analysis of the text.


Choose a type of annotation for each element of the text you will analyze. If you are reading a literary text, you can highlight figurative language, underline themes and bracket information about characters, plot and setting. Make notes in the margins of the page that will help you remember the importance of specific sentences.
Keep a legend in the front cover or back cover of the text while you establish your notation system.
 List page numbers that correlate to these notations, so that you can quickly refer to them as you write.


If you are analyzing a non-fiction essay, you may want to write sub-headings like argument, evidence, thesis and theory.
,


Keep in mind that the grade you receive on the analysis will depend upon how accurately you respond to the prompt, as well as how thoughtful and well-written your analysis is.
 The following are options to consider, in addition to an introductory summary and a concluding paragraph:


Establish the narration and its tone. If you are analyzing a non-fiction essay, you may want to analyze the author's tone.
Discuss the setting. Establish the place, time, geographic location and any other details that are given to the reader that affect the story.
Write about the author's style of writing. In both literary and scientific analysis, you can address the audience that the author is appealing to and the choices that they make to become more reliable.
Consider characters, such as protagonist and antagonist. Ask yourself if they reflect other literary characters, if they are stereotypes and if they change throughout the text.
Pick several themes or the thesis to discuss. Gather quotations from the text to establish them in your analysis.
Add any counter-arguments. Discuss controversial aspects of the text.
Establish the greater relevance of the text to the audience.
 Add page numbers under each of your outline topics.
 Each point should be supported by textual evidence.
,, Look for hidden understanding in the quotations you are using as evidence.


Be specific, rather than general. A well-written analysis should be clear and thoughtful. Often times analyzing fewer elements in more detail can result in a better grade.
, In addition to using spell check, make sure you proof for spelling and grammar mistakes by rereading.
 Make sure each point you make is backed up by evidence and thoughtful insights into the significance of the author's choices.
 Make sure you have followed all the guidelines of the assignment, including length, format and bibliography, if applicable.

