 Uterine fibroids are hormonally mediated, much like tumors caused by breast cancer (although fibroids are not cancerous). Studies have shown that women who exercise regularly are less likely to develop fibroids.Studies also suggest that the more physically active you are, the more that exercise will help you prevent fibroids. Women who exercised 7 or more hours per week were significantly less likely to develop fibroids over a period of several years than women who exercised two hours or less per week.Research suggests that vigorous exercise is much more helpful in reducing your risk than light or moderate exercise. Vigorous exercise for 3 or more hours per week may reduce your risk of developing fibroids by 30-40%. (However, even light exercise is better than no exercise at all!);
, Research indicates that fibroids are more likely to occur in overweight or obese women (i.e., those with a BMI above the “normal” range). This may be because of the higher levels of estrogen in obese women.Being overweight increases your risk of developing fibroids by about 10-20%.Very obese women are two to three times more likely to develop fibroids than women within a normal BMI range.You can calculate your BMI using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention’s website here. Or, you can use the following formulas: weight (kg) / 2 or weight (lb) / 2 x 703.
 Some research has shown that green tea may help prevent the development of fibroids in rats. While it has not been confirmed in humans, green tea has numerous other health benefits, so it can’t hurt.Green tea has been shown to reduce the severity of fibroid symptoms for women who already have fibroids.If you are sensitive to caffeine, avoid over-consuming green tea. It is higher in caffeine than some other teas and can cause nausea, jitteriness, or irritability in some people., Several studies suggest that consuming red meat is linked to an increased risk of developing fibroids. Eating green vegetables is associated with a decreased risk.


No evidence currently exists that suggests changing your diet will “prevent” fibroids. However, the health benefits of reducing red meat consumption and eating green vegetables are significant. Red meat consumption has been linked to many health issues, such as cardiovascular disease, cancer, and early mortality.Green vegetables are excellent sources of vitamins, minerals, fiber, and antioxidants.Eat foods high in Vitamin D, such as fatty fish (salmon, tuna, mackerel). Vitamin D may reduce your risk of developing fibroids by over 30%.Vitamin D can also shrink the size of existing fibroids.Some research suggests that increasing dairy consumption — milk, cheese, ice cream, etc. — may reduce the risk of developing fibroids in African American women., Some websites and “alternative” health sources suggest that remedies exist that can prevent or “cure” fibroids. Common remedies include enzymes, dietary changes, hormone creams, and homeopathy. There is no scientific evidence to support any of these treatments., Although researchers are not entirely certain why this is the case, women who have been pregnant have a lower risk of developing fibroids.Pregnancy may also reduce the size of existing fibroids in some cases.However, some fibroids may get bigger during pregnancy. Because fibroids are poorly understood, there is no way of knowing whether your fibroids will grow or not during pregnancy.Some research suggests that the protective effect of pregnancy is strongest during and immediately after pregnancy than for women whose pregnancies were farther in the past.