 Your choice will evolve as you consider what you need to put in it, but consider:


Size: The largest that airlines will allow as a carry-on is a good starting point. Consider a bigger bag if you need to carry extra items such as winter clothes, gifts, a computer, or a fancy camera. Go for a smaller one if you want to carry the bag long distances.
Weight: Some airlines weigh carry-on bags before you board, so try to make sure that most of the weight comes from what's inside, and not from the bag itself. Avoid the need for expensive extra-light materials (such as the ridiculously priced titanium luggage) by choosing a simple tough, floppy nylon bag. Avoid heavy and bulky extending handles and wheels and opt instead for a bag with a strap, or, preferably, much more comfortable and unrestrictive, one with backpack-type straps.

Big, easy to carry, durable and modestly priced bags are especially important to soldiers. Try a "giant duffle backpack" from a "tactical" store for checked baggage (the cylindrical girth and somewhat bigger length maximizes permitted volume, and the stowable backpack straps preserve mobility); or a maximum-carryon-sized boxy-shaped backpack. The color selection may be limited, but black is generally available and may helpfully avoid a military appearance in travel out of of one's own country.


Storage: Multiple pockets help keep things organized. Pockets accessible from the outside provide convenient access to travel paraphernalia such as an inflatable neck pillow or other sleeping aids and snacks, without unpacking or rummaging through everything else.
Extra space: Your choice of bag may evolve with your choices for its contents. It should have just a little room for extras, not so much that the carefully packed contents shift around in transit.

A nylon or light synthetic canvas shoulder bag that folds into a little pouch is a great backup to have on hand in case you decide or happen to accumulate souvenirs. If you have at least some self-control, size it to avoid an airline bag fee by being, say, a modestly sized "personal item" to complement your carryon. (The previous personal item like a purse or laptop bag could go in it.)
If you must have two bags, try a relatively light rolling duffel and a carry-on sized backpack to maximize mobility and weight 'off' your back. An airplane "personal item" such as a purse or laptop bag, or even the backpack, can ride on the roller's handle.
 Ask yourself what you need to function day-to-day, or which items will dramatically improve your traveling experience. At the relevant destination, could any item be feasibly rented, borrowed or bought (and not kept to bring back)? Gather only the absolute essentials. Here's a short list of items that you might need to bring:


Three changes of clothing (at most). Perhaps more socks, underwear and shirts than pants. (Consider packing synthetic fabrics, which are lighter, fold up smaller, slide past each other readily rather than distorting piles, and dry faster––especially for pants, where any difference in feel is less noticeable.)
Toiletries, such as a toothbrush, floss, soap, shampoo, razors, and anything else you need for grooming. See below for more information about packing toiletries.
Medical items that you currently require, such as medication, bandages or eyeglasses.
Any charge cords or other accessories you need for your phone, laptop, or other electronic items.
Shoes, if you'll need a pair besides your traveling shoes.
Empty water container. A bottle will do. A flexible "hydration pack" can expand to hold more and is more convenient to carry when in use, but if the main bag is a backpack, check that the hydration pack can be comfortably carried when full along with it.
Empty plastic bags. You can put dirty clothes in them until washing to keep them from contaminating the clean ones. They should be clear so they aren't confused with trash and thrown away. Try produce bags.
Laundry detergent for washing by hand. Put a few scoops of powdered detergent in a plastic sandwich bag if you're going on an airplane. An inexpensive, lightweight, and long-lasting alternative is to carry a bar of laundry soap.
A portable clothesline (available at any camping or travel goods store).
A universal sink stopper (a flat rubber disk, available at any hardware store). A rubber ball can be an alternative, but check that it doesn't tend to float and is large enough so as to not risk falling in.
 Wrap clothes around large and/or semi-delicate objects (such as bags of toiletries, pairs of shoes, or electronics), rather than folding or rolling clothes. Stuff underwear and socks into shoes to save space and to prevent crushing shoes. The bundle method saves space and also reduces wrinkling.

The rolling method. Pack only those things that you really need and use rolling method to pack clothes; it saves a lot of space. Roll each item of clothing into a tight cylinder. This saves space and minimizes wrinkles. See how to roll clothes for details.
 Buy toiletries in miniature sizes, or transfer liquid contents like shampoo into smaller travel bottles. You can buy travel-size toiletries at most big-box stores, or simply save the small ones you get at hotels.


Put toiletries that could leak (shampoo, gel, etc.) in plastic bags to avoid the hassle of having your clothes covered in liquid soap. If you use bar soap (which can substitute for other forms of soap such as shampoo and shaving cream), get a ventilated holder for it so it doesn't turn to mush through use and storage.
For quicker trips through airport security, try to use solids rather than liquids. Shampoo is available in solid soap-block form and even single-use sheets. Check at a backpacking or outdoor store for more options.
Alternatively, purchase toiletries at your destination to avoid security issues. They may even be cheaper, depending on the currency.
 Minimize the number of items in your bag that require electricity, especially those that need to be plugged in continually rather than briefly to recharge, as converters can be costly and space-consuming.
 Trading books is a great free way to keep your travel library fresh and can net you some interesting new friends as a result of the exchange.

