 Many emotions flood through your body when you find out your teenage child is expecting a baby. Your mind is running through the many difficult challenges ahead of your family and that can be scary. Go ahead and let yourself feel upset, but try not to do it all in front of your child.Find a family member or friend who can help you with the initial shock of the news. Ask them to help you talk to your daughter.
 While you may be angry and upset, your daughter is most likely feeling very scared and alone. Your daughter needs you by their side during this time more than ever. It is emotionally and physically necessary for your child's health to remain as relaxed as possible during the pregnancy. Try to avoid making your daughter feel shameful for getting pregnant because it will not reverse what is already done, and it will worsen the situation. Here are some possible things to say to your daughter after you find out:"I need you to tell me when you found out, and who the father is, so we can figure out what to do next."
"I need some time to think about what the next step is going to be."
"We are going to figure this out together. Everything is going to be okay."

, While you may want to intervene and make the decisions as the adult, you have to listen to your daughter and respect her wishes. It is very important that your daughter is comfortable with the choices made. Even if you do not agree with her choices, you can still support her.


Ask your daughter, "What does your heart tell you to do?" or "Which option do you feel most comfortable with?"
Find a counselor to help you and your daughter make a decision together. Having a counselor present can help keep the conversation constructive with unbiased perspectives.
 While you can't force your views on her, you should lead your daughter to valuable resources and support centers. It is important that you help your daughter make the best decision for her, without having too much influence over what is decided.Go through all of the options and possible scenarios, pointing out the pros and cons for your daughter. This will allow your opinion to be heard, but will also give your daughter the chance to have all of the information to make her own decision.
 Hearing the news that your teen daughter is pregnant can be devastating. You may be asking yourself why this happened, or have fears about what this all means. It is important for you to remember that a baby is a beautiful thing, and there is no shame in pregnancy. While this is unexpected, and will come with many struggles, you should focus on the future and not dwell on the past.


Teenagers make mistakes, and they need to learn how to grow from those mistakes. This is a crucial point where your teen needs your support and guidance more than ever.
 While you may need to assist your daughter financially, emotionally, and give great advice about parenting, you also have to teach her how to be a self-sufficient adult. You can't always be the one to make the doctor's appointments, fix dinner, or do the laundry. Make sure your daughter is prepared to take care of not only herself, but her child too.Allow your daughter to make future doctor's appointments, and have her read baby books to help prepare her for motherhood.
 When the baby comes, it may feel only natural to act as the parent to the new baby. It is important that you maintain your role as the grandparent, and allow your daughter to act as the primary care taker. Your daughter has to learn how to rely on herself.
 You need to make sure your daughter is receiving proper prenatal care to ensure a healthy labor, delivery, and baby.


Go with your daughter to her appointments, and support her during this journey.
Be sure to start your daughter on a daily prenatal vitamin as soon as you learn about her pregnancy.
 If your daughter decides not to keep the baby, and would like to look into adoption, help her with the process. Remember that your daughter's baby is her responsibility, and the most important thing for you to do is support her decisions. Your daughter will still be going through a pregnancy, and will need to stay healthy physically, and emotionally.


Choosing adoption can be a great option for teenage girls who are not ready to raise a child.
Find support for you daughter to help her through the grieving process that comes along with adoption.
 If you daughter decides that having an abortion is the best option for her, it is important that you stand by her side. This can be a traumatic experience, not just during the procedure, but after, and your daughter will need your love and support.


Be sure to talk with your daughter after the procedure, to check on her well-being.
 You won't be able to support your daughter if you are not being supported. Find someone you can talk to, and get advice so that you can be clear headed when helping your daughter and grandchild.You can talk to a friend, family member, or maybe a therapist. Just find someone you can trust and open up with.

