 Turkish Angoras have beautiful, silky coats of a medium length. The coat does not have an undercoat, so it will not get tangled or matted. However, you should still brush the coat every day or every couple of days to keep it looking nice.Use a long-toothed metal brush for your cat's longer coat. You can find these brushes at pet stores.;
, You should trim your cat’s nails every few weeks to once a month. You can trim the nails yourself or you can take your cat to the vet to have them trimmed.To trim the nails yourself, start by making your cat comfortable in your lap. Place your dominant hand around the cat’s upper body to secure them. Take one paw into your free hand. Gently press the paw so the claws come out. With your free hand, trim the nails.
Make sure to avoid cutting the quick, which is the pink living part of the nail. Only trim the white part of the nail. If you are uncomfortable cutting the nails on your own, ask your groomer or vet tech to show you how to identify the quick and properly trim the nails.
 Make sure to clean your cat's ears once every couple weeks. This removes all dirt and buildup. Sometimes cats may clean their own ears, but not all of them will. Therefore, you should check your cat’s ears to see if they need cleaning. Use a damp cotton ball or cloth to clean the ears. Gently rub the inside of the ear flap with gauze or a cotton ball, avoiding the ear canalClean ears will be pink and odorless. Dirty ears are darker with visible dirt. They also may have a foul odor. If the ear has a foul odor or a lot of discharge, make an appointment with your vet, as this may be part of a larger medical problem.
 Cats can develop periodontal disease if their teeth aren’t taken care of. You can prevent gum disease by brushing their teeth often.Make sure to brush their teeth with a cat toothpaste and a toothbrush with soft bristles. Never use human toothpaste on a cat. The fluoride is poisonous.


You will probably have to get your cat used to the toothpaste. To do this, start by letting your cat taste the toothpaste. Place a small amount of it on your finger, and then let the cat lick it. After your cat gets used to the toothpaste, move your finger along the gums.
After they are used to that, carefully rub a toothbrush that has toothpaste on it along the gums. Work on each tooth one at a time until the cat lets you brush all of the teeth.

