 If you have some basic conversational phrases down, taking a trip to a place in which the primary language spoken is Spanish can help you learn and understand the language more rapidly.The process of immersion may be the quickest way to learn any language. If you think about it, that's the way you learned your first language. You probably knew how to speak long before you went to school and learned the rules of grammar. You were speaking (more or less) correctly long before you learned how to read and write.
Immersion works if you want to be conversational in a language. However, it will not teach you how to read and write. You still will have to learn spelling and grammar, but this might be easier if you already know how to speak.
There are a number of schools and programs in Spanish-speaking countries that enable you to learn Spanish through immersion while also experiencing Spanish or Latin American culture. If you can't afford to make a trip abroad, though, there are ways you can effectively immerse yourself at home.
 You may have trouble picking out the individual words when you listen to Spanish, making it difficult for you to understand the person speaking. Watching Spanish language television can help train your ear to distinguish the sounds.To start with, look for television shows or movies with which you're already familiar that are over-dubbed in Spanish. Since you already have a general idea of what the characters are saying, you'll start to pick up words and understand intuitively what they mean.
Adding Spanish subtitles as well as listening in Spanish can help you follow along better, and also train your brain to associate particular letters with particular sounds.
As you start getting the hang of it, move on to television shows or movies that you've never seen and test your familiarity.
 As many people as there are in the world who speak Spanish, you don't have to travel to Spain or to a Latin American country to find native speakers who are willing to converse with you.Talking and listening to Spanish speakers can help you better understand the flow of conversation. Native speakers also can correct errors you're making before you embarrass yourself or end up with problems because you are misunderstood.
Keep in mind that there are pronunciation differences in different countries. Someone from Spain is going to sound very different from someone who learned to speak in Mexico, and someone from Mexico will have a different accent than someone from Colombia – just as people from Great Britain speak English differently than Americans.
When you're just starting, you may want to seek out people from Mexico or Ecuador, since they tend to speak more slowly.
 Because song lyrics are slower, and more repetitive, than regular speech, music is a good way to start identifying individual words and connecting them in your mind with their written form.If you have satellite radio, you can find numerous Spanish music stations, as well as talk-radio stations. Depending on where you live, you may even be able to find a Spanish-language radio station on the AM or FM dial.
Apart from radio, you can easily find a wealth of Spanish music online. You might start by doing an internet search for the Top 40 in a particular Spanish-speaking country, such as Mexico or Colombia.
Find some songs you like, then do an internet search for the lyrics. That way you can read along as the song plays to better connect the written and spoken word in your mind.
 Using the settings on your smart phone, computer, or tablet, you can change the default language from English to Spanish. Since you already know where menu items are, this change will help you learn those words in Spanish.Many websites and social media platforms also allow you to change your default language. You could even change the language for your web browser, or use a translate plug-in to translate English-language web pages into Spanish. Be careful with these, though, as they're not always accurate and may not be the best translation.
You also can look for Spanish-language websites and try to read those. Many news sites will have a video along with a transcript of the video, so you can read and listen at the same time.
 Giving yourself a visual reminder of the Spanish word for something you encounter on a daily basis will eventually set that word firmly in your mind, giving you a larger Spanish vocabulary.All you need for this project is a pen or marker, paper, and tape. Make sure you're using an adhesive that won't peel paint or damage the item you're labeling, because you'll probably want to take it off later.
Don't try to label everything at once – it may be overwhelming. Choose 5 to 10 items, look up the Spanish word for those things, and label them. Once you know those things, take the labels off and move on to a different set of items. If you find you forgot something, simply go back and do it again.

