 Tree pose is one-footed. For ease, this tutorial will focus on having your right foot on the ground, but you can easily reverse the directions if you would rather learn left-footed. Gradually begin to shift all of your weight into your right foot so that you can move your left foot freely.









Keep your toes free, spreading them widely for balance. You should be able to wiggle them a bit throughout the exercise.;
, You should, however, keep your chin up so that it is parallel to the floor. With your eyes open, fix your gaze on a stationary object a few feet in front of you. This object, called a drishti in yoga, will help you maintain your focus and stay balanced.








Some people like looking straight ahead, others at a spot on the floor. Experiment with what works for you.
 Keeping your right leg strong, slowly lift your left toes off the ground. Bend your knee so that it forms a 90-degree angle.
 It doesn't matter where you put it just yet. Simply place your left foot on your leg, making sure your toes point to the floor. If you're not flexible, you can place your foot right above the ankle. If you are flexible, use your hands to pull your foot as high up your thigh as comfortable. The higher you can get it, the better.








Your left knee should be pointing directly to your side, towards the wall.
Make sure you can still balance on your right foot as you position the left.
 Your hips should be level with one another and facing towards the front of the room. Once you have confirmed that your hips are level, start working to actively pull your left knee back to open your left hip as wide as possible.









If you need to use your left hand to help you push your left knee back, do so.
It's okay not to get the hips fully open at first-- as you stretch you'll get more flexible.
 Press your palms together in prayer position in front of your chest. If it is too difficult to balance, place your hands on your hips or extend them out to either side.
 In order to steady yourself, push your left foot against your right thigh while simultaneously pushing your right thigh against your left foot. Do this throughout the duration of the pose. This keeps your pose correct, your legs strong, and your body on balance.
 Point your tailbone towards the floor, pull your bellybutton towards your spine, and lower your shoulders to create length in your spine. Think about creating a little bit of space between each vertebrae. Each time you inhale, try to feel your spine slowly elongating, even if only barely.
 On an inhale slowly lift your arms up over your head. Keep your palms together until they are over your head, hen separate them. Your palms should face each other and your arms should extend completely. Your hands are roughly shoulder-width apart.








If you are able to, open up your chest by squeezing your shoulder blades together.
If you are already struggling to keep your balance, focus on your lower body before complicating things with your hands.
 Remember to keep breathing and keep gazing at your drishti. As you hold, think about:









Gentle, regular breaths.
Elongated spine, with shoulders back.
Hips open, with your left knee facing out.
Leg and foot pressing slightly together.
 Begin by lowering your arms back to your chest.Then release your foot from your thigh, rotate your left hip forward, straighten your left leg, and release your left foot to the floor. Use your hands to guide your foot down slowly if needed.
 Stand next to the wall or hold on to the back of a chair to help you keep your balance. This will allow you get all the benefits of the pose while also working to improve your balance.
 If lifting your foot all the way to your opposite thigh is challenging, work on the pose by lifting your foot as high as you can. You can place your foot on the inside of your opposite calf, or even keep the tips of your toes on the floor and rest your foot against your opposite ankle.








It's fine to place your foot anywhere on your opposite thigh or calf, but never put it directly on your knee.
 For a more advanced version of this exercise, begin holding the pose for longer periods.
 If you're feeling very balanced in this pose, try closing your eyes. You might be surprised by how challenging it becomes to stay balanced without any visual cues.
 Another way to challenge your balance is to begin moving your arms from side to side above your head, as if the branches of your tree were blowing in the wind. Keep your lower body perfectly still.
 Tree pose is contraindicated for people who are experiencing headaches, dizziness, and low blood pressure.








If you have high blood pressure, you can still perform tree pose, but you should avoid raising your arms above your head.
Use caution if you have any problems with your hips or knees. If you feel any pain in your joints when performing tree pose, come out of it right away.If you're brand-new to yoga, talk to your doctor to learn if you are healthy enough for yoga and if there are any poses you should avoid.
 Tree pose requires lots of flexibility in the hip, so you will want to make sure that your pants do not inhibit your movement in any way. You should also avoid pants that are too loose or made of a slippery material because your foot will be resting against the inside of your opposite thigh.
 Find a quiet, comfortable space where you will be able to practice yoga without any distractions. A yoga mat is not necessary for this pose, but if you plan on performing other poses as well, you may want to have one.









If possible, find a space where no one will be walking or standing in front of you. Watching someone else moving or attempting to balance in tree pose may make it more difficult for you to maintain your balance.
Some people actually find it easier to balance in tree pose when they are standing on the hard floor instead of on a yoga mat. Do whatever makes you feel most comfortable.
 Your spine should be straight and your feet should be aligned with your outer hips. Keep your hands by your sides.







