 Ask about how you can join a team through your school or a local club that’s accepting new players. There are many sports and activities that small individuals in particular can excel at.


Join a sport like wrestling, boxing, martial arts, dance, gymnastics, weightlifting, horse racing, and positions within other sports for which small size is an advantage or necessity.
Smaller individuals typically do well in these activities due to a lower center of gravity and/or increased ability to move the body easily and quickly.
 Use your small size to comfortably fit into small areas, either for fun or out of necessity.


Move through crowds more easily as a small individual, and others may also allow you to stand in front of them at concerts or other events where you might have difficulty seeing over taller people.
Fit into more compact spaces and have more legroom on planes, in cars, or other forms of transportation that typically do not have much personal space.
Play hide-and-seek or other games for which you may be able to conceal yourself better than other players.
 Embrace your size as something that sets you apart from others, which you will appreciate more and more as you get older or as you try to define yourself in a particular industry or group.


Use your small size or height to set you apart in industries like acting, dancing, and other careers that may focus on appearance. You can stand out from others of average height pursuing the same thing, and even build a personal brand around your unique size., As you grow out of childhood, enjoy some of the advantages of continuing to appear young, which can get you child discounts and other perks.


Shop in boys or girls sections of clothing stores, as both a way to find clothes that fit you better and save money on the cheaper garments.
Ask about discounts for children or younger people at museums, movie theaters, and other event locations. Even if you do not fit the maximum age, you may be able to pass for younger to meet the discount requirements.
 Know that people of short stature are actually found in studies to also enjoy a number of other health benefits.


Benefit from a reduced risk of cancer as a result of smaller size, which may be due simply to the fact that shorter individuals have fewer cells in their bodies, or have lower energy intake.
Avoid complications of blood clotting, which is two and half times more likely to occur in taller and heavier people due to the distance that blood must travel in the body.
Potentially live longer as a short person, as the hormone that controls height also governs aging.