 Before you even seek out your parents’ permission for an activity, show them how responsible you are. You need to be doing this for a while, too, not just in the few days leading up to your asking. Your parents are more likely to say yes to you if they perceive you as responsible and trustworthy.Here are some ways you can indicate you are responsible:


Do all your chores without needing to be asked or reminded. Take on additional responsibilities around the house.
Help out with your younger siblings and pets. Entertain your siblings, help them with their homework, or take the dog for a walk. Showing your parents you can be responsible for others helps them see that you can be responsible for yourself.Be active in your community. Volunteer somewhere, or be involved in sports or school activities. This shows responsibility by keeping your commitments or working toward a goal.
Be conscientious. Let your parents see how you take the initiative to take care of others: Rake your elderly neighbor’s leaves, call your grandma every week, or visit a sick friend in the hospital.;
, Stay up to date on your homework and class projects, and make sure your grades are good. Not only does how you’re doing in school reflect your trustworthiness, but it also gives your parents a great reason to say no. If you have bad grades, they might use that as a reason why you can’t do the activity!


Keep track of your assignments and show your parents what you have to work on.
Bring home graded papers and exams and show your parents how you did.
Take the initiative to get extra help from your teachers if you need it. Stay after school or get help during lunch. Your parents will be impressed with your willingness to work hard.
 Have a track record of honesty before you ever ask permission for an activity. Your parents need to know that they can count on you to be honest about who you will be with and where you are going.Make sure you come clean when you are caught. Apologize and be honest about your screw-ups. Your parents might be angry, but this will help them see that you want to do better and learn from the experience.
Acknowledge that you have hurt their feelings if you have been caught in a lie.
Expect it to take a while for your parents to regain their trust in you. If you were caught lying, understand that you have broken a bond with your parents. That can’t be repaired overnight. It will take you consistently demonstrating you are honest and trustworthy (perhaps by taking some of the actions above) in order to build that trust level back up.