 Add 6 to 8 dried, whole New Mexico chiles to a large, straight-sided skillet. Heat the chiles over medium-low to gently toast them until they become fragrant. It should take approximately 2 to 3 minutes on each side of the chiles.You can substitute guajillo or pasilla chiles for the New Mexico. You can also use any combination of the three.
Make sure not to let the chiles burn or they will become bitter.
 After the chiles are toasted, transfer them to a bowl. Cover them with very hot water, and allow the chiles to soak for 15 to 45 minutes or until they are soft.The water that you soak the chiles in doesn’t have to be boiling. Use the water from your tap’s hottest setting to soak them.
 Once the chiles are soft, remove them from the water. Use a sharp knife to cut off the stems and split the chiles open to take out the seeds.Handling hot chiles can irritate your skin and eyes. It’s a good idea to wear rubber gloves when cutting the chiles open.
Running the chiles under water can help rinse out the seeds. Be careful not to rinse away any of the flesh, though.
 After you’ve removed the stems and seeds, add the chiles to a blender with 1 ½ teaspoons (3 g) of ground cumin, ½ teaspoon (1 g) of freshly ground black pepper, 1 tablespoon (18 g) of kosher salt, and ¼ cup (59 ml) of water. Puree the mixture until it forms a smooth, slightly liquid-y paste. Set the paste aside.If the mixture is too thick, you can gradually mix more water into the paste.
You may need to scrape down the sides of the blender’s pitcher with a spatula to ensure that all of the ingredients are fully blended.
 Heat 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of vegetable oil in the skillet over medium-high heat. Add half of 2 ½ pounds (1.1 kg) of boneless beef chuck that’s been trimmed and cut into ¾-inch (19-mm) cubes, and lightly brown the meat on at least two sides, which should take about 3 minutes per side. Transfer the cooked meat to a bowl, and repeat the process with another 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of the oil and the rest of the meat. Transfer the cooked meat to a bowl.Make sure to swirl the oil throughout the skillet so it is fully greased.
Be careful not the burn the meat. If you suspect that it might be cooking too quickly, lower the heat.
 Allow the skillet to cool for 5 to 10 minutes before returning it to the stove on medium low heat. Add the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of oil, ⅓ cup (50 g) of finely chopped onion, and 3 large, minced cloves of garlic to the skillet, and saute the onion and garlic for 3 to 4 minutes.Stir the onion and garlic periodically as you saute them to ensure that they cook evenly.
 Once the onion and garlic have sauteed for several minutes, add 2 cups (473 ml) of beef stock, 2 cups (473 ml) of water, and 2 tablespoons (14 g) of masa harina to the skillet. Whisk the ingredients together to ensure that there are no lumps.Masa harina is a finely ground corn flour. You can usually find it in the Mexican or international foods aisle at the grocery store.
 After you’ve mixed in the stock, water, and masa harina, add the chile paste that you made earlier and the cooked beef to the skillet. Raise the heat to high, and bring the mixture to a simmer.If there are any juices in the bowl with the cooked beef, add them to the skillet as well.
As you stir the chile paste and meat into the skillet, make sure to scrape the bottom to lift any browned bits and mix them in as well.
 When the mixture begins to simmer, turn the heat down to low. Allow the mixture to cook for about two hours or until the meat is tender but still slightly firm. Keep the lid off to allow some of the liquid to evaporate. This will help the chili thicken.Stir the mixture periodically as it simmers to ensure that it cooks evenly.
 After the mixture has simmered for a couple of hours, mix 1 tablespoon (13 g) of firmly packed dark brown sugar, 1 ½ tablespoons (22 ½ ml) of distilled white vinegar, and more salt to taste into the skillet. Allow the mixture to simmer for another 10 minutes.It’s normal for the chili to appear to have too much sauce even after simmering. The next step will help absorb some of it.
 When the chili has finished simmering, turn off the heat. Let it stand for about 30 minutes, or until the meat absorbs approximately half of the sauce in the pan., After the chili has had a chance to stand for a half hour, stir it to determine if the consistency is right. Taste it as well to see if you want to add more of any of the seasonings.If the chili seems too dry, mix in more broth and/or water.
If the chili seems too liquidy, turn the heat back on and allow it to simmer until it thickens further.
Mix in additional salt, brown sugar, and/or vinegar to suit your taste.
 Turn the heat back on under the skillet to low or medium-low and reheat the chili gently. When it’s warmed through, transfer it into individual bowls and serve the chili with a lime wedge and spoonful of sour cream.Store any uneaten chili in the refrigerator. It should keep for 3 to 4 days in an airtight container.
You can freeze the chili if you don’t eat all of it. Place it in freezer-safe containers, such as plastic freezer bags, in individual serving sizes after it’s cooled completely. It will usually keep for 4 to 6 months in the freezer.

