 Move whatever tables, chairs, throw rugs and other obstacles are on the floor you’re going to mop. Be careful not to drag furniture like tables and chairs to avoid scratching the floor.






If you need to clean any of these objects, clean them first. That way, if any debris falls on the floor, it'll fall before you mop, rather than after.
Make sure that anyone who’s likely to walk over your floor is aware they need to avoid doing so until it dries. In the case of animals, you might need to move them to a separate room until the floor dries.;
, It may seem redundant, but mops generally do a terrible job of picking up crumbs, dust, hair, and other solid debris. If you mop an unswept floor, you'll just end up pushing this stuff around. Moreover, dust and dirt can leave scratches on the floor if not removed first.
 You should add enough water to be able to completely submerge your mop. However, keep in mind that the water level will rise once you add the mop. If your bucket has an integrated wringer, make sure it’s not submerged in the water.






Always refer to the instructions printed on your chosen cleaner. Different cleaners are suitable for different floors; you don’t want to use the same cleaner on wood floors as you would on stone.
It is possible to use ordinary dish-washing detergent. Just a squirt added to the water is sufficient.
You can prepare a second bucket to wring out your mop. This will keep the dirty and clean soapy water separate., Let the mop absorb the cleaner solution thoroughly. Sometimes a stiff, dried-out mop will need to soak for a little while to loosen up.
 Keeping your mop wetter will make the mopping process more efficient.Letting the mop drip a few seconds before mopping will ensure there isn’t an excess of water spreading over the floor.
 A section should be about four to six square feet. You should only swish the mop three to four times to cover this area. You’re spreading the cleaning solution over the floor, rather than trying to scrub the dirt off.




For polyurethaned hardwood floors, run the mop with the grain of the wood.For textured floors, move the mop in small figure eight patterns., If you decided to use two buckets, make sure to wring your mop over your empty bucket. The mop should have little to no water left at this point., You should only swish the mop over a wet spot three to four times. If you pass the mop over more than this, you’ll just end up spreading dirty water around.Wring out the mop after this.






If the floor is still wet after you’ve passed the wrung out mop over, wring it out and do it again.
 Repeat these steps for each section of your floor. You might need to move the buckets, keeping them close enough to efficiently wring the mop.
 This will ensure you’re not stepping on parts of the floor you’ve just cleaned. Any fine dust clinging to the bottoms of your shoes will stick to the floor and become mud. If you do step on an area that is wet, run the mop back over it to clean up your tracks.
 Opening up doors or windows for circulation will speed this process. It's generally not necessary to dry a floor manually unless the surface shows streaks badly; just let the air do the job.
 If you haven’t cleaned the bottoms of chairs and tables, you may want to do so with a wet paper towel. Otherwise, you might track dirt and dust back onto the floor you’ve just cleaned.
 If you leave the mop in the bucket, dirt and grime will cling to the fibers and it will smell. Hang it with the wet end down; make sure to hang it somewhere where dripping water won’t damage the surface.






Dispose of dirty mop water in a toilet. Your kitchen sink is usually where you prepare food; you don’t want to get the grime that was on your floor in your sink.
While not strictly necessary, it's a good idea to rinse your mop and wring it thoroughly once more before hanging it up, so that the dirt and cleaner won’t stay on the mop.

