 This method can be a bit abrasive, so it is not suggested for antique or fragile gold chains. Create a 50








One good thing about using rubbing alcohol is that it will disinfect the chain while also cleaning it., In a small bowl, make a mixture of 6 parts warm tap water to 1 part ammonia. Leave your chain soaking in this mixture for a minute maximum. Ammonia is a very powerful cleaner, so you should only use it for newer, undamaged gold chains. You will also want to rinse the chain out thoroughly under water when you are finished.








Using ammonia as a regular jewelry cleaner can break down the pieces over time. Therefore, it is best if this method is only used on occasion and for deep-set grime and residue., With this method you’ll need to pour a bit of beer onto a soft cloth. Place the chain within the cloth and rub up and down the links. You can also dip a soft toothbrush into beer and use it to lightly scrub the chain. You can use any beer with the exception of dark ale.
 This is a cheap, all-purpose approach to cleaning jewelry. Place a small dot of toothpaste onto a soft bristled toothbrush. Then, gently scrub at the chain until you start to see results. Reapply the toothpaste as needed. When you are finished, thoroughly rinse the chain off under warm water.
 You can also purchase a specialty gold cleaning solution from your jeweler directly or from a jewelry site online. Check the label to verify that it okay for use on gold chains. Follow any additional instructions carefully, including any safety warnings.
 If you want professional results without messing with cleaning solutions, you can purchase an ultrasonic jewelry cleaner. You will place your gold chain inside the machine which will clean it through the use of small, fast vibrations. This is best used for sturdier, thicker chains without any embellishments.Before you use an ultrasonic cleaner, it may be a good idea to talk with a jeweler to see if it is appropriate for your type of gold chain. Otherwise, it could result in damage to the chain.

