 While almost all of the shopkeepers on the Champs Elysees will speak several other languages, learning to say hello (bonjour) and thank-you (merci) will endear you to the people eager to help you.;
, Most of the tourist offices and hotels in Paris can provide you with a map of the Champs Elysees that highlights the street and identifies landmarks.


Download a digital map to your internationally enabled smart phone, or print one out at home before you leave. Paris Digest has a great i-map available on their website www.parisdigest.com/promenade/champselysees.
Use a Paris travel guide, if you prefer a printed version to a digital one. Most books about Paris will have a section about the Champs Elysees and a map.
 Most of the shops on the Champs Elysees are from 10:00 a.m. until 8:00 p.m. Some stores stay open until 10:00 p.m. on Friday and Saturdays. Most are closed on Sundays and on any public holidays.


Expect varying hours. Each shop on the Champs Elysees sets its own business hours. Some might close during the European "siesta" from 1:00 p.m. until about 4:00 p.m. and others might open on Sunday.
 If shops like Cartier, Louis Vuitton and Gaultier are out of your budget,you can still enjoy looking.
 While high end shops are the draw in this neighborhood, you can also shop in popular favorites such as the Gap, Benetton and Sephora.


Prepare to pay in euros. France is part of the European Union, which means all prices will be in euros. You can pay with cash or credit cards at most stores. When you pay by credit, your bank will perform the currency exchange for you when the transaction goes through.
Give yourself a range so you do not overspend. For example, if you decide to spend between $200 and $300 on the Champs Elysees, you will give yourself the freedom to buy several affordable things, or one expensive item.
 Exploring the Champs Elysees on foot will ensure you see all the available shops, and the sidewalks are wide and clean. There are 4 metro stations that run to the area, including the Champs Elysees station.


Walk from one end of the Champs Elysees to the other. Without stopping to shop, it is about a 30 minute walk from Clemenceau metro station on one end to the Charles de Gaulle metro station on the other end.
Flag a taxi to take you back to your hotel if you do too much shopping. Stores will be willing to hold your purchases for you if you find you have too much to carry, and taxis are readily available on the Champs Elysees.
 There are shops indoors to shelter you if the weather gets bad while you shop.
 The Champs Elysees can get crowded on holidays such as New Year's and Bastille Day. There are occasionally parades and festivals held on the street which can either hamper or enhance your shopping experience.


Consult your travel guide for a list of festival dates and special events in Paris. You can also ask about any upcoming events at your hotel.
 Shopping on the Champs Elysees is meant to be enjoyed, so sit down for a cup of coffee and some people watching at one of the cafes along the street.

