 You will need precise measurements for your quilt to determine how big the wallpaper frame needs to be. Measurements that are too short will create excess room in the frame, while measurements that are too long will cause the quilt to overlap onto the wallpaper border.;
, Take the width of the border and add twice that amount the length of your quilt sides to determine the length of your strips. For example, if the wallpaper border is 3 inches (7.6 cm) thick and the quilt sides are each 24 inches (61 cm) long, each strip should be about 30 inches (76.2 cm) long.
 In order to create a frame, the bottom or inside edge of each strip of border must be shorter than the outside edge. Cut into the edge of the strip at a 45 degree angle. The shorter inside edge should match the length of the quilt side it will frame, with 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) of excess space.
 Use a straight edge or a level to keep the border straight and draw the line lightly with a pencil. The sides of the frame should match the length of each side of the quilt.
 Wallpaper border comes pre-pasted and unpasted.Soak rolled up pre-pasted paper, pattern side in, in a tray of lukewarm water.
Lay unpasted paper flat, pattern side down, and apply paste to the back. Work from the inside out toward the edges.
 Match the inside corner of the border to the corner of the pencil line frame.
 Flatten the strip of wallpaper border on the wall, keeping the bottom edge even with the pencil line. Use a smoothing brush after flattening it to remove any bubbles beneath the paper., The bottom inside corner should match the corner of the pencil line frame. Some paper should overlap onto the first strip. Flatten the border out in the same way you flattened the first.
 Each corner should have about 1/4 inch (6.35 mm) of overlap.
 Use a sharp razor to carefully slice away the overlap without cutting through the bottom layer of paper.
 The wallpaper frame should be complete, but you should let it dry before attempting to hang the quilt.

