 If you're able to rip the clothes a little or stain them, that will add to the creepiness effect. Use old, unwanted clothes from home or visit the charity store for some. The exact clothes will depend on the type of doll you're imitating but aim for the traditional style of flouncy, layered skirts or a dress, neat shoes and a cute top. Be inspired by looking at images of dolls online.;
, Add anything to it that will make it more doll-worthy, such as embroidered flower iron-ons or little bows.
 The colors can help to give the impression of the doll-like nature of your costume. You could choose such colors as as baby blue and soft pink.
 That was easy––the costume is done!

, If you don't have bangs, consider adding fake bangs for the traditional doll forehead cover.



If you like, try curling the ponytail. This makes you look like a doll out of a factory, and less human-like.
 For a creepy look, you might consider using temporary or chalk color in the hair, such a silvery overtones or pastel purple.
 Many dolls have very neatly-styled hair. However, your creepy doll may have hair out of place if that suits the look. If adding fake scars or wounds to the head, the hair in the area around the scar or wound should be messy.
 In most cases, you will be using makeup you already have, so you won't have to go out and buy a ton of makeup you will only use once. However, you may need to get a few items, just to make it work well., Smooth it out into your neck so there isn't an obvious line., Use it to make your face look as un-human as possible, which means covering up all blemishes until you can't see them. This creates the effect of a plastic, vinyl or ceramic face, as a doll might have., This will set your foundation and concealer. It also ensures that you don't sweat the makeup off your face., Put a little more on because dolls usually have lots of blush or coloring on their cheeks., Here are some suggestions:

Add a champagne colored eyeshadow to the inner corners and as a base.
Next, add a light brown eyeshadow on the outside part of your eyelid.
Finish with a dark brown eyeshadow to your crease.
Blend it all outwards, and add anything you would like. Make sure your eyelid looks three dimensional.
Add a thin line of black eyeliner to your top lashline.
Add a milky white eyeliner to your bottom waterline.
 Apply them to top and bottom lashes., Finish with a medium red lipstick., Now you have your brand new Halloween costume!