 You can generate content for your surrealist poems by playing word games that are popular among surrealist poets. These games can act as prompts for your writing and also allow you to create content in a surrealist way.


You may play several word games with other poets as part of a brainstorming session or play the games with a writing partner. You can also do one of these games as a warm up before a writing session on surrealist poetry to get your creative juices flowing.
 This word game is a fun, popular way to create surrealist poetry. It is best done with at least one other person or two to four people. You can start the word game by choosing a word at random in a dictionary or by coming up with a word or phrase on your own.You would then write the line, phrase, or sentence on the top of a sheet of paper. Then, fold down the paper so the text is hidden. Pass the paper to the player on the left.
The next player is not allowed to view the first line. They will add a line inspired by the prompt and then fold down the paper to hide the first two lines. Then, they will pass the paper to the next player on the left.
This continues until the paper has been passed to each player or until you all feel the poem is complete. Then, the starting person unfolds the poem and reads the finished work out loud.
 This word game can be done using postcards with printed images on them. Try to choose images that can be open to interpretation. Place each image a folder or envelope and hand them out to the players.Have the first player write a statement about their image on a piece of paper. Then, have the player pass the paper to their right. The next player will then write a statement that is the opposite of the first statement and fold over the paper to hide the first statement.
The next player will then pass the paper to their right again and write a statement that contradicts the previous statement. Then, they will fold the paper so only the most recently written statement is visible.
The starting player then adds a final line to the paper and reads out the finished opposites poem.
 This word game is fun to play on your own or with several participants. You can create a deck of prompt words pulled from a source text or a dictionary. Try to use words that represent objects that might be strange or unfamiliar to the players.Begin the game by selecting an “object word” from the deck of prompt words. Then, have all the players spend about five minutes compiling a list of possible words that could be found within the object word. Try to have 15 words per player for the object word.
Share the “discovered” words with the players. Then, have the players create new definitions for the “object word” using the “discovered” words.
 This game will require you to hide different objects in boxes. Look for objects that have interesting textures and patterns. Set up five boxes with one object per box on a table. Make a small hole in the boxes so the players can place their hand in the box.Allow each player to touch each object in the box. Then, give the players five minutes to create a list of descriptive words about each object. Make sure the players focus on describing the size, color, texture, and density of the objects.
You can then have all players do a freewrite of one object for 10-15 minutes using the list of descriptive words. You can then have each player read out their freewrite. Each player has to guess what the object described is based on the freewrites.

