 This project will require you to cut holes out of your board, so you should lay a drop cloth or covering in your work area to catch sawdust. Additionally, a clear, unobstructed work area will prevent you from tripping and accidentally injuring yourself.


Make sure your work surface is sturdy, clean, and level. This kind of work surface will be safest and easiest to work on.
 Take a pot and place it topside down onto your wood. Use a writing utensil to outline the mouth of the pot onto the wood. Then take your tape measure and mark the wood 1 - 2" (2.54 - 5 cm) outside the top, bottom, left, and right sides of the circle. These marks form the outer edge of one tier.


Thicker spacing between the outline of the mouth of the pot and the edges of each tier will create a sturdier hanging planter.
Repeat this procedure to mark out more tiers in your wood. Avoid adding more than three tiers of moderately sized plants. More than three tiers may make your planter too heavy.
The spacing between the outline of the mouth of the pot and the outer edge of each tier should be the same for all tiers., For better accuracy, you may want to use a straight edge to extend horizontal lines through your top and bottom marks and vertical lines through the left and right ones to complete each square tier outline. Take your saw and cut each tier at its outer boundary marks to create equal sized, square wooden tiers.


Depending on the size and weight of your wood, it may be a good idea to clamp it to your work surface before cutting.
If you are using an automated saw, like a reciprocating saw, be sure to wear proper safety equipment, like protective eye wear, a dust mask, and gloves.
After sawing, your wood may be rough where you've cut. Rub medium grit (60 - 100) sandpaper with moderate pressure to smooth rough spots and burrs., If the tier hole for your pot is too big, the pot will fall through, and if the hole is too small, the pot will be unbalanced and top-heavy. Measure and draw a second circle ¼" (.64 cm) inside the outline of the mouth of the pot. You may find it easiest to dry this circle by:Tying a writing utensil to one end of a length of string. Attach the string with a tack at the center of the outline of the mouth of the pot.
Pulling the pencil to make the line taut. Measure the distance between the pencil and outline of the mouth of the pot.
Shorten the string until the pencil, when held taut, is ¼" (.64 cm) inside the outline. Keep the string taut as you draw on the wood to form your second circle, and repeat this process for all tiers., Clamp your wood so that the inner hole is positioned with nothing beneath it. Failing to do this will likely result in unnecessary cuts on your work surface. Then use your saw to cut the inner circle along the line you have marked until it comes free.


Cutting from the edges will compromise the stability of your tiers. Instead, use your drill and boring bit to create a starting point for your saw at the center of your inner circle., Measure and mark four points on each tier, with one point in each corner. These marks should be ½" (1.27 cm) from both edges of each corner. Then, use your drill and boring bit to drill holes at these points.


Be extra careful when measuring and marking your rope holes. If these are inconsistent, your planter may hang crookedly., The distance between your tiers will rely on the size of the plants you'll be putting in the pots. Taller plants will require more vertical space between tiers. In many cases, 1 foot (30.5 m) will be more than enough space separating tiers.Once you've decided the distance between tiers, you can estimate the amount of rope you'll need.
Including the distance between tiers, you'll also need 1 foot (30.5 cm) of extra line to fasten the rope at the top.
It's much easier to cut free extra rope than splice in more. For this reason, you may want to add a little length to your rope estimate., Cut four stands from your rope, each one the same size. The length of your rope will be determined by your estimate, but in most cases, 30" (.76 m) should be sufficient for a two-tier hanging planter. To fasten your rope:


Align all ends so they are collected together evenly. Thread one end of the strands through your metal ring, then tie it to the ring in an overhand knot.
Strengthen your knot by applying a suitable, transparent glue to it. Cover the knot thoroughly in a thin layer of glue, then allow it to dry completely., Separate your strands of rope and feed one strand through each corner hole in your first wooden tier. Measure out the distance you planned, then tie a thick overhand knot below each corner hole. Repeat this for each tier.Once the knots have been tied beneath your final tier, your tiered hanging basket is complete. Hang the planter, insert pots into the center holes in each tier, and enjoy your handiwork.

