 To prevent tennis elbow, you should get in the habit of doing 15 minutes of warm up stretches before you play tennis or golf. Warming up your arms with stretches will help to prevent injury and ensure your forearms stay strong. Strong forearms will lower your risk of developing tennis elbow, especially if you tend to do a lot of repetitive motions with your arm playing a sport.Doing warm up stretches before you do any other activities that are hard on your arms, such as gardening, lifting heavy boxes or items, or doing manual labor, can also help to prevent tennis elbow.;
, You can do this simple exercise with a fresh tennis ball or a hard stress ball. Grip the tennis ball in your hand and hold it out in front of you. Then, squeeze and release the tennis ball for two-three minutes, squeezing and releasing the ball in your grip.Do this on both arms as part of your warm up before playing tennis or golf.
You can also do these exercises on your days off from playing tennis or golf, one to two times a day for two-three minutes on each side.
 Doing wrist exercises can help to strengthen your forearm muscles and prevent tennis elbow. You can do these exercises when you are seated at your desk at work, on the court before a game, or at home.To do wrist rolls, make a fist with your elbow bent at your side. Then, make circles with your wrist, about five circles in each direction. Straighten your elbow and do five more circles with your wrist. Repeat this on the other side.
To do wrist flex stretches, hold your arm out, palm down. Use your other hand to gently bend back the hand of the extended arm. Press down so your fingers are facing the ground. You should feel a light stretch along your forearm, but no pain. Hold this for two to three minutes and then repeat it on the other hand.
 You can also integrate a simple standing stretch into your warm up routine. You can also do this stretch before or after you are gardening or lifting heavy objects to prevent tennis elbow.


Do standing shoulder blade squeezes against a wall or on the floor. Hold your arms over your head and interlace your fingers. Press your fingers up towards the ceiling, keeping your back pressed against the wall or the floor. Hold this stretch for 30 seconds to one minute.
 You can also strengthen and stretch your forearms by doing side plank on your elbow. Strong forearms will protect your tendons and prevent the development of tennis elbow.To do side planks, lay down on one side on an exercise mat. Place your forearm under your shoulder, with your elbow and forearm flat on the mat. Then, straighten your legs and raise them off the mat. Lift from your hip area so you are using your abdominal muscles and your arm muscles. You can make a fist with the hand on the mat to prevent falling into your shoulder joint.
Hold the side plank for 30 seconds to one minute. Then, repeat on the other side with the other forearm.

