 When your loved one is ready for help, you can make this easier by helping find treatment. Ask a health professional or search online for local facilities that treat people with addictions.


A detoxification program involves treating the physical effects of dependence on a substance. The body has been functioning for a long time with the drug in the system. So, it can cause serious harm if a person quits “cold-turkey.” The detox process usually takes place under the care of a physician. The medical team systematically and safely rids the body of the addictive substance.Many people have other conditions that contribute to their addictions. Find a detox center or hospital that can address all aspects of health for your loved one. This can make the difference between temporary and permanent recovery.
Your family member can also receive treatment on an outpatient basis. This involves seeing a mental health professional who specializes in the treatment of addiction.
 Your loved one may need to attend group or independent therapy. Many organizations have regular meetings to promote drug-free living and provide a support network. These groups often offer anonymous support. There are also organizations that can help you find treatment and other resources for a loved one:The Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration (SAMHSA) offers information on drug treatment facilities. This includes residential, outpatient, and hospital inpatient treatments. You can call 1-800-662-HELP.The National Suicide Prevention Lifeline (1-800-273-TALK) can help with many issues, including suicide prevention and drug and alcohol abuse. They can help you find resources.
The National Alliance on Mental Illness and Mental Health America offer self-help support for patients and families dealing with a variety of mental disorders.The American Academy of Addiction Psychiatry and the American Academy of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry can help you locate a near by physician you specializes in addiction.Faces & Voices of Recovery helps people struggling with long-term addiction and recovery. They try to help on a community level by providing resources to care.The Partnership at Drugfree.org helps teens, and can also offer parents information and support. Call the helpline for parents at (1-855-378-4373).The American Society of Addiction Medicine can help you find treatment options and access addiction resources., Aside from learning about resources for your addicted loved one, it can be helpful for you and other family members to speak with a therapist or family counselor.


Living with a drug addicted loved one can put significant stress on others in the household. Family therapy can help confused or stressed parents, children, or romantic partners.
The purpose of family therapy is to identify behavior patterns that are unhelpful or reinforce the drug user's behavior. The therapist helps the family to overcome these obstacles and build a new way of interacting. The therapist can help the family learn to cope with relapses. He or she will also provide information about how to handle emergencies. This includes overdoses or addiction-related violence.Many schools have counselors to help parents deal with children who have an addiction. There are also therapists who specialize in helping children and teenagers with addictions.

