 If you do have high blood pressure, it is important to consult your doctor to make a health plan to control it. Most people with high blood pressure don’t have symptoms, so it is best to get checked about every year or two. If you do experience symptoms, you may have:Frequent nosebleeds
Shortness of breath
Blurred vision or see double
Headaches that don’t go away

, Your doctor may suggest that you take medications to reduce your blood pressure. Be sure to tell your doctor about all other prescription medications, over-the-counter medications, supplements, and herbal remedies that you take. Some blood pressure medications can interact with them. Frequently prescribed medications include:ACE inhibitors. These medications lower your blood pressure by causing your blood vessels to relax. Some people get a chronic cough as a side effect.
Calcium channel blockers. These medications cause your arteries to widen, reducing the pressure with which your blood flows. They may interact with grapefruit juice. Ask your doctor about side effects and interactions.
Diuretics. These medications cause you to urinate and lower the amount of salt in your body.
Beta-blockers. These medications cause your heart to beat slower and with less force. Usually the doctor will suggest other medications and lifestyle changes before putting you on beta-blockers.
 High blood pressure increases your risks of both. If you are unsure if you could be experiencing one of these, you should call emergency medical responders immediately and let them determine what you need.


You could be having a stroke if you experience a drooping face, especially on only one side, suddenly have problems speaking or understanding, feel numbness or weakness in an arm, leg, or the face, have vision problems in one or both eyes, lose your coordination, are confused, feel dizzy, or have a horrible headache.You could be having a heart attack if you experience a squeezing feeling in your chest, chest pain, pain that travels to one or both arms, your neck, back, jaw, or abdomen, difficulty breathing, shortness of breath, sweating, lightheadedness, or nausea. You do not have to experience all of the symptoms.
Women are less likely to experience chest pain during a heart attack.Women have more vague symptoms like increased fatigue, nausea, reflux-like symptoms, or feelings of impending doom.

