 Babies often spit up small amounts of milk or food. It usually spills out of their mouths soon after feeding, but is not forceful. This is normal and not a cause for concern.Vomiting in infants can be a sign of serious health issues such as intestinal obstruction. See your pediatrician or doctor immediately if your baby has forceful vomiting or multiple vomiting episodes.
 Dehydration can be especially dangerous to children. Children’s bodies process electrolytes faster than adults do. Use an oral rehydration solution to keep your child hydrated.Use a commercial solution, such as Pedialyte. It is possible to make your own hydration solutions, but due to the high risk of error, pediatricians recommend that you use commercial rehydration solutions.
Have your child drink slowly. Give your child 1-2 teaspoons (5-10 ml) of solution every 5-10 minutes.Avoid fruit juice, soda, and plain water. These will not adequately hydrate and restore your child’s electrolyte balance., Do not offer your child solid foods for the first 24 hours of vomiting.Once your child has stopped vomiting, have your child eat bland, soft foods such as jell-o, mashed potatoes, broth, rice, and banana.Do not press your child to eat if s/he does not want to.


Avoid high-fiber foods and high-sugar foods.Breastfeeding an infant will help hydrate the baby and give him or her adequate nutrition., Young children may inhale or choke on vomit if they are lying on their back. Have your child lie on his or her side.Prop older children up with pillows.
 Young children should not be given over-the-counter medications, such as Pepto-Bismol or antihistamines. These could cause severe illness if given in the wrong doses.


Consult with your pediatrician to determine whether there are medicines that are safe to give your child.
 If your child cannot keep any liquids down, or if his or her symptoms become worse, call your pediatrician.You should also call your child’s doctor if you see any of the following:Vomit has blood in it
Vomit appears green or bright yellow
Your child is dehydrated
Your child’s bowel movements are black or tarry