 Kennels can be a great option for your dog while you’re away. They’ll be able to interact with other dogs in a safe environment with staff who are trained and love dogs. You can search for local kennels online by entering your zip code, asking for recommendations from trusted friends and family, or by asking your veterinarian for a recommendation.


Be aware that most kennels will ask for proof that your dog has been fully vaccinated since they will be in contact with other dogs.
 These days, some boarding kennels can be described as luxury pet hotels while others are much more basic. If your dog has health problems, make sure the kennel is equipped to administer any medications that your dog needs.Basic kennels will typically have indoor and outdoor areas for dogs to exercise and socialize with staff members and other dogs, a place for your dog to sleep, and routine feedings.
You will pay more for any additional amenities you want for your pet. Luxury kennels may include grooming, one on one playtime with a staff member, playtime in a pool, special treats, and even dog massages.
 Seeing the boarding kennel in person is one of the best ways to determine whether this is the kennel you want to use for your pet. Make sure the kennel meets your standards, budget, and will be comfortable for your dog.Ask about the kennel’s daily schedule. This should cover when dogs are fed, exercised, socialized, when they go outside, and when they can sleep.
Make sure the boarding kennel has insurance, the staff seem knowledgeable about dogs, and how many other dogs are typically being boarded.
 Now that you’ve toured a few different boarding kennels in your area, you can finalize your plans. You’ll need to ensure that the kennel has room for your dog during your vacation days and that their prices are within your budget. Depending on the season, you should try to book a kennel at least three weeks before you leave for vacation. During the holidays, you should try to book a month in advance since kennels can book up very quickly.There is typically a contract agreement that both you and the kennel will sign to ensure that both parties follow through on their agreement. You may have to pay a fee to hold your reservation at the kennel and you may have the option to pay in advance.
 Before you leave your dog at the kennel and go on vacation, you’ll need to make sure that they are prepared. Your dog’s health should be first and foremost. Make sure that they are up to date on their vaccinations, any pest prevention methods for fleas or heartworm, and that they are in good health. Alert the kennel ahead of time if your dog has any health needs, like they need insulin daily for their diabetes.If the kennel doesn’t offer the dog food that you use, you will need to pack a container with enough food to last your dog while you’re away to give to the kennel staff.

Socialize your dog with strangers and new dogs. They’ll be spending their days with other dogs and unfamiliar staff members so they need to be comfortable meeting and interacting with them in this new environment.