 If you have an anxiety disorder, you are hopefully under the care of a coordinated, collaborative healthcare team. Talk to your physician(s), mental health professional(s), and other members of this group regarding recommended support groups in your local area or online. Joining a support group will almost certainly be welcomed as a positive addition to your treatment program.Ask friends, loved ones, and colleagues, especially those with some connection to an anxiety disorder (beyond you), for leads on support groups.
Remember, however, that these sources can only give you advice; you need to do the work and find the group that is right for your specific circumstances.;
, The internet has been a boon to support groups of all types. There are now many thousands of support groups of all types that exist virtually and span the nation or globe. Additionally, online resources make it even easier to find “brick and mortar” support groups that meet in your area.


Start your search by consulting reputable, well-known medical, non-profit, or government sites that deal with anxiety disorders or mental illness. For instance, the Anxiety and Depression Association of America (ADAA) website includes a searchable index of support groups located throughout the U.S. and internationally.As you sift through support group listings and websites, narrow down your focus to those that deal specifically with your condition; for instance, social anxiety disorder (SAD) or general anxiety disorder (GAD)., Once you’ve narrowed your list to one or several potential groups, don’t feel as though you must sign up or show up right away. Do some more “digging” for information about the group’s goals, methods, costs, backing, etc., and contact the group’s leadership directly with questions. Ask things like:What is the meeting format? Is it free-flowing or more structured? Does everyone get to (or are they expected to) speak in roughly equal amounts?
Are spouses or other supporters welcome? Can I observe without taking part the first time around?
How much does it cost? What are those funds used for?

, You’ll never know for sure if a support group is right for you until you give it a try. As the name indicates, the first priority for a support group should be to provide a supportive atmosphere. It shouldn’t be judgmental, or agenda-driven, or either too serious or too unfocused. You should feel immediately welcome and free to share.Determine if group members and their needs are the primary focus of the group; if members support each other through words and actions; if confidentiality is protected; if the educational materials are up-to-date and reputable; and if the costs are limited to what is needed to operate the group.
 Everyone needs to “vent” sometimes, and it can be very easy to do so among a group of people who understand what you’re going through. And there is a role for expressing dissatisfactions and complaints within a support group dynamic. That said, the focus of the group should be about developing positive solutions and coping strategies, not creating a cacophony of “woe is me” (or “woes are us”).Also, many support groups are affiliated with specific organizations, such as religious entities, treatment centers, healthcare systems, or government agencies. There is nothing inherently bad about such connections, but make sure that the group (affiliated or not) isn’t promoting a singular agenda (such as a specific treatment plan or medication) at the expense of the broader array of alternatives. You should never feel mocked or diminished because you espouse a particular, legitimate course of treatment.
 People change, groups change, and illnesses change. A group that suited you perfectly at first may become much less so as time progresses, membership changes, and so on. Never feel like you’re “locked” into a specific group and can’t seek out alternatives if necessary. Continue to ask questions like:Do I still feel welcome and respected?
Is this group still convenient and affordable?
Is there still a true give-and-take dynamic in this group?
Am I — and are other group members — making progress?

, A good anxiety disorder support group should complement your other treatment strategies, not replace them. Anxiety disorders, like most illnesses, require a holistic approach to treatment. Add the support group to your professional therapy, medications, and so on.If the group is pressuring you to “get off your meds” or “stop seeing the shrink,” be very wary about continuing with it. Support groups are only one piece of the treatment puzzle.
 Hopefully you have already taken this step, but if not, don’t rely on a support group to “confirm” your illness. You can’t be sure that you have a particular condition until it is professionally diagnosed, and diagnosis may also indicate links to other mental or physical health conditions that also impact your anxiety disorder. For instance, you may have an anxiety disorder but may not be certain (without diagnosis) whether you have one, both, or neither of the following:


Social anxiety disorder (SAD) causes an extreme fear of being (harshly) judged in social or performance situations, and this fear is sufficient to disrupt daily life. About 15 million people in the U.S. have SAD.General anxiety disorder (GAD) creates persistent, excessive worry about everyday things. The person sees the worst in every situation, even when there is no legitimate reason to do so. About 7 million people in the U.S. struggle with GAD.But again, don't let support groups (or wikiHow articles) diagnose your condition. See a medical professional.
 Like many other illnesses, anxiety disorders cannot really be “cured.” However, they can often be successfully managed with the proper mix of treatment options. Support groups almost always fit into this mix, but make sure you dedicate yourself to following the other elements of your treatment plan as well. In addition to support groups, anxiety disorder treatment often includes:Medications, such as certain antidepressants in the SSRI or SNRI classes.
Professional therapy, such as cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT), which helps teach specific skills for recognizing and coping with your condition.
More assertive efforts on your part to recognize causes and triggers for your condition and to let go of things that have already happened and get past things you can’t control.
Embracing exercise, hobbies, meditation, or other means of breaking the cycle of anxiety episodes and the anxiety about the next one.
Seeking out social interactions and caring relationships that can help overcome isolation and sadness.

