 Each state has a set of laws called the Statute of Frauds. The Statute of Frauds protects people from injury by providing that certain types of agreements must be in writing in order to be enforceable contracts. Check your state’s Statute of Frauds or with an attorney to determine if your agreement must be in writing to be valid. Contracts that may be required by the Statute of Frauds to be in writing in order to be valid are:


Contracts which cannot be performed within one year
Contracts involving marriage
Contracts for the sale of land
Contracts for the sale of goods or services over a certain dollar amount (usually at least $5,000)
Contracts to pay another’s debt.
Contracts that deal with estate law

, There are circumstances in which a contract cannot be valid. Some of these have to do with how the contract was entered into. A contract is voided in the following circumstances:


It was entered into under duress. Duress is when a party to a contract agreed only because another party threatened or coerced them into doing so. When a party is forced, by duress, to enter into a contract, there is no agreement, and therefore no legally binding contract.For example, if you coerced your neighbor into watering your garden every day by threatening to call the neighborhood association to report their backyard chickens, your contract could be invalid.


The terms of the contract were fraudulent. When one party lies to another in order to convince them to enter into a contract, it is called fraud. The lie must be concerning an essential part of the agreement, such as that the car the party is selling runs when it does not run.
The contract is extremely one-sided, placing the burden almost entirely on one of the parties involved.

For example, if your contract specifies that you will mow and trim your neighbor’s yard but doesn’t specify that he will do something in return for you, it may be voidable.


One of the parties was unable to enter a contract. Individuals may not be able to enter a contract if they are underage, lack the mental capacity to understand the contract, or are intoxicated.

For example, if your neighbor drank a 6-pack of beer and was visibly intoxicated, he cannot legally enter a lawn maintenance contract with you.


The contract goes against existing public policies.

For example, you cannot be in a contract that involves an exchange of garden watering for the care of backyard chickens if backyard chickens are against the public policy in your area.
 Determine if there is an immediate reason why the agreement would not be legally enforceable. A court would normally cancel such an agreement completely, without changing or amending the contract. Two common reasons why an agreement is not an enforceable contract are:


Illegality. A contract must be for a legal purpose. If either party agrees to do something illegal, the agreement is not a legally binding contract.

For example, you cannot enter into a contract that involves your neighbor watering and harvesting illegal marijuana plants from your backyard for you if growing marijuana is illegal in your state. Impossibility. A contract cannot require one party to do something that is or becomes impossible.

If you agree to mow your neighbor’s grass every weekend, but he has a house fire that burns down his house and all of the plants and vegetation in his yard, the contract is no longer valid.
 If a contract is in writing, it should include information identifying the parties involved, the dates of the contract and the services to take place, the subject matter of the contract, and the essential terms and conditions of the contract. Additional information may include the relationship between the parties, who would pay legal costs in the event of court action, and in which state any dispute will be addressed. It usually requires a signature or mark by the parties involved. Additionally, some contracts, such as wills, mortgages, and marriage contracts, require a witness (or two witnesses) in order to be valid., If are still unsure about whether you have entered into a contract, consult an attorney. An attorney should be able to tell you whether you are in a legal contract by asking you a series of questions about the details of the offer, acceptance, and consideration of the contract.

