 This easy Szechuan sauce (named for the westernized title of Sichuan province in China) is quick, easy, flavorful, and spicy. The only thing that's more difficult about this recipe than the basic recipe above is that it requires you to grate a small amount of orange zest.Don't skip out on this small but important step — the orange zest gives the sauce an impeccable flavor and fragrance.


To grate orange zest, simply take a ripe orange and rub the rind against a microplane grater (or an ordinary cheese grater) to shred off small flakes. Try to take the outermost layer of the rind, rather than the inner pith, as the outside is the most flavorful part of the rind.
 Once you've grated your orange zest, the rest of the recipe is easy. Simply add your ingredients to a bowl or jar and mix thoroughly until they are uniformly combined. It's OK if small flecks of orange peel remain — these give the sauce an added tangy flavor (with the perfect hint of bitterness).
 Next, add your desired amount of spice. Obviously, the more you add, the hotter your sauce will be. The serving recommendation above — one chopped red pepper — should produce a sauce that has some "kick" but isn't completely overwhelming for those with less of a taste for spice. If you don't have red peppers handy, try adding dry red pepper flakes for the same effect.


When in doubt, be conservative. You can always add more spice if your stir fry turns out too mild, but you can't take spice out once it's been added!
If you don't have red pepper flakes, an Asian chili sauce like Sriracha or even American-style hot sauce like Tabasco can substitute well.
 This delicious Szechuan sauce is great with a huge variety of dishes (including vegetarian ones), but is especially tasty with meat and other protein sources. Below are just a few suggestions for accompanying stir fry ingredients — regardless of which you choose, serve the stir fry and sauce over rice for a classic Asian combination:


ChickenBeef
Fish
EggsTofu

