 Don't let others blame things on you or use you as a scapegoat for a problem. Be polite and direct about the facts of the situation. Avoid immediately blaming them or being defensive. It can sometimes be tough to be direct, but if done in a clear and matter-of-fact way, it may help you to feel less like a victim.Speak calmly and maintain eye contact.
Be aware of the setting when having a direct conversation. Avoid asserting yourself in a large family gathering. Ask to speak with the relative in another room or privately.
Focus on the topic at hand. Avoid bringing up the past or other things that are bothering you. If the relative goes off on a tangent, redirect them back to the original topic.
Try to start and end the conversation with something neutral or positive. Avoid making the conversation too harsh.
Say what you need to say and accept that the situation may not change after that. Be willing to let go of the topic if it's going nowhere.
 If the family member is continually acting inappropriate, and they are unavoidable, find ways to establish consequences. This will likely work if they are intruding in your space or your home. Don't be guilt-tripped into accepting their bad behavior.


In the heat of an argument, you may get emotionally charged when trying to address consequences for bad behavior. Try to only talk about consequences when you are calm. Don't threaten in a nasty way. Be clear, calm, and direct.
If you're younger than them or under 18, consider finding an adult or parent to help with setting consequences.
For example, let's say you have two cousins who continually come over to your home and ask you and your family for money. Maybe you feel intimidated by your cousins. They are loud, domineering, and guilt-trip everyone. Talk with your family about what is going on and decide on the consequences of what will happen if they come over to ask for money. Get everyone on the same page that the cousins are not welcome if they continue to come over for money. Then you or another family member must explain to them that if they continue to ask for money after being told no, then they will be asked to leave.
 While you may want to be able to "fix" someone or convince them that they're wrong, this may feel like you're talking to a brick wall. Some people are willing and open to change, while others are not ready or able to admit when there's something wrong. While your family member's actions or words may cause you stress, getting back at them or trying to tell them that they're wrong may not make things any easier. While telling them "no" or explaining that they are not welcome due to their behavior may put you and your family member on non-speaking terms, sometimes having a little distance can help.
Focus your time and energy on the people and family members who recognize their own faults, are willing to admit them, and see the importance of change.
Accepting that someone won't change does not necessarily mean that you approve of their behavior. You don't have to support them with your time, money, or talents if you feel that they are difficult or manipulative.
 While advice from family members may be helpful, it can also be wise to seek support and advice from others who may have an outsider's perspective.


Talk with friends or the family members of friends about what you're facing with your own family.
Discuss with teachers or mentors the difficulties you're having.
Seek out the support of school counselors or counseling centers in your community. A therapist can assist with coping skills and teach you how to assert yourself.
If you're working, see if your employer has an employee assistance program. They may offer free over-the-phone or in-person counseling sessions to deal with difficult people and relationships.

