 Some people like Rhianna, some like classical music. Take a survey in your company, or crowd, to find out the common areas of music you can all agree on. Your tastes, like mine, will vary wildly in contrast to you peers, fellow workers, and family members. In other words, don't play only the music grandma wants; your guests will be bored.;
, Many bands are made up of amateurs masquerading as professionals. Find out how long they've been playing weddings, who they worked for. Get references from previous clients. Make sure to see them at a live performance open to the public.
 All of the members of the band must learn and rehearse the song that you require. In order for it not to be a disaster you need to give the bandleader a heads up.
 Have a backup band in place in case of an emergency.


It's worth it to pay good money for a good band. Performing music is a business. Instrument maintenance costs serious money. Microphones break and must be replaced, Guitar strings need to be replaced. Gas needs to be put in the tank, food needs to be eaten. All of these things must be taken into consideration. By going cheap on the band you insure a lackluster performance. By paying the least amount of money you can you jeopardize the overall level of the band. Professional musicians, because of the nature of the business, are often forced to accept the highest bidder.
 It's simple. If the band has no following, no one likes their music. See how the crowd reacts to their music. Are they dancing? Are they applauding?

, An agent adds 15% to the total cost of the band. Communicating with the bandleader can save you money as well as making the music turn out right.
 Client or customer, Who will operate the sound system? The bandleader or a sound man? What is the load in and set up time? What is the dress code for the band? How many people attending event?


Food, drink, and a break room for the musicians is essential so they can maintain their energy throughout the long event.
When is the deposit due?
A list of “must-play” songs,

,, Good bands fill up their schedule with engagements for the year quickly.

