 The Chicken Dance is a staple of many wedding receptions. It's easy to do because there are just three basic moves, and you change them in time with the music. This is a very low-pressure dance--no one cares if you mess up. It's called the Chicken Dance after all; don't take it too seriously.


Raise your arms shoulder level and line your thumbs up with your index fingers to create a shape that resembles a chicken's beak. Move your thumbs up and down to simulate a chicken clucking.
Then, ball up your hands and tuck your fists under your arms as though you have wings. Flap your wings up and down in time to the music.
With your wings still in place, continue flapping but now stick out your backside, bend your knees and wiggle your bottom down toward the floor.
Repeat these moves over and over until the song ends.
 The hora is danced at many traditional Jewish wedding receptions to the song "Hava Nagila." The hora simply involves dancing in what's known as a "grapevine" pattern.


Step the left foot across to the right. Let the right foot follow. Step the left foot in back of the right. Follow again with the right. That's it; that's the grapevine.
This dance is performed in a circle with dancers either holding hands or throwing their arms over one another's shoulders. The tempo of this dance is typically fast; sometimes the music starts slowly, and the band speeds up the tempo as the song goes along.
 Also known as the money dance or the apron dance, wedding guests line up and pay a dollar (or more) to dance with the wedding couple. In some cases, men dance with the bride, and women dance with the groom; other times, both men and women dance with the bride. You can follow the basic slow dance instructions for this dance, but it's really not about the moves; it's about having a few moments with the bride or groom to express your happiness for the couple and compliment the wedding ceremony and reception. Holding on and simply swaying in place is perfectly acceptable if it makes it easier to have a personal conversation.

