

This is hard to create a how-to for. Knowing when to come out is more of an instinct that you will gain as a goalkeeper.






There is a little trick, though. Closing the angle. If you're fast enough, and it's 1 on 1, run out most of the time. It will either scare the player off, having them jump away from the ball, letting you pick it up, or, they'll kick, and it will go wide, unless they're really good at curving the ball around someone.






Knowing when to stay put, or when to close the angle, is a good trick to have up your sleeve, because most times it will end up as a goal saved, or a goal scored.


There are more types of saves than just a diving save. There are:






Blocking Saves: These are just saves you make by just blocking the ball. You do this by getting your body in front of the ball, and trying to catch it. If you don't catch it, no need to worry: The ball still got you in the chest, you have another chance!






Ground Saves: These are when the ball just slides along the ground. To make the save, you dive onto the ground, sliding in the direction of the ball. Be careful with this type of save; it can be dangerous, if you land wrong.






Rotation Dive, or 'Windmill' Dive: These are one of the most difficult dives known, being for when a ball is coming right beside you. Normally a reaction kick save will be the only way to save it, but occasionally, you can do a windmill dive. Gravity won't allow you to fall fast enough to reach a ball right beside you in time, so you have to force yourself to the ground. Do this save by swinging your body around at the ball, hopefully deflecting or catching it. Be careful, because you can land wrong and injure your shoulder or head.






Diving Save: This is a save that is for when a ball is in the air, coming into the goal. You have to know what way the ball is going, and dive to that side, throwing yourself into the air. Your legs need to be strong to get that ball in the corner, or get the ball that's a bit high.






Rolling Ball Save: This save is just for when the ball is rolling towards you, not that threateningly. To do this, you move towards the ball, collapsing to the ground with not enough space between your legs to have the ball go through. You then scoop the ball up with your arms. This save is not dangerous at all.






Reaction Kick Save: This save is more instinctive. The ball is coming at you, and you kick your foot out to the side, stopping the ball, and clearing it at the same time. You don't have to always use your hands as a goalkeeper. Most of the best keepers use a mixture of both.



Is the ball up high, to the side, or just slowly coming towards you? A goalkeeper shouldn't need to think about it once they know every type of save, and what each is good for.

