 Bullying is a global issue and does not have any social, economic, racial and cultural relations. Studies show that a big crowd of school-going children, approximately around 25 to 35 percent, usually have a role in the incidents, either directly or indirectly, as either bullies or victims.;
, It can even start from kindergarten and increase as the child moves to further classes, like early school in 1st grade or stepping into higher school. Soft and shy kids who are tend to be comparatively physically less strong, often become an easy target for bullies, as such kids are very less likely to oppose or retaliate. Plus, such a kind of kids usually doesn't have much confidence and social skills, so conditions become pretty easier and more supportive for gym-goer annoyers with a muscular body.
 Understanding the probable symptoms of bullying doesn’t require much.


If you are seeing a sudden change in behavior, social activities and performance of your child, he can be a victim of bullying. The kid may suffer emotionally and physically. It can bring a straight loss of self-belief and confidence.
Despite paying attention to the teachers and subjects, the kids usually start putting unknown blames on themselves. Consequently, a huge drop in their grades is more likely to occur. If bullying continues, they may be afraid to go to school. This low self-esteem and depression problem can lead the victim to a tragic personal and troublesome professional life too.
On the other hand, bullies can also receive severe impacts on their lives, such as failure in establishing positive relationships, unsuccessful personal and professional life and a natural lure to tobacco, alcohol and criminal activities.
 These are signs that alert you that your child is being bullied. Some of these may include:


Fleet fall in grades
Fearing to go to school
Not wanting to study or learn anything
Any sort of sudden physical injury or problems like stomach pain, back pain or scratches
Sudden change in child’s behavior — treating him/herself like an accused or a loser, or blaming friends for actions no reason
Noticeable turnovers in social life — suddenly no one is calling or extending invitations
Denying almost everything
Repeatedly crying for no reason
Trying to hide something
Feeling very scary
Looking to share something with you

, Give him sufficient space to describe what has happened. If he is indicating towards any kind of bullying, don’t get angry and be empathetic.
 For that, you can tell news about kids being bullied in your locality. It will exhilarate your young child to share the entire incident and problem with you.
 Go out, have fun and try to divert his mind away from this mishap. At the same time, don’t accept it as a common thing. Assist victim kids more like a close friend.


Instead of yelling at your child for being weak, you should give him or her a genuine consultancy to respond against it effectively. You should also help your child find to move on and make new friends. You can recommend that he or she to join intellectual clubs and groups in your locality to widen his/her network.
 Most schools today run special programs and campaigns to make teachers, parents and students aware of bullying. These programs focus on ultimate ways to stop bullying permanently and deliberately.


By joining these programs, you can easily learn about the bullying behavior and how to prevent it. Therein, ask for your child’s school management if they run any such program. In the big picture of bullying, schools and parents can unquestionably perform a big role, though from behind the scene.
With their association, this social dilemma can certainly be expunged. Keep in positive touch with your kid; never avoid this if you observe any sign of bullying in him/her.
 Connect with the teacher immediately if your tiny kid witnesses or experiences any unapproachable bullying behavior at his school, and discuss the entire happening with him/her.


If your child is a victim of bullying, find out if there is something that he/she is hiding from you, and something he/she has done to attract bullies.

Ask your child how he/she responds to the incident, and his/her behavior against the bullies. After this initial discussion, do not forget to meet the teacher shortly again to know how things have gone after that event. If there is still any problem or the teacher isn’t seeing any improvement, and your kid is getting afraid to go to school, you can take assistance of the school counselor or a professional psychologist.



