 Use a tape measure and measure the puppy's length from nose to butt and width across their widest area (usually the chest). The crate should be at least half the puppy's length wide to allow him to turn around comfortably. The crate should also be at least two inches longer than the dog's body at every stage of development.The ideal crate size will accommodate your dog while sitting without touching his head to the top of the crate.
Your dog’s nose and rear end should not touch either end of the crate when standing.
Your dog should be able to lie down on his side with legs extended.You can save money by estimating your dog’s future size and buy a crate with a divider, a temporary wall you can adjust as the puppy grows.;
, The weight of the dog is most important when choosing a crate for travel, but crates for larger dogs are made of sturdier materials, making the weight a factor in the durability of your crate., For small breed dogs one or two crates may accommodate them at all stages of growth. However, larger breed dogs may need numerous crates, so buying one for them to grow into may be a better solution.You can use the American Kennel Club (AKC) guidelines here http://www.akc.org/dog-breeds to determine how tall and long your puppy should be when full-grown. Always factor in a few extra inches or pounds to be safe.


Yorkies, Chihuahua and other tiny dogs less than 10 lb. (4.5 kg) are toy size dogs, and will likely need a crate about 20” in length.
Small dogs are those 10 to 30 lb. (4.5 to 13.6 kg) and include Dachshunds, Lhasa Apso, and Corgis, and they will do well with 22” crates, in most cases.
Medium size dogs range from 40 to 60 lb. (18 to 27.2 kg) and can include Collies, Dalmatians, and Bulldogs. These dog breeds have the most variety in length, but typically do well in crates between 28” and 34”.
Large breed dogs are those that range between 65 and 135 lb. (29 to 61 kg) and include Labradors, Mastiffs, and Pit Bulls. These dogs should be comfortable in crates 40” and up, depending on your individual dog’s size., Once you’ve decided whether to purchase a crate for your puppy or an adjustable, adult-size crate, measured and weighed your puppy, and estimated future weight and size, you’re ready to pick a crate that’s the ideal size for your new pet.


Choose a size that is small enough to make your dog feel secure, but large enough to make him comfortable.
Your dog should be able to stand up, turn around, sit down, and lie down easily. The ideal crate size will accommodate your dog while sitting without touching his head to the top of the crate.
Your dog’s nose and rear end should not touch either end of the crate when standing.
Your dog should be able to lie down on his side with legs extended., You’ll need to consider the main purpose for your crate as this will help you decide the type that best accommodates your dog.


Dogs like to have an enclosed place to feel safe, even if they’re inside the house. If you’re using a crate as an indoor doghouse for your pet, almost any type of crate will work.
Secure your pet properly for different types of travel. When in the car or traveling by bus, train, or plane, make sure your pet is properly secured for their safety and comfort. Most airlines have specific guides for how travel with pets. Make sure your crate meets these specifications.
Many people use crates for toilet training and keeping their homes and pets safe while they’re out for short periods of time. Crates are a good training tool because dogs naturally avoid using the restroom or causing destruction in their homes., These are still one of the most common types of crate available, and they offer structure and security for your pet. However, they are best used only for short time periods as they do not offer maximum air flow to keep your dog cool and comfortable., These are great for road trips, or dogs that are housed in more than one location. They’re light, easy to set up and tear down, and they can be moved from your car to a hotel or other accommodation., These crates are made from heavy-duty materials, so they’re durable and long lasting. They are also easily divided to allow you to grow the crate with your dog. Most metal crates are also collapsible so you can easily transport them from place to place., If you’re going to crate your dog in a living room or other area of your home guests have access to, you may want to pick a crate that blends with your other furnishings. Fashion crates are available in a variety of colors and materials to match almost any décor., Don’t buy the first crate you see, you want to make certain you get a quality crate at a reasonable price. Consider the quality of the materials as well as whether you’ll be able to use the crate as your puppy grows before purchasing a crate.


When you’re shopping around, don’t hesitate to ask employees or managers if there are upcoming sales or free savings clubs that would help offset the cost of a crate.
Visit pet adoption facilities, and ask for advice on where to purchase your crate. These establishments regularly purchase and maintain crates and kennels and are a great resource. If you’re adopting your puppy, ask for advice when you go to pick him up.While it’s tempting to simply purchase a small crate and continue to upgrade as your dog grows, it’s not usually an affordable option.
Crates that are too large can seem scary to a small puppy, and you don’t want to create negative associations with the crate for your puppy.
Dividers or dividable crates are a fast, simple, affordable way to purchase one crate to last your dog’s full lifetime., Puppies want and need a lot of attention, so place the crate in a part of your home where you’ll be able to see the puppy, and he will see you. This ensures the crate doesn’t feel like a punishment for the puppy, but makes him feel like part of the family while still giving him his own safe, comfortable space., There are a variety of ways to make your dog comfortable while he is in the crate. This could include any number of bedding materials, toys, and treats. Whatever makes your dog’s crate fell like home.


You’ll likely want to add some kind of liner or bedding to the bottom of the crate, especially if you have a metal bar or wire cage. You’ll want something washable to keep your pet’s crate clean and cozy.
You may want to encourage your dog to enjoy going into the crate by feeding him or offering him treats in the crate.
Give your dog a few toys to choose from so he doesn’t get board in the crate, especially if you’re going to be away from the dog for several hours., Crates are a great training tool, and they can be a positive thing for your dog. These den-like habitats give your puppy a place that is his own to feel safe and secure. However, when crating becomes a punishment or the dog is crated for too long, your puppy will begin to build negative associations with his crate.Avoid this by starting with short periods of crate time followed by active time with you.
After your dog is used to his crate, you can gradually increase the amount of time left in the crate.
Try to be consistent. Puppies are smart. If they notice you always leave and come back at the same times, they’ll learn to expect this, and experience less stress or anxiety when going in their crates.