 So maybe you aren't much of a skater, but you really like the look. You can dress like a skater for the style aspect of it, choosing outfits that make you look like a skater without actually being a skater. People may call you a poser, but if you really like the style then go for it. Be confident in it and don't allow other people's negativity to affect you.;
, On the other hand, maybe you want to dress like a skater because you want to become a skater. In this case, the important thing is that you first practice being a skater. To fit in with other skaters and to be accepted, they'll want to know that you actually know what you are doing and take it seriously. Get really good at being a skater, and then allow the style to follow after.


This is important because skaters can take pride in the who they are, and they don't usually care for people who act like posers or wannabes. While this may seem harsh, it's just the culture behind skating. If you want to mesh with this culture well, know your stuff, be good at what you do, and then gradually change your style up. If you jump right into a skater style and then try to perform tricks and fall on your face, you may just be judged or ridiculed. To save you from that embarrassment, be confident in your ability and know what you are doing.
 There are different types of skaters, and with each skater comes different styles. Most skaters like to be comfortable, have enough flexibility in their clothes to perform tricks, and look stylish at the same time. Skaters tend to wear pants that fall tight or loose (there's not a lot of skaters that just wear straight legged jeans), flat soled tennis shoes, graphic tees or somewhat tight t-shirts, and a snapback. If you are going for a specific look, you can follow the methods below.


If you don't want to dress like a specific skater, but just a casual skater, then you can combine any of the styles in these categories for your look. Casual skaters generally wear tight jeans, flat-soled shoes in a bright or neutral color, and casual, somewhat fitted tees. You can throw in a leather jacket and a beanie for a more hipster look, or you can wear a snapback of your choice to keep it casual.

