 When you make the initial cut, try to preserve a piece of stem about 2- 6 inches (5 - 15 cm) long with 3 leaves on it. You can make this cut with a regular pair of scissors. The sharper the scissors, the less damage there will be to the plant's cells, which will increase your chances of a successful propagation.;
, After making your cut, you will need to trim the cut piece in a few ways to get it ready for rooting.


First, trim the bottom of the piece just below a node. A node is the joint where a leaf meets the stem, so you will cut the piece so that the lowest leaf joins the stem right at the bottom of the overall length.
Next, cut all 3 of the leaves in half. Cutting half of each leaf's area away will keep the plant from diverting too much of its energy towards the leaves, instead using that energy to grow new roots.
Remove any flowers or fruit. Flowers, fruits, or flower buds should be removed as well to conserve energy for root growth.
 This step is optional, but will greatly increase your chances of a quick, successful propagation. Rooting hormone is a liquid product available at nurseries that encourages a plant to grow new roots. You can simply dip the bottom of the cut stem into the rooting hormone to soak it effectively.
 Prepare a pot with damp potting mix and poke a pencil into the mix to make a hole for the bottom of your cutting. Lower the stem into the hole, making sure that the lowest node is completely covered by soil, as the new roots will grow from this node.
 Your plant cutting will grow best in bright but filtered sunlight and in a warm temperature. Water the potting mix every few days as it starts to dry out; aim to keep it damp but not completely saturated.
 You can check for root growth by gently lifting the cutting out of the potting mix. Once the roots have started to grow, you can either leave the plant to grow in its current container or pot it in a new, larger container. For the first few months of the plant's growth, pay special attention to its watering and lighting to make sure it becomes established.

