 Though guineas should really get vegetables every day, your guinea will likely see them as treats. They love digging into fresh vegetables., Romaine lettuce and spinach are a great base for your guinea's treat. Your guinea pig should have a cup of vegetables and fruit a day, and greens should make up most of that cup. In fact, most days, it can just be greens., You can add pieces of zucchini, sweet potato, parsley, and carrots as toppings. However, don't make them the bulk of their diet, and change up what you feed your guinea pig from day to day. Try to only feed other vegetables a couple of times a week. Any vegetable if feed to excess (every day) can potentially cause problems. For example carrots are high in oxalate, which if fed daily can predispose the GP to developing oxalate bladder stones. A good rule of thumb is to never feed the same food two days running, which prevents mineral build-up.You can also feed your guinea pig asparagus, basil, carrots with tops or without, celery, chicory, cilantro, eggplant, cucumber, dill, parsley, parsnips, radishes, rocket, bell peppers, turnips, tomatoes, and watercress.Remove seeds when possible.
Skip rhubarb, potatoes, and tomato leaves completely, as they contain substances called alkaloids which are toxic to guinea pigs.Feed a limited number of vegetables in the cabbage family, such as cabbage, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, bok choy, and cauliflower, as it can cause your guinea pig to bloat. Only offer these once in awhile in small amounts., While guinea pigs can eat fruit, they should only eat in small doses because of the high sugar content. You can feed your guinea pig a wide variety of fruits, but try to remove the seeds when possible.You can feed your guinea pigs apples and pears in small slices (with peels), berries such as blueberries and blackberries, citrus fruits such as oranges and grapefruit, melons such as cantaloupe and watermelon, kiwi, mango, peaches, nectarines, and plums. Banana is also fine in limited amounts.You can also give them dried fruits such as apricots and dates, but only give them in small pieces as they are high in sugar., You can give them a quarter of an orange, for instance, or add bell peppers or asparagus, though leafy greens also provide vitamin C., Rub the fruits and vegetables under running water to remove bacteria, pesticides, and other harmful substances from the surface. To be safe, wash home-grown vegetables, as well, since car exhaust and other particles in the air can gather on vegetation.Don't dry the food off. Leaving the water on it gives your guinea pig more fresh water.
Greens don't need to be chopped. You can leave leaves whole, but pull them off the stalks. If you feed the stocks, you need to treat them as you do other vegetables by chopping them.
 It's usually best to remove seeds from fruits and vegetables, as they aren't always good for your guinea pig. That includes tomatoes, cucumbers, bell peppers, and apples., Chop the treats into chunks to make them easier for guinea pigs to eat. This step is especially important for stringy vegetables such as celery; its stringiness can cause the guinea pig to choke if it's not small enough. Therefore, make sure you slice up celery small. For other vegetables, human-sized bites are fine, even slices of cucumber.For extra fun, you can present it as a salad in a bowl.
 Uneaten food quickly spoils. Make sure to take it out of the cage after an hour so that your guinea pig won't get sick., Your guinea pig needs hay for digestion. However, to make it a bit more fun, you can stuff it in a cardboard toilet paper tube. Your guinea pig will have fun pulling out of the tube., You can also add a small scoop of rolled oats to their regular pellets. The oats make the food more interesting, and your guinea pigs will see it as a treat.