 Internal hemorrhoids are usually painless but cause irritation and bleeding, while external hemorrhoids are typically painful and less likely to bleed. Some patients have both. They are more common amongst women who are pregnant, those with increased abdominal pressure due to liver disease, or those who are constipated because of medications, lack of dietary fiber, or lack of water. All of these conditions and situations cause increased straining during defecation, which contributes to the dilatation, engorgement, and prolapse of the hemorrhoidal tissue inside the anus.Symptoms of hemorrhoids include:


Mucoid discharge from your anus
Bleeding in the anal region
Swelling of the anal region
Discomfort or pain
Poor hygiene due to fecal leakage
Anal itchingBurning during bowel movements
Severe pain from a hemorrhoid that has a blot clot trapped inside;
, If you experience more severe symptoms, seek immediate medical attention.There could be a more advanced hemorrhoid or another underlying condition present. You should also seek medical attention if your hemorrhoids:Are accompanied by a change in bowel habits
Are accompanied by the passing black, tarry, or maroon stools, which can indicate excessive bleeding in your digestive tract.
Cause large amounts of rectal bleeding
Cause lightheadedness, faintness, or dizziness

, To help relieve the discomfort of hemorrhoids, you can use over the counter creams,which can relieve itching and irritation caused by hemorrhoids. Look for hydrocortisone cream with 1% hydrocortisone for the best results on internal hemorrhoids. Suppositories tend to work better for external hemorrhoids.


You can also use pads that have witch hazel or a numbing agent to help irritation. Do not use creams for more than a week without being told to by your doctor. It can cause increased irritation and skin thinning., A sitz bath is a bowl-like device that fits over the toilet and is available in most drugstores. Fill it with plain warm water and sit in it for 10 to 15 minutes. You can repeat four to five times a day to ease pain and irritation.


You can also sit in a plain warm bath for 10 to 15 minutes instead., Hemorrhoids can cause swelling, which can be irritating and uncomfortable. Use an ice pack to help ease the swelling and irritation. You can use a pre-made ice pack or make your own with ice in a resealable bag. Just make sure you wrap it in a towel so the cold does not have direct contact with your skin.


Limit the amount of time you use a cold compress at one time. Leave it on for no more than 20 minutes to avoid frostbite or low blood pressure. , Dry toilet paper can irritate your hemorrhoids and cause excessive irritation. Instead of using dry toilet paper, buy wet wipes to use when you go to the restroom. Even when you just urinate, use the wet wipes so the dry toilet does not get rubbed over your irritated anal region at all.


If you don't have wet wipes, try using wet toilet paper until you can get some. This may be kind of irritating because wet toilet paper is not nearly as strong.
In addition to using wet wipes to keep cleaner and avoid irritation, you should also shower or bath daily to keep your anal region clean. This will help cut down on discomfort and irritation as well as help relieve swelling., The pain of your hemorrhoids can be relieved by over-the-counter (OTC) pain relievers such as acetaminophen (Tylenol). This will temporarily reduce any pain and discomfort related to your hemorrhoids.Avoid OTC painkillers such as aspirin, naproxen (Aleve), or ibuprofen (Advil) if your hemorrhoids are bleeding or you have GI issues, as they can cause issues with blood clotting.
If you are taking any additional medication, ask your doctor about possible interactions.

