 If anything looks immature, outdated or just plain ugly, give it to the Goodwill. The cute stuff can go back in your closet/dresser/whatever.;
, Sign up for the 30-day Back To School Makeover. It will really help you figure out what to wear, how to get enough sleep, how to take care of your skin, etc.
 and pick up Teen Vogue magazine. Read it! Don't simply look at the pictures. You want to be that girl who knows about the latest gossip, fashion, etc. and isn't afraid to let everyone know she does. Also, Seventeen magazine is a good choice, and so is their website.
 After throwing out some of those terrible clothes, you need to go on a stylish shopping spree. Save up money so you can buy clothes without feeling super restrained.


If you have a more money to spend than the average person, go to some of the more expensive stores.
 If it's trendy, but you know it's not your style, don't buy it. Black is a great color to start off with. For a classy, but casual look, pair black skinny jeans with a patterned tank top underneath a classic short sleeved white button down, and either cute flip-flops or ballet flats. if you're more of a sporty girl, wear low-top Converse in plain black and white. A big boho-style bag is ideal for any situation, school, shopping, nightlife... make sure it'll match several outfits in your closet. You don't want to get a big fuzzy neon green bag with a bamboo handle, cause honestly, what's going to match that? for jewelry, try long wooden, plastic, or pearl necklaces that can be wrapped around at least twice. Be creative! your jewelry can be as funky or as low key as you want. It's a big way to express yourself. Shops that have cute (and affordable) clothes are ones such as H&M, Forever 21 and Urban Outfitters.
 if you must have a backpack, don't get anything immature, like Hannah Montana or Sesame Street. A good choice would be to opt for a plain black Jansport. Even better, buy a plain black backpack and decorate it with iron ons, fabric markers and cool fabrics and stick ons. Forever 21 has very cute backpacks.
 It really enhances your eye color. For mascara, a good one would be LashBlast by Covergirl (drugstores), or Diorshow by Dior (Sephora or select Macys). These both lengthen and volumize your lashes with very little to no clumps. For blush, maybe a loose mineral powder, especially L'oreal. This can be around $15, which is a bit pricey, but its worth it. For basic face powder or concealer, Revlon, Covergirl, and Loreal are great. Make sure it matches your skin, and blend the face powder with clean hands, not a brush, unless its loose powder. now for the lips, many people usually leave theirs bare, but if you want, opt for a nude lip color or a clear gloss. Any brand is fine, just make sure it works for you. some people just put Vaseline on them and it looks great. If you need help with how to put on the makeup, magazines and online makeup tutorials can be a great help.
 Be yourself, but don't let just anyone know exactly who you are. Leave some mystery. Read books. Smile like you have a secret. Don't talk too much. But be a nice person. Be polite to your teachers, classmates, and adults. Being rude to someone usually won't make someone want to be friends with you. If someone is mean/rude to you, simply kill them with kindness or smile coolly, acting like that they are simply an annoying bug and not someone who is actually hurting your feelings.
 Make friends with everyone, but be completely exclusive with a very small group of people, from 1 (your best friend or boyfriend) to about four friends. You are not supposed to be the Paris Hilton popular. You're supposed to be the Kate Moss popular. Gently influence your friends, perhaps by showing then your Teen Vogue/Vogue/Nylon magazines, giving them makeovers, talking to them about clothing and trends you like. Don't be pushy though. you want to keep your friends! Don't pressure your friends to be anything they don't want to be.
 Let your friends in on your life but, if anyone, only your very best friend should know the "Life of (your name) - Special Edition". Unless someone specifically asks, don't blab about your life to everyone and everything with ears. If someone does ask, tell them a little snippet. They will be eager to know more, but if you don't say anything else on the subject, you'll seem mysterious.

