 If you run out of ornaments while you’re decorating the tree, or you just want to fill in the gaps, loop a few candy canes onto the branches here and there. They’re the perfect size and shape to hang from the tree, which is a delightfully unexpected place for them to turn up. If you’re looking for something fresh to supplement your collection of traditional ornaments, an ordinary box of candy canes may be just what you need.Best of all, you don’t even have to remove the candy canes from their plastic wrappers, which means they won’t make a sticky mess as they sit out and can be reused year after year.
Look for candy canes striped with different colors to make your tree more visually interesting., Arrange the candy canes in a circle and secure them with hot glue. The result is an inexpensive, eye-catching wreath that you can use to spruce up any door in your house. Get as crafty as you please, beautifying your wreaths with ribbon, tinsel, or evergreen garlands.It may help to have some sort of backing for your wreath, like a circular wire frame that will hold the candy canes in place.
Hang the wreath using a thumbtack, hook or detachable wall strip.
 This is a simple way to get into the Christmas spirit when throwing a dinner party. Attach a candy cane to each folded linen around the table using a length of ribbon or a strand of twine, then tuck the silverware in underneath or lay the napkins directly in the center of each plate. Your guests will love the festive touch.Be careful not to break the candy canes while you’re tying them down.
Encourage your guests to leave with their candy canes or enjoy them after the meal.
 Take a bundle of candy canes and line them up in a row around the outside of a lackluster bowl, vase, candle holder, or serving dish to transform it into a brilliant display. Secure the candy canes using a layer of double-sided tape or ribbon, or make it a permanent addition to your holiday decorations by gluing them down.Work slowly and carefully to make sure that the candy canes are even and symmetrical around the surface of the item you’re decorating.
Enhancing old, humdrum pieces with candy canes is much cheaper than buying all new Christmas accessories for your home.