 Essential oils can be used for a variety of specific ailments. They are most often used to treat skin ailments, anxiety, and pest control.If your pet is having one of these issues, essential oils may be good solution.


The effectiveness of essential oils for healing ailments is still up for debate, even though many have been used for centuries. Overall, there is more scientific research needed to verify their true benefits., When giving your pet essential oil therapy, you want to use a small amount because many pets have very strong senses of smell. For example, if diffusing the essential oil in a room spray, you only want one to two drops for every cup of water., The application of essential oils can be done several ways, depending on what you are using them for. Most often they are put in a diffuser, such as a spray bottle, or applied directly to the skin in a diluted form.


If intending to apply directly to the skin, and you have a pure form of the essential oil, you will need to dilute it with a carrier oil, such as coconut or vegetable oil. It's best to consult with a professional about the ratio of essential oil to carrier oil you should use.Using an essential oil to mist in the air requires only a small amount of essential oil combined with water. Put a few drops of your chosen essential oil in a cup of water and then spray or put in a diffuser., If you want to use essential oils to help your pet, you should consider hiring a professional trained in animal aromatherapy.Additionally, you should consult with your veterinarian before you start an essential oil regime.


Talk to your veterinarian about what oils you are considering.
 If you are determined to use essential oils on your pet, make sure the oils you use are of a high quality. Buy from a seller that can steer you towards a quality product or from an online source that has a lot of information about the products they are selling and is focused specifically on essential oils.


It is important to use essential oils that have not been diluted with unknown substances. However, as common practice, many high quality essential oils are diluted with oils.
A cheap essential oil is not likely to be pure. In most cases you get what you pay for.
Essential oils shouldn't be greasy, unless the ingredients include a diluting oil. If yours is greasy but says it is pure, then it is probably actually diluted.
Make sure the packaging clearly states the ingredients and the concentration percentage.
 Part of using essential oils on animals is watching them to make sure they are responding positively to the oil. Some refer to this as the animal "self selecting."If you try to have your dog inhale lavender to calm it, for instance, and its body language shows you that it does not like the smell, then stop using the essential oil.

