 When out on the field or back at home base, sticking together is best. That way, the different types of players can all mesh together. In PvE, these types are:

Tank: Holds the aggro with the baddies. Warriors, protection paladins and bear-form druids fit this.
DPS Dealer: Deals a ton of damage fast and effectively. Rogues and mages are common examples.
Healer: Heals and resurrects other allies. Priests, paladins, druids, and shaman are all classes that can heal.
Pet class: Has a pet to hold the aggro for them while they cast from afar. Hunters and warlocks are good examples.
Hybrid: A class that doesn't specialize in any one thing. Paladins, druids, and shamans are examples.;
, Healing is the number 1 way you can help your team win WSG most of the time, if you can do it, and doing it will also guarantee your quick demise. Paladins can actually make themselves into excellent aggro magnets by using a condescending emote (/rude, /spit, /pity, /shoo, /insult), and then casting Divine Shield. At least two members of the opposing team will futilely attack them until they become vulnerable.
CCer: A class that can take enemies out of combat via Crowd Control. Since BG action, especially at 70, is so fast, any CC is just as effective as killing them and you have to be a damned fool to release a CC'd enemy. CC's include polymorph (Mages), sap (Rogues), trapping (hunters) and fear (warlocks). If you see an enemy inside a giant block of ice they're either cc'd or invulnerable. Don't hit them. If they have purple spirals over their head, if they are on fire, or have a trail of ice following them, or if they're a sheep, turtle, or pig, don't hit them. Wait until all their friends are dead, then gang up on them.
CrowdBreaker: Anyone who can effectively disperse a crowd, usually through AOE fear, though sometimes through potent AOE damage (causing self-motivated dispersal). Priests can do this most easily, then Warriors (Intimidating Shout) and warlocks (Howl of Terror); finally, a well-geared (read: tier-4 (and up) damage epics) mage can scare enemies out of an area effectively. Used to break up a crowd defending a flag, or escorting a flag-carrier.
Carrier: Anyone grabbing the enemy flag. You should have at least one of two qualities to attempt this: durability or speed. Durability does not mean 6k hp, it means 10k+ hp; if you're a squishy (Mages , Warlocks, Priests, etc.) don't try this. If you're a warrior/prot paladin/feral druid, wear all your best hp tanking gear and grab a friend; if you're a druid, rogue, or hunter, get ready to put on the afterburners. note that a feral druid has lots of hp, swift in cat form for for the tunnel and travel form out of it. this means that even when you are a higher level, if he isn't very low you should let him take it to base and give it to you there if needed.
Escort: Someone helping the carrier make it across the field alive. Paladins are uniquely well suited to do this because they a) can heal, b) can dispel nearly everything, c) can make the carrier immune to slowing effects, and d) can make themselves completely invulnerable at the same time, freeing them to concentrate on a-c. Basically, though, you should either be able to heal, speed up the flag carrier, or heal him, or some combination thereof if you wish to escort him. Crowdbreakers can also make good escorts, but preferably they will be priests or mages.
Flag Room Defender: This is someone who camps the flag room and who's goal is to kill intrepid flag carriers. Rogues and excel at this role as they can get the jump on attackers. druids are also good here do to their tracking ability in cat form, and being able to sneak and jump on attackers (they can do so more effectively if they have the feral charge talent). Shamans do well here too with earthbind to slow enemies. Hunters are also good for their trapping, tracking, and slowing abilities.
Ramp and Tunnel Defender: Someone who's main goal is to disrupt an oncoming offensive and try to take out flag carrier support. Coordinating this role with flag room defense is very effective. A good Ramp and Tunnel Defender can string out and wear down an offensive such that they are easily picked off by the Flag Room Defenders. This role is also responsible for ensuring that a captured flag doesn't make it to midfield. Warlocks and Shadow Priests excel at this role because of their DoTs and silencing abilities against healers. Hunters and mages do well because of their cc and slowing abilities. A key tactic for Ramp and Tunnel Defense is to stay mobile and don't get tied down, this tactic is distinctly different from the "run in the middle and farm HKs" tactic. A good Ramp and Tunnel Defender is also able to notify Flag Room Defenders of incoming numbers and classes, paying special note to potential flag carriers.
 You can't read their minds, but you can guess what they will do. If you think you know, suggest your idea to the group. If they don't believe it, ask them why. You'll likely learn something!

Learn where the other team likes to hide with the flag, so you can take in a team to sneak around their base and rescue the flag.
 Talk when you know what you are talking about, or when you have questions. Yelling things like, "I AM SO COOL!" in chat is generally not accepted. You shouldn't be too serious, but don't be all crazy. Also don't criticize other people's ideas. If you do not like it, tell them why and be ready to suggest a good alternative. Communicating enemy positions, *especially* their flag carrier, is extremely critical. It is also helpful to report what classes are there- "3 war 2 rogue 1 priest EAST FLAG" is an excellent example of a concise message that can be quickly typed out that tells everyone on your team exactly where your flag is going and what will be needed to retrieve it. If you've just grabbed the enemy flag, everyone on your team will know it so "I HAVE FLAG" is not useful. However, "going their ramp then center NEED ESCORT" or "TUNNEL" are both good examples of concise message. Judicious use of CAPS will help draw attention to your message, but ALL CAPS MESSAGES will be more likely to be ignored, so try to capitalize important highlights of your battlefield communiques.
 Do things you know you can do. If you are running on the field with two other guys and encounter all the players on the other team running towards you, don't respond by attacking! Call for help and try crowd control attacks or abilities if you can. However, if you have the option of distracting the bulk of the enemy team with an "easy kill" just long enough to ensure that your flag carrier succeeds or at least gets to a healer, your sacrifice will more likely be worthwhile.
