 Registering a copyright with the U.S. Copyright Office involves three basic steps: (1) complete an application either on paper or using the U.S. Copyright Office's eCO registration system; (2) paying a fee; and (3) depositing a copy of the work being registered with the U.S. Copyright Office.Once you complete these steps, your copyright will be officially registered.
 If you can, you will want to use eCO to register your copyright because using this electronic system results in the lowest filing fee, the fastest processing time, the ability to track your submission online, and the ability to deposit certain works directly online without having to mail them in separately (and risk them getting lost, damaged, etc.).You can use eCO to register the following works:Literary Works
Visual-Arts Works
Performing-Arts Works
Sound Recordings
Motion Picture/Audiovisual Works
Single-Serial Issues (e.g., a single issue of a magazine or newspaper)
For detailed explanations of the above terms, consult the U.S. Copyright Office's guide explaining the different types of creative works., You will only be able to use eCO to register (1) any single work, (2) a collection of unpublished works by the same author, or (3) multiple published works in the same unit of publication (like a book of pictures).The publication status also determines whether or not you will be able to deposit a copy of your work electronically, or if you will have to mail in a copy to the U.S. Copyright Office.


According to copyright law, a work is published if you have sold, rented, leased, or lent the work. It is also considered published if you have given a copy to another party so they can distribute it, perform it in public, or display it in public., As the owner of a copyright, you have the exclusive right to do, or to authorize someone else to do, the following:Reproduce the work.
Create new works based on the original work by altering it or building on it in some way. (These are known as "derivative" works.)
Distribute copies of the work.
Publicly display or perform the work.

