 After the drywall is installed, you should look for any screws that are sitting proud of the wall. Drive them in until they are recessed just slightly. Remove any bits of the drywall's outer paper layer that are torn or loose. This will keep them from becoming mixed into the joint compound and showing.;
, Drywall joint compound (sometimes called "mud") is sold in large buckets. Remove the bucket's lid and check for a layer of water on top of the compound. If water is present, mix the compound thoroughly with a drill fixed with a mixing paddle. If no water is present, mixing is not necessary.
 Load your mud box (or any other container you use for holding the joint compound) using a 5-inch (125 mm) drywall knife. Load the knife with joint compound and use it to fill in the gaps between drywall panels. Use the compound to cover exposed screw heads as well.


When all joints and screws are covered, pass over the areas with the knife to smooth out the joint compound. The smoother the joint compound, the less work you'll have to do later when you apply a second or third layer of compound.
 Unroll a few feet of tape and position the tape over the freshly applied joint compound covering each joint. Gently press the tape into the joint. Unroll more tape and continue covering the joint until you reach the end of the wall. Tear the tape against the drywall knife blade to achieve a clean edge.


When taping an inside corner, you should pre-crease the tape. Cut the tape to length first, bending it back on itself to crease it. Apply the tape to the corner by gently pushing it into place with the drywall knife.
 Hold the 5-inch knife against the taped joint at a shallow angle. In one continuous motion, pull the knife across the joint, pressing the tape into the compound. Excess joint compound can be scraped off into the mud box.
 Outside corners do not require drywall tape, as they should be affixed with corner beads. Apply joint compound over each side of the bead smoothing it with a single pass of the 5-inch (125 mm) drywall knife.


Metal or plastic outside corner beads come in 10 foot (3 m) segments, so you'll probably need some tin snips to cut them down to size. They are great for protecting your outside corners against dings and other damage throughout the years.
 At this point, after the first layer of mud, your drywall is still going to look patchy. Don't be concerned about being able to see a little drywall tape, or having different consistencies on mudded surfaces. You're going to apply at least another coat of compound; these imperfections will even out and become invisible soon.
 After 24 hours, sand it down gently to smooth it. Use a medium-grit sandpaper, and do not sand too hard. Joint compound is fairly soft, so sanding too much will quickly wear it away and fray the drywall tape.


A small sanding block works well for inside corners, while a pole sander is efficient for sanding seams and outside corners.

