 Fill a large saucepan with water, and bring it to a boil on medium-high heat. Place 2 large sweet potatoes that have been peeled and cut into 1-inch (2.5-cm) cubes in the pan, and simmer them for 5 to 10 minutes or until they are tender.Add a pinch or two of salt to the water before you bring it to boil to help season the potatoes.
 When the sweet potatoes have finished boiling, pour them into a colander to drain them, and pat them with paper towels to dry them thoroughly. Set them aside for the moment., Add 2 tablespoons (30 ml) of olive oil to a large skillet and heat it over medium-high heat for 3 to 5 minutes. Mix in half a chopped red onion, a chopped red bell pepper, ¼ cup (115 g) of chopped green onions, and 2 cloves of chopped garlic, and saute the mixture for 5 to 6 minutes, or until the vegetables are tender and lightly golden.You can substitute butter for the olive oil if you prefer.
 Once the vegetables are tender, add kosher salt and freshly ground black pepper to taste. Next, transfer the onion mixture to a medium bowl and set aside for the moment., Add the remaining 4 tablespoons (60 ml) of olive oil to the empty skillet. Place the drained sweet potatoes in the pan in a single layer, and cook on medium heat for 5 to 6 minutes, or until they are tender.Stir the potatoes occasionally while they’re heating to ensure that they cook evenly.
 Once the sweet potatoes are tender, raise the heat to high. Allow the potatoes to cook for 2 more minutes or until they are golden brown and crisp.Don’t stir the potatoes as they cook. That will help them crisp up on the outside.
 When the potatoes are crisp and golden, sprinkle 2 teaspoons (4 g) of smoked paprika over them and gently stir in the onion mixture. Mix well until the ingredients are fully blended.If you like, you can also add some chopped parsley to the hash.
 After you’ve finished mixing the sweet potato hash, remove the pan from the heat. Transfer the hash to a serving platter or individual plates, and pair with your favorite egg or meat breakfast dish.