 If you sense your child is starting to become frustrated, ask them to describe the assignment to you. More specifically, look for evidence that they know what they are supposed to do before trying to help. In fact, they may be frustrated because they don’t know what they’re supposed to do, as opposed to an inability to complete specific tasks.If they are not clearly able to explain the assignment, look it over yourself and see if it makes sense to you.
If you are able to understand the assignment, help them get started - but only enough to ensure they understand what they need to do. Then allow them to finish the assignment themselves.
 Talking about homework together provides a perfect opportunity to help your child learn to calmly express their opinions, and to listen to the advice of others. In particular, guide them to frame negative statements more politely and patiently.For instance, correct your child when they something like, “You’re wrong!” by saying, “It’s okay to think that I’m wrong, but try saying it differently.”
Offer them examples too, such as “Mom, I don’t think that’s how I’m supposed to do it.”

, If your child continues to get frustrated and/or you find yourself unable to help or stay calm yourself, find someone else who may be able to help instead. Sometimes, your child may feel pressure to impress you, or may otherwise worry more about their homework more when working with you.For instance, maybe a grandparent can help more peacefully.
Alternatively, consider searching for an older student to help tutor your child after school. Your child’s school may be able to help facilitate this arrangement.
 If your child consistently becomes frustrated by their homework assignments, do not hesitate to speak with their teacher about it. You may learn that your child is having trouble on their schoolwork in general, or discover that they excel in class and are simply worrying too much about their homework and placing too much pressure on themselves.If you think the homework your child is bringing home may be too challenging for them or for students their age, don't hesitate to mention this to their teacher.
If your child's teacher is not receptive to your input or does not provide adequate responses to your questions, speak with an administrator at the school about any unresolved concerns you have.

