 An exercise ball can be a great way to stretch your back, and it may also result in some cracking as well. To start, sit on an inflated exercise ball. Then, slowly walk your feet out in front of you and lower yourself onto the exercise ball so that your back is resting over it. Allow yourself to completely relax on the ball. Slowly bend and extend your knees to move your body forward and backward over the ball, so the ball rolls over different parts of your back.








This stretch is not guaranteed to crack your back, but your back may crack on its own while you lay on the ball. Try to be patient though because it might take a few minutes. Just relax on the ball and enjoy the stretch.
 Sit down on a mat with your back straight and your legs flat on the ground. Bring your right leg gently up and, keeping it bent, rest it over the left leg. Your left leg should be flat on the ground, and the right leg should have only the foot resting on the ground, near the left hip.









Bring your left arm across your body and wedge it on the right side of your right leg. You should feel the tension already. Using your left arm to push off of your right knee, twist your spinal cord gently back and to the right.
Once you have felt a pop, release the pose, loosen out some of the tension, and repeat, using the opposite leg.
 Lie down on the bottom of a bed, with everything above your shoulder blades hanging off the edge of the bed. Relax and slowly let your upper back and arms sink towards the floor. After you've fully stretched downward, do a full sit-up to bend your spine in the opposite direction, going back downward, sliding your shoulder blades farther and farther off the edge of the bed each time.
 This is a Pilates stretch used to loosen the muscles in the spinal column. Lie down on a mat and bring both knees to your chest, hugging them with your hands. Slowly rock forward and backward on the mat, building momentum as you go. Aim to feel each piece of your spine on the mat as you rock back and forth.
 Lay down face-up on some hard flooring (not carpet), with your arms stretched out. With your feet flat on the floor, bend your knees about 45 degrees, or enough to rotate your hips so that your lower spine is flat against the floor. You're trying to get your entire spine aligned with the floor.









Put your hands on the back of your head and push your head forward, so that your chin goes in the direction of your chest.
Press gently on the back of your head. Your vertebrae should pop gently in one to three places between your shoulder blades with very little pressure.
If you feel pain or discomfort, then stop right away!

