 There are a few different options for steel-bound strings. You’ll need to determine which gauge string you use and what type of finish you prefer. The standard size for strings is .11 or .12, but you could go higher for lighter strings or lowers for heavier strings. Decide what type of finish from the following types:









Bronze strings have a clear, ringing, and bright tone, but age quicker.
Phosphor bronze strings are warmer and darker than bronze strings. The sound is crisp and lasts a long time due to the phosphor finish.
Brass strings have a bright, jangly, and metallic texture.
Polymer-coated strings have less sustain and brightness, but are warm sounding and resistant to corrosion.
Silk and steel strings are popular among folk guitarist and finger picking players due to their softer touch and delicate tone.;
, Lay your guitar on a flat surface, for example on a table, and put yourself in front of your guitar. You could also lay it across your lap or even hold the neck while the body stands upright on the ground.
 Begin by removing the deep E or the 6th string which is the thickest string on the guitar. Start unwinding your string by turning the tuning peg to loosen the string. You can figure out which direction to turn the peg by plucking the string and turn it one direction. If it gives off a higher note that means you are tightening the string.









Keep turning the peg until the string falls off the guitar.
If the strings are very old then consider just cutting them off with a wire cutter.
Remove each string moving from the thickest to thinnest.
 Now the string should be hanging from the bridge of the guitar. The bridge is underneath the sound hole where the guitar strings are attached. Depending on what type of bridge your guitar has, you may need to remove the bridge pin. If your guitar doesn’t have bride pins, you should be able to wedge the strings out of their socket.









Pull the pin to remove it. If you can’t wedge it out, use pliers. Bridge pin pullers are available for about $5.00 and are a nice accessory.
Pull the string out of the hole., Open the package and uncoil the first string (the thinnest high E string). Look for the string labeled 6th string and uncoil it. Each brand of strings use different legends to help users identify which string is which.
 Isolate the lightest string from your new pack. Place it through the bridge's hole that is farthest to the right of the guitar. Begin pulling the string with slight pressure. Thread the new string until the end of the string falls into place. Now place it in the groove on the bridge of the guitar.








If your guitar has bridge pins, you'll need to remove them before inserting the new string.
The best way to remove the pins is by using a bridge pin puller. Lodge the tool into the pin and rock it from side to side until the pin becomes loose.
Wait until you've fully thread your new string into place before reinserting the pin.
 To attach it to the head, begin by lightly pulling the string up the neck. Bring the string an inch above the tuning peg. Wrap the string around the peg twice and insert the string into the hole between the two loops you created.









Begin tightening the string, but don’t tighten the string too much.
While tightening the string, use your other hand to stretch the loose string so it holds tune quicker., Take time to do this process to each thicker string. Never fully tighten a string until every string is attached to the guitar. Use a tuner once every string is attached and tune to the following tuning: EADGBE.









Wait a few days to cut the excess string.

