 Scrub the baby potatoes clean under cool water, then cut them in half. Place them into a bowl, and set the bowl aside. Next, peel and core 2 large, Granny Smith apples. Cut the apples into 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) cups, and place them into a separate bowl. Set the bowl aside as well., Fill a large saucepan with salted water, then bring it to a boil over medium-high heat. Add the onions, and cook them for 2 minutes. Scoop them out using a slotted spoon, then put them into a bowl of ice water. Once they have cooled, peel them, then set them aside.You will be adding the onions and potatoes into the stew at the same time. If you'd like, you can place the onions and potatoes into the same bowl.
 Select 5, thick slices of bacon, and cut them crosswise into ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) wide strips. Place the bacon into a large, heavy-bottomed pot, then turn the heat up to medium. Cook the bacon until it is lightly browned, then set it aside on a stack of paper towels so that it can drain., Cut the boneless pork shoulder into 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) cubes. Alternatively, you can use boneless country pork ribs instead. Trim off any external fat, then chop them into 2-inch (5.08-centimeter) cubes., Put the pork into the pot you just cooked the bacon in; do not discard the bacon fat. Turn the heat up to medium-high, and cook the pork until it browns, about 7 minutes per batch. Once the pork is done cooking, scoop it out of the pot using a slotted spoon, and transfer it to a plate.Cooking the pork in two small batches will allow it to brown better.
 After you have taken the pork out, put the shallots and parsnips into the pot. Once again, do not pour out the fat and juices from the pork and bacon. Cover the pot with a lid, and allow the shallots and parsnips to cook over medium heat until they turn soft. covered, over medium heat until they turn soft., Stir in 3 teaspoons of the sage and ½ cup (120 milliliters) of the Calvados. Save the remaining 3 teaspoons of sage and 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of Calvados for later.

You do not have to use the Calvados apple brandy if you don't want to, but many chefs find that this lends the stew extra flavor.
 Be sure to include any juices that the pork may have accumulated on its plate; this is where all that wonderful flavor comes from. From time to time, scrape the bottom and sides of the pot down with a wooden spoon to dislodge any browned bits of meat or vegetable., Reduce the heat to medium-low, and place a lid on the pot. Let it simmer until the pork turns tender, about 15 minutes., Most of the vegetables (except for the potatoes, should be tender by this point. Don't worry if the potatoes themselves aren't tender yet; you still have some cooking left to do!, You are ready for the next step when the potatoes turn tender. If you need to, use a spoon to scoop off any fat that has floated to the top., Fill a small bowl with softened butter, then add the flour. Stir the two together to form a paste, then add the paste into the pot. Stir everything with a whisk until the butter-flour paste is mixed in., Stir in the mustard, 2 teaspoons of the sage, and the remaining 1 tablespoon (15 milliliters) of the Calvados. Bring the mixture to a boil over medium-high heat, then reduce the heat to medium. Let the stew simmer until it turns thick, about 2 to 3 minutes., You can garnish it with the remaining teaspoon of sage. 