 Ask the garden center or nursery attendant to for any special care instructions necessary while the shrub is still in the container. Water the plant regularly, and keep it in the appropriate amount of sunlight., Carefully move the shrub to the location where it will be planted. Take care to handle the shrub by holding the container. If the plant is very large, ask a friend to help. Never carry the shrub by the trunk or branches. Once in place, carefully tip the container on its side, roll back and forth to loosen the roots, and gently shift the plant out of the pot. Always handle the shrubs by the containerized rootball, but be gentle so as not to damage the roots.If you are struggling to remove the plant, roll the container gently back and forth while pressing down on the sides of the container. This should loosen the plant enough to remove it.
If you’re still unable to remove the shrub, run a spade or shovel around the inside of the container between the pot and the rootball.
You can also use small amounts of water to dampen the soil around the outer edge of the pot.
Most shrubs that are intended to be replanted are kept in plastic pots. If your plant is in a ceramic pot, you can use water to dampen the dirt, and run a shovel between the roots and the container. If you’re still unable to remove the plant from the pot, you may need to break the ceramic away taking care not harm yourself or damage the roots., Once the plant has been removed from its container, examine the rootball carefully. Prune off any broken, bent, or looped roots. Before placing the rootball, cut several vertical lines into the sides. Use a spade or knife to carefully make a ½ inch incision from the top of the containerized rootball to the bottom. Do this evenly spaced around the plant. Typically four incisions are adequate.


If the containerized roots have become bunched, hardened, or have overtaken all of the soil, you may need to purchase a different plant.
If the rootball has many looped roots that are greater than an inch in diameter, there is a high risk that the roots will wrap around the trunk, strangling the shrub. You should consider purchasing a different plant., Once the roots are prepared, place the shrub vertically in the hole. The root ball should be in the center, and the sides of the hole should slope down toward the plant.Make sure the hole is at least as deep as the dirt in the container.
Dig the hole at least three times the width of the diameter of the containerized shrub., When backfilling, replace several inches of soil at a time, and tamp down with the handle of your shovel. The goal is to remove air bubbles that may prevent nutrients and water from reaching the roots, but you don’t want the earth to be packed so firmly that it impedes root growth. Replace the dirt to the original soil line. Leave a small ring around the trunk without dirt, and create a small raised ridge all the way around the hole to direct water to the root system., Mulch insulates the soil and prevents the loss of moisture. If you would like, you can add three to four inches of mulch around the base of the shrub. Create the same ringed indentation around the trunk in the mulch as you did with the soil. Do not pile mulch against the trunk of the shrub., Soak the refilled hole for several hours. Water the shrub thoroughly once a week rather than watering a small amount each day, as this increases the risk for root rot and other plant-based diseases. To determine the earth has reached the appropriate level of moisture, dig a few inches into the soil and check periodically to see if it is damp. You want the soil to be moist, but avoid standing water.