


Know that God made each person differently. Some people might have strengths that you don't have, or you might have strengths that others don't.
Remember that not everyone is like you. You might naturally be a quick person and others are not, but don't expect them to be just as quick as you -- or get mad, if they aren't. They are not less than you, but different. In some cases, being slower is better, because one can pay more attention to details.
If people aren't up to speed with you in any area, be patient with them. If they aren't as far along in their walk with God, let them be where they are, instead of trying to rush along their spiritual growth. Everyone grows at their own pace with God.;
,


However your mom was with you, if she was generally a good mom, be that way with others. Be gentle with others.
A good trick for this is to imagine that everyone in your life is a little baby, or an elderly person. You might then be a lot more kind to them.
Also it helps to remember that everyone has battles they are facing in their own lives.
If someone is rude to you, try to understand where they are coming from. If you understand someone's past, it makes it a lot easier to be kind and merciful to any mistakes they make in the present. Amen.



The best antidote for envy is to be grateful for what God has already blessed you with. The more thankful you are, the less envious you will be of others.
Write a list of all the things you are thankful for knowing or having. The fall Thanksgiving season is a nice time to do so, and any time that you are feeling empty/sad.
 That is not loving. But, telling someone about lessons you've learned from events or mistakes can be worthwhile, if they enjoy your way to telling the stories (and parables just as Jesus loved to give shades of meaning which enlightened subjects in interesting ways, for those who could receive Him, it was Life).


Trying to get other people to be jealous of you is not love. Trying to show that you are better than others is not loving.
Our only boast can be in Christ, because without him in our lives, we would be nothing. Any good that we can do or accomplish, God enabled us to do it.
There really is no place for boasting for anyone. As the Bible says, "Every good and perfect gift is from above."

,


Love sacrifices for others. Love thinks of others before itself.
To be proud is to think of oneself as number one (above all). Pride is when a person ignores the needs/wishes of others on all sides, and focuses on oneself, ones little group and that's all. That is not love.
Pride can be seen in two opposite forms; either people have pride in thinking they are way better than they are, or people have pride in thinking overly lowly of themselves. The reason why the second one is pride is because they expect perfection of themselves, but when they fall short, they are depressed. No one should expect to attain perfection since no one is capable of it. On one side a person sets the bar too low so always thinks, "I'm just great!", and on the other side another one sets the bar much too high, and so thinks "I'm horrible..." Both are wrong.
Humility is in the middle of these two extremes. This is a principle of balance. Finding balance, in Christ, one can gladly say, "I can do all things through Christ Jesus who strengthens me." and "So, when I am weak... then I am strong ."

,


Men are not the only ones that care about being respected, women do too. Children need their own measures of respect as well, to have them learn successfully and grow up confident and strong in the nurture and understanding of God's Love.
To honor someone, for example, is to speak well of him or her to others.
To honor a person is to treat him or her as a king when you are around that individual.
Always ask yourself, "If this person was Jesus, how would I treat him or her right now?" Jesus said, "whatever you do to the least of these you do to me (to the Lord)."
And if the person is a Christian, that you do offend, you grieve God's Holy Spirit. So always honor and respect others.



Think about what other people might want or need.
If you are married, don't make one-sided decisions without consulting one another; such as picking the movies or restaurants that you want, but rather ask your spouse what he or she wants. Then as likely as not you'll get to choose the places and things that you both enjoy (that is peace and love).
In any relationship, it will be much better, if we ask others what they want. Seek to meet the needs of others and not just your own.



Don't be touchy. Don't be easily offended by what people say or do. Try to have a thick skin about things. Learn to not let people affect you as much, for happiness and fulfillment of those concerned.
Keep your cool in every situation, smile often, and enjoy being respected. But if one blows up or becomes defensive and becomes offended easily, those who experience your blowing steam won't have as much respect for ones character. And you don't enjoy being around anyone who gets all rattled, if anything does not go perfectly.
A good verse to remember is "man's anger does not bring about the righteousness of God." Amen.



Don't keep a running tally of how many times your spouse, etc. has said something disagreeable to you.
When you fight with someone, don't pull a list of everything wrong from the past 10 years. Let things go. You may think of it, but hold it; be forgiving by not reminding the other of it ever again (God is like that!). Don't hold something over someone's head for a second go around. Let it go; forgive, and move on.
 Try inserting your name before each of these traits in the verse in 1st Corinthians 13: "Love is patient, love is kind..." becomes "___ is patient; ___ is kind" and so forth. See whether you can in good conscience put your name in for each of those. If not, meditate on how you can and will get better in those areas. When an opportunity arises, practice your skill to make progress in some area of expressing Love.

