 The Instagram app is the only way to post photos to Instagram; you can't make posts using the Instagram website.;
, If you have the Facebook app installed on your phone, you can quickly log into Instagram using your Facebook account. If you don't have Facebook or don't want to use your Facebook account, you can create an account using an email address.



Click here for more detailed instructions on creating an Instagram account.
 It is located in the row of buttons along the bottom, in the center.
 All posts on Instagram are pictures. Tap the big blue button to take a picture, or tap the Gallery button to the left to browse through the photos stored on your device. You can also tap the video camera button to record a 15-second video.


Tap the button right above the camera button to switch between the front and back cameras on your phone.
 After taking a picture or selecting one from your phone's storage, you will be able to make some edits to it before you post it. Tap the "→" when you're finished editing. There are several different types of edits you can make:Select a filter from the list. One of Instagram's main features is the variety of filters you can apply to your picture. These color and processing filters can make your photo shine in new ways. Swipe left and right to try all of the different filters. Not all devices have access to the same filters.
Tap the "Sun" button to adjust the "Lux". This can soften or brighten your image, and is best used for landscapes. Lux settings may not be available for older versions of Instagram.Tap the "Wrench" button to see your other editing options. You can perform basic adjustments such as changing the brightness and contrast, or you can make more unique edits such as tilt shift and framing ("vignette").
 Captions aren't necessary, but a good caption will help get a lot more attention for your photo. A good caption is short and sweet. It should add context to the image, or complement it in some way. Click here for some tips on writing attention-grabbing captions.
 Hashtags are another one of Instagram's main features. These tags categorize your photo, allowing other people to find your image when they're looking at that topic. Hashtags are single words or phrases combined into one word. Click here for instructions on getting the most out of hashtags.


Hashtags are added to the caption of the image, and are marked by #. For example, for a wikiHow-related photo, you can add the hashtag #wikihow to your caption.
 You can share to Facebook, Twitter, Tumblr, and more from within the Instagram app. After entering your caption, select any other networks you want to post to. You will be prompted to sign in to that network if you're not signed in already.
 If you want, you can tag people that you know in the picture with their Instagram usernames. Tap the person in the picture that you want to tag, and then search for their username. They may have to approve these tags before they appear.
 By default, your post will be public and will be automatically broadcast to all of your followers. You can choose to send a message to someone privately by tapping the "Direct" tab at the top of the "Share To" screen. You can then enter specific usernames that you want to send the post to.
 Your post will be immediately uploaded and your followers will see your post in their feeds.



You can go back and edit your caption if you need to.

