 Because Siberian tigers live in colder climates than other tiger subspecies, they have considerably thicker coats. Most other tigers will have a very thin layer of fur close to their body. Siberian tigers, in contrast, will look a bit puffy because of their longer fur.Because of their colder environment, Siberian tigers will even have thick fur on their paws.Because the other differences between tigers are subtle, the fur length is often the best way to distinguish a Siberian tiger from other subspecies.;
, Siberian tigers unique in that they have manes. Their manes are not as long or as distinctive as those of a lion; however, to keep themselves warm, they do have slightly longer fur around their neck. This might give the appearance that their necks are larger and puffier than those of other tigers., Each individual tiger has its own unique pattern of stripes, but there are also differences between subspecies. Siberian tigers have brown, dark, and vertical stripes covering their body, including their legs. They have fewer, more narrow, and lighter stripes than many other subspecies. Whereas other types of tigers have black stripes, Siberian tigers have dark brown stripes.Although stripes differ from one subspecies to another, these are sometimes too subtle for anything but well-trained eye to recognize. The fact that each individual tiger has different stripe patterns also complicates the matter.
Tigers are the only wild cats with stripes. Their stripes act as camouflage allowing them to closely stalk their prey within being seen.
 Although the differences can be subtle, Siberian tigers tend to have a slightly less vibrant orange fur. It will be a lighter color than that of other subspecies. Similarly, the stripes of Siberian tigers are dark brown, rather than jet black., Siberian tigers are the largest of all the tiger subspecies. The average Siberian tiger is about 11 feet long, with a tail about 3 feet long. They can weigh as much as 700 lb.Living in northern regions calls for colder climates and thus a demand for a larger body which is easier to keep warm. Large animals lose body heat slower than smaller ones. As the mean temperature of an environment decreases, the body size of warm-blooded animal species or subspecies tends to increase (this concept is known as Bergmann's rule).
 Despite a larger body, Siberian tigers tend to have somewhat shorter legs than those of other subspecies. The contrast between the larger body and shorter legs can make the tigers look somewhat short and stubby by comparison.