 Even though you may be a born actor, you need a good acting coach. You'll want to have a big or small resume before you get an agent. Ask your acting coach if they can tell you about upcoming plays and skits.;
, Now is the time to get a headshot. Make sure you get a picture taken by a professional headshot photographer. Remember, this is your calling card! Headshots are expensive but you get what you pay for. Once you find a photographer and have your photos taken, you'll need to get them printed. This is also expensive but absolutely necessary., This is your 'calling card' as an actor. Put your Show Reel online (on YouTube or your own acting website) so that you can send Casting Directors, Managers, Producers or Agents a simple email link to assess your talent.
 Though you will not get good exposure to casting directors and such, this is a good introduction to the acting industry. You will learn everything from the acting lexicon to rehearsal etiquette. True, you never know who you will meet during rehearsals or in a show or even from your acting coach, but this is just to get started. Get a friend to video every performance, for your Show Reel.
, Get it all online.
 If you know any TV or film professionals, send them links to your Show Reel or website and get some feedback! If you don't know any, use free sites like www.showreeladvice.com or get paid help by Googling 'professional TV advisors' like www.hileytv.com or others. Feedback is absolutely essential if you want to impress TV and film professionals.
 They'll have you work with photographers to get your head shot ready, and then they'll pretty much take it from there. They'll can send your head shot, Show Reel and resume to Casting Agents to try to get you parts, or - if you have it all online - you can approach them by email. Don't give up! The more talent you can demonstrate, the easier it will be.
 Find casting calls in NY, NJ, and CT with SHOW BUSINESS WEEKLY MAGAZINE and BACKSTAGE. They also offer the most up-- to- date directory on agents and casting directors, and a new Theatrical Index detailing plays and musicals in various states of production. Their website, www.showbusinessweekly.com very clean and easy to navigate and they update their castings daily! Don't turn down jobs unless you really think they might hurt your career.

