 You will also need one person to serve as the referee, spinning the needle and calling out hand and foot positions.


If you have more than four people at your Twister party, you may need to rotate out players, each round, so that everyone gets a change to twist. Consider setting up "stations" with separate games so that the non-players have something to do.;
, Choose a spacious, flat, and well-lit area: a living room floor, a deck, or a patio.


Make sure that you have enough space to accommodate flailing limbs, wacky poses, and falling players.
You can play Twister indoors or outdoors. Take weather conditions into account--a bit of rain can quickly turn the Twister mat into a mini-Slip'N Slide.
 Make sure that the surface is reasonably flat. The face-up side of the mat should be white, covered in red, yellow, blue, and green spots--24 spots in all.









Smooth out the wrinkles. The Twister mat will likely slide around and bunch up over the course of the game--this is normal.
Consider using shoes, books, or other small, dense objects to hold the corners of the mat in place.This is especially important if you are playing outside, where the wind may blow the edges of the mat mid-game. Avoid using objects with sharp edges, like bricks.
 This is a square board with "left foot", "right foot", "left hand", and "right hand" in its corners. Press the center of the black spinning needle into the hole in the center of the board.









You should be able to spin the black needle cleanly, without friction, such that it makes several revolutions around the spinner board. The needle should stop, eventually, pointing into one of the (left/right foot/hand) corners.
If this particular Twister set has been used before, the spinner may already be assembled. If it spins, then you're good to go.
 Wear loose, flexible clothing that will allow you to stretch. You don't want to rip your pants in the middle of a party!









Loose shorts, yoga pants, or sweatpants are great. Wear something breathable.
Take off any heavy jackets or stiff layers before you play. Extra layers will constrict your movement, and extended stretching may tear your clothes.
If you have long hair, consider putting your hair up with a hair-tie or a headband before you play. If your hair falls into your eyes while you are bending over, it may impede your playing.
 All players should remove their shoes before stepping onto the Twister mat.









This will keep the mat clean and reduce the risk of stepping on other players' toes.
Socks are fine. Bare feet are fine.
 If you aren't used to contorting your body into unnatural positions, consider stretching before you play Twister. If you loosen up your muscles before you play, you will be able to hold poses longer--and boost your chances of winning!









Bend forward, keeping your legs straight, and reach for your toes. Hold the position for at least ten seconds.
Twist your torso slowly to the right, as far as you can go, then slowly to the left. Hold each pose for at least ten seconds.

