 Depending on your reasons for making the video, you may want to invest in a high-quality camera to create a professional-looking project, or you may want to use whatever is available for a cheaper option. Whatever the case, getting a camera to shoot video on should be your first step.



Cellphone videos are super-cheap and really easy to use. They can be a little shaky, however, and the sound is usually not very good, but if you want to grab some video quickly and easily, the camera on your cell is a good option.

Digital photo cameras regularly have video features, and some are quite cheap and fairly high-quality. Cameras with SD cards are widely available and user-friendly.

HD Cameras can run anywhere between a few hundred and a few thousand dollars and will look very professional. Many low-budget Hollywood movies have been shot on basic HD cameras you can buy at electronics stores like Best Buy, or even explore renting options in your area.;
, Whether you're shooting a birthday party, concert, a wedding, or some other event, get to the place early and do some scouting to see the right angles for shooting video. Find a few comfortable positions and shoot from multiple angles to get different footage that you'll be able to edit together later into a nice product.


If you've got a helper, you can shoot simultaneously from different angles to provide cuts in your finished product with editing. This can be a cool effect that will make your finished product seem finished and professional.
Try to stay out of peoples' way, especially if there's a sizable crowd. You want to get the close shot and the right angle, but you're not the only one there. Make sure everyone can see and shoot from a reasonable distance., To be ready for spontaneous moments, keep the camera going! Pick the right time to start and let the camera warm up, so the video begins before the actual action you want to capture. If you Try to fire up the camera when you see your kid sprinting toward the goal, ready to take a shot in the championship soccer game, it's likely you'll miss it. If you've been filming since half-time, though, you'll be ready.


Don't try to edit together your video on the fly. It's better to avoid lots of stops and starts to the video, because you'll have trouble remember what shot happened when, which will be much easier to sort out if you've got longer shots. You can edit out the unnecessary bits later, but most cameras have lots of room on them, so take advantage of it.
 If you're using the camera on your cellphone, or any camera that isn't steadied with a tripod, Try to hold it as steady as possible. Shakiness and blurriness from an unsteady hand can make important video footage frustrating and unwatchable. Sit down while shooting and steady your arms on your knees, if necessary, or invest in a tripod that'll keep the camera steady on the ground.


A common mistake on iPhone cameras involves holding the phone vertically while taking video, as opposed to horizontally. When you upload the video to your computer later to edit it (if you want to) you'll have annoying bars on either side of the screen. Shoot the "landscape" style and hold the camera long-ways. It'll show up sideways on your phone, but you can tilt it later on your computer and it'll look right.
 If you're just using the built-in mic on your camera and not trying to capture sound with other microphones, you'll have a lot of trouble hearing the action unless you're quite close.

