 Measure the inside surface of the cabinet, by first laying a straight-edge face flat on the bottom shelf of the cabinet with one end of the straight-edge sticking out of the cabinet a few inches.


Slowly close the cabinet door until it is lightly touching the straight-edge.
Mark a pencil mark on the door where it touches the straight-edge.
Move the straight-edge over at least a couple of inches and make a second mark.;
, Now, place your straight-edge on the bottom shelf with its face against the vertical stile (vertical piece of the face frame) opposite the hinged edge of the door.


As before, it should stick out a few inches.
Hold it as parallel with the side of the cabinet as possible so it’s close to 90 degrees to the face frame of the cabinet.
Again, slowly close the door until it just touches the straight-edge.
Mark a pencil mark on the door where it touches the straight edge.
Raise the straight-edge at least a few inches and make a second mark.
 From the pencil mark near the bottom of the door, use that measurement and make a pencil mark at that point near the top of the door, then make a second one a few inches apart from the first one.


You should now have two marks near the bottom of the door, two near the top, and two along the opened edge of the door.
 Create new reference marks by measuring up ½” from the bottom marks, ½” down from the top marks, and ½” in toward the center of the door from the vertical edge marks.


From the new reference marks you just made, line them up with a straight-edge and connect them with a pencil line. Do this along all three edges.
These lines represent the size of your piece of sheet metal.
 Measure the spaces between your reference marks be sure you stay BETWEEN the hinges and the outer line on the door.


By taking these measurements once, you have established the vertical measurement for all the cabinets of the same height in your kitchen.
For cabinets of different widths, measure from the outer edge of the “model” door to the vertical pencil line.
Measure that same distance on the other doors and make your reference points.
This process will prevent the sheet metal from contacting the face frame of the cabinet.
For frameless cabinets, you can use the straight-edge easily at the top, bottom and side without the encumbrance of a face frame.
Always remember to measure between the hinge location inside the door and the outer reference line so your sheet metal does not touch the hinges!
If the cabinet door has a separate panel within a frame, you can cut the metal to fit the size of the panel (inside surface of the panel) without doing all the measuring and marking.
Do not make the sheet metal larger than the panel, or the metal will not attach flatly to the inside of the door.

