 In most entertaining speeches, you can take a fairly lighthearted and personal tone. Speakers often introduce themselves to the audience. Within the introduction, the speaker should explain the connection he or she has to the matter at hand and use that explanation to bridge into the speech.This is most often seen at eulogies and weddings. The speaker introduces himself or herself and begins to explain who they are in connection to the subject being addressed. If you are delivering a wedding toast, you might begin by talking about your connection to the bride, groom, or couple getting married.
It can also be used at an event being held by an organization. In that case, the speaker might explain her position within the organization.
 Speakers often begin a speech by referring directly to the topic at hand. This makes an immediate connection to the audience, whose members are all there for the sake of the same subject.
 When you have a personal connection to the subject of your speech, a common way to start your speech would be to share a personal story that demonstrates that connection.
 Incorporating current news stories is a good strategy because it confirms to the audience that your speech is relevant. Make a link between your speech topic and a current event by referring to something that has happened recently in the news.,For example, if your speech is about the lack of women working in technology, you might find a recent story about how girls are being discouraged from pursuing science in high school.
 Start your speech by mentioning a relevant historical event in order to give your audience a common reference point.For example, if your speech is about overcoming challenges, you could talk about a historical figure who did just that, such as Helen Keller.
 Many speeches are given at professional or academic conferences. These events often have a theme that provides a sense of coherence to the overall purpose of the conference. Connect the beginning of your speech to this theme., For a speech delivered at a particular occasion or event, speakers often begin their presentation by talking directly about that occasion or event. Since everyone in the audience is presumably there to acknowledge the same occasion, immediately talking about that occasion is a good way to make an instant connection to the audience.


If you were giving a speech at a Christmas party or fundraiser, you could talk about your Christmas memories or something you love about the season.

