 The first thing to do to look effortlessly stylish is to make sure that you’re wearing clothes that you feel are good for your body type. Since effortless style is supposed to be subtle, you’ll need well fitting clothes in order to get the elegant, expensive, stylish look from your clothing. You may want garments that make you look thinner and the perfect height, with everything in proportion.;
, Effortless style is mainly based around classic looks. Dressing for current trends just shows that you put way too much thought into that outfit and that you’ve been following fashion news like a broker watching stocks. Choose classic styles in classic cuts for a more effortless look that looks good for years.


This means women should beware of floor length casual dresses in favor of knee-length, for example, while men should shy away from skinny-legged suit trousers in favor of something more loose-fitting.
 What colors are popular and what colors are considered absolutely hideous is very dependent on time and place. Just look at your mom’s clothes from the 1970s, for example. In order to look effortlessly stylish, you’re going to want a more timeless look, which means sticking to more muted and neutral colors. This can, however, be broken up with bold accent colors, especially on accessories.


Muted colors include tan, black, white, denim/navy blue, and gray.
Good accent colors include most shades of red, many shades of blue, plum/eggplant purple, golden yellow (like rubber ducks or tulips), and emerald green.
Be careful of certain colors. Be wary of other greens and yellows, and generally avoid oranges, as these colors are very prone to going in and out of fashion, but, if you think they are stylish, go for it.
 Busy prints and textures (like fuzzy/fluffy/feathered fabric) can quickly make an outfit look dated and unstylish, as these tend to be in fashion only for a season or a year at most. Next year it will be another pattern, so why bother? Look effortlessly stylish by keeping your clothes in style across decades, not months.
 To look really stylish, you want your clothes to look expensive. You can make cheap clothes look expensive but investing in some actually expensive items might be a good idea. A few choice pieces of hard-to-fake luxury items, such as a nice sweater or wool coat, can really take your wardrobe up a notch. Having a limited number of nicer items is preferable to having a large number of very cheap-looking items.
 If you really want to put the effortless into effortless style, you’ll want a wardrobe where nearly all of the pieces match with each other. This will let you get dressed based on comfort, style preference, or weather conditions, instead of being limited by color or style combinations.


Use a single clothing style (vintage, modern, etc.) and the use a single color palette (this should be helped if you followed our advice to use muted colors with limited bold accents).
 Looking stylish means your clothes are going to have to look well maintained. No stains, no holes, no loose threads, no wrinkles. If you want your clothes to look maintained, then the best way to do that is to maintain them! Keep your clothes clean, fold and store them correctly, and do other basic maintenance as the needs arise (e.g. sewing minor holes).
 What you probably don’t realize about models and famous people is that part of the reason they look so stylish is because their clothes fit their body perfectly. And how do you get clothes to fit perfectly? Get a tailor of course! Find a reliable tailor in your area to alter your clothes perfectly for your body. Even some department stores will do this for you.


It’s not as expensive as it sounds. Tailoring a shirt often costs as little as $10-20, pants around $30.
It may seem like a silly added expense, but tailor a nice clothes once and keep them maintained and you’ll look amazing for the next ten years. It’s an investment.
 Effortless style is all about looking like you put in no effort, so keep your outfits simple. Use a limited number of clothing and accessory pieces. This is especially important when it comes to accessories.


For example, don’t wear a scarf and bangles and big earrings and a hat. Try to limit yourself to two noticeable/accent accessories.
 You’ll want to be wearing clothes that look stylish but are not too much for the occasion. Over-dressing is a sure sign that you put way too much thought and effort into how you’re dressed. Don’t wear a fancy dress for grocery shopping, and don’t wear a long gown when a cocktail dress will do, for example.
 Since your clothes themselves should generally be in muted, neutral colors, you’ll want to make your accessories your accent pieces. These should draw the attention and look extra cool. It is easier to have accessories that conform to the latest fashions and trends, so don’t worry about that as much (in this area, it’s usually okay).


For example, you could pair a floppy hat and patterned fashion scarf with a brown jacket, blue tee, white skinny jeans, and brown boots.
Another example would be to wear a black dress and pair it with red earrings and a bracelet.
Just make sure you keep your color palette across the whole outfit. Accent accessories colors should generally be the same or compliment each other.
 You’ll want your hair to be stylish too. Keep it in a simple style or carefully created “tousled” look, but make sure that you are in fact creating the look. Your hair should look nice, even if it doesn’t look like you spent an hour getting it just right.


Avoid products to achieve a more natural look associated with effortless style. This means no gel or hairspray!

, Women should avoid using very noticeable makeup. Keep the colors natural, ladies, and get as close as you can to looking like you don’t have makeup on at all. You want to, of course, emphasize your best features and hide certain flaws but don’t go overboard.


Lips are an area of exception, as these can be a great way to add a little extra bang to an outfit by introducing bright colors, like a classic red.
 Mixing patterns well is incredibly difficult and will make you look more chaotic and less elegant. It’s okay to have one item in your outfit have a pattern or texture, but keep it limited to one.
 Keep layers to a minimum and avoid chunky items or other items that add a lot of bulk. These will make you appear chubbier and less streamlined and stylish. Oversized sweaters have a time and place, but tend to go in and out of fashion to a certain extent, so be careful.
 While it may not be visually apparent, scent can go a long way towards developing how people perceive you. Smell nice by keeping yourself and your clothes clean, but also consider adding a perfume or cologne to your fashion line-up. Avoid young scents like fruity smells in favor of something more mature for a really classy touch.
 Keep your clothes in a theme in order give yourself a signature style. This is a look that people will associate with you and will make you seem more stylish, even if they don’t necessarily like your clothes.
 The style you create for yourself should generally match who you are as a person. For example, a really sweet woman taking on a catty look will seem weird and out of place, the same as a serious businessman dressing in gangsta style. Tailor your clothes to fit your personality and people will be much more inclined to see it as your style.
 Do you ever feel like some models could wear a brown paper sack and still walk down a runway looking like the height of fashion? Do you know a guy who wears a tracksuit and still somehow manages to look totally fashionable? What the fashion industry doesn’t want you to know is that a lot of looking stylish really comes down to projecting confidence. You don’t have to actually be confident, of course, but if you walk down the street in clothes that you clearly think you look great in, people will usually be inclined to agree that (at a minimum) those clothes are perfect for you.
 The effortless part of the stylish look should of course be presented by giving off an air that you don’t care, or that you just threw on the first outfit you could find. Be humble or indifferent when people compliment your clothes.
 In order to look stylish, you’re also going to want to look elegant and coordinated. This means not falling down if you’re wearing heels. Being graceful should be easier for guys, but is still important so don’t neglect it.
 Even if you’re wearing 4” stilettos, you need to look like it’s all perfectly natural and you’re perfectly comfortable. Don’t complain and constantly readjust your clothes. If that style isn’t working out for you, if you can’t seem casual in it, then try something that’s actually more comfortable. You can be comfortable and stylish.
 Again, effortless style is all about looking awesome while also looking like you didn’t try at all. Effortless, right? So relax. Take a generally chill attitude to everything in life. Always stay calm and happy, and you’ll look much better, no matter what you’re wearing.

