 Place the rice into the rice cooker. Fill the bowl with water, or enough to cover the rice plus an extra inch (2.5 cm) of head room. Use your hand or a spoon to stir the rice and swirl the water around. Drain the rice by pouring it into a fine-mesh sieve.


Rinsing rice may prevent it from sticking together, and it will also help rinse off traces of arsenic.;
, Transfer the rinsed rice back to the rice cooker. Add the water. For flavored rice, you can also add a bouillon cube in with the water, or salt, pepper, herbs, or other spices to taste. For different types of rice and other foods, you'll need a different ratio of water per cup of:Long-grain brown rice, use 3 cups (705 ml) water
Wild rice mix, use 3 cups (705 ml) water
Quinoa, use 1½ cups (353 ml) water
Polenta, use 2 cups (470 ml) water
Couscous, use 1 cup (235 ml) water

, Most microwave rice steamers come with an inner and an outer lid. You're supposed to use both when you're cooking food. Place the inner lid into the recess. Place the outer lid over top of the inner lid. Latch the handles in place if your cooker has locks.If your inner and outer lids have holes in them, offset the holes to ensure the best results.
 Set your microwave to 70 percent power if your microwave is 1,000 watts or more. This will prevent the water from evaporating too quickly and the rice from becoming crunchy.
 Place the rice into the microwave. Set the timer for 13 minutes and press “start” to cook the rice. If you're cooking something other than rice, the cooking times will be different:Cook long-grain brown rice and wild rice mixes for 30 minutes
Cook quinoa for 13 minutes
Cook polenta and couscous for 4 minutes

, When the microwave has finished, carefully remove the rice cooker and place it on a heat-proof mat. Set the rice aside and let it stand for five minutes. When the time is up, remove the outer lid, followed by the inner lid. Remove the far side first to let the steam escape away from your body.Before serving, stir the rice with a fork to fluff it up and let excess moisture out.

