 Technology makes it easy for you to make purchases with your credit card online. Without proper security protocols, however, sensitive information like your credit card number can be swiped by cyber crooks. Most websites that take payments will have extra layers of security to block these thieves from getting your data. It’s easy to identify these sites: just look for an “https” at the front of the web address instead of a plain “https”.The “s” at the end of “https” signifies a “secure” website.
The lack of an “https” doesn’t necessarily mean that a site is not legitimate, but it does show that the website creators have taken extra precautions to secure your data.
You might also see certification seals like "Verisign," "TRUSTe", “Norton Secured,” or “McAfee Secure.” These are nice to see on a legitimate website, but they don’t necessarily prove that a site is legitimate--they’re actually just images that anyone can copy and paste into a site.;
, Computers used in places like libraries and internet cafes can mean easy access to those on the go or without a computer at home. However, since they’re public, it’s easier for thieves to lift data like credit card numbers off of the computer. Even if you’re careful to log in and out of your accounts, your data could still be at risk. It’s best to do your bill-paying and online shopping on your own computer if possible., Even if you’re using your own computer, tablet, or other device, if you’re connected to an open, public wifi network (such as at a coffee shop), then your data is not 100% secure. Of course, most people aren’t crooks. But if you’re sharing a network, then you could also be “sharing” your sensitive data with a would-be thief. Try to save your online shopping and bill-paying for when you’re on a secure, password-protected, private network., When you create an account to pay a bill or shop online, you may be asked if you want to save your credit card information to make future transactions easier and faster. While this is certainly convenient, keeping your information stored online heightens the risk that it will be stolen if the website ever has a security breach. If possible, just say “no” to these offers. The minor convenience of having to re-enter your credit card number each time will be well-worth your peace of mind., Increasingly, credit card companies and banks are offering customers options to shop more securely online. To use your credit card online as safely as possible, you may want to take advantage of these options, some of which may have extra fees. If you’re not sure what’s available for your card, ask the issuer about things like:


Alerts for any suspicious charges.
One-time-use credit card numbers. A new card number is randomly generated for you each time you make a purchase, making it impossible for thieves to steal a number and use it again. These are sometimes called “virtual account numbers.”Masked credit cards. These go one step further, offering the ability to protect other sensitive data, such as by using a fake name and an alternate address., Many merchants make it possible to pay for goods and services online without actually entering your credit card information on their site. Instead, you create a third party account through another service, and can then use this account to make payments at a variety of sites.PayPal is probably the most popular of these services, but there are others, such as Visa Checkout.
 If you use a credit card online, you should be on the lookout for malicious emails, or phishing scams, designed by criminals to make it appear as though they come from your bank or credit card issuer. In reality, however, they are attempts to steal your information. If you are ever in doubt about the authenticity of an email that appears to be from your card issuer, give them a call to verify. In general, however, know that card issuers will never ask you to do certain things via email, such as:


Reply to an email with your credit card number
Enter your credit card number in a form embedded in the email
Click a link to get to your account (always go directly to the account website by typing in the web address).

