 If you said no, he's probably not into you. If a boy likes you, he will be keen to or want to touch you to feel closer.


Has he accidentally touched you or bumped into you just to get a chance to touch you?
Has he leaned towards you?
Has he ever been eager to touch you?
If he is shy, does he jump a bit because you weren't prepared for you to touch him, but he seems to be interested or touches you afterwards?;
, Would you happen to know any of his interests, likes and dislikes, where he lives, or any other personal information? If not, he probably isn't eager to take the relationship to a deeper level.


Has he told you, for example, he doesn't like pickles because they're too sweet?
Has he told you what town he lives in?
Has he told you, for example, all the expensive gear he has in his room?
Has he told you about his family?

, Does he ask a lot of questions about your life? If not, he's probably not interested in getting to know you, which means he isn't really interested in you.These are all just examples.


Has he asked you what nationality you are, for instance?
Has he asked you what your parents like?
Has he asked you what type of music you listened to?

, Is he rejecting dates or hang outs all the time? If you ask him out to a date, does he say I'm busy or I'm taken? Sure, he could be busy, but if he does this all the time... he doesn't like you! If he likes you, he will literally drop everything to hang out with you.
 If he never flirts with you, unless he's shy, that's not a good sign.


Does he tease you jokingly or in a friendly way at all? For example, for a sentence he would write I threw out the window. as a way to tease you?
Does he compliment you? Some aren't keen to complimenting, but if you find him complimenting other girls, he could be interested in one of them, and not you.
 Unless he doesn't have a phone or social networking service, has he ever asked you for your phone number or your Facebook, or other profile? If not, he's not interested in talking to you outside of school. If he already has it, if he doesn't like you, he probably won't use emoticons a lot or smiley faces. Below are things he'll do when online if he likes you. If he doesn't, he doesn't like you.


When chatting with you, he'll use faces a lot, for example: :) or :/ or :-P, and he may also type in different ways to try to impress you.
He'll always start a conversation first. He may say Hey or Hi :), just to name a couple greetings.
 If you're not totally sure after reading this part, you can ask him yourself, or have a trusted friend ask him for you.


When asking him, you might want to do it in person. Pull him from everyone so you two can be alone. Just ask him if he likes you. If he says no, tell him you like him anyway.
If he does happen to say he likes you, congratulations, enjoy your relationship!

, Realize there are plenty of fish in the sea. It's not like he's the only boy in the world; there are plenty of other boys that would like you!


Try to talk to other guys, and maybe become interested in one of them!! Try to get your mind off this person by also hanging out with friends.
Do not avoid him if you find out he doesn't like you. It'll push him away even further. Just act normally around him. You don't have to look his way when you two pass each other in the hallway, just say a quick hello.
When you're alone, allow yourself to cry if you need to. Rejection is never easy, especially when it's your crush that's rejecting you.
Talk to a friend, or anyone that you can trust to understand your situation. They can help you get over the boy, or cheer you up.
 You don't have to stand in this position for the rest of your life.

