 Having standard policies for handling I-9s and following those policies consistently lessens the risk of losing required documents.


Your business must keep an I-9 on file for every employee hired after November 6, 1986. If you terminate an employee, you must keep his or her I-9 on file for three years from the date of hire or a year after termination, whichever is longer.Each new hire must complete the top section of his or her I-9 on the date of hire. Section 2 should be completed and the appropriate documents verified within three days of the employee's date of hire.It is not specifically required to photocopy documents provided to verify an employee's work authorization.However, if you decide to photocopy those documents this should be done for every employee consistently.Keep two separate files, one for current employees and one for terminated employees. This makes the process of purging old I-9s more efficient.Your I-9 files should be kept separately from your other personnel files so you don't have to spend time sorting them out when you perform annual self-audits, or if you get an inspection notice from ICE.;
, U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) publishes an I-9 handbook which explains the forms and how to comply with federal law.You can download the I-9 employer handbook at http://www.uscis.gov/i-9-central.
In addition to the handbook provided by USCIS, you should have written documentation of your company's specific policies and procedures, including the names and contact information for administrators in charge of immigration compliance.Check the information in your handbook and update it regularly.



Make sure your administrators have reviewed the USCIS handbook and Form I-9 itself. They should be able to recognize common errors employees make in filling out the forms so your I-9s are correct the first time, rather than waiting for an audit to identify inaccuracies or incomplete forms.If you have a small staff, you can designate a single manager to be in charge of I-9s, even if you have several managers who have the power to hire new employees.
The administrator in charge of I-9s should create reminders when you hire employees with temporary work authorizations, so their forms can be updated when those authorizations change or expire., Regularly scheduled training and refresher courses for administrators provide an important defense in the event discrepancies are discovered during an audit.


Ideally, you should schedule training sessions after you complete your annual self-audit, so you can inform appropriate administrators about any errors that were found.Ensure administrators in charge of I-9s also understand the anti-discrimination provisions of federal law. Any policies should be consistent, and you shouldn't require additional or different documentation from an employee simply because he or she has a foreign-sounding name., A third-party service with experience auditing I-9s may find errors someone on your own staff would miss.Using a third-party auditor can go a long way toward establishing that you made a good faith effort to comply with federal immigration law.Some companies provide attorneys for audit defense as well as performing auditing services.Search online or talk to other small business owners to find a service that best suits your business's needs and budget.
ICE includes annual self-audits as part of its best practices. In the event an ICE inspection uncovers errors, evidence of regular self-audits provides a defense that you are serious about immigration compliance.If you don't use an outside audit company, you should have an employee not normally involved in the hiring or I-9 process audit your I-9s., You must have an I-9 for all current employees as well as those who have been terminated in the past three years.You may want to create a spreadsheet with your employee roster so you can keep track of each I-9 as you conduct your audit. Make a row for each employee that needs an I-9, and then create columns for a complete and accurate I-9, an I-9 that requires correction, or a missing I-9. This enables you to review your entire staff at a glance.
 Pull all the forms you have and compare them to your list of employees to ensure you don't have any missing I-9s.You also must keep up-to-date I-9s for inactive employees – anyone who has been laid off but is eligible for reinstatement, or those currently on a leave of absence.For terminated employees, check to see whether you must retain them. If the employee was hired more than three years ago, or was terminated over a year ago, you can destroy that employee's I-9.Make a note of all I-9s you purge from your records with the employee's name and the date the I-9 was purged. Then shred the I-9., Carefully check each section of every form using the guidelines laid out in the I-9 handbook published by USCIS.The employee must complete Section 1 of his or her I-9, providing name, address, maiden name, and date of birth. The employee then must provide his or her Social Security number and sign or date the form.If a form isn't filled out correctly, you should talk to the employee immediately about correcting the error or deficiency.Review the information on the form about the documents supplied by the employee. If those documents have expired or need to be updated, ask the employee to provide current documentation.Make sure the documents checked have been listed on the form properly and that photocopies of the documents checked are included with the employee's I-9.Make a note on your roster or spreadsheet that re-verification of the employee's documents is required. When you receive and review current documents, update your spreadsheet with the date the documents were re-verified.Although making photocopies of documents is not required, if photocopies are made they must be readable and must be retained along with the I-9 form to which they relate., Rather than simply having the employee fill out a new form, you must follow the specific processes established by USCIS to correct an erroneous I-9.


Some forms may need to be updated – for example, if an employee has married and changed his or her last name.
In most cases, you can simply correct the information on the original form. Strike out the inaccurate information and add your correction. Then initial the correction and write the date of the correction.Make a note on your roster of the correction and the date it was made.If the error cannot be easily corrected, such as by simply striking through the incorrect information and writing the correct information above it, you should have the employee complete a new I-9. Attach the old, incorrect I-9 to the new, correct one. Do not destroy or throw away the old I-9, and don't back-date the new one., If a current employee hasn't completed an I-9, require him or her to fill out the top of a form and submit the appropriate documentation.If an employee doesn't have an I-9 and you create one to cover the deficiency, take care not to back-date it. Rather, you should use the date the employee's supporting documents are reviewed.Note the creation of the new I-9 on your employee roster as a corrective action, and include the date the new I-9 was completed.If there is a missing I-9 for an employee who has been terminated, make a note regarding the absence and keep that note with your I-9s for the same length of time as you would need to keep that employee's I-9., The ICE inspection process begins when you are served with an NOI that compels you to submit your I-9 forms for auditing.


Your notice will indicate how the inspection will take place. In some instances, you may have an ICE officer appear at your place of business to conduct the inspection. In others, you simply have to mail your forms to the appropriate ICE field office.You may receive a subpoena or warrant demanding your forms rather than a notice. While you have three days to submit the documents required by an NOI, you must produce documents demanded in a subpoena or warrant immediately., If you're concerned that the I-9s you submit will not pass scrutiny, you should contact an experienced attorney as soon as possible to discuss your options.


Look for an attorney who has experience working with ICE and USCIS, and who understands I-9 legal requirements and procedures., You only have three business days from the date you're served with a NOI to submit your I-9s to the auditor.ICE may request additional supporting documentation, such as a copy of your payroll, list of your current employees, or business documents such as your operating licensees or Articles of Incorporation.After ICE receives your documents, an auditor will analyze them for completeness and accuracy.If you conduct annual self-audits, you may want to consider submitting the results of these audits to ICE along with your I-9s. This includes any notes you made about missing or corrected I-9s, and spreadsheets you created during your self-audit. These reports demonstrate you've made a good faith effort to comply with the law.If you store your I-9s electronically, you must provide the officer with access to your forms along with any software or hardware necessary to view them., Once the audit is completed, you'll receive a notice from ICE explaining what the auditor found and what actions will follow.If the auditor finds no problems with your forms, you will receive a compliance letter stating that you are in compliance with federal immigration law.The auditor may find discrepancies that raise suspicions a particular employee may not be authorized to work. In this cases, you and the employee have the opportunity to present additional documentation proving the employee is authorized to work.If the auditor finds significant verification violations, you may receive a Notice of Intent to Fine. This notice is reserved for paperwork discrepancies in which the auditor has additional evidence or reason to believe the errors were knowing and intentional.Keep in mind that fines may be assessed for inaccurate or incomplete paperwork that doesn't comply with federal immigration law, even if all of your employees are authorized to work in the U.S., If the auditor finds any technical or procedural failures, you typically will have ten days to correct those forms.If the forms aren't corrected within ten days, the errors will be considered substantive violations and you will be sent a Notice of Intent to Fine.For example, you may have an employee who is a U.S. citizen and is authorized to work in the U.S., but the driver's license he provided for identification is now expired. This I-9 should be updated after verifying that the individual has renewed his license by including the new expiration date., If ICE sends you a Notice of Intent to Fine (NIF), you have the option of either negotiating a settlement or requesting a hearing.You have 30 days from receipt of your NIF to request a hearing. Read your NIF to learn the procedural requirements and deadlines for filing your response.Even though you request a hearing, you can continue negotiating a settlement.Keep in mind that fines typically are assessed only for knowing violations.You can defend yourself during an immigration audit by proving that you made an effort in good faith to comply with federal law, even if some mistakes slipped through the cracks.
 At your hearing, you will have the opportunity to defend yourself against the auditor's claims.


Documentation of self-audits as well as your written policies and procedures serves as evidence for a good faith defense. You can argue that you made a good faith effort to comply with the law provided self-audits and written policies were created and operational before you received a notice of inspection from ICE.Other factors also can be argued to mitigate the fines assessed against you. The judge will take into account the size of the business, whether you operate seasonally, and the degree of employee turnover.