 Take your small car base piece and attach a 4 x 12 long piece to the back four raised studs of your base.This will form the bed and front cabin of your truck.;
, The recessed area of your small car base is where the cabin of your vehicle will be and where you LEGO driver will sit. Put the steering wheel and the seat in the dropped-down area., Start by taking both your square windows and stacking them, one on top of the other. Then attach these in front of the steering wheel to complete your windshield.
 Connect your fenders in front of the windshield, so the half circles point downward on either sides of the front of your truck.
 Your front end piece, also called the license plate holder, should have two studs on top and a contoured front stretching four studs wide and two studs tall. On the recessed studs on the rightmost and leftmost side of your front end add your 1 x 1 clear orange pieces.
 Your clear orange pieces should have mad the contoured front of your front end even, which will allow you to put on a flat 2 x 4 piece on top of it.


Now the orange pieces should be sandwiched between the 2x 4 plate the the front end piece.
 Place the sloped sides of these pieces to face off to each side of the truck.
 You should add the flat, smooth 1 x 2 piece between the sloped clear pieces. Then, below this, put the 1 x 2 flat piece with a middle circular stud directly below.
 The front-most part of your base that you have already attached fenders to will be the landing zone for your front end. Attach your front end to the free two studs at the very front of your base.
 The hood piece should fit evenly, covering all free studs on the top of your front end. On top of the hood should be two free studs. On these, you should attach the 1 x 2 air intake piece.
 Then:


Use 1 x 8 and 1 x 4 pieces evenly to the outside of your 4 x 12 truck bed piece to make you truck bed walls.
Leave one row of studs at the very back of your 4 x 12 truck bed piece for the hitch and license plate.
 Much like you did with the front end, you will use your license plate holder piece to create the back of your truck. On the left and right recessed studs on the top four-across row of your rear end, add red sloped pieces, slopes facing outward. Between these, attach your license plate.
 This includes a flat, yellow 1 x 4 piece with black diagonal slashes on it. This will be your read bumper. Attach it so that it stretches across the bottom of your license plate holder piece.
 On the free four studs at the very back of your 4 x 12 truck bed piece, connect your rear end. Make sure the edges meet with the walls of the bed of your truck and the rear end piece is firmly fastened.
 Then, stretching across the gap made by the 2 x 8 pieces:


Attach two 2 x 4 blocks, on on top the other, so that both are flat against the back wall of your cabin.
Attach two 1 x 4 pieces behind the 2 x 4 blocks.
This should create an flat surface that is level with the roof of your cabin.
 A single row of studs should hang free the hood/window area of your truck.


Attach your sloped window atop the 4 x 8 on the front-most studs.
 The hood cover should go in the front-center of the 4 x 8 piece for the most realistic effect. Use 1 x 8 smooth pieces on the top of the walls of the bed of your truck.


Leave two free studs on the walls of the bed of your truck closest to the cabin.
 On top of this block, add a 2 x 2 flat piece, and atop that add a 2 x 2 spinning piece. This will allow the front wheels of your car can turn left and right. Now you can press your wheels onto the circular axles on the outside of the 2 x 4 axle piece.
 Then:


Attach the wheel assembly so the wheels stick out under the half circles of the fenders.
 You're going to need to fashion two 2 x 2 half axles into a single piece to give the rear wheels of your truck more width. Use a 2 x 2 piece attached to the underside of the two half axles to create one 2 x 4 axle.
 Then on the 2 x 4 block, add two 2 x 2 pieces, or a single 2 x 4 piece, so that all piece form flat sides.
 Then push your wheels onto the rear axle to finish the assembly.


Attach your wheels so the back edge of your connecting block is beneath the fourth stud from the rear of the bed of your truck.
You might also experiment with rear wheel placement to find what looks best for you.
Do not attach your wheel assembly to the very back of the underside of the bed of your truck; you will need some space to attach the hitch of your truck.
 Your hitch begins with a 2 x 6 flat piece. Take this 2 x 6 and add to the back-most two studs a 1 x 2 hitch piece. The hitch piece should have a round, upward facing part, which is the hitch.
 You should allow your hitch to stick out from the back of your truck about three studs. This will make your truck hitch look more realistic.
 The bed of your truck closest to the cabin still has a slight gap. Close this off to complete the bed of your truck. Do this by attaching two 1 x 2 pieces on top of each other. Then:


Attach your 1 x 2 pieces between the walls of the bed of your truck closest to the cabin.
 Then put a 1 x 1 piece with a circular stud on the side on the rear corner of your 2 x 4 flat where it attaches to the sloped piece.


The 1 x 1 piece with a circular side stud is where your LEGO truck can be filled up with fuel.
 The free hanging back four studs of your flat 2 x 4 piece should be pressed into the bottom of your car base beneath the driver's side door. Then, open the door and put a LEGO figurine inside. It's time to go truckin'!

