 Basic Spanish classes are recommended for a full, more confident experience in Peru. Travelers can get by without Spanish while within their tour groups, but one does miss a lot of the overall experience. Learning Spanish in groups or as a family can be really fun, and putting it into practice in Spanish-speaking countries can be really satisfying.;
, The most popular destinations are Lima, Cusco, Machu Picchu, Lake Titicaca (Puno), Nasca and the adventure-filled jungles. All these places have well established tourist circuits, and it is advisable to stick to these for easier and safer travel.
 If you are just traveling to Lima, you will probably not need yellow fever or malaria medications. The risk of disease is higher in rural areas, however.
 It is very common for tourists to get food poisoning in Peru.To play it safe, do not drink the tap water (only bottled) and use bottled water to brush your teeth.

Purchase pharmaceutical food grade chlorine treatment drops that is processed and packaged for agriculture and food processing. Do not eat the skin on fruit or vegetables. You can find them in most local pharmacies or leading food store chains. Ask your doctor for a prescription for antibiotics to treat traveler diarrhea to bring, just in case.
 Try not to display any signs of wealth. Don't carry a lot of cash. Spread it out on you so that if you do get mugged, you can give some of it away and have another cache somewhere on you. Be on the alert for bogus taxis. Use only registered cabs. The tourist board recommends that you never sit in the front seat of a taxi. Sit in the back seat directly behind the driver.
 For example, in Lima stay near the safe and well policed area of Miraflores. In Cusco keep your family in the center around the Main Square where it's relatively safe. Wherever you are, be aware of your kids' whereabouts.
 The air is extremely dry, and you may experience dryness of the nose and lips. It is recommended that you drink at least 2 liters (0.5 US gal) of water a day and use lip balm.



The high altitude can also give you mild headaches. Don’t over-exert yourself, and drink lots of water until you adjust. Give yourself time to acclimate before doing anything strenuous. Ask your doctor about medication that will help you acclimate (e.g. Diamox). The locals often recommend drinking coca tea as a remedy.
 Do not exchange cash with people on the street as they may give you fake cash. If you bring cash to exchange, get bills that are in as perfect condition as possible. Often, if you go to your bank and ask a teller, they will give you bills that are in tip top shape. Many places in Peru will not accept dollar bills that have any signs of wear and tear, even just a tiny tear along the edge., Make clear and carefully controlled display of the way you present, count, and exchange currency, document notes, and proof of payments.

Do this as a display of your integrity and respect. This avoids offensive misunderstandings of mistrust and the opportunity to be scammed.

