 Cubicle layout planning begins with an accurate floor plan of your space. If you have the necessary skills and software, you can create this plan in a CAD application; otherwise, you can create it using a sheet of gridded paper.


Begin by measuring the walls of your office space with a tape measure. Make notes of these measurements in a rough sketch on paper. Make sure to note the locations of doors, windows, columns, and partitions.
Determine an appropriate scale for your floor plan. Each grid square on the paper needs to represent a real-world dimension. For example, if your paper has 30 squares across each edge, and your office space is 60 feet (18.2 m) wide, then each gridline could represent 2 linear feet (0.6 m).
Draw the floor plan onto the grid paper. Be careful to maintain your scale throughout. Once you have finished with the floor plan, make several copies of it so that you can experiment with different cubicle layouts on each sheet.;
, Compile a list of your workers and what space requirements their job entails. If a worker needs a computer, a work surface, and some shelving, then a standard 6 x 6 ft or 8 x 8 ft (1.8 x 1.8 m or 2.4 x 2.4 m) cubicle will suffice. If a worker will spend most of their time out of the office, a smaller cubicle will be adequate. Call center or sales representatives will need only enough space for a phone and computer, and won't need as much storage space. Workers who need to collaborate closely with others might require cubicles with seating for 2.
 After assessing your workers' needs, you can create a list of needed cubicles. Note the required floor area of each cubicle as well as the total floor area needed. If this number is higher than your available office space, you will have to scale back your cubicle sizes.
 Working closely with your list of space requirements, begin sketching possible layouts on your gridded floor plans.


Consider clearances carefully. Walkways between rows of cubicles should be at least 3 feet (1 m) wide.
Evaluate which workers need to work with each other. Plan your layout so that workers who must collaborate or communicate often are positioned near each other.
Minimizing the space needed for walkways will maximize the floor area usable for cubicles. If space is at a premium, long rows of cubicles may be a better choice than small clusters that need clearance on all sides.
 You cubicle layout will need to be receptive to constraints involving electrical outlet locations and lighting.


Many cubicle panels are pre-wired and can be plugged into an electrical outlet, but you cannot run too many cubicles from a single outlet. Your layout will therefore need to optimize the use of all outlets in your space.
You also want your cubicles to be well-lit. Consider positioning cubicles underneath existing light fixtures to minimize the need for additional lighting within each cubicle. This will reduce energy consumption and its associated cost.
In addition to considering the existing light fixtures, make sure to utilize natural light as much as possible. Avoid blocking windows with cubicle partitions; opt instead to use lower partitions near windows.

