 Make a weak bleach solution by adding 1 parts bleach 3 parts water or use your non-rinse sanitizing solution. If you used bleach make sure you rinse thoroughly to get rid of the bleach.;
, Any amount you have will do. The more sugar you have the sweeter the end product will be. The less you have the more bitter the end product will be. You can figure it out later but for now lets go with 4 Cups.
 Not boiling you don't want to melt the jug. Not cold you need warm water so the sugar mixes easier. Fill it to roughly 2 inches (5.1 cm) short of the rim (you need some room for the yeast to rise.)


(Optional) If you decide to use juice go for a 50/50 mixture. Half water, Half juice. Make sure the juice is heated by boiling then cooling or microwaving.
 The point of this is to get the sugar entirely mixed so shake back and forth for 5-10 minutes. Until all of the sugar is dissolved.
 Let it sit for 5 minutes, you know the yeast is ready when its doubled in size. The Yeast could arguably be the most important ingredient of your brew. In layman's terms yeast eats sugar and excretes ethanol and carbon dioxide. Ethanol is the part of alcohol that gets you "drunk" and carbon dioxide will make your brew fizzy (if the cap is screwed on tighter).
, Tight enough to make sure its secure and no oxygen will come in, but loose enough to lets the carbon dioxide out. This step is very important, if the cap is on too tight it will become a ticking time bomb. If its on too lose your going to end up with a vinegar wine.
 Because this is Poor Man's Brew your probably not using a hydrometer (an instrument used in the brewing process to measure the alcohol level in a liquid). The best time to wait for the brew is about 5 days.
 You do this so you can get rid of the yeast sediment at the bottom of the jug. To do this insert your plastic tube into the Brew about an inch higher than then sediment. Siphon off into your second jug.
 You've successfully made your first batch. Remember to drink responsibly.

