 Swipe down from the top of your screen to bring up the notification panel, and tap on the gear icon in the upper right corner. Scroll down the Settings menu until you see “Security,” and then tap on the box opposite “Unknown Sources.” This will let you install apps from sources other than the Google Play Store.
 Do this by tapping on its icon, which looks like blue square with a shopping cart on it. This will take you to the app’s login screen.
 Tap on the yellow “Already a Customer? Sign In” button. Log into the Amazon app store using your Amazon account details in the labeled fields for username and password. After entering the details, tap the “Sign in” button at the bottom to enter the store.


If you don’t have an account yet, tap “Create an account” on the login screen. Enter the necessary information on the screen (name, email address, password), and then tap “Create your Amazon account.”
You need an Amazon account in order to download apps.
 Enter “ElfYourself” into the search bar at the top, and tap “Go” on the on-screen keyboard to begin the search. Results may come up from different departments of Amazon. If this is the case, tap “ElfYourself in Apps & Games” and then “ElfYourself,” which should be the one at the very top of the list with the Christmas wreath, and you will be taken to the app description page.
 You should see the orange “Free” button in the top right corner of the screen. Tapping it will change it to a green “Get App” button. Tap it again to begin downloading the application.
 A progress bar will appear on the screen and on your notification panel. Once the progress bar reaches 100%, a pop-up will appear showing you the permissions the app requires. Tap “Install” button at the lower right corner to begin installing ElfYourself.
 Once the app has finished installing, you will receive a notification. You can now launch the app from the notification by tapping it, or your can go to the home screen or app drawer and tap on the ElfYourself icon to begin using the app.

