 FedEx posts jobs online, and you will also need to submit your application online. Therefore, you will need to access the internet.


If you do not have access to the internet at home, try visiting your local library where you can often use the internet free of charge. In some cities, there are also internet cafes where you can pay a small fee to use their computers and internet.;
, Go to FedEx’s website, select your country, if necessary, and scroll to the very bottom of the page. Under “Company Information”, you will find “Careers”. Click this link to access the careers page.


Be aware that some browsers may display information differently. Ultimately this information will be in about the same place, but if you can’t find it, try searching for “Careers” in the FedEx search box.
 You can search for jobs by location (country and state), operating company (e.g. if you want to work for a specific division of FedEx), job category (e.g. Accounting, Human Resources, Warehouse and Distribution, etc.), or keyword if are looking for a very specific job.


If you want to see all of the jobs available in a specific country or state, you can select only the country (and state, if you wish) to see every job available in that location.
Alternatively, if you want to see all the locations where a specific job is available you can leave country and state locations empty and select only the job category.
 A list of available jobs based on your criteria will come up. Go through these jobs carefully, and make note of those you find interesting.


If you find a particular job interesting, click on the link for any job within the “Job Title” column. This will take you to an overview of the job; including the job responsibilities, minimum qualifications and requirements, essential functions of the job, and the guidelines for driving quality in that specific position (if applicable).
 If there are many jobs you are potentially interested in applying for it might be difficult to keep all of the information straight. Having each job in a browser window of its own will allow you to look at each job individually.


This will also keep you from having to start your search over again when you apply for each job.
 There is a lot of information to take in, but reading each one carefully will help you weed out jobs that are not suitable for you. For example, if you find a job interesting, but it is located in another country, and you are not willing to relocate, you can easily cross that job off your list. Thus, you save yourself time in the end.


You can also weed out unwanted jobs by narrowing your initial search criteria.
 To be considered for a specific FedEx job, you must be at least 18 years of age and possess the qualifications and skills outlined in the job overview and description. For example, if the job requires a specific degree that you do not possess, you are unlikely to be considered for that job.
 In order to apply for any FedEx jobs, you must create a profile on the FedEx website.


Click on the "Apply Now" button, which can be found by scrolling to the very bottom or very top of the webpage that displays the description of a particular FedEx job.
Enter your log-in and password into the fields provided, then click on the "Login" button. If this is your first time applying for a FedEx position, click instead on "Fill out an online form" to begin creating your profile.
If you are creating a new account, enter your personal information into the fields provided to create the account; including your name, address, email address, phone number, and resume.
 The website will lead you through the application process. Be sure to read all instructions carefully, and proof read your answers to make sure everything is correct.


Enter your personal and employment history into the fields on the resume provided. You will be asked to provide information including the hours and days you are available to work, any felony or criminal history you may have, your educational background, personal and professional references, and details regarding your most recent employers.
Click on the "Submit" button to proceed to the next step of the application process. You will then be asked to indicate if you want to provide voluntary information about your gender and race.
Click on the "Submit" button once again after you have provided any voluntary information you wish to provide. Your resume and application will then be sent to the FedEx recruitment office presiding over the department of the position you applied for.
 If you want to apply for more than one job, you can now move on to the next application. You will have to fill out an application for each individual job, but you can use the same account you created for the first job. Make sure that the details are accurate for each job you apply for!

, Your application will remain on file with FedEx for one full year from the date of its original submission. If you are being considered for the position you applied for, you will be contacted by the FedEx recruitment office for an interview.
 If you are contacted for an interview, you will need to prepare for the interview process. Do not underestimate the importance of preparation!


Make sure you have taken time to learn about FedEx's mission statement and values.

Dress appropriately for your interview. If you want to be taken seriously, you'll need to look nice.
Have good hygiene. Show up freshly bathed and well-groomed.
Be confident, but courteous. It is important to be confident, but being confident does not mean that you should be rude or arrogant. Be polite to each person you come in contact with during the interview process. You never know who might be making the final decision.

