 Go to www.whyville.net and enter all of your information where needed. Choose a password that is easy for you to remember, but hard for someone else to guess. Your password has to be at least four characters long. If you are worried about giving your e-mail address (you needn't be, they are very private with your personal info), then just type N/A.;
, This will give you an idea about the site. If you have questions, go to the help desk. It may also be called the "newbie desk."

, Whyville is pretty much the most boring' site in the world if you do not take this test. The Chat License Test teaches you what is appropriate and permits you to chat on the website. It is fairly easy, just use common sense. If Jim is making X-rated suggestions, you would obviously report him, not make X-rated suggestions back at him. If your under 13, you'll need your parent(s) to fax/mail the permission slip before you can chat.
 Whyville's currency is called clams, and without clams you cannot buy face parts. Without face parts you will look like an idiot who cannot afford to make herself pretty (or handsome). If you are smart, clams will not be too hard to earn. If you are younger, or slower in the mind, clams will be a challenge. To earn clams, you must play the Whyville games. There is a variety of games, and they aren't very fun. Click on the backpack above the tall bus on the left side. Click on your Salary Ledger. This has a list of all salary games on Whyville and what level you are on for each game (you get your salary everyday you log in to whyville). Play each game, just to get the idea of what they are like. If you are having major trouble, use a guide. They have good guides for the games on Whyville.
 On the bus menu, where it says Destination, click on Akbar's Face Mall. There you will be able to buy face parts made by Akbar and other citizens. Just browse around, and buy the things that look good on your face. Some things can be pricey, so make sure there is not something just like it available elsewhere for a lower price. The better you look, the more attention and friends you will have (sad but true).
 You can meet people who claim to be your age from all around the world (mostly the U.S. and Canada). Treat people the way you want to be treated. If you get into cat fights with people, and call people ugly, that will give you a bad name. Just be friendly and you should turn out fine.

