 Most bulletin boards are plain. They consist of a simple wooden frame with an even simpler cork board. Your board does not have to be so simple. You can paint it or cover it with fabric to make it even more special. This section will give you some customization ideas. You do not have to use all of the ideas in this section. Choose one or two that appeal the most to you.
 Measure the height and length of the cork part. Do not include the frame in your measurement. Cut a piece of fabric according to your measurement. Cover the entire cork part with Mod Podge using a paintbrush or foam brush. Press the fabric down onto the Mod Podge and smooth out any wrinkles. Let the Mod Podge dry before you use your board.


You can also glue your fabric down using spray adhesive. Cover the frame with painter's tape first, then spray both the fabric and the cork part with glue. Press the fabric down onto the board and smooth out any wrinkles. Remove the tape.You can also use wrapping paper for this. Keep in mind that any holes you make in the paper using pushpins or thumbtacks, they will stay.
 Cover the frame part with painter's tape. Next, paint the entire cork part using acrylic paint or spray paint. Remove the tape, then wait for the paint to dry. Depending on the brand you used, this may take anywhere from 20 minutes to two hours. You may need several coats of paint to get the texture and color you want. Wait each coat to dry before applying a new one.


Use a foam brush or paintbrush to apply the acrylic paint. If your board is very large, use a foam paint roller instead.You can also use chalkboard paint. Paint your board with a paint primer first, then apply two to three coats of chalkboard paint.Once the paint dries, cover the entire board with chalk, then wipe the chalk off. This is known as "priming."

, Place a stencil down where you'd like your design. Use a foam brush or a stencil brush to tap some acrylic paint over the stencil. Carefully remove the stencil before the paint dries. Allow the paint to dry (at least 20 minutes for most brands) before you put anything on it.If the stencil moves too much, tape down the edges with painter's tape.
Consider painting the cork part a solid color first. Wait for the paint to dry, then stencil designs over it using a contrasting color., Cut four pieces of ribbon: two for the height, and two for the length. Glue the ribbon down onto the cork part, just inside the frame, using fabric glue. Allow the glue to dry before you use the board.You can also use washi tape or any other patterned scrapbooking tape. You can buy them in the scrapbooking section of an arts and crafts store. Make sure the width of the tape will match the border of your pin board.
 Place painter's tape on the inside edges of the bulletin board, so that the frame is still showing but the cork part is partly covered. Paint the frame using acrylic paint and a paintbrush or foam brush. Remove the tape before the paint dries. Let the paint dry before you use the board. This can take anywhere between 20 minutes to two hours, depending on the brand you used.
 Sometimes, even painted frames look a little bland. You can fix this by adding some texture. Here are some ideas on what you can do to make the frame part look more interesting:


Cut a strip from each tape, making sure each one matches the length of one side of your pin board.
Place washi tape or any other patterned tape over the frame.
Glue ribbon over the frame using fabric glue.
Tape the sides first and then the top and bottom.
Get a ruler and smooth over the tape. On the inner edge of the board and tape, use the edge of the ruler to push the edges of the tape down evenly.
Use hot glue, super glue, or tacky glue to attach rhinestones or buttons to the frame.
Cover the frame with some Mod Podge, then shake glitter onto it. Cover the frame again using glossy Mod Podge to seal the glitter in.
 Buy a large sheet of cork from an arts and crafts store. Next, buy a frame that fits the cork. Take the glass and backing out of the frame. Draw a line of glue inside the frame, then press the corkboard down into it.

