 Try to meet the director and tell them about your interests, training and desires.;
, You don't necessarily need to love a character to play them well.
 They take more effort and more memorizing, and if you are a beginner, it might be too much for you to handle. Many actresses started small, but were noticed in minor roles by talent scouts.
 It might be helpful to you later, if you get either of the parts.
 This will also tell you how long you have to practice.
 Here are some good questions.


Do you need to have a song or monologue prepared?
How long will the audition take?
What roles are available?
Will there be accompaniment or do you have to bring in a karaoke CD?

, Don't sing anything like rap or a rock song because it is a major turnoff for a casting director (unless that is what they're looking for.) If the show is something energetic such as Legally Blonde the Musical, you'll want to do an upbeat musical theatre song, not a ballad. Usually, they'll ask for about 16 measures (they can be 16 measures in a row that show off your range the best). Make sure it fits your range.


At other times you'll be given a song. In that case you will probably get it beforehand, if you don't ask.
 It doesn't have to be well-known, and if you mess up, don't let the directors know. Make something up, and when you remember the correct lines, begin to get back on track.
 If you aren't the best dancer, pretend to be. Sometimes personality can make up for your terrible dance moves. Always try your best and don't get discouraged if people move really fast. Smile!

, Often, the director(s) will not show much reaction to your performance, but that doesn't mean they aren't paying attention. If they cut you off midway through a song or monologue, it means they have heard enough to judge you on, not that you're bad.



Apologize
Stammer
Flinch
Prattle
Stare into the director's eyes
Squeal
Try to make conversation
Beg
Brag
Kiss up/compliment
Go overboard
Scurry in/scurry out
Act overly excited or hyper
Act sluggish or bored
Exhibit any obnoxious behavior

, However, don't be too perky, that can come off as desperate and annoying.  Think of it as a showcase of your talent or a show you're putting on- that can help.
 It's fun! In musicals, the ensemble makes up most of the cast. Extras require less rehearsal time, and they have more dancing, singing, costumes, scenes, and general camaraderie, not to mention they don't have to worry about forgetting a thousand lines.
 Just because you didn't get a part doesn't always mean you don't deserve it, or that you are less talented than the person who did. Accept whatever happens with grace and never demand another audition. Always be kind and respectful to the directors, and the person who got the part you wanted, even if you are cursing at them inside. But try to avoid that too.
 Most tryouts are for main parts only - i.e., they're going to ask you to do a scene between the two lovebirds or a monologue for the main character of your gender.



Does your character have an accent? If so, should you try to replicate it?
Is the character messy or neat?
Does he/she have a spring in his step or does he/she mope around?
Is he/she mischievous?
Does he/she say lines confidently or is he/she less confident?
When asked beforehand, these kinds of questions can give you a head start.
 This can be good, because it gives you the adrenaline boost you need. The most important thing is to channel that energy into your performance.


If you are too nervous, you will need to calm yourself down. Deep breathing helps some people, so does biting your tongue, or shaking yourself. Different things work for different people. It doesn't matter how nervous you are, you need to make sure the other people who are auditioning can't tell. Be an actor and hide it. Directors will 'take into account' that you are petrified, because if they assume that if you can't act in front of three people, you won't be able to do it in front of a hundred. Whether this is true or not doesn't matter in an audition setting -- hide it.
 People act differently in restaurants in Hello Dolly than they do in the library in Music Man." Keep these things in mind and keep your mind off the butterflies. Instead of remembering all the details, just absorb the scenarios you've practiced. You will be fine!

