 If you bring a lawsuit, then evidence is critical. You will need to prove to a judge or jury that your family member engaged in outrageous and extreme conduct. The following would be helpful evidence to get:


Police reports. Hopefully, you have reported the threatening conduct to the police. Police reports can serve as evidence of what happened.
Witness testimony. Did someone see your spouse or other family member stalking or threatening you? If so, get the person’s name and contact information. He or she can serve as a witness.
Your own memories. Sit down and write out your memories of the threatening behavior. Be as detailed as possible, including the date, time, and location of the terrorism or stalking.
 The domestic violence may have left you feeling helpless and lacking control. However, by suing your abuser, you can take back control and be compensated for the injuries you have suffered. Generally, you can get compensation for the following:Medical expenses. If the violence caused you to seek medical or therapeutic treatment, then you can be compensated. Hold onto all bills so that you can prove how much you spent.
Lost wages. Sometimes psychological family violence can cause victims to miss work, thus losing money. Document how much you made by saving pay stubs or your W-2 form.
Pain and suffering. You can be compensated for the psychological pain you have endured. To prove this suffering, keep a journal in which you write down the abuse and its effects on your well-being. You might also be able to have your therapist testify as to the emotional harm the abuse has caused.
 Generally, you can sue for psychological family violence by claiming intentional infliction of emotional distress. However, in some states, family members cannot sue each other, although they may make an exception for intentional violence.To find out whether you can sue, you should schedule a consultation with an attorney.


You can find a qualified attorney by contacting your local or state bar association and asking for a referral.
At the consultation, describe your situation. The attorney will help you understand whether or not bringing a lawsuit is realistic.
You don’t have to hire the attorney to represent you, although you should give it some thought if you are feeling overwhelmed.
 If your family member didn’t touch you, then you can generally bring a lawsuit for intentional infliction of emotional distress (IIED). Unfortunately, you can’t bring an IIED claim for just any sort of offensive conduct. Instead, the conduct must be truly reprehensible.Analyze the psychological violence you have suffered and try to look at it objectively. This might be hard. However, you should ask yourself whether or not a reasonable person would find the psychological abuse extreme and outrageous.
Generally, you can bring a case for intentional infliction of emotional distress if the family member was stalking, terrorizing, or threatening you.Remember that if the abuser touched you—even a little—then you will have a much stronger case. If you were slapped, kicked, punched, or sexually assaulted, then you can bring a lawsuit for battery as well as for IIED.
 Before you can sue in court for your injuries, you may need to get divorced. When you sue for injuries in court, you are suing for money compensation. However, you and your spouse may hold assets jointly. In this case, it can be difficult for a court to give you money you own jointly with your spouse.Generally, the divorce doesn’t need to be finalized before you can sue. Instead, any judgment you receive in your lawsuit will be added to your divorce settlement.
 You bring a lawsuit by filing a “complaint” in court. In this document, you identify both yourself (the “plaintiff”) and the family member you are suing (the “defendant”). You also provide basic factual background and make a demand for compensation.Many courts now have printed “fill in the blank” complaint forms you can fill out. Check with the court clerk to see if one is available.
 Make several copies of the completed complaint and take the copies along with the original to the court. Ask the clerk to file the original and stamp your copies with the filing date.


You will probably have to pay a filing fee, which should vary by court. Ask the court clerk for the amount of the fee and acceptable methods of payment.
If you can’t afford the fee, then fill out a fee waiver form., To serve notice, you need to deliver a copy of your complaint and a “summons,” which you will get from the court clerk. You cannot make delivery yourself. Generally, you can serve notice in the following ways:Hire a private process server to make hand delivery. You can find process servers in your phone book or on the Internet. They generally charge $45-75 per service.Pay the sheriff to make delivery. You can arrange service with your court clerk.
Have someone 18 or older not associated with the case make hand delivery on the defendant. For example, you could ask a friend to make service.
 After receiving your complaint, the defendant has a limited amount of time to file a response. Typically, he or she will file an “answer.”You should have a copy hand delivered to you. Take the time to read it closely.


Check what defenses the defendant has raised. For example, he or she might claim that you waited too long to sue or that your state law prevents you from suing a family member.
Alternately, the defendant could deny all of your allegations.
 Lawsuits involving family members are particularly emotional. For this reason, you should think about settling the case out of court. Settling the case will provide closure but also some compensation, since the defendant usually has to pay some money to settle.


If you don’t have a lawyer, then mediation might be helpful. In mediation, both parties meet with a neutral third party, the “mediator.” He or she is skilled at getting both sides to listen to each other and come to an agreement that works for both of them. You and your family member would split the cost of the mediator, who typically charges $70-400 an hour.Don’t feel pressured to settle. For example, you may fear continuing violence if you have to see the defendant in person. You might also have a restraining order against the other person. In these situations, mediation probably isn’t right for you.
 Lawsuits can take a long time, over a year or longer, depending on your circumstances. The typical lawsuit involves the following stages:Discovery. During this stage, the lawyers try to gather as much evidence as possible, by asking each side questions and requesting documents. You may have to give a “deposition,” which will involve answering a lawyer’s questions under oath in a lawyer’s office.
Pretrial motions and conferences. There will be many conferences as you prepare for trial. You may have to meet to come to agreement on certain issues or to argue about whether certain evidence should be admitted.
Trial. If you request a jury, then you will pick the jury first. As the person bringing the lawsuit, you will present your witnesses first, and the defendant’s lawyer can cross-examine them. After you present your case, the defendant can introduce witnesses and your lawyer can cross-examine them. After each attorney makes a closing argument, the jury delivers the verdict.

