 You need one pot for every two seeds. Seedling trays and other containers made of cheap plastic may make it easier to transfer your seedlings into larger pots later on.;
, The pot must have a 5-gallon (20-liter) capacity, at minimum, and each eggplant should have approximately 1 foot (30.5 centimeters) of space to grow. As a result, you may wish to plant only one eggplant per pot.
 Eggplants love heat, and clay pots retain heat better than plastic. Select an unglazed pot if you can remember to water your plants frequently, but go with a glazed pot if you have a history of forgetting to water your plants. Unglazed pots dry the soil out more quickly than glazed pots, so eggplants living in unglazed pots will need more frequent watering.


Clay pots are also heavier than plastic pots, making it easier for them to support the weight of a mature eggplant.
The pot should also have large drainage holes to help balance out the moisture level of the soil. Drainage holes will allow excess water to leave the pot, minimizing the risk of root rot.
 Gently scrub the inside and outside of each pot with soap and warm water. If you do not clean your containers, microscopic insect eggs and harmful bacteria inside the pots could damage your eggplants.
 A good, simple option is a mix of two parts potting soil and one part sand. The soil provides your plant with the nutrients it needs, while the sand controls moisture. Mix a little compost and 5-10-5 fertilizer into the soil to provide additional nutrition. A 5-10-5 fertilizer contains fairly mild concentrations of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, with a little extra phosphorus to promote stronger roots and increase the yield of eggplants.
 Without any support, your eggplants will have very little upward growth and, as a result, they will yield very little fruit. A tomato cage or teepee stake should be enough to provide your plant with adequate support.
 Eggplants require temperatures of 55 degrees Fahrenheit (12.8 degrees Celsius) or higher, which may be difficult to provide in the outdoors during spring. By starting your eggplants indoors, you can begin as early as April.
 The soil should be loosely placed into the containers, but it should not be compressed.
 Use your pinky finger or the rounded end of a pen or pencil to create holes with a good diameter.
 Planting two seeds improves the odds of at least one seed sprouting. Planting more than two seeds may deprive the seeds of the nutrition the need to take root, however.
 Lightly drop the soil over the seeds instead of packing it in.
 Choose a window in full sun, meaning one that receives direct sunlight for at least 8 hours a day. Full sun provides enough light and warmth to spur growth.
 Keep the soil moist to the touch at all times, but do not supersaturate, especially if using trays without drainage holes. You do not want to create puddles on the top of your soil, but you should also seek to prevent the soil from ever drying out.
 In each pot or tray compartment, keep the stronger of the two seedlings and snip the other one down to soil level. Do not yank the weaker seedling out, since doing so may disrupt the roots of the seedling you wish to keep.
 Only do this if the weather outdoors has warmed up sufficiently, however. Eggplants do best when kept outdoors, even in pots, since they have more access to sunlight and can be pollinated.
 Keep the feet of the stake or tomato cage flat on the bottom of the pot, positioning the stake in a straight, upright position.
 Pack the soil around the stake and make sure that the stake is held firmly in place. Leave 1 inch (2.5 centimeters) of empty space in between the top of the soil and the rim of the pot.
 The hole should be in the center of the pot.
 The weaker seedling should have already been thinned out.


Wet the soil to make it as compact as possible. Moist, compact soil will be easier to transplant than dry, crumbly soil.
If the seedling is in a cheap plastic container, you can “wiggle” it out of the container by bending the plastic.
If the seedling is in a stiffer container, you may need to carefully slide a gardening trowel into the side of the pot and beneath the entirety of the pot’s contents. Tip the container on its side and slowly guide the seedling, soil and all, out of the pot.
 Keep the seedling as upright as possible.
 Do not press down with too much force, since doing so may damage the root system. You should, however, fill in any empty space in order to make sure that the seedling is firmly in place.
 Give your plant a thorough watering, but do not allow puddles to develop on the top of the soil.
 An outdoor spot that receives full sun is ideal, as both the light and sun are essential in promoting a good harvest. Eggplants thrive in warm soil.
 In hot, dry weather, your plant may even need multiple waterings a day. Feel the surface of the soil with your finger tips and saturate the soil if it appears dry. Allowing the soil to dry out will reduce the number of eggplants you can grow.
 Use a water soluble fertilizer and water your eggplant before adding it to the soil, rather than adding it to dry soil. Follow the directions on the back of the label to determine an appropriate amount.


If the leaves of your eggplant begin to pale, you may need to add more fertilizer. A boost of 5-10-5 fertilizer should help significantly if a lack of nutrition is your plant's only problem. A fertilizer with a higher number, meaning a higher percentage of nitrogen, phosphorus, and potassium, may prove too strong.
Do not dig any deeper than 1/2-inch (1 1/4 centimeters) beneath the surface of the soil when scratching in fertilizer. Digging any deeper than that could disturb the eggplant's roots, which are rather shallow.
 Soil with a pH between 6.3 and 6.8 should fulfill your eggplant's needs. Litmus paper or a pH meter should be able to give you an accurate reading.


If you need to increase the pH, try using agricultural lime.
If you need to decrease the pH, add additional organic matter such as compost or plant litter, or switch to a fertilizer with urea in it.
 As your plant begins to climb, loosely tie the stem of the plant to the stake using twine or thin fabric thread. Tying the thread too tightly may cut into the stem or choke it.
 Cutworms are one of the most common pests that attack eggplants, but they can usually be driven away by placing a cutworm collar over the plant. You may also consider an organic pesticide to drive away cutworms and many other pests.
 The fruit should stop growing larger and, in many cases, it will be around the size of a large orange. The length of time this takes varies depending on the variety you chose, but your eggplant will usually be ready for harvest within two or three months after you initially planted your seeds.


Snip the eggplant off its vine using pruning shears. The vegetable should only have a short stem upon removal.

