 They often have the words "squeeze station" in the title. Some of them can only fill one pouch at a time, while others can fill more. You can buy them online or in a store that has a well-stocked baby section., The pouches that work best for this type of machine are the single-use pouches. Some pouches come with a Ziploc-type top. Those you can refill without the use of a machine., How you do this depends on the type of machine you bought. Usually, there will be an opening at the bottom of the machine, below the filling canister.

If your pouch came with the cap attached, you will need to remove it first.
 Some of the simpler machines may already have the canister attached to the port where you inserted the pouch. Other machines may have slots for the canisters to go into. If your's came like that, slide the canister into the slot now, and screw it into place., You want to fill the canister almost to the top. Only do one flavor at a time. If your machine came with multiple canisters, you can pour a different flavor into each canister., Sometimes, it may even have a lid, like the type found on a French press., Depending on the size of pouch you are using, you may not end up using all of the puree. Sometimes, the presser tool may get stuck. This usually happens when a chunk of food gets stuck in the hole. When that happens, try one of the following:Open up the canister, pour the puree into a blender, and pulse it a few more times.
Open up the canister and pick out the chunk of food with a clean fork or pick. Don't use your fingers.
 If you had to insert a canister into a slot and screw it in, then you will need to unscrew it first before you can pull the pouch out.

Some pouches are inserted sideways. It might be a good idea to tip the canister over so that the pouch's opening is upright when you remove it.
 The pouch is now ready to be used! You can hand it to your kid or leave it in the fridge. Most formulas will last in the fridge for 2 to 3 days. Some can be left in the freezer for up to 3 months.If you need to thaw a frozen pouch, simply put it in the fridge for a few hours to one day.

