 To start, line a baking tray with parchment paper. This will prevent your bacon from sticking to the pan.It's a good idea to preheat the oven to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (roughly 177 degrees Celsius).;
, In a small bowl, add the soy sauce, liquid smoke, maple syrup, and paprika. Use a fork or wire whisk to beat the ingredients together. When you're done, you should be left with an even consistency., Place your coconut flakes in a separate bowl. Drizzle the flavoring over them. Toss the bowl gently so the coconut flakes get evenly coated with the flavoring.Choose a bowl that's large enough to leave a lot of headspace at the top after adding your flakes. This way, coconut flakes will not fall out while tossing your flakes.
 Make sure to spread the flakes in an even layer. You do not want any of the flakes on top of one another, as this will prevent them from cooking. Once you have an even layer of flakes, your coconut flakes are ready to bake.Make sure to wash your hands before handling the flakes.
 Remember the oven should be set to 350 degrees Fahrenheit (or 177 degrees Celsius). If you prefer softer bacon, bake the flakes for 12 minutes. If you want crispier bacon, bake them for 14 minutes., Halfway through the baking process, you should flip the flakes. Watch them closely as they bake for an additional 12 to 14 minutes. When done, they should be just brown and crisp on the edges. Coconut can go from brown to burnt quickly, so be vigilant about checking., After the flakes are golden brown, remove them from the oven. Set them aside to cool for a few minutes. You can use them immediately or store them in your fridge.You can also place them in an airtight container and store them in the fridge for several months.
 Vegan bread is fairly easy to find at the supermarket, and the other main ingredients of a BLT, lettuce and tomato, are vegetables. If you love BLTs, make them vegan by replacing regular bacon with your coconut bacon.If you add condiments like mayonnaise to your sandwich, make sure that's vegan as well.
 A Cobb salad can be a healthy, nutritious lunch, which is easy to make vegan or vegetarian with coconut flakes. You can add all the main ingredients, such as Romaine lettuce, a vinaigrette, and things like tomatoes and avocados, and then swap out regular bacon for veggie bacon.Some ingredients commonly used in a Cobb salad, like blue cheese and eggs, are not vegan. If you're going for a vegan Cobb salad, withhold these ingredients or replace them with vegan varieties.
 Bacon bits are often used to add flavor to a dish. You may, for example, toss bacon bits into a salad or in with your scrambled eggs. To cut back on fat and calories, use coconut bacon in place of bacon bits.