 Turn on the oven to 350 degrees F (175 C). Get out a few baking sheets and tear out several sheets of parchment paper. Lay one piece of parchment paper on each baking sheet. Set the prepared sheets aside while you make the cookies.If you don't have parchment paper, you could also use a silicone baking mat.;
, Mix together the dry ingredients in a medium sized bowl. You'll need to whisk 2 cups (260 g) of whole-wheat flour, 1/2 teaspoon of salt, and 1/4 teaspoon of baking powder until they're combined. Set the dry mixture aside.Whisk the ingredients for at least 30 seconds. This ensures that the baking powder is evenly distributed among the flour.
 Place 10 tablespoons (142 g) of softened butter, 1/2 cup (100 g) of granulated sugar, and 1 ounce (30 g) of softened cream cheese into a large mixing bowl. Use a stand or electric mixer to beat the ingredients on high speed for several minutes. The mixture should look light and fluffy.Your butter and cream cheese must be soft. If they're still cold, they won't cream and you'll have lumps in the cookie dough.
 Turn the mixer down to low speed and add 1 large egg and 1 teaspoon of vanilla extract to the creamed butter, cream cheese, and sugar mixture. Beat the mixture until the egg and vanilla are completely combined.If you'd like to flavor the cookies with something else, consider leaving out the vanilla extract. Instead, you could use almond, lemon, peppermint, or orange extract.
 Keep the mixer running on low speed and slowly add the dry ingredients. Beat the sugar cookie dough just until it's combined and you no longer see pockets of flour. Scoop the dough onto plastic wrap and shape it into a disk. Wrap the disk in plastic wrap and refrigerate it for one hour.Chilling is important because it will make the cookies easier to roll and will prevent them from being tough.
 Sprinkle your work surface with a little bit of flour. Remove the chilled dough from the fridge and roll the disk until it's 1/4-inch (6 mm) thick. Use cookie cutters to stamp out cookies from the dough. Reroll the scraps and keep cutting out cookies until you've used all of the dough. You should get about 32 cookies.Use cookie cutters that are about 2 to 3-inches (5 to 7 cm) in size.
 Arrange the cookie cutouts on the prepared baking sheets. Ensure that there's at least 1-inch (2.5 cm) of space between each cookie so they have room to expand as they bake. Bake the cookies for about 12 minutes. Remove them from the oven and let them cool completely on a wire rack.The cookies should be lightly brown around the edges once they've finished cooking.
 For a really simple frosting, place powdered sugar into a small mixing bowl. Add a little bit of milk or cream to the sugar and stir it with a fork until the sugar dissolves. Adjust the liquid to get a spreadable frosting consistency. Frost the cookies once they're totally cool.


You can also tint the frosting different colors. Consider using food gel so that it won't make the frosting too runny.

