;
, For most long distance competition, freestyle (front crawl) and breaststroke are preferred.
 Go to the pool and swim as much as you can at one time. This will help you set a goal.
 Keep it reasonable. Gradual improvement is the best for the long haul. With a plan for gradual improvement, you will not feel overwhelmed and quit or tax your body beyond what it can reasonably take on.
 You should practice a minimum of three times each week and should have an established routine for each session.
 Consider hiring a coach, or asking a friend who knows about swimming to critique your stroke. Attempting to swim with a rough stroke can be difficult and frustrating. Smoothing your technique will pay dividends: You will swim longer distances with less effort and will be able to stay in the water longer and have more enjoyment while doing so.
 Your stroke will get better and more personalized as you practice.
, This can help with motivation, goal setting, and technique.
 Many public pools will have a swim clock within easy view of the pool, but if yours does not, ask a friend or family member to time your laps.
, If you are swimming outside, be aware of impending storms, water temperature, currents, and lake or sea creatures. If it seems unsafe, do not enter the water.
, These should be considered essential.


A rest stroke will allow you to add distance to your swim while the muscles used for your primary stroke recover.
Develop a comfortable stroke that you can switch to in emergencies, one that you can do for a very long time with little effort. Be ready to switch immediately to this stroke should you become exhausted or panicky. Relax and continue the stroke until you regain composure and energy. During this period, go across the currents until you have reached calmer water.
, Many swimmers get themselves into trouble by relaxing too much and letting their stroke become lazy. This makes any distance difficult.
 Distracting yourself from the distance you are actually swimming can help if you do not have to keep track of how far you have gone or how fast you are swimming.


One method of doing this is to "count" your laps by moving small pebbles or marbles from one container to the other... one per lap. If you count out the marbles/pebbles/objects beforehand, you will not need to keep count while swimming. You'll just be done when all the marbles or pebbles are transferred from one container to the other at the end of the pool.
Waterproof MP3 players are available for reasonable prices (less than $30 USD). These can help distract you from the distance and/or help you set a pace and rhythm.
 Breathe to a rhythm that works for you personally, whether it is every three strokes (arguably the best rhythm) or every stroke. Do not hold your breath for longer than you have prepared for.
 Do not overtire yourself, especially in open water, as this can quickly become dangerous.
 When you come out of the water, rest and be sure to drink water. You need to hydrate or you can get very sick.

