 Let the "weird" kid know you're friendly. If there's a kid who isn't exactly the same as everyone else in school, they may be used to being treated unkindly by people and not initially realize your kind intentions. Tell them you are friendly and let them that you are not a bully or a mean sort of person.;
, Start simply by saying something nice like, "Nice shirt" or "Cool shoes." You can also easily start a conversation by just saying, "I noticed your bag/shoes/earrings/glasses/anything". If you say this, rather than just give a compliment, the chances are the other person will say, "What did you notice about my --?" You can answer their question and keep the conversation going. If you just say, "Neat hat," then the other person may reply just by saying "thanks", which is not much of a conversation.


Giving compliments is always nice; nearly everyone likes to get a compliment, but saying what you noticed is a better opener, and, you can even say it if you only noticed something because you didn't like it. Just be tactful and say, "I noticed it because I've never seen one like that before," rather than saying how horrible you think the item is! Not everyone likes the same things, but there's no need to share your opinions when you're trying to make new friends.
 If someone else says something mean, stand up for your new friend. Good friends do that for each other. No one should pick on any one else just because they think they are weird. We are all weird to someone! Everyone is different from everyone else in how they look and what they think and like or don't like. Some people are similar to each other, and sometimes people are really different.


There's really no such thing as normal and no such thing as weird. Weird would be 150 people who were all identical! Creepy! Be accepting of differences in others and stand up for everyone against bullies and ignorant people.
 Tell them a little bit about each of your friends when you do the introductions. Try to mention anything that your new friend has in common with your established friends. For example, if the "weird" kid likes soccer, and your buddy does too, say, "X, this is Y, he's into soccer too," or, "If the new kid has a Halloween Kitty Homework Binder, say, "A, this is B, she has a Halloween Kitty lunch bag."

, Try not to pry. If you find it weird that someone wears dark glasses all the time, for example, don't ask straight away about it. Your new friend may be sensitive about an eye problem. Ask about their family, What classes they like, what music they are into and that sort of stuff. Tell your friend a little about yourself too. It doesn't matter if you are total opposites and don't like any of the same things; you can still be friends! If you can't find something you both like to talk about, then try bonding about something you both don't like, even if it's something a bit silly or trivial, such as school meatloaf, math tests, or spiders!

, Some people are shy, and some have a stammer or other speech problems, so be patient and listen carefully. If, sadly, generally people aren't very nice to this seemingly "weird kid," then they may not be very used to having friendly conversations and might be a bit awkward. Be encouraging and reassure your new friend that you want to be friends and get along with them.
 Tell them to call you. You can learn a lot from them when you talk more and they may find it easier to talk when you're not face to face.
, Talk a few times to get to know each other; you won't become friends after one quick chat in the lunch queue!

, Give them your address and ask them over to your place.
 Try to know that person in and out. You will eventually not even remember why you thought they were weird!

, Flaws can make a friendship weaker, so try to know them first and then they should be less of an issue. But remember that everybody has flaws and that it doesn't have to be a bad thing.