 Get your horse's headcollar, a lunge line and a whip - preferably a dressage or schooling whip. Put the lunge line on the headcollar. Just do this like you would the lead rope, and then put the head collar on.
 You need a bit of space to lunge, but you can do it in any enclosed arena. For easy lunging, using a round pen (it forces the horse to continuously move in a circle). A large arena will also work, so long as there are not other people or horse inside with you.
 Standing in the center of the round pen or arena, cue your horse to being walking by gently clucking or wiggling the lunge line at them. Have them walk in a circle around you for several minutes, making sure that they stay rated and don't try to come too close to you or pull away.
 When they've perfected the walk, cue your horse to trot by waving the whip behind them and clucking. Give them forward pressure by standing slightly behind their hips in the center of the circle, and pushing towards them with your body. Have them do this for several minutes to make sure that they don't try to slow down, speed up, or spiral in or out from you.
 Let more of the lunge line go to make your horse go out. Do not let it touch the ground though. Letting the horse out is a cue from you to them that you're trusting them to respond to you, with less physical connection. Continue to have them lunge in a trot around you, using your whip or body language to push them forwards if they try to slow down or turn away.
 After 5-10 minutes of successful trotting, you can ask your horse to speed up once more into a canter. This is the most difficult part of lunging - maintaining control over the horse while moving at a high speed, far away from you. Make a kissing noise to your horse and use wave your whip in the air behind them to cue the canter. Ask them to maintain the canter for 3-5 minutes before letting go, and having them move back into a trot.
 Slowly release pressure to cue your horse to slow down. To do so, lower your eyes, back away, and drop the whip so that it's pointing away from them. They should respond accordingly by slowing their pace until they're back at a walk. Finish lunging by having them walk for a few minutes in a circle around you, and then let them join up with you at the end.

