 Running a forum comes with a lot of responsibilities, which include:


Getting enough active members to keep the forum going on its own.
Making or finding someone to make a good, clean layout.
Advertising your forum and providing material to draw prospective members in.
Finding moderators to help you manage your community and enforce your rules.
Doing some moderator work yourself.
Most likely paying money to host this forum.;
, If they can find one that's already active and has many topics, what would make them come to yours? Try to find strengths where other forums are weak.
 You should find a host that supports PHP or MySQL, so you can run your forum on it. A domain will also be useful for hosting a main website that prospective users can explore.
 You can use sites such as phpBB, Invision Power, vBulletin, or SMF. It would probably be helpful to learn some coding so you can easily customize your forum without too much headache.
 The instructions may be included with things you download from their site, or located on their website itself.
 A custom layout will make your forum stand out and give your forum its own personal touch.
 Keep in mind that too many boards can emphasize how empty your forum is and seem daunting to a new user, so only make the necessary boards at first. When your forum activity picks up, you can expand and create more boards as needed.
 Some people designate a topic for this in every board, and some people just make a general TOS for the entire forum, while others do both.
 Create five different topics, for example, in each forum. Make sure they're intriguing and compel the reader to join and give their opinion on the topic. Invite and encourage discussion.
 Make sure they're posting actual content, not just, "Hey dude, posting on your forum like you asked, LOL!" Who knows? They might become long-time contributing members.
 Some people resort to making multiple identities to make their board seem more active than it is. The pro is that it makes your forum seem active, and invite new members. The con is that you'd essentially be lying, you may be found out, and it may be exhausting to keep up the act.
 On your main website, you could host your own blog where you discuss technical news and tutorials. This gives your forum fuel for discussion as well as a way for people to discover your website via search engines.
 You can try using the following ways to promote your website:


Craigslist- You can post an ad inviting people to post articles on your blog in exchange for a link back to their blog. This does three things: get your website out there, draw attention to your site and forum, and generate content for other people to read and discuss.
Forum signatures- If you're a member of any forums, you may want to stick a link or banner in your signature for people to click. It may not generate as much traffic, but it does help get some people involved.
Word of mouth- Tell your friends to come join you on the forum. If they're not too interested or don't have much to say, you can ask them to post tech help questions for people, such as yourself, to answer. Ask them to tell their friends and so on.
Host a contest- This usually works best if the prize is something with cash value. The terms of the contest can range from posting (which may hurt in that it promotes spam) to recruiting (which may not help activity).
 Now is the time to find moderators as you settle in and prepare to manage your community. Start to develop connections with your members and do what's necessary to keep the peace.

