 Using the wrong form or overexerting yourself can cause knee injury, spinal compression, and back injury. Always practice the proper technique for each exercise with light weights first. Move on to a more challenging weight only when you have perfected the proper form.
 This is a great exercise for building up those thighs. You'll need a barbell bearing as much weight as you can lift 8-10 times without needing to put it down. Hold the barbell with both hands over your shoulders. (You can use dumbbells instead if you'd like).


Start with your feet shoulder-width apart.
Bend your knees and squat, moving your butt toward the ground. Keep squatting until your thighs are parallel to the floor. Keep your shins vertical and your knees aligned vertically above your feet.
Push back up and repeat 10-12 times for 3 sets.
 This works your hamstrings, making them bigger over time. Load a barbell with as much weight as you can lift for 10 reps, and set it in front of you on the ground. Stand with your feet shoulder width apart.
Bend at the waist, keeping your back straight and your knees at a slight bend. Grab the barbell with both hands.
Keeping your knees at a slight bend, lift the barbell so that it rests against your thighs, then lower it back to the floor.
Repeat 10-12 times for 3 sets.
Warning: locking your knees during this lift greatly increases the risk of injury, even for advanced lifters. Only the most extreme body builders use this technique after years of training.
 Stand within arm's reach of a wall and try the following exercise:


Lift one of your legs and bend it. Keep your right hand on the wall for support.
Now stand on the toes of your left leg. Keep your body straight.
Now bend your leg as if you are going to take a high jump.
Even when you bend your leg, stand on your toes.
Now lift your body with that leg with moderate speed.
During this entire cycle, stand on your toes and of course on only one leg.
Repeat this for 10 times or even 20 times if you are strong enough. Repeat the same with another leg.
Keep increasing the number of times you lift your body as your legs get stronger.
This is hard at the beginning, but you will get used to it.
This strengthens your calf muscles as well as the upper leg and gluteals.
 This exercise pinpoints your calves, which are notoriously hard to buff up. Hold a barbell or dumbbells over your shoulders. Stand with your feet shoulder-width apart. Raise up on your toes, then set your heels back down on the ground. Repeat 10-12 times for 3 sets.Single leg calf raises are even more effective than using weight, and help work the stabilizing muscles in the ankle.
 This exercise targets your inner thigh and gluteals:Stand in a wide stance with your feet turned outward at a 45ยบ angle.
Hold a kettlebell in front of you with both hands.
Slowly bend into a squat, keeping your back straight and your knees over your toes.
Squat as low as you can comfortably get, then return.
Repeat 10 to 12 times for 3 sets.

