 The right earrings can alter the overall appearance of your ears quite well, but the wrong ones will make them stand out even more. There are two approaches people use for large ears, so try them both and see which works for you:


Small lobe earrings detract attention from tall or stuck-out ear tips. Studs are a good choice, but small hoops or dangle earrings can work.
Other people take the opposite approach and wear large lobe earrings, making the ears look relatively smaller. Like upper cartilage piercings, this tactic does make your ears into a focal point, but perhaps one you can be proud of.;
, Not only do these draw attention to your eyes, a pair of sunglasses with large frames can partially hide your ears if you push them up to your forehead.
 While you might worry about your ears, chances are good that other people barely notice them, especially if you draw their attention elsewhere. Choose a top with a bright color or a vivid pattern, or wear a necklace.
 Wearing a little makeup will focus attention on your face. Try contouring using two shades of foundation. Start by contouring the outline of your face with foundation two or three shades darker than your skin, then use lighter foundation to highlight areas such as the center of your forehead and the bridge of your nose. Blend these together well along the border between them.


You can even contour the outer edge of your ears in the same way, but this can be difficult to get right if you're not used to applying makeup.
 On days when you are feeling especially insecure, pin back your ears to the side of your head using double-sided tape. Use a tape intended for skin to avoid pulling out your hair, such as clothing fashion tape.


This is a temporary measure for occasional use. The tape may come undone if you leave it on too long.
 There are many accessories that hide your ears altogether, including headbands, earmuffs, bandanas, scarves, turbans, hoods, or a hat large enough to tuck your ears into. A large pair of headphones will also work when you're engaged in solitary activities in public.

