 The company's book value represents the difference between the company's assets and liabilities. In simpler terms, it represents the net value of all of the company's property, or what the company would be able to sell itself for if it were forced to liquidate quickly. To calculate book value, add up the company's assets, including current assets, fixed assets, and debts owed to the company, and then subtract liabilities, like unpaid bills and loan balances outstanding., For publicly traded companies (companies who sell stock to the public), market capitalization (market cap) is a measurement of the total value of the company's outstanding stock. It is calculated by multiplying the current stock price by the total number of outstanding shares. Market cap is often used to measure a company's growth over time and is the most common indicator of a company's size used by financial professionals.The information needed to calculate market cap can be found in the company's annual report and on any stock-trading or stock market news website.
For more on market cap, see calculate the market value of a company.
 Cash flows show how much actual money a company is earning. They are often used by financial professionals to determine the value of a company. This is done through the process of discounted cash flow analysis, in which future cash flows are extrapolated to determine a value for the company. Measure current cash flows against past cash flows to determine whether or not the business remains solvent.Discounted cash flow analysis involves projecting future free cash flows for an investment or company. These cash flows are then "discounted" back to the present at a set discount rate. This discount rate reflects the time value of money (reflects the idea that an amount of money today is worth more than that same amount of money in the future).
The discounted cash flows are then compared to the present cost of the investment to determine whether or not that investment is a good one., For a publicly-traded company, the PE ratio represents the premium paid for the company's stock. That is, it is the current stock price divided by the average earnings per share over the last twelve months. A high result from this calculation means that investors expect that the company will increase in value in the future. Conversely, a low value may represent lower or negative growth expectations.For more on calculating the PE ratio, see how to calculate the PE ratio.

