 Mortgage paperwork can take a long time to process. You will want to start looking for lenders and rates before you decide on your house or else you might lose out on it.Having a mortgage preapproved will make the entire process smoother and faster. Furthermore, some real estate agents may reject offers from buyers without a mortgage preapproved.Since rate locks attach to a property and not an individual, you cannot lock an interest rate until you have a contract on the property.;
, Banks, credit unions, and online lenders, and brokers all offer mortgages. Consult different websites to find which ones may be willing to offer you a better deal. While you can visit banks and credit unions in person, you may have to call an online company.


Be careful with online lenders. While you may find a reputable one that offers a good deal, you are also likely to encounter more scams., The best way to get a good deal on your mortgage is to talk to several lenders. You can get a feel for their different personalities and your comfort level with each of them. This will let you compare rates, fees, and contracts., You may not know yet what kind of mortgage you need, but you can familiarize yourself with the terms and types of mortgages that your lender may talk to you about. These terms include:



Interest rate: the cost you pay to borrow the loan. The interest rate is a percentage of the loan. You pay this on top of the money you owe to repay the loan.

Annual Percentage Rate (APR): how much you will pay every year year for the loan. This includes fees and interest.Adjustable Rate Mortgage (ARM): a mortgage with interest rates that change over time. Rates may start low and then increase. This may be fine if you are planning to sell the house after a few years.

Fixed Rate Mortgage: a mortgage with interest rates that do not change over time. This is ideal if you want to stay in the same house for the full length of the mortgage.

Hybrid Adjustable Rate Mortgage: a mortgage that has fixed fees for the first year or two. After this point, the rates may change.