 Begin your studies by learning the pronunciation of Turkish words. Turkish uses the Latin alphabet, and each character is pronounced individually and phonetically. There are a few sounds that differ from English:c is pronounced like an English j (in jam). So ‘’’sadece’’’ (only/just) is pronounced sah-deh-jeh
ç is pronounced like an English ch (in charge) – not s as in Latin based languages.
ğ is silent (elongates previous vowel sound)
ş is “sh”
ı – looks like an i without the dot. ı is pronounced as a “schwa,” or gentle "uh" sound.Umlauted ö/ü vowels work as in German. ö is pronounced like "er" without the hard "r" sound. ü is pronounced like "ooh" when your lips are pursed.;
, Understanding the sentence structure of Turkish will help you to learn the language. Words are also attached together to change their meanings.Turkish sentences use a Subject-Object-Verb order.
Many words can be added as suffixes to the root word to change its meaning.
There are no gender forms of words or articles such as "the".
 Buy a dual-language dictionary to translate Turkish into English or another language you know well. Use the dictionary to look up and study new words.
 Learn how to speak common phrases to develop a broader conversational base. Use your phrase book to look up and memorize useful phrases.English: Hi Turkish: Merhaba (mehr hah bah)
English: Welcome Turkish: Hoş geldiniz! (Hosh gel din iz)
English: I’m Lost Turkish: Kayboldum (kahy bohl doom)
English: Where is the bathroom? Turkish:Tuvalet nerede? (too-vah-let neh-reh-dey)
English: Yes Turkish: Evet (eh vet)
English: No Turkish: Hayır (Hah yuhr)

, Learn phrases common in conversations and have conversations with yourself to practice asking and answering questions. Listen to spoken recordings of phrases online or on tapes from your local library.


English: Do you speak English? Turkish: İngilizce biliyor musunuz? (een-gee-leez jeh-bee-lee-yohr moo-soo-nooz)
English: I can't speak Turkish. Turkish: Türkçe konuşamıyorum. (Tuerck-che conusha-me-yoor-uhm)
English: How are you today? Turkish: Nasılsınız? (na suhl suhn uhz)
English: I'm fine, thank you. Turkish: İyiyim, teşekkürler (ee yee yeem teh shek ür lerr)
English: Am I under arrest? Turkish: Tutuklu muyum? (too-too-kloo mwee-yum)

