 Like many common types of clothing stains, scorch marks are easiest to treat right after they've occurred. This article contains a few different methods for removing scorch marks from your clothing. Regardless of whether you use the method in this section or one of the other ones, you'll always want to immediately move your scorched fabric away from the offending heat source and start cleaning it as soon as you notice a scorch mark.


Don't let a scorched piece of clothing or fabric sit out while you finish your ironing — the amount of time you take to begin treating the mark can make the difference between the total removal of the stain and the lingering annoyance of a dark spot on your fabric.;
, To begin pre-treating your clothing or fabric, give it a quick rinse. This serves two purposes. First, it prepares it to absorb the laundry detergent you'll treat it with in the next step. Second, it will wash away any loose singed matter, giving you a better idea of how bad your scorch mark actually is.
 Using your fingers, gently rub your clothing's normal laundry detergent into the scorch mark. By giving the detergent a chance to "set" into the stain before you wash the item, you increase its stain-removing power. Don't use bleach or other specialty cleaning solutions yet — you'll have a chance to do this in the next step.


Liquid detergent works best for this because it can seep between the tightly-woven fibers of the fabric to treat the mark on a microscopic level. However, for this (and other common stain-removal tasks) you can also use powdered detergent if you mix it with a little water first to form a loose paste., If the fabric of your item is made from a material that is safe to use with bleach, you may want to pre-treat the fabric even further by letting it soak for about 15 minutes in a solution of water and bleach. Use a capful or two of bleach for about every gallon of water you use. Stir the mixture occasionally to ensure it soaks evenly.


If you're unsure of whether your item is made of a bleach-safe fabric, check its care label. As a general rule, wool, silk, mohair, and non-colorfast fabrics are generally not suitable for cleaning with bleach., When you've finished pre-treating your fabric, throw it in the washing machine and begin a normal cycle. In other words, use the wash settings recommended on the garment's care label. You may also include any other clothes that you need to wash as long as they can be safely washed with the settings and cleaning products you are using.


As above, you may also use bleach or other cleaning products here if they are normally safe for the fabric.
 Remove your item from the washer and check the scorch mark — hopefully, it will be less visible than before. You may need to repeat the wash cycle several times for ideal results. To dry your fabric, rather than using a dryer, try drying it in the sunlight if there is reasonable weather outside. The sun's rays are well-known to lighten all types of dark, unsightly stains in fabric, including scorch marks.Don't leave your item in the sun for more than a day or so. Over time, sunlight can gradually weaken fabric, making it more susceptible to damage and causing bright colors to fade.
 Unfortunately, especially bad scorch marks may not be removable even with repeated treatment. In these cases, you may need to try covering the mark, cutting it out and patching it, discarding the item, or giving it away. Alternatively, you can also try recycling your fabric for another purpose.

