 In order to get a copy of your Ohio birth certificate in person, you need to make sure you have the proper documentation ready before you visit one of the Offices of Vital Statistics. Having this information ready will ensure that there aren’t any delays in getting you the birth certificate.


You need to have a completed application form for a certified copy of an Ohio birth certificate.If you are applying for a copy of your own birth certificate, you need to provide a copy of your official photo ID. For example, you can provide your driver’s license, military ID, or a passport.If you are applying for a copy of a birth certificate for another person, you need identification and usually other legal documentation.If you would like sealed adoption records, you can only get them at the Columbus office.;
, In addition to your documentation, you need to submit the “Application for Certified Copies” of an Ohio birth certificate. For the application to be complete, you must fill it out to the best of your knowledge and sign it.The application is available online at https://www.odh.ohio.gov/~/media/ODH/ASSETS/Files/vs/general/applicationform.ashx

If you have any questions on the application, you can call the Ohio Department of Health at (614) 466-3543 or the Office of Vital Statistics at (614) 466-2531.You can call either hotline between 8:00am and 5:00pm except state and federal holidays., There is a fee of $21.50 for copies of birth certificates. You must pay this by personal check, money order, or credit card when you file your application.Make the personal check or money order out to Office of Vital Statistics., Once you’ve collected the required documentation, completed your application, and prepared the payment of your fees, you can file your application at the Ohio Office of Vital Statistics. You can choose to file the application in Columbus office or at the city or county health department in which the birth occurred.The Columbus office is located at 225 Neilston St., Columbus, OH 43215.The office is open Monday-Friday from 8:00am to 5:00pm except state and federal holidays.If you cannot get to Columbus and wish to use a city or county health department, the Ohio Department of Health offers a statewide directory at https://www.odh.ohio.gov/~/media/ODH/ASSETS/Files/vs/Directory%20of%20Ohio%20Health%20Departments%20with%20Vital%20Statistics%20offices.ashx


, It can take a few minutes to a week to get the copy of the birth certificate for which you applied. If you have any questions about the process, you can contact one of the Office of Vital Statistics at the phone numbers listed above.


The state tries to fill all walk-in orders within 20 minutes of the application. If you file your application after 4:30pm, it might not be available until the next day.You can choose to pick up your birth certificate on a different day.You can also choose to have the Office of Vital Statistics mail you the birth certificate copy. This will take approximately one week.If you are applying for the birth certificate of an adoptee at the Columbus office, the process may take one month.It may be faster to get a birth certificate copy at one of the smaller Department of Health offices in your local city or county.