 Staying hydrated may help you maintain your clear skin. While there is conflicting scientific evidence supporting the claim that water helps clear toxins out of your body, most scientist agree that drinking water is net-beneficial to your skin instead of net-neutral or net-negative.You do not need to necessarily drink eight glasses of water per day, but drink enough to replenish what you might have lost in exercise, and drink when you are thirsty.
 Doctors are beginning to understand, after decades of inconclusive evidence, that diet does play a difference in whether you get acne and how severe it is.Eating a balanced diet rich in vegetables and fruits, lean protein, whole wheats and grains, nuts and seeds, and healthy fats (omega-3 fatty acids, for example) should help your body fight acne. At the same time, it will make you healthier and give you more energy. In addition to the foods listed above, try to get enough:


Vitamin A. Vitamin helps your body flush out acne-causing proteins and oil from the skin cycle.Take either 10,000 UI of vitamin A supplements, or eat foods that are high in vitamin A, which include fish oil, salmon, carrots, spinach, and broccoli.
Zinc. Some evidence suggests that people with acne don't have enough zinc in their systems.Scientists think that zinc creates an inhospitable environment for the acne-causing bacteria. Foods that are high in zinc include: turkey, wheat germ, oysters, pumpkin seeds, and peanuts.Omega-3 fatty acids. Omega-3 fatty acids promote healthy cell turnover and cut down on inflammation.Examples of omega-3 fatty acids include flax seed, salmon, sunflower seeds, and almonds.
 Scientists believe that high-glycemic diets — chocolate, French fries, pizza, etc. — are linked to acne vulgaris.In addition to high-glycemic foods, milk might also be a major culprit in causing acne, doctors have found:

,, These drugs aren't good for your complexion. Studies around the world have linked toxins like tobacco and alcohol to acne.If you are a regular smoker or drinker and worried about acne, consider cutting down on these habits if you're serious about seeing an uptick in overall health.
 Exercise is really helpful for avoiding acne because it lowers the amount of stress that your body goes through. Unfortunately, stress is a significant cause of acne, both in children and adults.Therefore, any way that you can remove stress from your life is a "win" for clear skin. Exercise is one of those ways.
 Studies have shown that not getting enough sleep can seriously increase the amount of stress a person goes through, sometimes up for 15% more stress for each hour of sleep lost beyond their normal allotment.Shoot to get between 9 and 10 hours if you're younger than 18 and between 7 and 8 hours if you're an adult.Additionally, sleep is when most of the body's healing, including skin repair, takes place.

