 Many ballet schools have requirements that outline the type of leotard, ballet slippers, and tights they want you to wear and in what color. While some schools are more lenient when it comes to purchasing your attire for class, others have stricter guidelines. Therefore, make sure to check the requirements before you go out and buy a bunch of leotards that are not allowed in the studio., Leotards come in a variety of styles and colors. Also, different brands have different sizing. Therefore, when you are buying your first leotard, make sure to visit a ballet store so you can try them on. You will most likely try on a bunch of different leotards until you find the right one.Once you have determined your size, fit, and style, you can buy them online.
 Check the fit around your shoulders, chest, stomach, crotch and buttocks. The leotard should not feel too tight or too loose around these areas. If it does, then try on a different leotard. Additionally, examine the fit length-wise. Make sure the leotard is not too long or too short for your body.If you have a long torso, browse brands that make leotards in the X-Longto size.
If you have a big bust, then choose a leotard with built-in support.
 Move around in your leotard to do this; for example, touch your toes, bend, lift your legs, and do a twirl or a leap. When you are moving around, see if the leotard pulls in the wrong places, or rides up your backside uncomfortably or sags. Also see if the straps move around or dig in, and if your shoulders and neck are comfortable.The perfect leotard will stretch comfortably and have some give when you move around, but it will also stay in place and will not be too loose.
 Your ballet slipper should not be too small or too big; it should fit snugly. You should also have enough room to wiggle your toes in the slipper.If you are purchasing slippers for your child, try to avoid buying slippers that are a half or a full size bigger. Slippers that are too big can cause ballerinas to trip or prevent them from performing their moves correctly.
 Leather slippers are more durable and will last longer than canvas slippers. On the other hand, canvas slippers are more flexible and may be more ideal for a beginner. They are also easier to clean. Additionally, canvas slippers work better on vinyl floors while leather works better on wooden floors.Female students are usually required to wear pink slippers while male students are usually required to wear black or white.
Satin ballet slippers are only worn during recitals and performances.
 Because a full sole provides more support, it is recommended that beginners purchase these. On the other hand, split sole slippers are more flexible and allow the student and teacher to see the arch of the foot. Make sure to check your ballet school’s guidelines before making a decision.
 If you buy slippers with unattached elastics (straps), then you will have to sew them on. Therefore, it is recommended that beginners purchase slippers with pre-attached elastics.Additionally, slippers can either have one strap or two crisscrossed straps. Try on both to see which style secures your foot better.
 There are a variety of styles and colors to pick from. You can choose from convertible, footed, seamed, stirrup, footless, or body tights. Schools usually require beginners to wear footed tights, so make sure to check your school’s guidelines before purchasing them.Female students are usually required to wear pink tights while male students are usually required to wear black.
 Female students (and perhaps male students who have long hair) are usually required to wear their hair in a “ballet bun.” To create the proper ballet bun, you will need bobby pins, hair bands, and a hair net. Keep extra hair accessories in your ballet bag in case something breaks or falls out.Some schools require their students to have a specific type of hair net (either knit, black fishnet, or thin), or they may have rules regarding the color of bobby pins and hair bands. Make sure to check the guidelines before purchasing your hair accessories.
Typically, the only requirements for male students are to have their hair groomed and out of their face.
 Knit leg warmers, sweat pants, booties, sweat shirts, top wraps and body wraps are all categorized as warmups. These help keep your muscles warm while you are stretching and warming up. Schools usually do not care what kind of warmups you use. However, make sure to check the guidelines before purchasing your warmups., Ballet bags are great for keeping your ballet attire organized. You can either use an athletic bag, backpack, or another type of bag of your choice. Just make sure your bag can hold all of your attire. It is recommended that you buy a medium to large sized bag to ensure that everything fits.