 These are listed below under "Things You'll Need".;
, The balloon should not be blown any larger than 6-8 inches (15-20cm). Tie off with a knot. Then spray each balloon with a vegetable spray; this will make it much easier to remove the set chocolate bowl at the end.
, Either place into the microwave to melt or use a double boiler (bain marie). For more information, see How to melt chocolate or How to temper chocolate.


If you do use a microwave to melt it, do not overcook the chocolate.
 The balloons will burst if the chocolate is too warm.


Even though you've allowed for cooling, the balloon can still pop, so it's recommended that when you dip the balloons, you work quickly and don't leave the balloon in for too long at any point of the dipping process.
 To do this:


Hold the balloon by its knot at an angle. Dip into the chocolate to the level you'd like the bowl; only one portion of the bowl will be touching the melted chocolate at this stage. Then, tilt the angle the other way and dip again. Do this angle changing a few times, then to create a smooth coat on the chocolate, simply turn the balloon around slowly in the melted chocolate.
Take the balloon out and allow any excess chocolate to drip back into the melted chocolate.
 Aim to make a circle.
, Place the chocolate balloons in a cool, dry place to set.


If you find the room is too warm, either take to another room or place in the refrigerator for around 10 minutes to half an hour. Don't have anything strong-smelling in the refrigerator at the same time or it might cross-contaminate the chocolate. Also be aware that some chocolate may bloom if refrigerated but since this is such a short time, it should be okay.
 First, remove the balloon and bowl from the cookie sheet. If the base is stuck, gently slide a knife under to remove it. Then stick a pin into the balloon at the top or cut a little peace at the knot and allow the air to expel slowly. Don't rush this part or the bowls may blow apart (Tip: place a piece of cellophane tape onto the balloon where you puncture it with a pin - this will reduce chance of popping the balloon). Then, ease the bowls out from the base of the balloon––you may need to peel off some of the balloon.
 Suitable additions include small fruits such as strawberries or cherries, a fruit salad for dessert, small cookies, truffles, little chocolates, candies, etc. You might even scoop in some mousse, cold custard or ice cream.


If using the bowls as a gift, such as filled with truffles, wrap in clear cellophane and tie with a pretty ribbon bow.

