 Money is tight, and doubly so for extracurricular activities. By sponsoring a kids' sports team, you can help take some of the pressure off of parents and schools, get your business name on the back of every little kid on the team, and provide some much-needed support to a group of kids. But don't limit your marketing to kids' teams. Many communities put together adult leagues for kickball, softball, volleyball, and bowling. Your business name will look just as good on the back of a bowling shirt as it does on a kid's baseball uniform.
;
, If your business sells handmade crafts, a magazine about electronics or cars isn't going to bring you any business. Find magazines that focus on the same vertical as your business, and you have a better chance of reaching readers and bringing in new customers. The great thing about magazine ads is there are several types to fit just about any budget. If you're starting out, or just want to test the magazine ad waters, buy a smaller ad, maybe a quarter page. If you have success with it, you can eventually graduate to a full page ad.
 Sure, it's most often in the car nowadays, but there are still large numbers of commuters in cities across the country who use the radio to keep them company on the long drive to and from work every day. But because radio has fallen out of favor, many stations really need advertising dollars to keep going. Just remember radio ads create a trade-off situation. Ads played during rush hours and lunch are more expensive, but they're heard by more people.
 First, most of the time when you see a car plastered with a business logo, or even an ad similar to what you'd expect to see on a billboard, it's not painted on. It's a wrap, a thin sheet of vinyl printed with the business information or ad, and then expertly applied to the vehicle. Also, the vehicle may not actually belong to the business, and if it does, it's not necessarily one of a fleet of ad vehicles. Even a sole proprietor can get his own car wrapped to advertise his business. Some car wrap companies even employ drivers, but that does cost more than if you wrap and drive your own car.
 Gas station customers are one of the newest captive audiences for advertisers. The screens are mounted in the pumps right at eye level, and the volume is turned up to get the driver's attention, and so the ads can be heard over the sounds of nearby traffic. A person standing in front of a gas pump for one to five minutes while they fuel their vehicle can't help but be attracted by the sound and bright colors of the small screen. The screens are usually digital, too, so the quality of the images is very good. And if your business is related to any kind of vehicles in any way, all the better!


, This method has been especially successful for big ticket items that appeal to homeowners, such as siding, windows, and landscaping. Instead of a 30-second ad, you can turn each two-minute ad block into segments of an ongoing infomercial. This isn't something you would want to do during prime time, and if you're a small business owner, let's be honest—you couldn't afford to do that anyway. But a family show on a local channel on Sunday morning? That's completely doable.
 It's easy to sit behind a computer and work out marketing strategies, buy ad space, and maybe even write ad copy if you're a one-person show. Make an effort once in a while to get out and meet people. Join your local Chamber of Commerce to meet other local business owners. Attend business events, expos, and conventions. Depending on what you do, just running your regular errands can turn into a business opportunity. Maybe you design websites, and your doctor wants to put her practice online. Keep an open mind. You never know where you might find a business opportunity. More importantly, you never know where you might meet a potential client or customer.


