 If you don't want to freeze the basil, whether it's homegrown or purchased, you can keep it fresh for up to two weeks by placing the branches in a vase and keeping them on the counter out of the sun. This method is ideal when you're likely to be using it frequently for cooking throughout the following week or so.









It's recommended that you keep the basil close to your cooking preparation area to make it easier to remember to make use of it.;
, Clean and dry the basil:









First, remove all leaves from the stems. If you're going to try out the second freezing method, then you will probably want to leave some of the buds intact. The stems should be discarded.
Rinse the leaves thoroughly, taking care not to bruise them.
Finally, remove excess water from the leaves by using a salad spinner or laying them out on towels to dry.
 Place 1 or 2 handfuls of the basil in your food processor, then chop or purée the basil leaves with extra virgin olive oil and a bit of salt. Coating the basil pieces with oil protects them from air so they can maintain their color and flavor. Pour the purée into small air-tight containers and add some extra olive oil on top. After defrosting the purée, re-process adding your favorite pesto ingredients.
 This method takes a little more time, but is still an easy way to freeze basil. This method keeps whole individual leaves or plant buds intact to use as garnish.









Put prepared leaves and buds on trays in the freezer for about one to two hours.
Once they are frozen, put them into airtight containers. Do not overcrowd them; otherwise they will lose their shape.
After defrosting for use, you can julienne the leaves or use them whole as garnish on pasta dishes or soups.
 This method is the easiest of all the freezing methods.









Simply pack the leaves into a cleaned out milk carton with the top cut down.
Seal the top closed.
Use quart (950ml) sized cartons and then put the sealed carton inside a Ziploc baggy to make it air-tight.
When you want to use the basil for cooking, cut off a slice of the carton and re-store the remainder as it was. The frozen leaves are great to use in sauces.
 By taking time to store basil after a fall harvest or an indoor harvest, you can enjoy the fresh basil flavors throughout the year. Happy cooking!








