 You need not write it every day about everything. But whenever you feel the extremity of your emotions, jot down your thoughts. Continue this for a year or at least six months. Reread the entire book at the end of a year and you will find the real person who is hiding inside you.;
, An achievement winning trophies or anything it can either be the good things you have did in your life and also about the wonderful moments you have achieved in life.
 People usually get upset when they read this request because they think they don't have any. Engage yourself in various activities and find out which one of your talent stands out. For example, being able to cook tasty food requires real talent, and talent usually comes out from the thing you have a special passion about or have deep practice in. Don't get influenced by how people judge you because even if you don't do anything, there will always be someone who has to judge, it's just how some people are wired. That's not a reason to avoid such people and their opinionated rants.
 The more you know yourself, the more clarity there is about so many things, from the direction to take in life through to how to better relate with the people you care about and the people you feel pushed around by. Also understand that self knowledge is an ongoing for life, not a once-in-a-life discovery. You continue to change and develop throughout life, so it requires constant self reassessment to stay in touch with your real self. In other words, there is never a conclusion, just a journey of continuous discovery.
 Everyone loves judging others but have you ever thought of judging yourself.You are the master of your universe and your the only one who decide how life should move on because its your own life. We may get hurt when others judge but you judge yourself you learn more. Judge every single action you take in your life and imagine the pros and cons about the matter in your head. However... that said, have plenty of self-compassion. For a person who has self-compassion, this helps to soften self critique with the balance of self care but it also works to have compassion outward, for others, knowing that it's all too easy to judge but much more noble to forgive, to care and to be understanding.
 While this may sound as if it is a bizarre idea, it is the best method to know yourself. Talk to yourself about any matter which is causing you tension. Find out the solutions for it by discussing the pros and cons with yourself––be your own devil's advocate!

, That is true humility and is the only pathway to learning anew and moving on with grace and wisdom. And be prepared to release that which holds you back and no longer fits the person you are now. Who you were, who you are and who you are becoming are you but at different stages and one does not have the right to hold any other back.
 It is easy to put others first, for in doing so you can feel good at knowing you've helped. But this becomes a hindrance when it comes at the expense of your own needs and wishes in life. In such an event, it is time to prioritize your needs and to put yourself first when doing so allows you to be the strong, courageous and truly supportive person you're seeking to be for yourself and for others.
 It isn't all selfies and no self knowledge! The self absorbed person is vain, thoughtless and fails to acknowledge the need to balance self and others. The person with self knowledge is humble, considerate and acknowledging or others while still understanding the importance of self care and self compassion.
 Spent some quality time with yourself by doing things you love. Life isn't all about doing chores, being constantly nose to the grind. There is also plenty of time for enjoying life, having fun and letting go of yourself. Indulge in those moments and make the most of them.
 When you feel more able to express what self knowledge means to you and how to go about achieving you, help other people on their journeys to better self knowledge. Help people notice the pressures around to be other than self and to cover up self, and help them to identify the ways to discover and nurture self. The more people who take the time to do this, the better place the world will be.
 Finally, but by no means least, continue to learn from the best out there. The teachers, the writers, the speakers, the elders, the young, the leaders, the quiet ones, the inspiring, the poor, the lost, the outraged, the angry, the people you know and the people you don't know. Everyone has a story to tell, a reason to provide and a mirror to reflect. As you gain in self knowledge, use your self understanding to be more understanding of why people behave as they do and how you might learn from their attitudes to make yourself stronger, healthier and more free.

