 Your body craves routine, and will adapt to a regular sleep/wake cycle. If your schedule allows, try to go to bed and wake up at roughly the same time each day.


If you go to bed at the same time each night, your body will begin to slow down naturally during the hour leading up to bed time. You will feel sleepy naturally, and your this will help clear your thoughts and prepare you for rest.Strive to choose a bedtime and stick to it, even on weekends. Get up at the same time every day as well. Sleeping in too late on Saturdays and Sundays can make Sunday nights stressful and Monday mornings difficult.;
, In addition to a regular bedtime, incorporating certain activities into your bedtime routine can help send a signal to your body that it's time for rest. This will help clear your mind and relax you naturally.


It's very hard to block out worrisome thoughts if you're on the go until directly before bedtime. Setting aside an hour before sleep for certain relaxing rituals and routines can help your mind relax before bed.Try doing an activity every night before bed. Your body will learn to read this activity as a predecessor for sleep and begin shutting down for rest. You could do a crossword puzzle, read a short story, or have a light snack.Most sleep experts advise against watching television, as the light from your TV is a stimulant. However, if watching television helps you relax before bed it may be okay to incorporate half an hour of TV time into your nightly schedule. Stick to shows that help you relax, like lighthearted sitcoms or cartoons, rather than drams or news shows that may induce anxiety., Working out regularly can help your sleep cycle greatly. However, you need to make sure you plan work outs in ways that do not interfere with your sleep.


One of the reasons exercise is great for sleep is that it's a wonderful anxiety reducer. Twenty or thirty minutes of daily physical activity, even light aerobics like a brisk walk, can help curb anxiety and this could result in a clearer mind before sleep.You should always exercise a few hours before bedtime however, especially if your workout routine is vigorous. The adrenaline involved in heavy physical activity can be stimulating and might result in you having difficulties falling asleep., Try to establish mental exercises each night to help you unwind in preparation for sleep.


Try to focus on the positive before bed. Focus on positive, happy memories rather than anxiety-inducing thoughts. It's helpful to have a running mental list of memories that make you feel safe and secure to revisit before bedtime.Visualization can also help calm your mind. Picturing your bed as something warm and comforting, like a big basket or a cloud, can help soothe you into falling asleep. It might be helpful to brainstorm calming images before bed and then use them as you try to nod off.If you're religious, many people find praying an important mental routine before bedtime. Saying a prayer before slipping under the covers may be helpful. Even if you're not a religious person, whispering positive thoughts or good wishes out loud can be helpful in preparing for sleep.