 Have a power bar or banana at least half an hour before your run so that you will be adequately fueled throughout the run. Afterwards, eat a good meal to help you recover from the workout. Make sure you hydrate well before your run -- guzzling large amounts of water right before you start won't help hydrate you throughout a long run; in fact doing that might give you painful running cramps.;
, Decide what distance you want to run and where you want to go. Consider factors like hills and running surface when planning your route. Hills tend to be harder to run.
 Wear light weight running shoes that are in good condition and fit your feet well. Wear cool, comfortable clothes that will wick sweat while you run.
, Focus on the legs, but also stretch your arms, back, and core.
 Try to run the whole way at a consistent pace. If you need to, walk for a few minutes before running again, but don't stop. Pay attention to your form: make sure not to be tense in the upper body, as this will tire you out much faster. Also make sure to run from the middle of the foot to the toe (land on the ball of your foot and lift off from the toes).
 Breathing is important in running long distances and learning how to breathe while running can help tremendously.
 Stretch well to minimize soreness after the run.
 This will help condition your body and get yourself used to running. This will be hard at first, but you will get stronger and start to feel more comfortable running.
 If you have never run before start at 1 kilometer (0.62 mi). When you can comfortably run that, try to go a little farther. Gradually increase to 5 kilometers (3.1 mi), then 10 kilometers (6.2 mi). Continue to push yourself until you achieve your distance goal.
 If you are in Junior High or High School join the track and cross country team, or join a local running club and enter races in your town or city. Try to get a personal best each time you do a race.
 Distance running is very difficult and not many people keep it up. But you can! People will really admire you for keeping at it, and you will be happier and healthier throughout your life.

