 Standing upright can help your baby get in the ideal birthing position (the anterior position) so that labor will be quicker and easier.Constantly sitting at a desk or lying down during pregnancy alters the position of your pelvis, which can increase the likelihood that your baby ends up in the posterior position with the back of its head pressed up against your spine.This can cause lower back pain during labor and potentially delay giving birth as you wait your baby to make a 180 degree turn at your pelvis.;
, One study conducted at the University of North Carolina found that pregnant women who got acupuncture at 40 weeks were more likely to go into labor naturally than those who didn't.As you near your due date, consider getting acupuncture to help naturally induce labor.
 Being dehydrated can cause "false contractions," or contractions that occur before labor has even begun.Staying properly hydrated once labor has started is also important to maintain your strength and stamina.
 This releases the hormone oxytocin which can help prompt contractions. You can either have your partner do this for you or use a breast pump.
 If your water has not broken yet, having sex can help naturally induce labor. When the man ejaculates inside the vagina, the prostaglandins contained in his sperm help stimulate the cervix.Make sure that the man ejaculates inside the vagina so that the prostaglandins can do their job.
 Many people believe that light physical activity, like walking or cleaning around the house, can help speed up the labor process. Only do as much physical activity as you feel safe and comfortable doing.
 Being stressed can cause you to tighten your muscles which is the opposite of what you want to happen during labor. Have your partner give you a massage or try breathing exercises to help relax. You may also find that a warm bath helps you relax and ease some of the discomfort caused by your contractions.
 Most women experience significantly longer labors for their first born than with their next kids because the cervix and vaginal walls have not yet been stretched or dilated. Your subsequent labors will likely be much shorter and less painful

, There are a few circumstances that might prompt your healthcare provider to suggest medically inducing labor. They include, among other things:


You are two weeks past your due date.Your uterus is infected.You are not having contractions even after your water has broken.You have a preexisting health condition, like high blood pressure or diabetes, that might put your baby at risk.Your placenta is deteriorating.Your baby has stopped growing unexpectedly.There's not enough fluid within the amniotic sac protecting your baby.