 Button or zip them up so they fall as they would when you'd wear them. Stand in front of a mirror. Note the areas where you would like the jeans to fit more snugly.Remember that when you turn your jeans inside-out, your left leg inside-out is your right leg right-side-out.
 Keep the inseam at the edge of the pinched-off area so that the new inseam will be centered.


Pin horizontally so that you can guide your sewing machine over each pin without jamming the machine. Use safety pins to avoid pricking your leg as you move about or handle the jeans.To get the smoothest result, make an entirely new inseam by pinching off the extra fabric in a smooth curve along the entire inseam.
 Measure from the inseam to the newly marked edge to the original seam. Measure again from the new inseam to the bottom of the leg. Repeat this process for each pin marking the new inseam. If they don't quite match, adjust the further-in line outward to make the size of the smaller leg match the bigger one. Make sure your pinned seams are flat as you measure.


Mark as you measure. Use a pencil or tailor’s chalk. Take off the pants when you are satisfied., Use thread appropriate for denim and a needle suited for denim-sewing. Turn the machine on.If you haven't used a sewing machine before, sew a couple of lines in some practice fabric (preferably denim). You want to know how fast your machine goes and make sure things go smoothly when you get to your real project.

Sergers are not recommended for this step.
 Keep the jeans as flat as possible and completely together. Try an easy-to-remove basting stitch to test the fit first. Press the reverse sewing lever for just a moment when you start to secure your stitch., Stitch in a smooth curve along the line of pins and markings that you added. In essence, you are creating a new seam. Try to keep your line straight as you work your way down. Aim to make the excess denim bigger as you get towards the bottom if you are making the flare smaller., When you get to the very bottom, press the reverse sewing lever for just a moment to secure your stitch. After you’ve fastened off your stitch, repeat the process on the other leg., Replace them in their container. If you used many pins, double check to make sure you didn’t miss any.
 Turn them right-side out. Inspect every seam for imperfections. Try walking, running, kneeling, and any other activity you might do in jeans.
 Turn the jeans inside out before you do this. Use sharp fabric scissors to cut off the excess. Leave an allowance of about 0.5 to 0.75 inches (1.3 to 1.9 cm) between the scissor blades and the new seam. Since denim frays, secure the new seam with a serger if you have one.If they appear lopsided or tight, rip out the seams and start over.
If you notice bunching around the crotch, don't worry too much. This will settle down when worn and won’t be noticeable for most jeans.

