 Diabetics have higher levels of sugar and glucose in their blood and vaginal secretions. This is an ideal environment for abundant growth of yeast cells, which normally cause fungal infections. As a result, your child may suffer from recurrent fungal skin infections.Notice if your child seems to be itchy in the genital area. For girls, you may notice that they have repeated vaginal yeast infections, characterized by genital itching and discomfort, with mild white to yellowish foul smelling discharge.Another type of fungal infection that can be a result of the immune-compromising feature of juvenile diabetes is athlete's foot, which causes white discharge and peeling of the skin in the webs of the toes and soles of the feet.Boys, especially if they are uncircumcised, may also develop a fungal/yeast infection around the tip of the penis.
 The reflex that enables the body to fight against infections under normal circumstances is hampered by diabetes, as it causes immunological dysfunction. Increased glucose in the blood additionally causes unwelcome bacterial growth, often resulting in frequent bacterial skin infections such as boils or abscesses, carbuncles and ulcerations.Another aspect of recurrent skin infections is the slow healing of wounds. Even small cuts, scratches or wounds from minor trauma take an abnormally long time to heal. Be on the lookout for anything that doesn't fix itself up as usual., Vitiligo is an auto-immune disorder, leading to reduced levels of the skin pigment melanin. Melanin is the pigment that gives human hair, skin, and eyes color. With the occurrence of type 1 diabetes, the body develops auto-antibodies that destroy melanin. This results in white patches on the skin.Although it occurs much later in the course of type 1 diabetes and is not very common, it is better to rule out diabetes if your child develops such white patches.
 These symptoms can accompany diabetes as it progresses. If you notice your child vomiting or overly deep breathing, this is a dangerous sign and you should take your child to the hospital immediately for treatment.


These symptoms may be a sign of diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA), which can result in a potentially fatal coma. These symptoms come on fast, sometimes within 24 hours. If left untreated, DKA can be fatal.