 We all love to have fun in the sun, but it is important to be careful. Sun damage is responsible for many of the most common skin problems: wrinkles, dryness, and discoloration. Of course, the greatest damage is from skin cancer, which is increasingly common. Make sure to take proper precautions.Make SPF your friend. It's not enough to apply sunscreen before heading for a day at the beach. It should be part of your every day routine. Look for moisturizers that contain at least 15 SPF. It won't hurt to use make-up that contains SPF, for added protection!
Dress appropriately. Wear light loose clothing to protect your skin. Also, wearing sunglasses is about more than fashion--they are very important in protecting your eyes from the sun!

, Literally ease up on your skin. A lot of damage to the facial skin is caused by physical pressure. This is the result of simple things such as holding your cell phone to tightly to your face and leaning your chin on your hand while thinking. The pressure can expose your skin to a lot of bacteria, which can result in breakouts and infections. So make sure to touch your face to other objects as little as possible., Next to sun, stress might have the biggest negative impact on your skin. If you are feeling a lot of anxiety, the effects can wreak havoc on your face. There are many ways that stress can manifest itself on your skin, including rashes and increased breakouts. Find a method or tricks to help you relaxed when you are feeling a lot of stress. Your skin will thank you!, The surfaces that come into contact with your skin can be responsible for causing blemishes and irritation. Pay careful attention to your laundry schedule--it is important to rest your face on clean pillow cases. Also, make sure that your make-up brushes are clean. Wash them regularly with warm water and a mild soap., Food has a significant impact on your skin. Fruits and vegetables are full of healthy antioxidants that make your skin look firmer and younger, so make them a staple. You'll also want to make sure to get plenty of healthy fats, which will give your skin a hydrated and fresh glow. Try salmon, avocado, and olive oil to get the nutrients your skin needs.Don't be afraid to have a glass of red wine! It contains properties that can help combat sun damage. Just be aware that drinking too much alcohol can cause dehydration.There are also many foods that you want to avoid in order to clear up your skin. If you are prone to breakouts, avoid foods with excess amounts of salt, fat, and sugar. You'll see a positive impact not just in your skin, but in your overall physical health.
 There are many quick fixes for skin problems. Just make sure not to rely on these too heavily. If you develop a skin care routine and stick to it, you'll love the impact. Take care of your skin and soon those flare-ups and breakouts will become much less frequent!