 Make sure it is set to "movie", not "picture". Make sure the focus of your topic is clear and sharp. If you have a fuzzy video, it will be difficult to view.;
, It's difficult and frustrating to watch a blurry or shaking video. If you can't hold the camera steady while recording, use a tripod or set the camera on top of a stack of books. Make sure your recording is clear and that the entire subject is showing - not just half of it.
 Depending on the type of camera you're using, the record button is usually the same button you would press to snap a photo. Make sure the camera is recording properly.
 When you're finally finished, press the record button again to stop it.
 Make sure it is saved.
 If you find that you have made a mistake, you can use Windows Live Movie Maker to edit the mistake out. If you don't have Windows Live Movie Maker installed in your computer, you can easily download (Windows Live Movie Maker) from the Internet for free. Edit your video as much as you like. Maybe even add music to go along with your video!

, Make sure you have edited mistakes and that your video is perfect before uploading it to the public. Be sure your video contains no copyrighted information. If you are playing a song in the background, be sure to add the title and its artist in your description. You'll need to give credit to that person, or you may get in trouble!

, On the software that you're using to edit your video, there should be a YouTube icon somewhere on the page. Find it and click it.


You will be asked to sign into your YouTube account.
Then, YouTube will ask you to fill in information concerning your video and its contents. You will be asked to add a title, description, and any tags. You will also be required to select a category for your video. Choose the category according to the content of your video.
After you have filled the information, just click the "OK" button and YouTube will begin uploading the video. Depending on how long your video is, it may take a minute or so.
 Congratulations! You have uploaded your first video!

