 If you find yourself constantly zoning out, you may need to practice better sleep hygiene. Attention problems can arise when your brain and body aren’t getting proper rest. Develop a sleep routine that suits your schedule and stick to it.


Try going to bed at the same time each night so your body adjusts to your bedtime. Perform a special winding-down ritual like taking a relaxing bath, performing self-massage (or trading massages with partner), lighting a lavender-scented candle, and reading a book.
Lower the thermostat so your sleep environment is comfortable. Use black-out curtains. Reserve the bedroom for bedroom activities only. No doing work in bed or watching TV. Shut off your phone, TV and/or tablet at least an hour before bed since the blue light in these electronics keep you awake., What you’re fueling your body with can have a positive or negative impact on your mental health and functioning. Making some slight tweaks to your diet may help you concentrate better in school or work.


Clean up your diet by choosing whole foods that are closer to their original source. Opt for fruits, vegetables, whole grains, lean sources of protein, nuts and seeds, and low-fat dairy. In addition, vitamins B, C, and E as well as beta carotene and magnesium have been shown to improve cognitive functioning. To benefit from these nutrients, include dark green, leafy vegetables, citrus fruits, and carrots in your diet.Caffeine is widely known for helping improve concentration, but this substance may interfere with sleep quality. If you consume caffeine, do so before the lunch hour.
 If you are overwhelmed by stressful events or situations, it can be hard to stay focused. One effective way to limit zoning out is to address the stress in your life. Easing stress can open up the door for many other positive choices since excess stress can result in insomnia and overeating. Therefore, finding healthy coping mechanisms for stress can help you reduce other factors affecting your concentration.Stress can be managed through relaxation exercises. Progressive muscle relaxation, meditation, yoga, intentional and focused deep breathing, and visualization are all practical ways to reduce tension and help you relax.
If you are around others and unable to escape immediately to release your tension, try clenching and releasing your fists by your sides. Similar to yoga or any other exercise, this will help you to relieve any kind of tension in your body. Do this several times, again focusing on the release of tension while you count backwards with each tightening and release.
You can also ease stress by regularly performing self-care. Treat yourself to a movie outing. Phone a friend. Watch a hilarious YouTube video. Go to the salon and get your hair done. Run a warm, bubble bath. Do whatever makes you feel good about yourself and your life.
When you meet with your friend, if it is appropriate, and you feel comfortable talking about your concerns, then talk. You don't have to provide details, but if they know that you’re distressed they will be more forgiving if you zone out during the conversation.
Allow yourself forgiveness. Life happens and you can't control everything.
 Nearly every aspect of modern life can be linked to technology usage. When you are constantly in tune with everything that’s happening in the world around you, you can get bogged down with stress and neglect your physical and mental health. If you are suffering from attention or concentration problems, it may help to unplug for a while.


Choose a short time to conduct a digital detox. It can be a 12-hour period or an entire weekend. During this time, avoid watching TV, checking emails, or logging on to social media. If possible, shut off your smart phone. Reconnect with the people in your life. Go outside and get some fresh air. Engage in physical or creative pursuits that don’t involve smart devices., A wandering mind at work or school could be a tell-tale sign of burn out. A type of psychological stress related to working too much and/or not getting adequate sleep, burnout can rob you of productivity, push your thoughts in a negative direction, and jeopardize your health and wellness.


Signs of burnout include feeling drained on most days, getting sick often, having headaches or other aches, feeling detached from your environment, having no motivation, procrastinating, and using alcohol, drugs, or food to cope.
You can reduce burnout by decreasing your responsibilities at work or school, connecting more with your social group, pursuing hobbies or passions, or going on a vacation. Extreme cases of burnout may require the attention of a mental health professional or career counselor., Research tells us that occasional episodes of zoning out may be beneficial to idea generation, creativity, and goal-setting.Still, if you regularly find yourself disengaged from your environment or having difficulty concentrating, you may need to see a professional. A mental health therapist or psychologist can assess your situation and determine the cause of your zoning out.


Furthermore, a therapist can help you implement lifestyle changes that help you to become more present in your daily life.
You may also need to visit with your primary care physician for a check up and examination. Zoning out can be linked to some medical and mental health conditions, adverse reactions to medications, increased stress, lack of sleep, poor exercise, and diet.

