 You need to look at your budget and priorities. You might try to find neighbors, family members or a local business that might help you decide.;
, The end result would be the drawing of architectural plans that would be needed to proceed with the work. An architect can help with a proposed budget for the work as well. Prepare a detailed contract with the architect so there are no questions or concerns later on. Architects

, The architectural plans have to be approved by the Department of Buildings. This can be a time-consuming process, so plan accordingly. The architect will be able to help in this process. Your architect will play a substantial role in your construction, depending upon the size of the job. Your architect must be capable of performing a controlled inspection and must be registered with the Building Department to do special inspections. The architect, who may have worked with a number of builders, can recommend a reliable contractor.
 Make sure the contractor is licensed and insured with the NYC Dept. of Buildings as well as the NYC Dept. of Consumer Affairs. A contractor can also help you find other tradesmen such as electricians and plumbers. Sometimes contractors will have their own sub-contractors with whom they work closely on projects. Talk to the contractor about this. It sometimes helps the project proceed smoothly if a contractor has control over the subs when they are used to working together.
 A contract should be signed by all parties involved, and insurance certificates should be shared. Once this is squared away, the permits can be processed.
 Obtaining work permits sometimes involves expeditors. These are Building Department employees with on-the-street experience in obtaining permits. There are permit-filing fees, which should be spelled out to you beforehand.
 Once permits are obtained (not before), the work can begin. Make sure enough time is allowed for the permitting process. Contact your architect prior to starting construction, because he/she will have to inspect the excavation and footing.
, Once the work is completed there will be an inspection required for the Department of Buildings before it will sign-off on the work. Involve the architect or contractor in this step, too.
 You can go to www.nyc.gov/bis to see what still has to be done in the Required Items screen.

