 Back bend poses in yoga, like those listed in this section, help to engage both your nervous system and lymphatic system. The also help to create a flow of adrenaline that can make you feel energetic and youthful. Try the following poses, but always make sure to stop if you feel any pain—you should never feel pain when doing yoga.
 Lie down on your stomach with your hands by your sides. Place your palms closer to your chest and lift your face and chest off the floor. Straighten your elbows as you raise your upper body but do not lift your hips while you do this. With your head straight forward, pull your shoulders back—doing this should expand your chest.Hold the pose for 15 to 30 seconds, and then release your upper body slowly back to the floor.
 Lie down on your stomach and let your hands rest at your sides. Bend your legs so that the bottom of your feet are facing towards your head and hold your ankles with your hands. Pull your legs upward so that your thighs and chest float off of the floor so that only your abdomen is touching the ground. Hold this pose for 30 seconds.To release the pose, let go of your ankles first and then slowly bring your hands and legs back down to the ground.
 Lie down on your back on the yoga mat. Bend your legs so that your feet are flat on the ground and scoot your feet closer to your butt. Keep your feet hip-distance apart. Raise your hands beyond your head and place the palms closer to your ears. Let the fingers point towards your shoulders. Lift yourself up with your palms and feet, which should still be firmly placed on the floor. You can hold this pose here, or:


Straighten your elbows so that your whole body is arched. Hold this position for 30 seconds.
To release, slowly bend your elbows and knees, and lower yourself back to the ground. Do not simply drop to the floor, as this could lead to injury.
 Downward Dog pose extends your spine, stretches your chest muscles and opens up your chest. This enables free flow of oxygen to your lungs and increased lung performance to keep you energetic.To do the pose:


Go on your knees and hands so that your wrists are in line with your shoulders and your knees are in line with your hips.
Place your feet and palms firmly on the ground and push your hips high up and as you straighten your legs.
Let your chin move closer to your chest. Your arms and legs should feel like they are getting stretched out.
Focus on your breathing while you hold this pose for 30 seconds.

