 Millinery netting is different from regular tulle in that is it stiffer with bigger, diamond-shaped openings.Popular choices include Russian and French netting. Synthetic netting will be stiffer and give you more structure. Silk netting will be softer. Choose whichever suits you best.A birdcage veil is different from the traditional, long, fluffy wedding veil. It is made from stiffer lace that goes across your face, like a birdcage. is great for vintage-themed weddings.
 For a standard veil, cut the netting down to 9 inches (22.86 centimeters) high and 16 to 18 inches (40.64 to 45.72 centimeters) wide.If you want the veil to completely wrap around your head, measure the circumference of your head, add a couple of inches, and use that measurement for the width instead.You can always cut your veil longer than 9 inches (22.86 centimeters), especially if you want it to go past your chin.
Try to cut straight across the connecting "dots" between the diamonds. This will give you a cleaner, neater finish., Lay the netting down with one of the long edges facing you. Fold the right narrow edge towards the left narrow edge, then smooth the netting flat., When you unfold the veil, you want to end up with a trapezoid shape. How much you cut off depends how you want the veil to fall across your face.Plan on cutting off about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) at the corner, however.Again, try to cut through the connecting dots between the diamonds.
 Start sewing at the bottom of the left angle, across the top straight edge, and down towards the bottom of the right angle.You will need to do this by hand, not on a sewing machine.


Use clear thread or a thread color that matches your netting.
Sew through the last row of diamonds. This way, you won't get a scrunchy hem.
 Gently tug on the thread until the gathered edge matches the length of your comb.In most cases, this will be about 2 inches (5.08 centimeters). Tie the thread off and snip off the excess.


Adjust the gathers so that they fall between the knots at each end of your sewing. This will give you a neater finish.
 Choose a ribbon color that matches your netting color. Wrap it between the teeth and over the top of the comb in a spiral, from one side to the next. Secure both ends of the ribbon with hot glue (on the underside), stitching, or small knots.You can also use a ribbon color that contrasts your netting color. A black-and-white combo is both elegant and classic.
 Place the top, gathered edge of your veil across the top edge of your comb. You want the gathers pointing towards the teeth, and the rest of the veil pointing away from the comb. This way, the veil drapes across your face like a birdcage (hence the name). Stitch the veil directly to the ribbon. Use clear thread or a thread color that matches the netting.
 You can leave the comb as is, and choose to cover it with a chic, vintage hat. You can also embellish it with rhinestones, peals, feathers, or beads that match your beading dress. Sew the embellishments on, then snip away any excess thread.