 Broccoli prefers soil with a pH between 6.0 and 7.0. You can test the soil and add different nutrients to adjust its acidity. Be sure to test the soil periodically throughout the growing process. In addition to pH, the soil test results will tell you if your soil lacks any important nutrients, which you can add with soil amendments.


Your local agricultural extension office should have soil testing forms, bags and instructions available.
If your soil's pH level is below 6.0, add acid compost or planting mix.
If your soil's pH is above 7.0, mix in granular sulfur.;
, If your soil test reveals you have low quality soil, or if your soil drains poorly, there are several things you can do to ready your garden for planting broccoli:


If your soil is prone to flooding, consider building a garden planter box to raise your soil above the ground. If possible, use cedar wood to build your planter box, as it does not rot when exposed to water.
To increase the fertility of your soil, mix up to four inches of mature compost into your soil. If your soil is in particularly poor condition, also add a high-nitrogen organic fertilizer to enrich the soil.
Organic fertilizers like alfalfa, cottonseed meal, and manure are good choices for planting broccoli.
 While broccoli prefers full sun, it will tolerate some shade.
 For a summer harvest, sow seeds two to three weeks before the last spring frost. For a fall harvest, direct sow seeds outdoors 85 to 100 days before the first fall frost.


Alternately, start your seeds indoors. If you choose to start your seeds indoors, plant them in peat pots or other small seedling pots. Keep them in a sunny room.
If sowing seeds indoors, you can plant them earlier and transplant them to the garden 2 or 3 weeks before the last frost. If you plant them in separate pots or tray containers, you won't need to thin them later.
 Organize your plot into rows about 36 inches (90 cm) apart. Dig holes every 12 to 24 inches (30 to 60 cm) along each row. Place a few seeds in each hole and cover with soil.


Optionally, you can sow seeds every 6 inches (15 cm) instead and thin out the smaller or less healthy plants as they grow.
Use a rake to lightly smooth the soil over the seeds if you are planting outdoors, but be sure not to disturb the seeds themselves.
Simply pat the soil over your seeds with your fingers if planting in peat pots.
 Drench the soil, but be sure not to leave puddles of water, broccoli enjoys good drainage. If you planted the seeds indoors, use a spray bottle to dampen the soil.
 If direct sowing outdoors, apply an organic mulch made of mature compost, leaves, or bark to keep soil cool. Alternately, if you are planting in cool temperatures, apply a black plastic covering to heat the soil. You can buy plastic coverings at your local garden supply store, but any semi-sturdy black plastic such as a tarp will work.
 When your outdoor seedlings reach one inch (2.5 cm) in height, you may need to thin the plants in order to allow them space to grow. Remove smaller or unhealthy-looking plants until the survivors are 12 to 24 inches (30 to 60 cm) apart. This will prevent overcrowding as the broccoli plants continue to grow.