 Hawaii has a fast-paced environment and you'll likely be on the go a lot during your trip. As you'll want to see a lot of different attractions, it's a good idea to buy clothing that does not require a lot of extra care. It's a good idea to pack clothes you can hand wash in the sink, like light t-shirts, so you can clean clothes quickly and re-wear them the next day.Another bonus of easily washable clothing is that it cuts down on how much you'll have to pack. If you're traveling a long distance, it may make more sense to pack light.;
, In Hawaii, casual wear is typical for much of the day. Therefore, it's a good idea to opt for light clothing. Go for casual t-shirts and shorts for the daytime hours in Hawaii.If your'e not a fan of shorts, jeans, leggings, or capris can also be acceptable attire.
Breezy, lightweight tops are a good idea if you're not into t-shirts. It's usually fairly warm in Hawaii during the day, so do not pack anything too heavy.
 You may plan on doing some hiking during your vacation. Hawaii has a wide array of fun, tropical hikes you can take with a tour guide or on your own. If you plan to do hiking in Hawaii, make sure you pack slacks or jeans for daytime hikes.You should make sure to purchase other hiking equipment, like water bottles, prior to leaving for your trip. Hiking equipment can be hard to come by on certain Hawaiian islands, and it may be far pricier than on the mainland.
 Swimsuits are another vital piece of clothing for a Hawaii vacation. Pack a few different swimsuits for your journey, choosing a type you feel comfortable and confident in. You should also buy something light to put over a swimsuit. At many hotels, it's perfectly acceptable to wear a light slip over your swimsuit for breakfast and lunch at local restaurants.You can usually find slips or cover-ups for swimsuits at a department store near the swimsuit aisle.
You may want to bring a couple of swimsuits, especially if you plan on hitting the beach a lot. If one swimsuit gets wet or dirty, you should have a replacement on hand.
 Sandals, flip-flops, and other light shoes are a must for a Hawaii vacation. Rubber slippers or shoes are also nice for beach wear.If you plan on doing any hiking on your vacation, you should bring a sturdy pair of tennis shoes.
Dress shoes are usually not required in Hawaii. However, if you plan on hitting up a fancier restaurant, it's a good idea to bring a pair. You will also want to bring dress shoes if you're in Hawaii for business.
 In Hawaii, casual is key. Even for formal events, formal attire is not required. Instead, opt for semi-formal for events like shows, dinners, and other somewhat fancier evening festivities.For women, dress pants and a blouse are appropriate for more formal events. If you'd prefer to wear a dress, opt for a casual dress like a sun dress or a maxi dress. You can also wear a skirt with a nice blouse.
For men, go for slacks or dress shirts. You can wear a polo shirt or a knit dress shirt. Jackets are rarely required, but you can wear one if you choose. Ties are rarely seen, so they're optional.
 As stated, dress shoes are rare in Hawaii. Even at a formal event, you can get buy with sandals. You may want to choose a nice pair of tennis shoes or flats if you want to dress up.


Fancier sandals, such as sandals with lacy or beaded straps, are also an option for formal dinners.
Keep in mind it does get cold in Hawaii during the night. You may want a closed toe shoe for evening events, especially those that take place outdoors.
 It can get cooler in Hawaii at night. You way want to layer slightly. Throw on a light sweater or jacket over your t-shirt. You can also try something like a cardigan if you get chilly.It's a good idea to pack a few outfits you can layer. A tank-top can be suitable during the day. Then, when it gets chilly, throw a cardigan over it. Versatile outfits you can layer and un-layer are great for Hawaii.
 It's not necessary to pack a suit and tie or an evening gown for a Hawaii vacation. Casual is key on the island, so leave your fanciest clothes behind. In addition to helping you fit in on the island, you will also free up space in your suitcase.If you're traveling for business, however, have a few formal outfits on-hand. You may stand out at a bar in a fancy gown, but if you're meeting clients at a hotel, formality is expected.
 Sunglasses are necessary in Hawaii. The bright sunlight, especially during daylight hours, can cause eye irritation. Make sure you pack sunglasses for your trip.It may be a good idea to pack a couple of pairs of sunglasses in the event you lose or break a pair.
In the event you forget sunglasses, there will be many places on the island to purchase a pair. You can also buy sunglasses at the airport.
 As with other aspects of Hawaiian culture, fancy jewelry is not necessary. Bringing expensive jewelry on vacation can also be risky as you may lose or misplace it. Stick to fun casual jewelry, like hoop earrings and bead necklaces. Leave more expensive items at home.
 Wide brimmed hats, like sun hats, are important for Hawaii. They will protect you from the sun, and also add a touch of style to your outfit. When on a Hawaiian vacation, make sure to pack a sun hat.Opt for colorful hats. A lot of Hawaiian attire is bright and colorful. A bright hat is a great way to add some flare to your outfit.
 You'll likely be running around a lot in Hawaii and will probably frequently hit the beach. Therefore, it makes little sense to waste time styling your hair with fancy products. Keep your hairstyle casual. You can let your hair hang loose or tie it back in a casual ponytail.


Pack light shampoo and conditioner for Hawaii. As you'll likely be swimming a lot, fancier products will wash out fast.
If you want to style your hair for a night out, pick a quick and simple style. Brush your hair out and lightly spritz with hairspray, for example. A fancy hairdo that took hours will make you stand out unnecessarily in Hawaii.

