 Whether you are in court for a crime or not, you want to be portrayed as an upstanding, model citizen with only the best of intentions. Your attorney may advise you on what will work best, however some obvious rules to follow is to dress conservatively and present the image of a law abiding individual.


Find clothing that communicates that you are a reasonable person. Classic lines and conservative attire will provide you with the best opportunity to communicate that you are a practical person who is serious.
Someone who has a steady job and strong values and morals. Regardless of your case you want the judge and jury to see you as someone who has steady employment and a societal rule follower. This means you want business attire--neutral colors, conservative hemlines and clothing void of rips and stains.
Your clothing can help you tell your story. In a Wall Street Journal story a California judge said that how a client dresses may communicate the opposite of what they intend. For example, if a father comes to court dressed sloppy and he is before the court for child neglect, she said that kind of appearance may detract from his case. Or a women who claims poverty arriving at court in an expensive outfit may undermine her case.;
, Coco Chanel once said, “Dress shabbily and they remember the dress; dress impeccably and they remember the woman.” This comment could be applied to both men and women. Instead of steering the judge and jury to your outfit, you should want the court to be more attentive to your story and case.


No hats or baseball caps. Although you may have an allegiance to the New York Yankees, court is not the time to communicate this love. Also, favorite bands or gang affiliation caps should never even enter the courthouse.
Ditch ill fitting clothing. From being too tight to too baggy, wear clothing that actually fits you. No judge wants to see your boxer shorts peeking above baggy pants or every bump and bulge beneath a dress that is too tight (and/or too revealing).
Steer clear of clothing that communicates a message. A woman was held in contempt of court and actually put in jail for wearing a t-shirt a judge deemed to communicate an offensive message. Leave the, “I’m with stupid” shirt at home.
Extremely expensive outfits. Even if the world knows you are a billionaire, you don’t want to flash your money through your clothing in court. Keep in mind that you are being judged by a panel of your peers--those who most likely are not high rollers. Subdued, classic clothing is best, especially brands that are not readily known to be very expensive (or flashy).
 Although clothing makes an impact, how you wear your hair and care for your overall appearance carries just as much weight. Like clothing, classic, conservative hair and makeup (or skin) is what will give you more of an advantage in court. However, consult with your attorney before making any changes.


Consider a conservative haircut. If you have your boyfriend’s name shaved into the side of your head, consider having the name removed and covered for your court appearance. Also, if you are a man with long hair, and refuse to have it cut, make sure your hair is neatly pulled back in a ponytail so the judge and jury can see your face. Hiding behind hair will give the impression of culpability.
Natural hair and nail color. Three-inch long, diamond studded nails are generally a bad idea in court. Also, bright primary colored hair is also a bad idea. Follow the rule of thumb of natural hair and nail color.
Have a manicure, especially if you bite your nails. Bitten nails may put you in a negative light; as though you are a nervous person or possibly guilty of doing something wrong. You may subconsciously bite your nails, but regardless of the reason have that addressed before heading off to court.
 No stilettos, combat boots or overly expensive shoes for court. You want to present a clean, but humble appearance.


Consider shoe cost. Many women have a serious love affair with their shoes, however wearing your $500 Manolo Blahnik stilettos to court may have a negative appeal to the judge and jury. Go for a shoe that is of high quality but could be purchased by the majority of the public.
Wear clean, scuff free shoes. Banged up shoes will also detract from your appearance. Spring to have your shoes professionally shined or do the job yourself. Otherwise, purchase a new pair of shoes if your pair cannot be repaired.
Loud jewelry should be left at home. Even though you may have a personal attachment to your nameplate necklace or your grandmother’s bangles from India, leave them at home. For women, a wedding ring, watch and small earrings are appropriate and for men a watch a wedding ring is all that should be worn.

