 The rubbing alcohol will preserve the body of the insect and prevent it from decaying, drying out, or breaking into pieces. The jar should be larger than the insect, but not unnecessarily so. If you put a small insect in a large jar, you’ll waste rubbing alcohol.


Most rubbing alcohol is a 70% solution—this should work well for preserving your insects. Stronger rubbing alcohol—at 80 or 85%--is also appropriate, as some insects are better preserved with a stronger alcohol.Examples of insects that should be preserved in stronger alcohol include: spiders, scorpions, earthworms, and small insects including lice and silverfish.Make sure that the glass jar has a tight-fitting lid, and does not have any cracks.;
, Keep in mind that soft-bodied insects are most commonly preserved in alcohol. The insect could come from anywhere: a window inside your house, the environment near where you live, or even from a nearby spider’s web. You’ll want to preserve an insect that is still in decent shape. If the insect has been dead for days and is already decaying and breaking apart, preserving it will be less effective.


You can also trap insects yourself through a variety of methods: for example, catching moths and butterflies in a butterfly net.While some would object to the ethics of killing insects simply to preserve them, traps are an effective way to make sure you have dead insects available.
 When preserving insects, it’s important to know which specific species you are dealing with. This is an especially important part of the procedure if you are preserving insects for scientific purposes. The label should include: the genus and species of the insect, the date and location on which the insect was found, and the name of the collector.Tape the completed label to the outside of the alcohol-filled jar.


There are many helpful websites that can help you identify the dead insect.Start by checking BugGuide.net or InsectIdentification.org. If these sites aren’t helpful, try to contact a local entomologist.
 Be delicate, and handle the insect carefully: its body will be very fragile and could easily be crushed. It’s best if you handle the insect with forceps or a pair of tweezers, as your fingers could break or damage part of the insect.If the insect has a stinger (bees, wasps) or is otherwise poisonous, wear latex gloves when handling the body.
 Only do this once the body of the insect has settled to the bottom of the jar. Pour the rest of the alcohol in slowly. If you pour too fast, the liquid may damage or break the insect’s body.


Close and seal the jar, then store it in a safe location. If you’re planning on starting a large insect collection, it may be prudent to dedicate an entire tabletop to the jars.
Store the insect jars far from food, children, and animals.

