 The Amazon Kindle store, The Barnes and Noble Nook store and Google Books are all large and well-established, and can be used on a computer, tablet, or smart phone as well as an e-reader device. They are likely to have the latest available eBooks, and carry little to no risk of viruses or identity theft.


If you are using a computer, you can either download the free eBook reader software made available by the book seller, or look for books in general purpose formats. PDFs can be viewed in Adobe Acrobat Reader, while .LIT, ePub, and .Mobi files can be read in Microsoft Reader.
 Independent eBook sellers may offer collections focused on specific topics, or works by new and unknown authors.Before downloading any files from a site you do not recognize, search for reviews of the site online to determine whether it is safe.



Smashwords offers self-published and independent works, with a focus on fiction.

Safari offers access to O'Reilly Publishing's extensive library of programming and computer books.

APress Alpha and Manning Early Access provide access to books on technological topics as the book is being written.
 Book subscription services offer access to a library of online books for a periodic subscription fee. Many of these services offer a free trial month.



Scribd offers unlimited access to paying subscribers.
Entitle offers access to your choice of two books each month, for a monthly fee.

Oyster is a book subscription service oriented at mobile devices, with a heavy selection of indie and new authors.
 Commercial sites like CourseSmart.com, Chegg.com or Textbooks.com are often the most likely to have recent or required textbooks, but may require paid registration. Portions of the textbook may be available for free, or the entire eBook version may come free with the physical textbook.
 If you are looking for a specific book, search online for the author's personal website or the publisher's promotional website for that book. An eBook is sometimes offered through these sites, or the author may provide free supplemental material or previews.

