 By now, television is one of the most widely used sources to gain general knowledge. Although there is plenty of questionable viewing content on television, there is still plenty of newsworthy and entertaining programming available as a rich resource for information. Try to stay diverse in watching television by watching news programs such as CNN, public broadcasting (PBS), game shows (Jeopardy), and educational programming (National Geographic) with documentaries, films based on facts, and instructional programming (Food Network) to expand your general knowledge.
Watching television is largely a passive exercise that does not require a lot of thinking. So, try to limit the number of hours sitting in front of the television.
 Search engines like Google, Yahoo, and Bing enable you to find any answer to any question within seconds. Routinely use these internet sites to discover current news, trends, and topics of interests. Many of these search engines are one-stop shops for information. Not only can you search for current affairs with up-to-date information, you can also find out about entertainment, fashion, sports, and what is popularly trending on the internet.
 Several news outlets that post updated information regularly often have a special notification system that you can subscribe to. Anytime news appears under a category that interests you, the alert will notify you on an electronic device like a cell phone, keeping you updated with current information.Some of the more popular news alert sites are Google and Fox News, along with BBC and AP News.
 Choose a game or program that involves learning new information, rules, or strategies. There are many online sites that offer crossword puzzles, trivia, and other games that will test your general knowledge.


There are several websites that provide quizzes on general knowledge, current events, and history. Try taking one of these quizzes on a daily basis to test your general knowledge.
 Nowadays with the free flow of information, you can join a full-fledged university class online with little or no cost to you. Several top universities like MIT, Harvard, and Stanford provide top-of-the line courses in everything from philosophy to politics in MOOC (Massive Open Online Course) platforms.There are currently more than ten million people taking online MOOC classes. By joining, you will be able to communicate with people from all over the world.
Taking a MOOC course will give you updated information on various specializations and the possibility of discovering new interests.
MOOC’s provide an opportunity for you learn alongside a group of diverse professions and professionals for every corner of the globe.

