 The dimensions will vary depending on how small or large you want to make the pom pom. The width of the rectangle should match your desired pom pom diameter, and the length should be 1-1/2 to 2 times as long as the width.For a small pom pom, try making a 4-inch (10-cm) by 6-inch (15-cm) rectangle. For a larger pom pom, consider making an 8-inch (20-cm) by 12-inch (30-cm) rectangle.
Alternatively, you could use a hardback book instead of creating a cardstock rectangle. The width of the book should match the desired diameter for your pom pom.;
, This piece of tulle should be about 7 to 10 inches (17.5 to 25 cm) long. Set it aside for later.


You'll eventually use this piece of tulle to hold the center of the pom pom together. If you don't want to use tulle, you could try cutting and using an equal length of ribbon, twine, or coated wire.
 Hold one end of the tulle at the lengthwise edge of the cardstock rectangle. Wrap the tulle completely around the width of the rectangle a total of 30 times, then cut the tulle from its spool after the final pass.


For most sizes, 30 passes should create an adequately fluffy ball of tulle. Extremely small pom poms may require fewer passes, and extremely large pom poms may require more.
You can use one to four colors of tulle. If using multiple colors, hold the different tulle strips together and wrap them simultaneously. Shorten the number of passes according to the number of colors.

One color gets 30 passes.
Two colors get 15 passes.
Three colors get 10 passes.
Four colors get 7 or 8 passes.
 Carefully slide the tube of wrapped tulle off the cardstock rectangle. Pinch the tube together at its center.


When pinched, the tulle tube should have a bow-like shape. The wrapped, rounded edges should fall to both sides of your hand.
Work carefully. If the tulle unravels during this step, you'll need to wrap it around the rectangle again to return it to its tube shape.
 Carefully tie the piece of scrap tulle around the center of your tulle tube, preserving the bow-like shape first created when you pinched the tube with your fingers.


Keep the tie centered around the tube. If it appears off-center, carefully slide it along the width of the tube as needed to position it closer to the center.
 Insert your scissors through the rounded loop ends and cut them apart. Do this on both sides of the tulle tube.
 Gently pull the cut tulle ends toward the center of the pom pom, fluffing and shaping them as needed to hide the tied center and give the pom pom a rounded shape.


Some pieces will likely appear longer than others. If this happens, carefully trim them down using your scissors to give the pom pom a more rounded shape.
During this time, you can also trim away any excess tulle, ribbon, or coated wire peeking out from the center of the pom pom.
 Once the tulle pom pom is adequately round and fluffy, it's done and ready to use.

