 This will take you to a blank slide. Title the slide “Jeopardy Game” (or any other title you want). You can also use this space to create a welcome message, insert images, etc. This is the first slide everyone will see during game play.To give your slides a little pizzazz, go up to the Design tab and choose from the many Themes listed.
You can even customize each Theme with your own colors and fonts, if you wish.
 Click New Slide. This will bring up the next blank slide. Go up to the Insert tab and then click Table. A dropdown menu will appear. Click Insert Table. A pop-up will appear, asking you to choose how many columns and rows you want. Choose 5 for Columns and 6 for Rows. The table will be 5 x 6. Then click OK.Drag the corners of the table to resize the cells so that the game board fills up the entire slide.
If you would like to change the color scheme of your table, go up to the Table Tools section of the menu bar and select Design. Choose from the color options presented.
 Click the top left cell and a cursor will appear. Type Category 1 in the box and then hit Tab to move to the next cell in the top row. Type Category 2 into this box. Hit tab again and type Category 3 into this box. Continue the same procedure until the top row has been completed with a Category 4, Category 5 and Category 6.If you’d like to customize any of the text, highlight it and hit the Home tab. From here you can change font type, size, and color.
You can also align the text to be in the center of each box, if you prefer.
 Click on the box directly beneath Category 1. A cursor appears. Type in $100. Click on the box right beneath that. Type in $200. Follow the same procedure for the remaining 2 boxes in that column, so that you have a box for $300, $400 and $500.Do the exact same thing in the columns for Categories 2 – 6.


Each column should start at the top with the $100 box appearing directly below the Category box, and then end at the bottom with the $500 box.
To customize the text in these boxes, just highlight it and hit the Home tab.
You will definitely need to go up to a minimum font size of 48 to ensure visibility.
If you centered the text in your Category boxes, you should do the same for the remaining cells in the table for consistency.
 Now that your board is shaping up, it’s time to start customizing it. Highlight the text in the box that says Category 1, delete it, and then type in what topic you plan to use for your game.


For instance, If your topic first topic is “Mammals,” type that word in the box to replace the generic “Category 1” that was previously there.
Adjust the font up or down as needed so that your topic fits in the box.
 This will be Slide 3. On slide 3, type out the clue that belongs to the $100 question in Category 1. If you were typing a $100 clue for the topic of “Mammals,” you would type something like: “Lives in the sea and swims with fins, but does not breathe through gills.”


Highlight the text and hit the Home tab to customize your text.
Make it larger, change the font or the text color, center text – make it look however you want.
 Right click on the highlighted text and select Hyperlink from the menu that appears. Click Place in This Document, which will be on the left side of the box that appears. Then you will select Slide 3 and hit OK. Now your $100 question under the topic “Mammals” is linked to Slide 3, which features the clue.To test the feature, hit F5 for slideshow view. Slide 1 will appear first. Hit the right arrow key to go to Slide 2. This is your game board so far.
Click the $100 link under “Mammals” and it will take you directly to Slide 3, which is the corresponding clue.
Hit Esc to take you back to the slides in Edit view.
 This will be Slide 4. On slide 4, type out the answer that belongs to the $100 clue in “Mammals,” which is “Dolphin.” Click back to Slide 3. In the bottom right corner, create a text box and type “Click here for the answer.” Highlight that text, right click, and select Hyperlink.


Choose Place in This Document, and then select Slide 4.
Now your $100 clue under the topic “Mammals” is linked to Slide 4, which features the answer.
 Hit the right arrow key button to go to Slide 2. Click the $100 link under “Mammals” and it will take you directly to Slide 3, which is the corresponding clue: “Lives in the sea and swims with fins, but does not breathe through gills.”


Click the link the link that you just created on the bottom right of Slide 3, which takes you directly to the corresponding answer on Slide 4: “What is a dolphin?”
Hit Esc to take you back to the slides in Edit view.
 Type in “Return to the board.” Highlight this text, right click, then choose Hyperlink. Hit Place in This Document and select Slide 2, which is your game board. Then click OK. Now your answer slide is directly linked back to the board, so when you’re finished with the $100 clue and answer for “Mammals” you can navigate easily back.


If you want to test it out, hit F5 and go through the clue and answer, test the links, and then hit the link to go back to the game board.
Every answer slide you create in this presentation will need the “Return to the board” link at bottom right, just like this one.
 You’re ready to input your next clue and answer. The procedure is exactly the same. Add a new slide (which will be Slide 5), type the next clue on that slide, highlight $200 on the board, right click and hyperlink to Slide 5. Type “Click here for the answer” at the bottom right of Slide 5.


Then add Slide 6. Type the answer to the clue on Slide 6. Highlight “Click here for the answer” on Slide 5, right click, choose Hyperlink and then choose Slide 6 to link them together.
Type “Return to the board” at the bottom right on Slide 6, highlight the text, right click, Hyperlink, and select Slide 2 to create a link back to the game board.
 Hit F5 to go to slideshow view, and then go through each Category clue and answer to make sure all of your links work.Feel free to jazz up your slides with additional content, images, etc.


Your slideshow Jeopardy game can be as simple and bare bones as you like, or you can get really creative with it.

