 When your body breaks down alcohol, it has to use plenty of vitamins and other nutrients that your body would normally be using to run its usual functions smoothly. So after tying one on, you're depleted of vital nutrients, which all need to be replenished as quickly as possible. So, instead of popping a chemical nerve freezer, it's much wiser to revitalize yourself with yummy fresh salad to help speed up your recovery.;
, In order to save your stomach, you will need to avoid heavy foods of the following sort: potatoes, fries, pasta, greasy salad dressings, meats and other foods that are heavy on the digestion. Heavy starchy or heavy protein foods are going to be tough on your weakened stomach and anything greasy will probably be super nauseating. Instead, arm yourself with: veggies, rice, eggs and nuts.


If you have some vague notion that fried foods and alcohol are a good match, then remember this for future reference: Fried food can possibly work before drinking to help slow the absorption of alcohol into your bloodstream by sticking to your stomach's lining., When making a hangover bashing salad, find the following in your fridge or from the pantry:


Tomatoes, lettuce, cucumbers, green olives, carrots, bell peppers (capsicum), onions, etc.
Bananas, kiwi fruit - these are great because they replace lost electrolytes, potassium and magnesium Fish (canned, smoked or fresh) - sardines will replenish lost sodium, chloride, potassium, magnesium and calcium, as well as contributing liver protecting Omega 3 fatty acidsFresh non-roasted unsalted nuts
Eggs - which contain cysteine, that can help break down the hangover causing toxin acetaldehyde in the liver
Cheese (choose a very natural one like Gouda, Emmental, or Mozzarella
Extra virgin olive oil (EVOO).
 There's no right and wrong here. Mix up a good bowl of salad made from these ingredients. Use only raw vegetables, unsalted and unroasted peanuts and serve with cooked eggs (boiled or poached is ideal). As much as possible, concentrate on using ingredients that contain moisture. Your body needs water more than ever at this critical moment. Don't deprive yourself of liquid!


Never use spices and/or salt. The reason for this is simple––you don't want to put too much strain on your stomach after a heavy night of drinking. That's why you need to use easily digestible foods. This is the fastest way to replenish the lost vitamins!

, Never munch down the whole bowl of salad at once. Your stomach may get angry at you for this kind of abuse and it will most definitely reward you with some heavy metal vomiting. Avoid this by eating small doses of salad in hourly intervals until you feel better. When you're confident that your stomach feels better, then you'll be able to eat heavier food like meats, bread, potatoes, etc., but for now keep the meals fresh, light and short.
 Never forget to drink plenty of water after a hangover. This will help your body to clean out all the junk you put into yourself the day before. Have water as often as you can stomach it but again, initially this may mean only small amounts frequently because a large amount may simply come up again.


Have fruit juice. The fruit sugar replenishes your energy quickly after a hangover., You can use a blitzkrieg combination of veggie soup and salad. This will boost up your vitamins and rehydrate you to a decent level.You could use leeks, onions, carrots, asparagus, chicory and broccoli and mix them all together. Many of these are vitamin bombs, but only in combination of a soup. Eating them this way makes them actually quite yummy. Remember, just salad and soup with small doses and you'll be fine before you know it.
 In between this rabbit munching, do some sloth snoozing. Alcohol causes us to sleep fitfully and you'll be needing more sleep to help restore the energy that has been depleted by the booze. Sleep some, eat your hangover bashing salad and blitzkrieg soup and you'll recover in a record time.

