 When you are shopping for frozen meals, it is extremely important that you read the list of ingredients. As a general rule the fewer the ingredients, the better. If you are looking at a package and see a lot of unrecognizable scientific terms, then the meal is probably highly processed and high in added sugars., When you are reading the label of a frozen food package, you want to see identifiable foods. For example, a meal that lists “corn, rice, chicken, soy sauce, and olive oil” does not contain a lot of processed foods. This means that will be relatively healthy in comparison to some of the more processed options with lots of added chemicals and sugars., You should avoid purchasing frozen meals that contain more than 2 grams of saturated fats. It is also recommended that you avoid all meals that contain trans fats. Read through the ingredients list carefully to ensure that there are no trans fats. Companies can state 0 trans fats on the box as long as there are 0.5 grams or less of trans fats. That may mean that some meals that are advertised as having no trans fats actually include trace amounts of trans fats.For example, if you see the ingredient “partially hydrogenated oil” on the ingredient list then the product does contain trace amounts of trans fat. Avoid all meals with partially hydrogenated fats and oils listed on the ingredients.
Instead, look for olive oils and canola oils on ingredients lists. These are heart-healthy monounsaturated fats.
 Many frozen meals are extremely high in sodium content and some meals have well over 1,000 milligrams of sodium per serving. An average healthy person should not consume more than 2,300 milligrams of sodium each day. This means that some frozen meals contain approximately half of the daily sodium intake. In order to make a healthy choice, look for meals that contain no more than 600 milligrams of sodium., When you are shopping for frozen meals, you may notice that some products boast that they contain less than 200 calories per meal. Although this may seem healthy, it is deceiving. A meal that contains less than 200 calories is actually just a snack and does not include enough nutrients and vitamins to equate to a meal.


If you select one of these low calorie options you are more likely to indulge in an unhealthy snack later on in the day.
You can supplement these meals by preparing a vegetable- or grain-based side dish to make a well balanced meal. Other healthy side options include a green salad, a piece of fruit like an orange or banana, yogurt, or cottage cheese.

