 A bunion is a chronically sprained and inflamed joint that forms when the big toe is constantly pushed towards the smaller toes, usually by wearing ill-fitting shoes or shoes that are too narrow (such as high heels).Flat feet also contribute to bunion formation, which can mimic rheumatoid or osteoarthritis because of the inflammation, redness and dull, achy pain involved. As bunions progress, the big toe becomes more crooked and generates more pain, which may lead to limping and other joint problems in the ankle or knee.


Over-the-counter anti-inflammatories (such as ibuprofen or naproxen) or analgesics (such as acetaminophen) can combat the swelling and pain caused by bunions.
If the pain is severe, stronger medications may be prescribed by your family doctor or orthopod (such as COX-2 inhibitors or morphine-based drugs).
Steroid injections directly into the joint can be effective for combating pain and inflammation.
 The vast majority of bunions occur in women who wear shoes that are too narrow. Changing to shoes that have a wider toe box and better arch support can certainly stop the progression and pain of a bunion, but it probably won't straighten the big toe back to its normal position. After giving up high-fashion shoes, if the bunion is still painful and limits activity, then surgery should be considered.


You should be able to wiggle your toes while your shoes are on.
There should be at least 1/2 inch (1.25 cm) of space between the tips of your big toes and the end of your shoes while standing up.
Athletic shoes and walking sandals are generally good choices.
 Taping a plastic, wooden or metal splint around the affected toe might help reduce the pain and realign the joint, depending on how long you've had the bunion. Silicone or felt pads worn on the feet or as shoe inserts may also relieve bunion pain, but it depends on the degree of joint damage. Orthopods, podiatrists, physical therapists and chiropractors could all be of help with splints or shoe orthotics.


Arch supports and orthotics realign the shape of your foot, correcting balance and weight distribution throughout the muscles of your feet and toes.
Massages, gentle stretching and ice baths may also help reduce the pain and dysfunction of bunions.
 Bunion surgery often involves shaving the bone and/or strategically breaking it so it can be set straight.Surgical pins and wires are often needed to hold the toe bones in place while you heal. For severely damaged joints, the joint might be fused together or even completely removed and replaced with an artificial joint. The goal of surgery is pain relief and increased mobility, not to create a "prettier" foot or make it possible to wear high-heel shoes again. If tight, pointy shoes are worn after surgery, then most likely the bunion will come back.


Bunion correction is an outpatient surgery. After the surgery, the foot is covered with a bulky, compressive bandage.
Bone typically takes six weeks to heal, so wearing a protective boot for a minimum of six weeks after surgery is common.During this time, avoid excessive or unnecessary walking.

