 Different tablets excel with eBooks, movies, music, work/productivity, play games, check emails and browsing. As you go through the process of choosing, make sure use is at the forefront of your mind.;
, For most people who plan to listen to music, watch videos, download apps and view photos, the biggest storage size is better. Storage can start at 16 gigabytes (GB), but can go as large as 128 GB.
 Generally, the newer the model, the sharper the display. The pixels per inch will make a big difference when playing games, viewing photos, watching videos and more.
 7 to 8-inch screens are considered small, while 8.9 to 10-inch tablets are considered large. At the small end is the Galaxy Note 2 and 3, a “phablet” that counts as both a phone and a tablet between 5 and 6.9 inches.


Screen size is measured diagonally from the top right corner to bottom left corner. This is similar to computer screen and TV screen measurements., You can expect to pay between $200 and $1,000 for a tablet. Few people can buy any tablet on the market, so get a good idea of what you can afford before you go searching through models.


Included in the budget conversation is the monthly charge. If you only plan to use it from home, a Wi-Fi only model doesn’t require an extra charge per month.
However, a cellular service that provides data around the clock will cost $80 to $100 per month.
 The Galaxy Tab, LG G Pad 8.3 and the Google Nexus are top Android tablets that come in a variety of sizes. After Apple, Google Play has the largest list of apps available. , The Apple Store has the most apps available on tablets. The new Apple iPad Air is the lightest and slimmest model yet.


Following up close behind are the iPad mini 2 with Retina display and iPad mini, which are smaller tablets if you don’t need a 10-inch display.
 If eBooks are your goal, then a Kindle paper white is cheap and easy to use. If you want an amazing display, eReader capabilities and high functionality for apps, music and videos then the Kindle Fire HDX 7 is at the top of its class for a relatively low price.
 Tablets like the Microsoft Surface Pro 2 are excellent for people looking to work heavily on their tablet. You can use Microsoft’s Office suite and use it as a laptop or tablet. Microsoft tablets come in several different sizes. The Surface is heavier and may not be the best option for commuting or plane travel.
 Although phablets only account for two percent of data usage, they may be gaining in popularity thanks to their portability, usability and performance.


If you need to get a mobile plan to cover your tablet for travel, combining your phone and tablet in 1 device may outweigh the disadvantages of a smaller display.
 This is when prices are highest for the Christmas season. You are less likely to see manufacturers offering discounts, especially on the newest models.
 One study showed that most PC tablets drop by about 27 percent during that time. Apple tablets drop by 4.5 percent., Apple has garnered up to 70 percent of the market share, although that number seems to be dwindling. Prices are a lot more flexible with Android, Microsoft and other models.


Kindle prices are also more inflexible; however, the Kindle has released models across several price points that stay fairly steady.
 When a device is new, the manufacturer offers the lowest price for several months to a year.


An added advantage of purchasing from Apple is that they will engrave your device for free.
Look for discounts on shipping or free accessories when you are buying from the manufacturer.
 If price is your largest factor, then these sites will offer cheap prices. You must take some risk by not being able to vet the seller before you buy.
 If you want Internet on the go and not a Wi-Fi model, chances are you can tie your tablet to your phone plan and snap up a tablet at a cheaper price.


Avoid purchasing tablet accessories at a mobile wireless outlet. You can find accessories online at far cheaper prices.
 Before new models come out, they may deduct $20 to $50 from the purchase price.
 Use a store like Best Buy, Apple Store or Currys to compare different brands. Then, make sure you compare the purchase price to the manufacturer’s price before you pick up your tablet from the store.Don’t compromise your tablet purchase based on what they have in stock. Ask the store to order it in or purchase it online from a trusted seller.

