 Waxing kits come with everything you will need to wax away that pesky unibrow. Wax kits use either cold or warm wax that will pull the hair out by the root. Unibrows that are removed with wax will stay removed for longer than unibrows that are tweezed away.


There is also the option of purchasing wax-covered strips. These are best for newcomers to the waxing world. Simply press a pre-waxed strip against the area that you wish to remove hair from. Pat the strip down, hold the skin around it down with your fingers, and swiftly pull the strip off.
Wax is notoriously painful, even though it's so effective. If you have sensitive skin, consider applying a little topical numbing cream to the area you intend to wax prior to embarking on the process., Follow the instructions on the box to make sure that you do this correctly. Generally, you can warm the wax up in the microwave, and it may only take 30 to 60 seconds. Stir the wax well to make sure it's fully melted.
 It is much easier to ask a friend to do this rather than do it yourself. However, you can certainly do it yourself if you use a mirror and have good aim. If you mess up and put the wax on a part of your eyebrow that you do not want to removed, rinse it off and try again.


Take a thin brush or pencil and hold it vertically against the widest part of your nose. The point at which the brush meets your eyebrow is where your eyebrow should begin from the center. Repeat on both sides to determine how much hair to remove., Pat it down firmly. Make sure that when you place the strip it does not cover anything that you do not want removed.
 You should follow the specific instructions listed on the box to determine how long you should way before removing the strip. Depending on the wax, this may only take another minute or so. The wax should feel cool to the touch from the accessible side of the waxing strip.


Again, asking a friend to help is a much easier way to wax your unibrow.
 Hold the skin around the strip down with one hand. Give the strip a swift and fluid yank like your are removing a band-aid.


Check your face in the mirror after removing the strip. It's possible that some hairs may get left behind; you can pluck those individually with tweezers.
 Apply an antibacterial lotion to prevent break-outs or ingrown hairs.


A small dab of hydrocortisone cream also works to reduce pain and irritation.