 It automatically annoys a teacher, or anyone who is reading it. If you make a paragraph, don't forget to indent at the beginning of each paragraph. Also, don't forget to add commas and semicolons where you need them.;
, If your teacher can't read it, you may have to redo it or it won't get counted for your grade. You can practice this with just a piece of paper and a pencil!

, If you see a word, you don't know, look it up in the dictionary! You can even read a few pages in the dictionary.
 There's books like, "Wordly Wise", that you can buy, and they're really useful! You can learn new words and the meanings, and they make them for grades K-12. There's also printing and cursive books to practice your neatness.
 You might end up finding a book you really like!

, There some programs you can buy that can teach you English. Instead of spending $500 on Rosetta Stone, you can get Instant Immersion for $50! It may still be a little pricy, but it's a huge difference compared to $500.
 While it's a good idea to improve your overall writing ability if you're looking for a better English grade in the long term, you can make big short-term gains by changing just a few of your writing habits. Most English teachers love the following things and will probably bump your grade up at least slightly if you start to use them:


Use big words. A healthy vocabulary is every writer's best friend! Try to start using words like "ramifications" and "soliloquy".
Use a serious tone. Your writing doesn't have to be stuffy - just serious. Try to avoid using silly or goofy words and expressions.
Be neat. Keep your writing within the margins and avoid unsightly eraser marks. If you're typing, use a dignified font and follow your teacher's rules for indents and margins.
Cite your sources. Whenever you use information that you didn't already know in your writing, give your source the credit it's due.
Give your writing a good title. Snazzy titles are a big plus! Serious titles that accurately describe the contents of your writing are a good bet, as are clever, "snappy" ones (puns, references, and so on).

