 It can be difficult to analyze your dreams if you can't remember them. To make it easier on yourself, keep a notebook beside your bed with a pen ready to go, every time you go to sleep. As soon as you wake up, write down everything that you were dreaming. Describe it in as specific an amount of detail as possible. Try to do it as soon as you've awakened, no matter how tired you are.


What did you see? Who was there? What did you notice around you in terms of senses like smells, tastes, textures? How did you connect to it emotionally? Was it a scary dream? A sexy dream? A pleasant dream?
Write down dialog first. This tends to be the first thing to go and it can be frustrating to think that something important might have been communicated and not be able to remember what it was.
 If you struggle to remember your dreams, wake yourself up in the middle of them. Interrupting your dreams is an effective way of recognizing the symbols in them and keeping the images fresh in your mind.


Set an alarm on your phone to go off every three hours, which will allow you to complete two full REM cycles of 90 minutes each. You can write down your dreams in only a minute or two, meaning that you'll still be able to get a full night of sleep and will be able to record your dreams.
 Just as you might with symbols that come up in your meditation, start interrogating the symbols rise out of your dreams and assigning significance and meaning to them.


Pick up on lots of different things in each dream. Go back to your image of crabs drinking gasoline on the beach. The crabs and the gasoline seem significant, but also consider what drinking might symbolize, what sand might symbolize, and other tactile or emotional elements to the images. How did it feel to watch?
People are symbols as well. Dreaming that you kissed your best friend doesn't necessarily "mean" that you're in love with your best friend and you should start kissing. When we dream of specific people, it is because our subconscious has attached a symbolic meaning to those people. Dreaming of kissing your friend might mean that you're attracted to a certain element of your friend as a person, something that you want to get closer to, or accomplish in your own life.
 Common dreams, like dreaming that your teeth are falling out, or that you are flying, or that you're in public with no clothes on have common interpretations–you're stressed out, you're struggling or succeeding with control, you're vulnerable–but you might make more compelling connections to events or coincidences in your own life. Use dreams along with your well-developed extrasensory perceptions of your life to create your own premonitions and precognitive sense of what the future might hold.


If you're waiting to hear the news after a job interview and dream that you're flying high and out of control, you might take it as a sign that you're feeling anxiety about the idea of success, of the freedom a new job might bring you. Which might mean you've got the job.
Temper your dream analysis with practicality. If you've dreamt that your friend is dead, laid out in a coffin, it doesn't necessarily mean "my friend is going to die." Rather, a chapter in your friend's life might be closing, or your relationship might be changing in some way, in the future. Apply it to what's going on in your life.
 Some particularly ambitious and skilled lucid dreamers use waking dreams to attempt to question the future directly. If you've practiced and developed the ability to remain conscious while you're dreaming, Try to visualize a pad of paper, or some other oracle, and ask it direct questions. "Who's going to win the Super Bowl?" or "What chance do I have of getting this job?" See what happens.

