 Freckles are unique and can be quite beautiful! Instead of hiding your freckles, try letting them stand out on your own.


One way you can do this is by playing up another facial feature like your eyes. It will draw people’s attention to your eyes and they will be more likely to notice the freckles on your cheeks.;
, This will make your freckles look dull and your complexion look unnatural. Instead, match your foundation and your makeup to the skin tone between the freckles. This is your natural skin tone.If you are having trouble matching your skin tone on your face, try matching foundation with the skin color on your wrist. The inside of your wrist is the same skin tone of your face.
 Foundation straight on your skin may not truly cover your face. Primer will help give you a basic tone for your foundation to rest on. This will help hide or tone down your freckles., Beauty expert Robin Black recommends to use blush to bring out your features, not your freckles. If you pick a blush the same color as your freckles, she says, it will make them look gray. , A brown or black smokey eye can really make the freckles on your face pop and draw attention to your eyes. Cosmo suggests following a “map” tutorial when creating a perfect smokey eye.To do this, first use multiple shades (3-4) of eyeshadows from the same color family. This may be shades of brown or black for a classic look.
Then, starting with the lightest shade first, apply a layer of eyeshadow on the inside half of your eyelid (closest to nose).
After that, apply the next darkest shade on the outside of your lid.
You should apply the darker shades in equal parts on the outside of your lid all the way to the bottom of your eyelid.
Apply a nude pencil line between your eyebrow and the top of your eyeshadow.
Apply your favorite eyeliner and mascara.
 Use a lighter shade of foundation -- such as one that promotes to be “barely there” -- to avoid making your skin look gray.


Other foundation products you might try are “neutralizing” products that will help moisturize your skin without covering up your features.
 Not being able to use a heavier foundation may cause the problem of your skin looking oily or shiny. To avoid this, use a translucent mineral powder. This will help your skin, but not hide your freckles!

, If you want to skip makeup, try just using a tinted moisturizer or a BB cream. This will keep your face moisturize but give it a little bit of made-up look., There are many freckled celebrities that embrace their beautiful features. Lucy Liu, Emma Watson, and Morgan Freeman are all known for the freckles!


Makeup may not be Freeman’s forte, but he rocks the freckles with pride!

