 One of the best ways to make your nose appear less obvious is by drawing attention away from it. Wear a bold lip color such as red or plum. This will make your lips looks nice and luscious, making your nose smaller and less important by comparison. Play around with colors that you really like to find which lip color works for you.


You can also add some lip liner to make your lips more defined and pop out more., Using your cheeks to draw lines out from your nose can help it appear smaller and thinner. Dramatic cheekbones also make your face look longer in general, which may better balance out your features. Using your favorite shade, apply blush or bronzer just under your cheekbones. Avoid putting blush on the apples of your cheeks, as this will have the opposite effect and make your face look rounder.This will also give you an overall glow and healthy appearance.If your cheekbones aren't as defined as you want them to be, you can also use contouring techniques to bring them out as well., Having prominent under eye circles can call attention to the size of your nose, acting almost as arrows pointing to its width and length. Use concealer to lighten the circles under your eyes. This will not only draw attention away from your nose, but it will also get rid of tired eyes, making you look perkier and healthier., Certain hairstyles can also flatter your nose.In general, avoid hairstyles with bangs that draw the eye towards your nose. More specific cuts will depend on the shape of your face.


For a square face, soften your angles with textured curls or waves. Skip level bobs which may make your nose look more angular. Middle parts can also make your features look wider, something you want to avoid if you pine for a thinner nose.
If you have a round face, long, straight hair with low volume can bring your face down, making it appear longer. This may work especially well if you're trying to make the rest of your face better fit your nose.
In general, most hairstyles work for a person with a heart-shaped face and a long nose. Keep in mind that a lot of advice for heart-shaped faces focuses on drawing attention away from your chin rather than your nose. Many suggest wearing dramatic bangs, which would draw eyes to your nose. Ignore this advice and simply wear your hair how you think it looks best.
Short bobs do a good job of bringing out the angles of oval faces. Avoid short layered styles that may make your face look too long. , To draw attention away from your nose, try adding definition to your eyes and eyebrows. Pluck your eyebrows in an arch, which will lead attention away from your nose. Try a jewel toned eyeliner and mascara to concentrate focus on your eyes. You can also add some cute eyewear or light, bright eye shadow. Each of these things will draw attention away from your nose and help the focus be on the features you are more comfortable with.Although eye makeup can help, don't go overboard. This can actually draw attention to your nose if your eye makeup gets too heavy.If you wear glasses, pick frames that are large with accents at the top. Cat eye glasses are a great option, as their upsweep draws the eye up and away from your nose.