 During your organizational period, you'll want to hold your first staff meeting. Once you have recruited other students, it is important that you all start working as a team. Call an introductory meeting.Gather your entire staff together. Your first meeting can be somewhat informal.
Get some snacks and sodas. Treat this as a "get to know each other" event.
This will be useful since some people might not know one another. It's a great way for everyone to learn to feel comfortable working with each other.
 After the socializing part of the meeting, you can get to work. Your first step is to assign each staff member a responsibility. Ask each student what interests them most about working on a paper.Some students might be interested in photography. Assign them to take pictures of newsworthy events.
If you have a staff member who is great at connecting with others, ask them to try writing feature articles. They will likely be good at interviewing people and finding interesting personal stories.
You will need a business manager to be in charge of budgets and revenue. You will also need a staff member to be in charge of layout and design. Additionally, you will need at least 2 copy editors.
 Once you have assigned jobs, it's time to start writing. The editorial staff can figure out what types of stories are needed, and how much space there is to fill. Then the editor-in-chief can assign each journalist a story.Your paper should appeal to a wide range of readers. Make sure to publish stories on a variety of topics.
Most schools will have a sports section. You can highlight the achievements of school teams and local professional teams.
You definitely want a news section. You can assign a reporter to cover important happenings, such as the local school board meeting.
You can also consider adding some other sections. You might assign stories on entertainment, business, or science.
 Once the reporters submit their stories, it is time for the copy editors to go to work. A copy editor will make any necessary corrections, taking care to fix grammatical errors. The copy editor will also make sure that the story reads easily and is coherent.Once the story has been proofed, the layout editor will make sure it is placed properly in the paper. Photos or illustrations will be added at this time.
Once the layout is locked, it is time to distribute your publication. After a final proofing, send it to the publisher or printer.

