 Many foreign nationals living in the U.S. don’t need a work permit because they can already work in the U.S. For example, the following people can work already:all green card holders
naturalized citizens
holders of work-based visas, such as H1-B visas

, There are many classes of immigrants who qualify for a work permit and must obtain one to work. However, tourists and illegal immigrants cannot qualify. Instead, the following classes of immigrants do:people granted asylum
spouses of various visa holders
K-1 fiancé visa holders
people with a pending green card application
others (see the instructions to USCIS Form I-765 for a complete list)

, You must complete Form I-765, Application for Employment Authorization, to apply. You can download the form from the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services (USCIS) website here: https://www.uscis.gov/i-765. Make sure to download the instructions as well.


You can also get a copy by calling 1-800-870-3676., You need to submit supporting documents along with your application. Gather them ahead of time to speed up the application process. For example, you will need the following:copy of your Form I-94, Arrival-Departure Record
copy of your last work permit (if you are applying for a new one)
two passport-style color photographs taken within 30 days of your application
other documents depending on your circumstances (see the instructions)

, Only a qualified immigration lawyer can answer your questions. To find an immigration lawyer, contact the bar association in your state or city. Ask for a referral.


You can find your nearest bar association by entering your address at this site: http://shop.americanbar.org/ebus/ABAGroups/DivisionforBarServices/BarAssociationDirectories/StateLocalBarAssociations.aspx.
If you are low income, then you might qualify for legal aid. Visit the Legal Services Corporation’s website at http://www.lcs.gov and click on “Find legal aid.” Legal aid provides free and reduced-fee legal help to people in financial need.
 Print neatly using black ink or, better yet, type your answers into the form so that they are easier to read. Provide all requested information. If something doesn’t apply, then type “N/A” or “not applicable.”


If you need additional space, then attach a piece of paper. Make sure to include your name and Alien Registration Number (if applicable) at the top. Also indicate what part and item your answer refers to., Make a copy of the application and all supporting documents for your records. Put everything in an envelope and secure it. You can find out where to file by calling 1-800-375-5283.You’ll have to pay a fee of $380. A few exceptions exist, as explained in the instructions.
Make your check or money order payable to “U.S. Department of Homeland Security.” Don’t use any other abbreviations.
 Your application will be checked for completeness. If anything is missing, you’ll be asked to provide it. Do so promptly.


USCIS might also schedule an interview or ask that you provide biometrics (such as fingerprints and a photograph). USCIS will send you a notice if any of these are required.
 Your card will be mailed to you. Alternately, you might have to go to the USCIS office to pick it up.Once you have your card, you can begin your job search, which will probably depend on your education, skills, and experience. Immigrants have widely different backgrounds, so no one job search is right for everyone.


If you want an entry-level job, then you can look at Help Wanted ads and check if any business you frequent is hiring staff.
If you have a degree and/or experience, then you can find non-profits geared to helping immigrants re-establish careers in the U.S. Upwardly Global is one of these non-profits.They provide help with creating resumes and networking effectively. They can also refer you to community partners to help improve your English skills.