 Anytime you open the door on your freezer, warm air will come rushing in. When this warm, moist air enters the freezer it will immediately freeze onto any surface it touches. Always open and close your freezer door quickly to avoid any unnecessary ice build up in your freezer.Only open the door when you need to put something in or take something out.
Avoid looking too long for something in the freezer. Only open the door when you are ready to take it out.
Always make sure the door is fully and completely shut when you close it.
 Much of the ice that forms in a freezer comes from the moisture in the food. In order to help cut down on the amount of ice in your freezer, it can be helpful to take air out of any freezer storage bags. Removing the air will trap the moisture in the food, instead of allowing it to escape and turn into ice elsewhere in your freezer.Squeeze the air out of any plastic freezer bags that you store food in.
You can use a drinking straw to suck most of the air out of a bag, creating a near vacuum seal.
Any resealed bags should be closed tightly, leaving little room for air.
Solid containers should be full of food to avoid leaving much space for air.
Make sure any containers with lids are securely shut.
Try to use storage bags that are specifically designed for freezers.
 More air in your freezer will mean more ice build up. Freezers that are full of food will usually have slower rates of ice buildup than empty ones. Whenever possible, try to keep your freezer well stocked to cut down on the amount of empty space. Keeping your freezer full will help reduce the amount of freezer crystals you have to contend with., Storing food in your freezer can be a great way to keep perishable food items safe. However, storing food too long can cause it to lose its moisture, resulting in freezer burn. The lost moisture will accumulate inside your freezer and create more ice crystals. Try to remove food that has been stored for a long time to help prevent the buildup of freezer crystals.Write the date on something you are adding to your freezer. This will help you track how long it's been stored.
Freezer burn will take months to occur. Try to use or remove items that have been stored for more than a few months.

