 Individual lashes can be purchased at most drug stores or makeup counters at department stores. Individual lashes from the drug store sometimes come in kits with a pair of tweezers and eyelash glue. Kits can be helpful for packaging all the needed materials together.


If you decide to only purchase a package of individual lashes, be sure to also buy eyelash glue.
Be sure to purchase lashes that match your natural lash color. Lash colors can come in blonde, brown, and black shades.;
, Before you apply the individual lashes, use makeup remover to take off any lingering makeup on your eyes. There is some debate on whether to apply makeup before or after applying lashes, but more often than not, you want to work on a clean surface and allow the lashes have a sticking surface free of dirt, oil and makeup., On a small square of aluminum foil, pour out a small droplet of lash glue.You don’t need a lot of glue to apply the lashes, but a small drop of glue will make it easier to coat the bottom portion of the lashes.


The color of eyelash glue comes in either black or white.
Buying black glue might be helpful if you are planning on applying heavy makeup, but white glue dries clear and might be the better choice if you are going for a more natural look.
 Before you apply your glued lashes, pluck a lash (or grouping of lashes) from the packaging with your tweezers, and hold the lashes in the spot you want to apply them. This will help you decide where to place the lashes before you add the glue, so they look the most flattering and natural.


Since eyelashes vary in length, individual eyelashes come in a variety of lengths as well. In a lash package there are normally small, medium, and long length lashes.
The smaller lashes are intended for the inside corners of the eyes and filler, while the medium and longer lashes are meant for the middle and outer edges of your eyes.Keep this in mind as you apply the individual lashes.
 Individual lashes can come in single, or a small grouping of 2-5 lashes. However your chosen lashes are packaged, use tweezers to grip near the base of the lash or lashes, and gently pluck it free from the packaging. The base of the lashes should be facing you, while the ends of the lashes should be facing away. Carefully dip only the base of the lashes in the small droplet of glue on the aluminum foil.Always follow the gluing instructions that come on the packaging of lash glue.
The amount of glue should be enough that you are confident the eyelashes won't fall off, but not so much that you’ll have a large glob on your eyelid.
Consider waiting about 15-30 seconds before you apply the lashes to your eyelid. This will help the glue become tackier, allowing it to adhere better on your lid.
 With the help of a mirror, bring the tweezers up to your slightly opened eye, and stick the lashes right above roots of your real eyelashes, starting in the middle of your top eyelid.Once the lash is on your lid, you can use the tweezers to gently “brush” the lash upward, so it mimics the curve of your real lashes, and doesn’t droop down into your line of sight.


Individual lashes can be applied to both the top and bottom lashlines, but false eyelashes look most natural when only applied to the top eyelid.
Some people use their fingers to apply the glued lashes, but it’s really all about personal preference. If it is your first time applying lashes, using tweezers might offer more precision.
If you make a mistake, you can easily remove the lash and try to reposition it before the glue dries. If the glue is very tacky and the lash is already glued into place, wait for the glue to completely dry. This may take about ten minutes. Then use your tweezers to remove the unsatisfactory lash, remove any glue residue, and try to glue the lash on again.
 It is normally easiest to apply lashes to one eye, and then the other. Depending on how thick you want your eyelashes to look, you can apply just a few lashes, or most of the lashes that came with the package. Apply the lashes starting from the middle of your eye, and work your way outward to the corner of your eye.As you move outward, use longer lashes. Then, fill in the inner corner of your eye with the shorter lashes in the package.


Working from the middle of your eye outward will gradually build up the thickness of your lashes.
 After about 10-15 minutes, the lash glue should be completely dry. Use your finger to softly touch the top of your lashes and check for stickiness. Once thoroughly dried, consider using an eyelash curler to gently curl and blend the false eyelashes with your natural eyelashes.Be sure you don’t pinch the curler too hard, as this could dislodge and take off some of the individual lashes.
 Add the rest of your makeup when the individual lashes are completely dry. Apply any eye shadow, and eyeliner you were planning to add to your eyes. Liquid liner looks best with false eyelashes, because it is very effective in hiding glue bumps.Finally, apply mascara to both eyes to blend in the lashes even more.


At this point, your lashes should look long, full, and natural.
 When you are finished wearing your individual lashes for the day, use an oil-based makeup remover to remove the lashes.The oil-based make up remover will soften the lash glue, and then you can start pulling the individual lashes off your lid beginning at the outer corner, and working your way in.

