 Reserve an unused part of the office, garage or guest room that you can convert to a dedicated gift-wrapping station. It doesn’t have to be elaborate—a corner or countertop will work just fine. Grab your wrapping supplies and lay them out in their new centralized location.Your wrapping station should be open, well-lit and out of the way so you’re not continually forced to move your supplies.
Hide gifts and other surprises when you’re not wrapping so they’re not sitting out in plain sight.;
, It might be a craft table with built-in drawers for storage, or you can use separate containers for your materials and work at the kitchen table. An elevated, flat surface will give you a solid base and help you keep track of everything. Set everything out on the desk or tabletop and section off an area to do your actual wrapping.Wrapping from the couch or on a carpeted floor is a surefire way to lose track of smaller items.
 Pull up a chair so you’ll have someplace to sit while you work. Depending on how many gifts you’ve bought, you might be wrapping for hours at a time, which can cause a lot of discomfort in your back and neck after a while. Hunching over on the floor or a squishy couch is definitely not the way to go.


If possible, do some of your wrapping standing up. It’s much better for your joints, posture and circulation.
 To achieve those precise cuts and perfect folds, it’s important that you be able to see everything clearly. Position your light source so that it’s directly over the work station. Give your eyes a break every now and then from the strain of focusing on one spot.Use an overhead light for the best top-down illumination.
Consider getting an adjustable standing lamp that you can bend and twist to suit your purposes.
 Take stock of your gifts, paper and utensils. Arrange each item in a sensible location and don’t move it out of its place. If necessary, establish designated zones for different materials so that you’ll always know where they are when you need them.If you’re right-handed, keep your pencil and scissors on the right side of your work space, paper and tape on the left, etc.
 You don’t want to have to hunt for a given item every time you put it down. Use a shower or over-the-door organizer rack to hold your scissors, tape, ruler, pencil and any other accessories you use for wrapping. Since you’ll be reaching for these materials the most, it only makes sense that they have their own headquarters.Be sure to stock up on refills of ribbon, tape and tags. You may even want to have a backup pair of scissors, just in case.
Try fitting these items into a single basket that you can keep on your tabletop.
 This one is obvious, but have a few individual boxes, bins or drawers to put your paper, ribbons, tags and tools in rather than one big one. Too many people try to keep everything in one container and then get frustrated when they’re forced to rummage through it to find what they’re looking for. Invest in a few plastic storage bins of various sizes and stick to them year after year. If you’re working at a desk or crafting table, take advantage of your drawer space.
Color-coordinate or label each container so you’ll instantly know what’s inside.
 Wrapping paper takes up a lot of space and can easily become torn or wrinkled if it’s left out. Keep your paper in pristine condition by storing it in a organizer box where it can lay flat and not come unrolled. Set the organizer up on your work surface and pull your materials straight from it.This product only costs a few dollars, but can be your best friend if you’re at your wits end trying to find a place for all of your supplies.
Organizer boxes usually also feature pockets for scissors, tape and other tools, allowing you to keep everything together.
 Another option is to buy or make a storage rack and slide rolls of paper and spools of ribbon onto the pegs. You can then pull, measure and cut the exact amount that you need without having to worry about handling the roll itself. A rack can be mounted directly to the wall to save even more room.You can easily rig up a wrapping paper rack at home yourself using a few wooden dowels and a set of hooks.
Arrange your paper and ribbons on the rack by color or pattern.
 An old handyman’s motto advises to “measure twice, cut once.” Take an extra second to gauge how much paper you’ll need, and only use as much as necessary to wrap your gifts. Generally, you should line up the item you're wrapping so that the paper is just long enough to overlap the sides when folded, and wide enough to cover the top, which is most often the broadest surface. You’ll end up with fewer scraps and less of headache that way.If you’re uncertain whether something will fit, do a quick mock-up by seeing how much you can cover with the paper before you cut it.
For gifts with unusual shapes, make strategic folds around the item's contours or cut a sheet of paper specifically to fit a certain form.Making careless mistakes can result in a lot of wasted paper.
 Avoid sloppy folds and rough, fringed edges. Get the angle and length of each cut right before you commit to it. Place a ruler or other long, straight object alongside where you plan on making a cut and then glide your scissors straight down the line.If the paper you’re using is especially thick or your scissors are less than sharp, cut the paper in small, even snips.
 If you have a lot of gifts to wrap, it may be advantageous to carry out the wrapping process in distinct phases. Get each item wrapped and taped, then move on and do all the bow-tying and tagging at once. Establishing a rhythm will help you get and stay in the zone.Wrap your gifts in sessions to preserve brainpower and ensure that each task gets done neatly.
 There’s no shame in opting for a gift bag over the traditional paper-and-bow approach. Not only is it quick and hassle-free, it’s also easier in a lot of cases to fit large or oddly-shaped gifts into a bag than attempt to wrap them. Just stick it in the bag, throw some tissue paper over the top to hide it and you’re all set!It takes about a quarter of the time to put a gift in a bag as it does to wrap it by hand.
If you’re pushed for time or buying something that’s an unusual size or shape, ask the vendor if they can gift wrap it for you.

