 Re-releasing an injured animal into the wild requires a certain level of expertise. If there is a wildlife rescue in your area, it's best to contact the rescue before attempting to rehabilitate a squirrel by yourself. Even simply talking to a worker on the phone can be invaluable as you'll be provided with important information on safely releasing your squirrel.
 If you want to eventually release a wild squirrel, you need to make sure you do not domesticate him too much. If your squirrel is injured, you should keep his cage inside your home or garage until he's strong again. However, once he seems to be recovering steadily you should place the cage outside. This way, he won't get too used to human contact. When he's fully healed, you can develop a plan to release him.


Place a tarp over his cage. This will provide him protection from the rain as well as shade from the sun.You might want to transfer him to a cage with a feeding door if you're not already using one. You do not want to release your squirrel prematurely. He may escape during feeding without the proper door.Keep the cage in a place that's easily reachable for you. However, keep it far away from other humans. If your squirrel gets too used to human contact, it may be difficult to release him back into the wild., You should still provide your squirrel with food. However, lessen your contact with him as time goes on. Spend less time interacting with the squirrel on a day-to-day basis. If you have friends or neighbors nearby, advise them to leave the squirrel alone., If you've been caring for a squirrel, he may return to your home after being released. Squirrels can be pests, especially if they're trying to get into your home. When you decide to release your squirrel, pick a location that is at least 5 miles from the sight where you originally found him. More distance is generally better. If 10 miles is possible, release him 10 miles away., The location where you release your squirrel is important. You should take a few things into consideration before re-releasing a squirrel.


Do a little research on the type of animals typically found in the area you're considering. You should choose an area with a low population of potential predators, like house cats. Even if his injuries have healed, it may take your squirrel a few days to readjust to the wild. This can make him vulnerable to predators.
Make sure there are other wild squirrels in the area you choose. You want to release the squirrel into his natural habitat.You should not release a squirrel near a busy street, intersection, or highway.
You should also double check the legality of releasing a squirrel in the area you chose. Some states may have restrictions on re-releasing wild animals in certain regions.