 These guys are no longer available in stores due to the following lineups, so they can only be found on Amazon and eBay. Choose from Rocky the Robot Truck, Stinky the Garbage Truck, Smokey the Fire Truck, Lanky the Crane Truck, Dexy the Digger Truck, Swisher the Street Sweeper, Axle the Tow Truck, Rigby the Bulldozer, Coach the School Bus, and Roger the Helicopter. They come in 3 different categories: Die-Cast Vehicles, Real Talking Rigs (the first 6 are the only ones available in this category), and Interactive Talking Trucks (Rocky, Stinky, and Smokey are the only ones available in this category). You can even buy more than one if you'd like!;
, If it's a talking toy or an interactive talking one, be sure to change the batteries before you play with him.
 Either pretend you're really in the Scrap Yard or just play with him at home. Remember that the interactive talking toys come with instructions on how to play with them, but for all the toys in all 3 categories, you can have more fun with them. If you have more than one, well, you get the point. The more, the better! Read the next few steps on how to really have fun with your Big Rig Buddy.
 You can get ideas from the computer-animated series! Or you can have him right next to you while you play video games. You can also watch some shows or movies together. But remember, there are certain sounds that could make you sad, so avoid watching movies/TV episodes with sounds like that. The Big Rig Buddies series is perfect, but other great shows and movies include: Digimon, SpongeBob SquarePants, Donkey Kong Country (not to be confused with the video game under the same name), Little Einsteins, Kung Fu Panda: Legends of Awesomeness, Monsters vs. Aliens (both movie and TV series), Cubix, Doogal, and all the movies featuring Herbie the Love Bug.
 There are many kinds of things to talk about. Even if he's a talking toy or an interactive talking one, use your best impersonation of his voice if it's his turn to talk.
 Each Big Rig Buddy has a unique way of getting to sleep. Play Rocky and/or Roger some soft music, have Smokey snuggle with his old dipstick lid, turn on Stinky's nightlight (because he's scared of the dark), put a "plastic tarp" under Lanky, tell Dexy a bedtime story, watch a video with Swisher and/or Coach, hypnotize Axle, and play some soothing nature sounds for Rigby. All of them (except for Coach) can still fall asleep to a lullaby.

