 Spend some time watching your hamster and getting to know his personality and mannerisms. All hamsters will have their own personalities, so you should try to get know your hamster's and respond to it accordingly. Some hamsters will be more shy and reclusive, and you should respect this and not disturb him unduly if this is the case.


For example, your hamster might lower himself to the ground and flatten out when you approach or attempt to pick him up. This is an indication that he does not want to be handled at the moment.If your hamster is squeaking it could indicate that he is agitated or anxious.This can occur especially when a hamster is introduced to a new environment. Allow him time to adjust.;
, If you want to handle your hamster it's important that you are slow and patient, and don't try to handle him too frequently. You can start by giving your hamster a treat from your hand. Lay your hand flat on the ground and let your hamster get used to it. Do not lift your hand yet. Once your hamster is running around your hand like it is just another toy, you should stop for the day. Give your hamster a treat.


If your hamster gets scared, take your hand away slowly. Be patient, some hamsters are more nervous than others.
Over time you will find that he becomes more comfortable and walks onto your hand with no hesitation., Continue doing a similar routine of spending time together and allowing him to get used to your presence. Start putting treats on your hand and trying to get your hamster to eat them while sat on your hand. Once your hamster is very comfortable doing that, start slowly lifting your hand slightly above the floor. If your hamster gets too afraid, go back to just putting treats on your hand.


Always do this close to the floor, or another safe surface, so if he jumps off your hand he won't be hurt.
If he is distressed or bites you, just put him down and give him a treat.Whenever you try to pick up your hamster you should scoop him up from below.
Never disturb him while he is asleep.
 One way to give your hamster the chance to get out of his cage, and get used to spending time with you, is to set up a secure play pen somewhere in your house. To do this, find a flat and clean area of the floor and ensure it is closed in so the hamster can't escape. Place some toys and items like cardboard tubes inside the play pen.


You can move your hamster over to the play pen by hand, or by using the hamster ball. He will enjoy running around a more open space, but be sure to keep a very close eye on him. Be patient and let him explore the area at his own pace.
Once he is more comfortable with you, you can get in the pen with him and play together. You will become another thing to climb on.
A play box is a good way to provide an area to play in outside of the cage.

