 Mini golf is a game where players try to get a ball in a hole in the least number of shots. Mini golf is fun because you can create fun obstacles for your holes. While traditional golf is played with 18 holes, mini golf is played with nine but you can vary how many holes depending on the location., Plan your course based on time and resources. If you have very young children, you can keep the course as simple as possible and use large colourful balls or tennis balls to keep the game easy. You can even just have one hole instead of nine if your kids are toddlers. Let your family help you plan the course to unleash their creativity.Some kids may work on the course for weeks. Older kids enjoy creating complex obstacles to challenge each other.
 Begin by brainstorming your ideas for each hole. Draw them out on paper or a whiteboard. If you have played mini golf before it’s helpful to give examples of holes that you have enjoyed before. Figure out what you can use around the house to simulate similar obstacles.For example, use containers that your ball can pass through, books to build tunnels, or stuffed animals that the ball needs to move passed.
You may use around nine red plastic cups for your holes if you do not have enough containers.
 You may create a putt-putt zoo if you have many stuffed animals. Use your stuffed animals as obstacles for every hole. If you want to play outdoors, use the driveway for faster play. Play throughout your house if you have adequate space and time.The putt-putt Zoo is basically a jungle themed course. Use painter’s tape to secure your holes down and set them around the room. Place the stuffed animals as both decorations and obstacles for each course. For example, if you have a particularly large stuffed bear you can get players to putt through the bear’s legs to get to the hole. You may also have each player make the noise of the animal at the obstacle. This is a great course for very young children.
The driveway mini-golf course is great for accuracy as the difficulty increases as you place the holes further and further away. Tape down your cups as each hole and place them at varying distances from the edge of the driveway. Use the edge of the driveway as your starting point.
Playing throughout your house is the most creative and ambitious course to make as you have many resources at your disposal. You can allow each player to design their own hole or sets of holes. You may also give each room a theme.
 Use red plastic cups that you can purchase online or the dollar store and painter’s tape to secure them as your holes. Search through the house for obstacles and decoration for your holes. Here are nine example holes:Hole 1: Create a ramp with a book leaning against musical chimes or a toy xylophone. If hit properly, the ball moves up the ramp and over the chimes to create a fun sound before it makes it to the hole.
Hole 2: Use canned food or cereal boxes as obstacles and use your kitchen to create a fun food theme.
Hole 3: Use a footrest as a tunnel for the ball to go through before it reaches the hole.
Hole 4: Decorate holes with toys like toy soldiers and tanks for a war theme.
Hole 5: Create a tunnel with an empty soda carton. Simply cut both sides with scissors to create a hole large enough for the the ball to pass through and tape it to solid ground with painter’s tape.
Hole 6: Create a soft sloping ramp by covering a footstool with a yoga mat and placing a dish towel underneath to slow down the ball as it passes over the matt.
Hole 7: Take a toy racetrack and create an incline onto a chair. Place the hole at the seat of the chair and tape it down with painter’s tape so that the ball has to travel up the incline and onto the chair.
Hole 8: Tie a piece of string onto a toy tambourine. Swing the tambourine back and forth slowly as player tries to putt into the hole to create a moving obstacle. This may be fun if you allow other players to control the tambourine.
Hole 9: Try to get as creative as you can for the final hole. For example, create a wall with toys, cups, and books leaving only a small opening big enough for the ball to pass through and make it into the cup.
 Whether you use real putters or purchase large plastic clubs for toddlers, make sure that the gear is safe and appropriate for the age of the players. You may also purchase fun and colourful golf balls online or at your local toy store., You may print out a fun scorecard online or simply keep the score using a pen and paper. Mark down the number of attempts each player takes to finish each hole. The player with the lowest score wins.