 One major aspect of goth style is an interest in the morbid. Many goth kids read dark literature and are fascinated with subjects like death and graveyards. If you want to be goth, try exploring some darker subject material.Many goths are interested in Egyptian culture, as there's such a focus on death and life after death. Try to familiarize yourself with some basic Egyptian mythology.
Goths are also interested in vampires. Read some classic vampire literature, like Dracula, and familiarize yourself with the mythology surrounding vampires.
Watch some darker movies. Films like Donnie Darko and A Clockwork Orange have a darker theme, and are popular in the goth subculture.
 Tolerance is a major aspect of goth lifestyle. While goths are often thought of as mean or judgmental, there's actually a major emphasis on diversity and tolerance. Try to be tolerant of everyone, and respect differences in your peer groups.Respect everyone's right to be themselves. Just as you would not want to be judged for wearing goth clothing, do not judge anyone else for dressing in more preppy attire.
Try to treat everyone as you would want to be treated. Do not behave in a judgmental fashion to those around you.
Get to know someone before making assumptions about them. Do not assume anyone would behave a certain way, or feel certain things, simply based on how they dress. Judge people based on their character over their appearance.
 Individuality is a major component of goth lifestyle. Non-conformity is a major ideal of goth subculture. You want to be your unique self, without worrying about what others think.Explore your own interests without hesitance. If you want to, for example, read a book of poetry during free hour at gym, do so without worrying others will judge. While you can follow rules of goth style, as you want to adopt the look, make the look your own. If you feel like adding some pink to your wardrobe, do so.
Get creative. Being creative can help you become more of an individual, and creativity is another major aspect of goth culture. Try writing some poetry or painting a picture. Allow yourself to grow creatively to help develop your individuality.
 Goth music expresses a lot of ideals of the goth culture. If you want to work on being goth, listen to some popular goth bands.The goth scene grew out of changes in the 1980s music scene in the UK. Start with the classics, looking at original gothic albums from the 80s. Bands include Bauhaus, Joy Division, The Cure, and Siouxie and the Banshees.Look into modern goth music as well. Gothic music did not stop in the 1980s. After you introduce yourself to the classics, you will need to get a handle on modern gothic music. Crystal Castles and Xiu Xiu are good bands to start with if you want an introduction to the modern gothic music scene.