 The gag reflex is just that: a reflex. It is triggered when you touch an area too far back in your mouth (including the tonsils, back of the tongue, or uvula). In order to avoid triggering the gag reflex, you have to avoid touching these areas.


Brush and floss your teeth first, and then gently brush your tongue using a soft bristled brush moistened with water. You can use your regular toothbrush, or you can purchase a special "tongue brush" which has shorter bristles meant to better clean the crevices of the tongue.Begin brushing the tongue toward the tip, working in small circular motions. Gradually work your way back toward the back of the throat, rinsing the brush periodically. Stop short of the area that triggers the gag reflex. If you gag, you've gone too far.;
, If these basic tips aren't working for you, there are slight alterations you can try that might help.


Hold your toothbrush perpendicular to your tongue, brushing from the side. Putting your toothbrush in the long way will make it easier to "slip" into the overly sensitive danger zone, and makes your toothbrush less likely to crowd the back of the throat and induce a gag.
Push the tongue down hard into the lower part of the mouth behind the teeth as you brush it. As soon as the tongue starts to wobble, stop, give it a few moments to retrieve your strength and try again.
Exhale through your mouth while brushing your tongue. At the same time, relax your tongue and throat muscles as much as possible. Keep practicing until it becomes a normal habit.
 Your gag reflex is your body's way of protecting you from choking or swallowing things you shouldn't, but you can try to outsmart your body by distracting your mind from what is going on in your mouth as you brush your tongue.


Distract yourself with pain. Clench the fingers of one of your hands into a fist, gently digging your nails into your palm. Don't hurt yourself badly, just enough to distract yourself from the gag reflex.
Distract yourself with thoughts. Before you begin brushing your teeth, find a riddle or difficult math problem to solve. While you begin to gently brush your tongue, starting in the front, mentally focus on the riddle or problem and try to solve it as you work your way back to the back of your tongue. Don't go too far back, and you might find that the mental distraction helped to alleviate the gag reflex.

