 In order to access Latios, you'll first need to beat the main game. See How to Beat the Elite Four on Emerald for more details.;
, After beating the Elite Four, return to your home in Littleroot Town and speak with your mother. A TV show will play and your mother will ask you a question about what appeared.
 This will enable Latios to be found in Hoenn. If you select "Red", Latias will roam instead, and you will need an Eon Ticket in order to get Latios.


If you've already selected "Red" but want to get Latios as well, click here.
 Latios can be an incredibly difficult Pokémon to catch, as it tries to escape on every turn, forcing you to hunt it down again. Make sure you're prepared before starting your hunt, and it'll make catching Latios much easier.
 If you haven't used your Master Ball, this is one of the best uses for it in the game. The Master Ball will instantly catch Latios when you use it, making it the most efficient way to catch it.


If you have a Master Ball, you don't really need to worry about any other preparations, and can skip down to the next section. If you don't have your Master Ball anymore, read on.
 Latios is an incredibly fast Pokémon, and if you want to have a chance to capture it without a Master Ball, you'll need a Pokémon with a high enough speed that it can act first. Not only that, you'll need a Pokémon that can learn the skill "Mean Look". Gengar and Crobat are two of the best candidates that meet both requirements.


Train your Gengar or Crobat up to at least Level 50. This will ensure that they have enough speed to beat Latios.
When leveling up your Gengar or Crobat, make sure that you don't forget the Mean Look skill. Gengar learns it at Level 13, while Crobat learns it at Level 42.
If you want to use the Super Repel trick to make finding Latios easier (see below), use Gengar and keep it at Level 39.
 Another strategy for catching Latios is to use Wobbuffet, who has the Shadow Tag ability. This prevents the enemy Pokémon from escaping.


Train Wobbuffet to Level 39 to use the Super Repel trick (see below).
Make sure that Wobbuffet is the first Pokémon in your party so that it can trap Latios.
 Once Latios is trapped, you'll need to lower its HP so that you can capture it. The best way to do this without risking knocking out Latios is by using a Pokémon with the False Swipe ability. This will lower the enemy Pokémon's health but will never take it below 1 HP. This will ensure that you don't knock Latios out.


It will also help to have a Pokémon with the Paralyze ability to help keep Latios trapped.
 You're likely going to be throwing a lot of Pokeballs at Latios, especially if you're trying to catch it before it flees.
 This item will increase the encounter rate, which will help you find Latios faster. You can get the White Flute from the Glass Workshop on Route 113. You will need to walk 1000 steps in the Soot in order to get it.


Once you have the White Flute, give it to whichever Pokémon is at the head of your party.
 This trick can make finding Latios easier, but requires your lead Pokémon to be Level 39. The Super Repel keeps with Pokémon with lower levels than your lead Pokémon from attacking you. Since Latios is Level 40, you'll need a Level 39 lead Pokémon for this to work.
 Before you try to track Latios down yourself, trade with a friend first if you can. When Latios is added to your Pokedex, you'll be able to see its current location at any time, making tracking it down much easier. If you don't have someone to trade with, read on.


Have a friend trade you their Latios, and then trade it back right away. You simply need to receive it in a trade in order for it to appear in your Pokedex.
 This is a good location to try hunting Latios, as it lets you switch areas quickly to change its location.


Note: If you traded with a friend, use the location in your Pokedex to find Latios instead.
 If you are using the Super Repel trick, take one before you start walking around. Otherwise, walk around until a battle starts.
 If Latios still isn't appearing, you'll want to try changing its location.
 If you aren't finding Latios, enter and exit the Safari Zone. Every time you change areas, Latios moves to a new route. The goal is to keep doing this until it appears in the grass outside of the Safari Zone.


If you traded and are tracking Latios with your Pokedex, don't leave the route that its on until you've found it.
 Once you've finally started the battle, you'll need to trap and then capture Latios.


If you have a Master Ball, throw it immediately to catch Latios.
Make sure to use your trap ability (Shadow Tag, Mean Look) as soon as the battle begins.
If you have Wobbuffet, Mirror Coat is very useful as Latios uses a lot of Special Attacks.
Use Paralyze to help keep Latios from fleeing.
Use False Swipe to get Latios down to 1 HP.
Start throwing Ultra Bars as soon as Latios's health is low.
 Latios will try to run at every opportunity, but once you've encountered it once, you can see its current location on your Pokedex. Travel to its new location and don't leave until you find it again.
 If you accidentally released Latias by answering "Red" when you talk to your mother, the only way you can legitimately find Latios is by trading for it. You can use Gameshark codes if you are using an emulator and don't have someone to trade with (see the next steps).
 The Eon Ticket was a special event item that was distributed to players, which allowed players to access a special island where they can catch Latios or Latias, depending on which one they released. Since the ticket is no longer available, you'll need to use cheat codes to get it. To use Gameshark codes, you'll need to be using an emulator like Visual Boy Advance.


While there are codes to get Latios directly, it's recommended that you use the ticket instead. When you add Pokémon using codes, they can be fairly buggy, so use the ticket instead and catch the Latios as the game expects you to. This will also make the Pokémon legitimate for tournaments, as it is not a hacked Pokemon.
 In order to successfully use the Eon Ticket, you'll need to enter a code for both the ticket and the event. You'll also need to enter two Master codes, making four codes total that will need to be entered.


Make sure Pokémon Emerald is running and click the "Cheats" menu.
Select "Cheat list..." and then click Gameshark... to enter a new cheat code.
Enter the following codes, creating a new code for each separate box. Enter the "Description" into the "Description" field, and then copy the code into the Code field.


  Description: Master
  D8BAE4D9 4864DCE5
  A86CDBA5 19BA49B3



  Description: Anti-DMA
  B2809E31 3CEF5320
  1C7B3231 B494738C



  Description: Eon Ticket
  121F112F DA7E52B4



  Description: Southern Island
  0D6A02AA B44948BD

, After entering all of the codes, restart Pokémon Emerald and go to your PC in the game. You should be able to find the Eon Ticket in Slot 1. Withdraw it from the PC and add it to your inventory.
 When you're holding the ticket, you'll be taken to Southern Island instead of Slateport City.
 Once you're on Southern Island, you can fight Latios by using the sphere at the center of the island. Latios won't try to run in this fight, so use the techniques outlined above to wear it down and capture it.

