 A two-in-one dress usually has two long straps that can be tied in different ways depending on the cut you want. For a basic cross front halter, simply take the two straps dangling from just below your chest on the dress. Cross them over one another, making them intersect just below your neck. Then, tie the two straps around the back of your neck so the crossed lines lay flat on your chest. This creates an easy cross front halter that can work for many occasions., For some occasions, you may your front covered completely by the straps, creating the illusion of small sleeves. To achieve this, drape both straps over your shoulders. Letting the straps hang somewhat loosely, resembling short sleeves, loop both straps around your front. Then, loop the front around your back to secure your look in place. Tie the straps tightly at your back, but leave enough slack that the straps create a sleeve-like effect.When you're done, it should look like you're wearing a v-cut dress with short sleeves.
This may be hard to do alone. Ask a friend for help.
 A conventional halter top will look much fancier with the addition of a bow. Pull both straps around the back of your neck and tie them together. Two straps at the front of the dress should cover your breasts. Use what's left of straps dangling behind you to tie them into a nice, attractive bow., Take both straps and, before your begin tying, twist them to create twine-like twisty straps. Leave enough of the straps untwisted to cover your breasts. Tie the straps together behind your neck. In front, two straps should cover your breasts. In back, twist the two twisted straps together with one another. Follow the twist down the center of your back. Then, untwist the remaining slack. Move the untwisted portion of your straps around your front, then again around your back. Tie the straps together to secure.When you're done, you should have two straps covering your breast in front. In the back, you should have one braided twist stretching across your back.

