 Whenever you breed two dragons that meet the criteria, there is a 1% chance that the outcome will be a Rainbow Dragon, 2% with the Epic Breeding Island. The chances of getting a Double Rainbow Dragon are 0.5% (1% with the Island). There is nothing you can do to increase these odds. If you don't get a Rainbow Dragon from your breeding efforts, you'll just need to keep trying until it eventually happens.;
, You'll need to earn experience and level up your park to Level 11 before you can start trying to breed Rainbow Dragons. There are several ways to gain experience and increase your level:


Accomplish your daily goals.
Hatch dragons.
Build new buildings and habitats.
Complete Colosseum events.
 Normally you'll have a 1% chance of getting a Rainbow Dragon, but you can increase this to a 2% chance if you use an Epic Breeding Island instead of a Breeding Cave. The Epic Breeding Island costs 125 Gems, and you'll need to be Level 13 to build it.


You can upgrade the Epic Breeding Island to an Epic Breeding Sanctuary for 225 Gems. This won't increase your chances, but it will reduce breeding time by 20%. This will make the process quicker.
 In order for a dragon to be able to breed, it must be level 4 or higher. You can increase a dragon's level by feeding it or spending Gems.


There are some reports that having both dragons at level 11-20 will increase the chances of getting a Rainbow, but this is unconfirmed.
 This will begin the breeding process.
 This is the only requirement for potentially getting a Rainbow Dragon. It doesn't matter which dragon has which elements, as long as there are at least four unique elements in the mix. This means that there are about 30,000 possible combinations that can result in a Rainbow Dragon. The elements involved will not affect the chances of producing a Rainbow Dragon. Some possible combinations include, but are definitely not limited to:Panlong + Seaweed
Crystal + Blue Fire
Current + Flower
Blazing + Swamp
Love + Swamp
Flower + Plasma
Scorch + Seaweed
Firefly + Seaweed
Crystal + Lichen

, When you select your two dragons and start the breeding process, you'll be shown how much time until it is complete. If the time displayed is 48 hours or 38 hours and 24 minutes, it may be a Rainbow Dragon., The breeding process will take some time to complete, and you won't know the results until it's finished. You can pay Gems if you want to speed up the process.
 Rainbow Dragons will have an incubation time of 48 hours. You can pay Gems to skip this as well. If the egg is Rainbow-striped, you've got a Rainbow Dragon.
 If you're lucky, you'll have received a Rainbow Dragon. If you're extra lucky, you'll get the Double Rainbow Dragon! If you didn't get a Rainbow Dragon, don't fret. The chances are very low, and you'll likely have to breed many times in order to get one.
 If you didn't get a Rainbow Dragon, you can just start the breeding process over again. Since the type of elements don't affect the chances, you can just have the same two dragons breed again until you get one.

