 Remember that in most cases the wall studs will be placed vertically, floor to ceiling. Ceiling joist positions vary from builder, house, code etc. Go into the attic and look around, or cut a small hole somewhere in the ceiling and take a look.;
, So try to arrange your path so you can minimize drywall cutting and drilling. Enclosed ceilings (like in a two story home) are more challenging because you will need to cut out a lot of drywall if you need to run the cable across the joists rather than along them.
 Substitute "Ethernet" cable for any cable you are running. The only thing that changes are the connections at the end.


Our router is located at the farthest corner of the home from our office (just to make things exciting). AND, our ceiling joists are running against our proposed path. (more excitement) Many times it's best to find an area with existing wiring like an outlet or cable TV jack. Then you can just run the line through the cabling holes that the contractor has already cut. In this case, we would want to place our wall box close to that

,


Note:

You can take the easy way out if you have crown moulding on the ceiling. Just pop off the moulding with a small moulding prybar. Be sure to have help with this step and take care. Especially with older moulding. All mouldings can break easily if you're too hasty, but older moulding is especially easy to crack or break. Then just run the cable behind the moulding and then into the walls, which is described below.


Explanation of wall boxes:

There are a couple of types that we're going to look at. First is called a "New Work" box. New Work doesn't mean the new work you're doing. It means new construction where there is no drywall yet. These are typically hammered into place where there is no drywall or other obstructions in the way.
The second is called an "Old Work" box. This means that the home is finished and you don't have the luxury of an open area. Usually these boxes have little fins that flip out behind the drywall and pulls the box tight into place when screwed down. We're using an Old Work box, today.
,


Studs are typically 16in apart to the center of each stud. Sometimes they are farther apart depending on building codes, non-load bearing walls, and to keep costs down.
 Lay down a drop cloth.
!

, This is to keep us safe in case we happen to touch or cut wiring in the wall. Also, it's just good practice anytime you're poking around inside of a wall.
 Remember, the outer lip of the wall box is needed to “clamp” the box against the drywall with the fins behind it. So don't cut the hole too big. Smaller is better; we can trim it later.



This is where it gets ugly. Since our cable is running across the joists, the only option is to cut out the drywall on the ceiling. Remember, this is an enclosed ceiling between floors. However, in your home you might find an easier way to run the cable. This is a worst case scenario.
 Preferably close to a wall (maybe 8-10 in away) to hide any imperfections when we replace the drywall later.
 Look inside to make sure there aren't any obstructions. Once we determine that it's all clear we make the long cuts across the ceiling. Make sure these lengths of drywall are manageable for easy installation later. Also when you cut the lengths to size, try to cut in the middle of a joist so we have something to attach the drywall to later.


Now we have a nice opening to work in. Take your spade bit and drill a straight series of holes through the joists, for the cable. Keep the holes high enough on the boards so if we decide to screw the drywall into place we don't damage our cable.
 When we need to run with the joists, we can just cut one hole at the start, then one at the end and use our fish tape to run through the ceiling. Since we already figured out what path we were going to take, you already know where to stop the cutting.
, Make sure to look inside for obstructions.


Your friend (we'll call him Bob) stays on the first floor to help us find the perfect spot to drill down. Use your hammer or whatever to tap on the floor in the hole until you both zero in on the right spot.
 We'll have Bob do it so we can watch and make sure that the hole comes through in the right spot. This will be a thicker set of boards since it's load bearing.


If everything went to plan, we should have everything ready to run the cable. If it didn't, adjust to make it right.
 Drop the cable through the holes and draw it through gently. Anytime that you need to make a turn, draw out as much cable as you need before turning, to reduce stress on the cable.
 Anytime that you need it, unroll it, push it through the opening until it arrives at its destination, attach the cable to it using the electrical tape. Then gently pull the tape back through. That's all there is to it.
,, Tape and spackle it. Sand and paint it. Then replace any mouldings that you have.
 Your application may vary considerably to this “how to”. Make adjustments as needed, but now you have the foundation to get it done.

