 This procedure will prevent your planter from retaining bacteria, viruses, and fungi, all of which are often transferred to planters from insects or mold spores.


Remove your plant from the planter, then scrub the inside of the planter to remove any loose dirt or debris using warm water and a stiff brush or dish scrubber.
Mix together 1 part bleach and 10 parts water in a tub or sink large enough in which to soak your planter.
Soak the planter in the bleach and water mixture for at least 30 minutes, then use warm water to rinse the bleach completely from the planter.
Allow the planter to dry completely before replacing your plant inside the planter. This will allow any remaining bleach residue to dissipate.;
, Sometimes, your planter can become damaged if it is exposed to rough weather or placed in areas in which pets or children often play.


Position your planter in the corner of a garden, against a wall in your home, or away from hallways or paths in which foot traffic may cause the planter to be knocked over or tampered with.
Move your planter indoors during harsh weather conditions such as freezing temperatures, strong winds, rain, sleet, or hail, all of which can tip your planter over or cause your planter to crack.
If you cannot move a planter inside during freezing temperatures, remove the plate or saucer from underneath the planter if it contains excess water. If the excess water becomes frozen, it may crack your planter or the plate itself.
If your planter is too large to move indoors, insulate the planter from cold weather by placing bubble wrap around the planter, then covering the entire planter with a tarp. This will protect your planter from being exposed directly to freezing water, which can cause the planter to crack.
 If excessive amounts of water cannot drain from a planter, the inside of your planter will rot, in addition to the soil and plant itself.


Raise the planter up and off the ground by mounting it on bricks, blocks, or decorative planter feet, which can be purchased from most gardening retailers.
 When plants grow, they can sometimes cause a planter to crack or break if the roots or weight of the plant become too large for the planter to support.


Inspect the drainage holes underneath your planter when you notice that your plant has been growing. If you can see the roots of your plant within the drainage holes, you must place your plant in a larger planter to prevent the planter from breaking or cracking.
 A commercial waterproofing solution will prevent wood and metal planters from becoming rotten or rusty.


Purchase a waterproofing solution from any retail store that specializes in gardening products, then apply the solution following the manufacturer's instructions.

