 If you are unsure about whether you are still registered to vote, you can check by contacting your County Registration Official or by using the Texas Online Voter Center.You can find the phone number for your County Registration Official here: http://www.sos.state.tx.us/elections/voter/votregduties.shtml

Access the Texas Online Voter Center here: https://team1.sos.state.tx.us/voterws/viw/faces/SearchSelectionVoter.jsp

When requesting your registration status, you will need to present one of three pieces of information for the search to be performed:

Your first and last name
Your Texas driver's license
Your Voter Unique Identifier (VUID) as it appears on your voter registration certificate

;
, If you are registering for th


You must be a United States citizen
You must be a resident of the county in which you submit your application
You must be at least 18 years old on Election Day
You must not be a convicted felon who has not completed your sentence, probation, and parole
You must not be declared by a probate court to be mentally incapacitated without the right to vote

, You can usually find an application at any government office, including public libraries, high schools, and post offices.


You can also complete and print the application online. This application must then be sent to your Counter Voter Registrar. Access the informal online application here: https://webservices.sos.state.tx.us/vrapp/index.asp

Alternatively, you can request to have an application mailed to you.
If all else fails, you can obtain an application directly from your County Voter Registrar's office or from the Secretary of State's office.
 Read the instructions thoroughly and fill out the form in complete detail. Mail it to your County Voter Registrar or drop it off at the Voter Registrar's office in person.


You must be at least 17 years and 10 months old when you apply.
You must provide a Texas driver's license number or personal ID number issued by the Texas Department of Public Safety. If you do not have either number, present the last four digits of your social security number.
 Your voter registration certificate should be mailed to you within 30 days of registration.


Check the certificate to make sure that all the information is correct. Notify your County Voter Registrar immediately about any mistakes.
 Your voter registration application must be postmarked at least 30 days before any election you plan to vote in. Otherwise, you will not be registered in time to be eligible to vote in that election.
 This is the only place you can vote during Election Day, and its location is based solely on the address of the residence you are registered under.


Your voting precinct number is located next to your year of birth on your voter registration certificate.
Note that you can find your voting precinct location by checking a local newspaper or by searching the Online Voter Central website within two days before the election: https://team1.sos.state.tx.us/voterws/viw/faces/Introduction.jsp

Voting hours for Election Day are between 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m.
 You do not usually need to present your voter certificate, but one of seven valid forms of photo ID will be required when voting in person.


Acceptable ID includes:

State issued driver's license.
State issued ID card that shows your name
Any other photo ID that shows your name
A U.S. passport
A U.S. birth certificate
U.S. citizenship papers
Any current utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck, or other government document that shows your name and current residential address



, The election official will locate your name on a list of people registered to vote within that precinct. You will be asked to sign your name so that there is a record showing that you have already voted.


You will also be asked if you have moved. If you have, a correction may need to be made.
 The type you receive will vary based on the type of election you are voting in.


The most traditional voting method is a standard paper ballot, counted by hand.
There are also paper ballots that are counted electronically.
Lastly, you may receive a slip of paper with a numerical access code or an activator card to use for electronic voting.
 Vote on as many candidates and issues as you want. You do not need to vote on each issue marked on the ballot.


If using a traditional paper ballot, mark the ballot using the marker or pen provided at the poll booth.
If using a paper scan ballot, fill in the bubbles or connect the arrows next to the candidate names on the ballot.
If using a direct record electronic system, select the candidates and issues you wish to vote for on the electronic screen at the poll booth.
 Once you are finished voting, turn your vote in securely using the ballot box or machine provided. Each vote is anonymous.


Traditional paper ballots are submitted to a standard ballot box. Votes are counted by hand by election officials.
Paper scan ballots are inserted into a ballot counter. This counter counts the bubbles or arrows marked on the ballot.
Direct Record Electronic systems will display a summary of the votes you selected and ask you to confirm them by pressing the "Vote" or "Cast Ballot" button. These ballots are then counted by the machine.
 Any voter registered in Texas is eligible to vote early as long as voting is done in person.


You will not need to present an excuse or reason when requesting an early vote.
 Early voting in person begins 17 days before Election Day and ends 4 days before Election Day.If this date lands out on a weekend, early voting will start the following Monday.
Early voting for May elections start 12 days before Election Day and ends 4 days before Election Day.
 As long as you are registered to vote in Texas, you can vote at any early voting location within your county of residence. You are not confined to a single polling location.


Check the Online Voter Central website for a list of early voting locations two days before the first day of early voting. Note that locations will not be posted before that date: https://team1.sos.state.tx.us/voterws/viw/faces/Introduction.jsp

You could also check a local newspaper or contact your Early Voting Clerk for State and County Elections in your county. Do the latter by finding the contact information here: http://www.sos.state.tx.us/elections/voter/county.shtml


, Under most circumstances, you will not be asked to present your voter certificate. A verified ID is usually required, though.


Acceptable ID includes:

State issued driver's license.
State issued ID card that shows your name
Any other photo ID that shows your name
A U.S. passport
A U.S. birth certificate
U.S. citizenship papers
Any current utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck, or other government document that shows your name and current residential address



, The election official working at the polling location will look for your name on a list of registered voters for your county. You will be asked to sign your name so that there is a record showing that you have already voted.


You may also be asked if your address has changed. If it has, a correction will need to be made.
 You will receive one of three types of voting ballots when you vote early in person. The type you receive is typically based on the type of election you are voting in.


You may receive a standard paper ballot that will be counted by hand.
Alternatively, you may receive a paper ballot that will be counted electronically, instead.
Lastly, you could receive a slip of paper with a numerical access code or an activator card to use for electronic voting.
 You do not have to vote on every candidate or issue on the ballot. Instead, you only need to vote on those you wish to vote on.


For traditional paper ballots, mark the ballot using the marker or pen provided at the poll booth.
For paper scan ballots, fill in the bubbles or connect the arrows next to the candidate names on the ballot.
For the direct record electronic system, select the candidates and issues you wish to vote for on the electronic screen at the poll booth.
 Once you are finished voting, submit your vote using the ballot box or machine provided. Votes are secure and anonymous.


Traditional paper ballots should be submitted to a standard ballot box. Votes will be counted by hand by election officials.
Paper scan ballots should be inserted into a ballot counting machine. This machine will count the bubbles or arrows marked on the ballot.
Direct Record Electronic systems will display a summary of the votes you selected for each issue or candidate. You will be asked to confirm them by pressing the "Vote" or "Cast Ballot" button. These ballots will be counted by the machine.
 Not every Texas voter is permitted to vote early by mail. You must meet certain qualifications in order to request and use an absentee (early mail-in) ballot.


Accepted reasons for voting early by mail include:

You will be away from your county on Election Day and during the early voting period
You are sick or disabled
You are 65 years old or older on Election Day
You are confined in jail but still eligible to vote



, You must request a mail-in ballot by contacting the Secretary of State's office, the Early Voting Clerk for your county, or online.


You can download the application here: http://www.sos.state.tx.us/elections/forms/pol-sub/5-15f.pdf

Fill out the application completely and mail it to the early voting clerk for your country no earlier than 60 days before Election Day and no later than seven days before the election.
You could also write your own application for a mail-in ballot as long as it includes:

Your signature
The name and address you are registered with
The address to which the ballot should be mailed
The election date and election you want a ballot for
For primary elections, the political party whose ballot you want
Your reason for needing to vote early by mail



, If you are eligible to vote early using a mail-in ballot, you should receive your mail-in ballot a few weeks after you submit your application.


If you have any questions or concerns about the status of your mail-in ballot application, contact your county Early Voting Clerk.
 You will receive a traditional paper ballot when voting early by mail. Mark this ballot by clearly filling in your choices with a pen or non-erasable marker.


Carefully follow the instructions on the ballot to ensure that you fill it out properly.
You do not need to vote on every issue and candidate. Only vote for those that you wish to vote on.
 Note that you do not usually need to present a form of ID if you have already voted at least once in Texas, but if you are a first time voter who did not put your driver's license number or social security number on your voter registration form, you will need to include a copy of valid ID.




Acceptable ID includes:
State issued driver's license.
State issued ID card that shows your name
Any other photo ID that shows your name
A U.S. passport
A U.S. birth certificate
U.S. citizenship papers
Any current utility bill, bank statement, government check, paycheck, or other government document that shows your name and current residential address



, You can mail the ballot back to your County Clerk as soon as you receive it and mark your votes. Your ballot must be received by the close of polls on Election Day.