 You can avoid weight stigma becoming a part of the culture in your community by saying something when people around you start making inappropriate jokes or comments. In a lot of cases, people are stigmatized because of their weight, but they don’t say anything.Speaking up when you see weight stigma happening lets people know that what they are doing is not okay and needs to stop.


You don’t have to be mean or aggressive or start a debate, but you can say something when you notice weight shaming.
Try saying something like, “Please don’t say things like that. I think it’s insensitive and not what we represent here.”
If you notice weight shaming in an online post you can report it as inappropriate to the site administrators.
 You can change the way people around you feel about people with weight issues just by saying something nice. Research indicates that people aren’t as likely to show weight stigma when they get positive feedback about the person with weight issues.You can help others avoid weight stigma by saying something positive when other people are saying negative things about an overweight person.


For example, If you’re around people saying mean things about an obese classmate, you should say something nice about the person. Your one comment can change the opinion of everyone else.
Point out good characteristics about the person. For instance, you might say something such as, “I don’t think she’s greedy. She actually has much better eating habits than me.”

, This gives you the opportunity to advocate for people with weight issues in an organized way with people who have similar interests. Taking a part in activities and events that promote positive body images, healthy self-esteem, and well-being is a way to help your community avoid weight stigma.


For example, you might work with your school counselors to organize an event promoting positive self-esteem and self-image.
Or, you might consider volunteering at a community center near you when they hold a fitness fair.
You may also want to attend a talk about discrimination of all kinds held at your local library. Or, even give a talk yourself about weight stigma.

