 Just take a moment to think over what you're going to be doing that day - are you going to school, or just staying at home? Whatever you're doing that day should influence your choice. If it's pouring rain, you don't want to be stuck in shorts all day.;
, Take some time looking at your wardrobe, to see what you have available to wear. If you don't like some of your clothes or they don't fit, try giving them to your local charity or selling them at a garage sale.
 Pick out something you like. It's best to wear something you feel comfortable in. Don't wear what all the girls are wearing just because it's fashionable. Put on something that you want to, and when you are shopping, think about whether you will actually wear this.
 At this age, everyone's body is going through changes. Going up a size or two could mean that you're getting taller or that your hips are widening. If something doesn't fit you - don't stress over it; instead, get it in a bigger size or go to a teen store instead.
 Don't buy 5 inch (12.7 cm) heels or super-short skirts to look more grown up. Have fun with your style and stay true to who you are. If you are into emo/ goth stuff, make sure you don't purchase anything shocking, or with inappropriate logos. No one wants to see a tween wearing a shirt that says "Come Play Dying".
 Try adding a few accessories to it. Don't overdo it, though. If you want to wear new accessories, try finding ones that are inexpensive and the kind you like and would fit you. For your hair, try accessories like headbands, barrettes, or flower hair-ties, or wearing it loose/in a plain ponytail.
 If you want to go shopping, go to places that suit you and are in a clean environment. It doesn't have to be a popular store - remember that nobody will know if you buy a great and inexpensive shirt from a small and "uncool" store in your area.
 Show people how you feel, with writing on a t-shirt or a funny picture or comfy clothes. However, it's main purpose is to make you feel more confident and truly recognize the gorgeous women that you are inside.

