 Kate is probably most famous for her burger commercial in which she was wearing a bikini. And let’s be blunt here. She often wears bikinis that look like they are a size too small in the chest.


If you want to look like Kate, you should get rid of the one-piece. She likes statement bikinis in bold colors. She has also been seen in bubblegum pink bikinis.
She favors triangle shaped bikini tops that, dare we say it, tend to show a fair amount of side boob. She has worn bikinis in all different colors, but this is her favorite style.
 Kate is not always dolled up. You will often see her photographed wearing workout clothes, with her hair in a ponytail.


Sometimes, she wears a simple T-shirt and keeps her makeup minimal. She’s the kind of person who looks beautiful with makeup on and without it. She takes care of her skin, and it shows.
Even when she is going out, she favors monotone colors and simple lines, avoiding too-busy patterns that probably wouldn’t work as well due to her fuller figure.
 Kate is a fan of black clothing. She often chooses black, form-fitting cocktail dresses when she is going out for a night on the town.


You will also find her wearing black silk shirts. When she isn’t wearing black, she may choose dark navy or even white. She’s also been photographed in black bikinis.
Every now and then, though, Kate surprises and will be seen in a light green dress, in dark red, or in a polka-dotted pattern. She has style basics, but now and then she breaks them.
 Kate has dealt with bullies. She wasn’t always so desirable. She has talked openly about having braces as a child, for example.


The key to Kate’s vibe is that she stays true to who she is even in the face of critics. She doesn’t fit the stereotypical model’s body type, but she refuses to change to fit a stereotype.
Kate has spoken out about the fact that she is proud to be an example of a person who is comfortable in her own skin. Kate is said to be 141 pounds, but she is also 5 feet 10 inches tall.