 Positive affirmations are simply the method of repeating a positive statement to yourself regularly to help you change your outlook and perspective. This practice can reduce stress and the defensive associated with threats to our sense of self..


Repeat a simple statement about being happy for others every time you are faced with a situation that makes it difficult.
Use declarative statements in your positive affirmations.
Try a statement like, “I can be happy for others and appreciate their hard work,” or “I am happy for my friends and family because I want them to be happy too.”;
, Feeling as though you need to compete with those close to you can be exhausting. It’s hard enough to build a life you can be happy in without seeing the victories of others as losses for you. Strive to celebrate their successes and you won’t have to experience the stress and frustration of seeing their victories in the wrong light.A victory for others is not a loss for you. Share in their triumphs and they will learn to share in yours.
Use other’s accomplishments as inspiration for your own.
 Feeling jealous others can be extremely stressful and often isn’t necessary. Instead, take a step back and ask yourself if you would rather be happy.By holding on to a negative frame of mind like jealousy, we are choosing to be unhappy. Instead, choose to close yourself off to negative emotions.
Much like pushing out negative thoughts, push out negative emotions by focusing on positive ones.
Making the choice to be happy is symbolic, but the commitment to change your thinking must be real.
 It may be easy to see other people’s victories in a way that makes them seem to compete with your own; instead consider the ways they are also yours. Give yourself the opportunity to make it all about you (inside your head).Think of the ways you helped your friend or coworker in the recent or extended past.
Think of the times you answered questions, listened patiently or gave a reassuring word. Those were your investments in their success, and now you can share in it.
 Everyone is going through their own journey, and for most of us each journey involves a fair amount of highs and lows. When someone reaches one of their high points, don’t assume it has anything to do with you, but rather is a part of the journey they started long ago.Remember the success of others is not personal, nor is it directed at you.
Remove yourself from the equation and look at the situation again. You likely play a very little role in the person’s motivations.

