 Receiving a vaccination while you're experiencing a psoriasis flare-up dramatically increases the risk of having an adverse reaction. Let your doctor know that you have psoriasis and try to work around your flare-ups to lower your risk of having complications.The psoriatic flare-up that can happen after you receive a vaccination is called a Koebner response.;
, Studies have shown that people with psoriasis are more likely to experience skin lesions in winter months than in summer.If at all possible, try to schedule your vaccinations during warmer months., Individuals with psoriasis who need a vaccination are more likely to experience flare-ups if they receive the vaccination after beginning biological therapy (biologics). If you've already begun biological therapy, your doctor will need to evaluate your case to determine if the benefits of vaccination outweigh the risks.


Never get live vaccines or live-attenuated vaccines if you're already receiving biological therapy.
Some live and live-attenuated vaccinations that should be avoided while receiving biological therapy include the vaccines for chicken pox, shingles, oral typhoid, yellow fever, intra-nasal influenza, and mumps/measles/rubella.
 Sometimes your options are limited with regards to which vaccine you receive. However, if you have the option, you should talk to your doctor about finding a vaccine with a lower risk of psoriasis complications.Not all vaccines will have alternatives available, though antimalarial medications are one type of vaccine for which alternatives do exist.


Many antimalarial vaccines cause psoriasis flare-ups. However, some are more likely than others to cause significant complications.
The antimalarial drug hydroxychloroquine, for example, is the least likely vaccine to cause complications for people with psoriasis.
Your doctor is the only person who can safely make recommendations for or against a given vaccine, and it will most likely be reviewed on a case-by-case basis.
 Some people with severe psoriasis may experience flare-ups after close contact with someone who has gotten vaccinated. These individuals can suffer psoriasis vaccine complications, even if they themselves have not received a vaccination.This type of flare-up is unlikely, but it might happen if you make contact with someone who received a live vaccination.

