 The most important key to being a successful writer is being a good writer. Your skill as a writer is like a muscle—the more you exercise it the stronger it will become. Whether you’re working on a full-length feature film or a short scene for TV, try to write something every day.;
, You may be determined to finish your full-length feature, but that shouldn’t stop you from working on other projects. Besides, if you find yourself at a dead end on a script, you may find it refreshing to write something completely different for a while. Not to mention, it’s a good idea to be able to discuss several projects if you happen to meet a producer or director—or someone who knows one.
 Research what kinds of scripts are being bought by production companies. Zombie films? Murder mystery TV shows? Read Hollywood Reporter or Variety to get a good idea. You want to stay true to what you know, but don’t be afraid to step out of your comfort zone and write scripts that people are currently interested in.


At the same time, think outside the box of what is currently popular. It may be refreshing for a producer to come across an engaging and original script that goes against the grain of what they're used to seeing.
 All writers face the dreaded “writers block” at some point. If you’re feeling burnt out on whatever you’re working on, or you just can’t figure out what should happen next in a story, take a break. Go for a jog, take a nap, or meet up with friends. Turning your brain off for a while may actually help you find the inspiration you’re looking for. , It’s never a bad idea to have multiple sets of eyes on your work. If you know people who are good writers themselves, or people who simply have a mind for great ideas, ask them to read your scripts. Tell them to be honest about what they think, and take their suggestions seriously.


Consider taking on a writing partner. You and your partner can either work on the same script and exchange ideas, or work on different scripts and regularly get feedback from one another.
Alternatively, you can join a writers group, which will allow other people to comment on your work and, if you struggle to find motivation, creates deadlines for you.
 When you aren’t writing, read scripts. Watch films and TV shows. Pay attention to structure, style, and dialogue. The best way to improve as a writer, aside from writing every day, is observing what good writers are doing and how they are doing it. , If you think your script is ready, send query letters to production companies and directors asking for permission to send them your script. Your main goal is to promote yourself and your work. Your query letter should address the appropriate person (instead of “to whom it may concern”) and should include the following:


A one sentence logline that describes what your story is about.
A plot synopsis (up to a paragraph) that describes your story in further detail, including characters, their journeys, and what’s at stake. You should convey what is unique about your script and why the company needs it.
A short biography. Let your reader know what experience you have in the film industry. It’s okay to brag a little here. Be specific and tell them about awards you have won and what you have achieved. If you don’t have any experience, you may want to explain your background and why you are interested in the film industry. , Your story may be good. It may be great. Still, only around two percent of scripts make it past the first desk. If yours is rejected, or you never receive a response, don’t be discouraged. Keep sending your script out. Alternatively, you may consider making some improvements to your script that might get it accepted.
 Los Angeles is still where most of the action is. However, cities like Atlanta, New York, Chicago, and Austin boast lively film scenes and are home to many production companies. If you see screenwriting as a future career and not just a hobby, you should be prepared to relocate for that career. Living in L.A. or cities like it will make you available for meetings with producers or agents, and they will be more likely to take you seriously if you’re local. , Whether you’re at your job or at your local coffee shop, talk to people. Depending on who you meet, you may find they work in the film industry, or perhaps they know someone in the film industry. Be ready to give them your contact information—or better yet, a business card—and keep a notebook of people and their titles. Making it in Hollywood isn’t always about who you know, but knowing important people certainly doesn’t hurt. You could end up selling your script simply because you met the right person.
 Any job. Even if your job is to go on coffee runs for the cast and crew, you are making yourself known. Whatever job you end up with, be good at it. Higher-ups will notice and appreciate you, and you may get an opportunity to pitch your story. If that happens, be prepared to send it immediately—producers may not remember you a few months down the road. , If you finally catch a break and a producer is interested in your script, they may want you to make some changes. Successful producers are successful for a reason: they know what sells and what makes a great film. Even if you think your script is perfect, be prepared to swallow your pride and edit your script. , You don’t want to lose the opportunity to sell your work by never compromising. However, you should feel allowed to defend parts your script every now and then. You could convince the producer to change his or her mind, and they may be impressed by your inclination to stick to your guns.
 If you get a meeting with a producer, arrive on time. Dress as you would for a job interview, and speak clearly and confidently.
 Stay in regular contact with friends and family who have your best interests in mind. Unfortunately, you may run into agents and producers who only see the value in your script, not you. Once you’re in the process of selling a script, ask the people you trust if they believe you’re making the best decisions.

