 Who are you inviting? How many people are you planning on inviting? Is it just one person, or a big bunch of friends? It's best to make this decision first as your choice will determine what you can do.;
, Where will you hold your party? Most teenagers like to have sleepovers in their bedroom, or a big spare room. Think about the number of people you are inviting. If you are inviting one, maybe even two people (depending on the size of your room), you could stick with your bedroom. But, any more than that, maybe take over the lounge room or the guest bedroom. Make sure everyone has enough room and space, people prefer to have their own space.
 When will you hold it? What is it for? If it's for your birthday, obviously keep the date of the sleepover relatively close to your actual birthday. If its just for fun or a catch up, do it on the weekend, Friday night... Don't make it a school night, you will not be able to stay up late for one, and in the morning its twice as much fuss. If it is the holidays, go ahead! Just always make sure that times suit both you, your friends and your family.
 Definitely the fun part! Blow up plenty of balloons and have them all over the floor, hang streamers from the ceiling, make it a pillow wonderland... have fun with it! Don't go overboard though, and make sure that there is some room for the beds.
 These are essential to any fun sleepover. The chocolate game is an oldie but a goody, truth or dare is a very common slumber party game, but how about something a bit different? A fun balloon game you could play involves players to tie a balloon onto a string, then tie the string with the balloon on it to your ankle. The players run around and try to stomp on others balloons and protects their own. No hands are allowed, and the winner is the person left with a non-popped balloon! Or to mix it up a bit, have multiple balloons on strings tied to your ankle!

, Every teenage girl deep inside has a love for dressing up. So get you and your friend/s together and do each others hair, makeup, clothes, shoes.
 Get wet in the pool! If you have a private pool, blow up balloons and throw them on the water!

, Mix your own CD with songs that you and your friends love, then put it in the CD player and dance!

, This is always fun. Search wikiHow for ideas, such as simple friendship bracelets and collages!

,





Pizza is everyone's favorite! If your parents don't want to cook, this is a goldie. Or, get some ingredients and make it yourself!
,





Pasta is an easy meal which is quick to cook and loved by anyone! Make some pasta and experiment with your friends' favorite sauces!,

Takeaway or restaurant - heaps of fun!