 Before applying anything to your nails, make sure they are completely clean. Take a kitchen sponge or scrubber or a bath rag and buff the tops of your nails. This will help get rid of any dirt or debris that could interfere with the application of the diamond manicure.


This is also a good time to get the dirt out from under your nails. You can use a rag for this, or a nail file if you are finding the dirt hard to reach.;
, After your nails have been cleaned, cut and shape them into the style you want. There are a multitude of different nail shapes like round, square, oval, and stiletto. The style you choose may depend on the length of your natural nail. For example, if you have very short nails, it will be difficult to achieve the look of stiletto nails and you may want to stick with square or round tips.


Make sure the shape and length of your nails are even.
If you have fake nails, you can style them whichever way you like.
 Remove any residue left from filing and clipping your nails. First wipe down each nail with a dry cloth, then run them under warm water. You want to make sure there is no gritty material left to add bumps in the manicure. After you’re sure everything has been cleaned, gently dry your nails with a towel.
 Take a brush-on gel resin like IBD’s 5-second resin and apply it to each of your nails. Make sure to brush off any excess resin from the applicator before you start coating your nails, as it can cause coverage to be uneven. Start at the base of the cuticle and swipe up. Make sure each stroke is even and smooth. You should only need one coat, but feel free to apply a second if you feel your first coat was too thin.You can find resin gel at any beauty supply store like ULTA, Sephora, or Amazon.
 Once your nails have been coated in resin, prepare the diamond powder to dip them. This is an acrylic powder that adds durability and strength to your nails. You can find it online or at any store like ULTA, where beauty products are sold. It should come in a clear powder, however, you can also find diamond powder in different colors. To apply, simply open the four ounce container and dip your nail inside. Make sure to press down with the top of your nail first, lightly. The powder will adhere to the resin immediately and you can remove your finger.You shouldn’t have to dip your nail into the powder more than once, though it can take practice.
Only do one finger at a time.
 This spray will help the resin set. Hold the bottle 16-18 inches away from your nails and press down on the pump to achieve an even spray. If you hold the bottle too close or don’t pump down hard enough, the product can glob onto your nails and cause divots.


Try pumping the spray into a sink or trash can a few times to make sure it’s spraying evenly.
The catalyst spray will help speed up the process of setting your nails. However, you still want to wait two to three minutes for them to set completely before doing anything that could potentially harm your manicure.
If you don’t have a catalyst spray, you can also use a top coat polish. Just make sure that you wait 10-15 minutes for this to dry completely., If you want a simple addition to your diamond manicure, try adding a coat of glittery polish. You can find glitter polish in a myriad of colors from metallic silvers and golds to brightly colored greens, blues, and reds. If you don’t want to paint over the diamond manicure, you can also find powder mixes that contain glitter in them. This will allow you to skip the extra step of applying glitter later on.
 Try adding some fake diamonds to the base or tips of your cuticles for a bit of extra glam. You can also try fake sapphires, rubies, and emeralds. These little gems can be attached with a bit of nail glue and tweezers. Put them on every nail or just one or two for a bit of character.


If you’re feeling adventurous, try coating an entire nail in tiny gems.
 One of the easiest ways to add designs or patterns to your nails is through nail stickers. They come in a multitude of shapes, sizes, and designs, and can be customized to fit your nail size. Try geometric shapes, floral prints, stripes, or polka dots. Sticking with a basic black or white is also a great way to keep the style versatile.
 To prevent chipping, add another layer of a clear top coat every three to four days. This will not only help prevent divots or cracks in your nails, but will also help keep them shiny., If the tips of your nails have chipped, clip them back into an even shape. Use a nail file to smooth out the edges and then apply a top coat to re-seal them.


Even if only one of your nails has chipped, be sure to cut back all of them. Having your nails at uneven lengths when manicured can look sloppy and unprofessional.
 Stick with mild soaps rather than the harsh alcohol content of hand sanitizer. This can dry out your nails and lead to chipping. Try wearing rubber gloves to protect your nails when doing dishes or cleaning around the house.
 As your nails grow, you will notice a gap forming between the base of the manicure and the base of your cuticle. When the gap is big enough to be seen readily by others, it's a good sign that you need a new manicure. However, you can maintain the nail in the meantime by sealing it with top coat.


You can also try something different like adding glitter or a different polish color to the base. This can create an ombre look.