 The best way to start eliminating it is by removing it from your morning foods. Instead of eating cereal, muffins, or donuts, try eggs, unsweetened yogurt with fruit, or cottage cheese.;
, Try an artificial sweetener or even unsweetened coffee.
, It is called lactose. In fact, everything the the ending OSE, is sugar, as is honey, corn and maple syrup, and many others. Know your sugars. Do not be fooled. Soy milk is an option, and unsweetened almond milk is quite good and a great substitute.
 Try to eat healthy snacks or fatty snacks. Fat is not your enemy. In fact, after protein it is the thing that will fill you up the fastest, which will make you less hungry and lessen sugar cravings.
 When you feel a craving come on, brush your teeth or gargle mouthwash. Anything sweet will no longer taste good with a fresh mouth.
 Instead of a Starbucks, make coffee at home without sugar, or make tea. Tea is better for you and packed full of healthy antioxidants. Get the sweets out of the house—if you have to drive up to the store every time you want a fix, you're less likely to give in.
 Treat sugar like an addiction. Find out what triggers your desires for sugar and eliminate it. It could be stress, boredom, or mourning. Instead, try something else during those triggers. Take up a new hobby like running. Do it in the morning, when you're stressed or when you're bored. Despite what you may think, over time it will give you energy, help eliminate stress, and give you something to do. Or take up reading. It can help you take your mind off stress, relieve boredom, and if you only have a short time to read in the morning it will give you something to be excited to come home to. Find a new habit to replace sugar cravings.
 If you make a mistake, it's not the end of the world. Just correct the mistake right away. Don't wait till the next day. The worst thing you can do for yourself after a slip up is decide to "get back on track" tomorrow. Do it today, right now. If you open up a Twix candy bar, instead of eating both halves, give the other away. If you just opened a soda and realize what you're doing, dump it out. If you forgot yourself and delve into a slice of cake, take a breath, put down the fork, drink some water, brush your teeth and distance yourself from the sweets.

