 Vaseline is a clear substance and a very sticky one. If you lather the toilet seat in Vaseline, it will be hard to see. If you can't find Vaseline, petroleum jelly will also work here. An unsuspecting family member will sit down to use the bathroom and get an unpleasant surprise.


Check to see if there's Vaseline in your family's bathroom. If not, you can purchase some at a drug store before April Fool's Day.
It's a good idea to pull this prank at night so a family member will fall for it early in the morning. If someone is half-asleep and using the bathroom, they're less likely to notice the vaseline. Set your alarm to go off late at night, when no one will be awake, and then set up the prank.
Use gloves while handling vaseline, as it's very sticky, and you also probably do not want to touch the toilet seat with bare hands. Spread some vaseline over the toilet seat. Go for a thin layer of vaseline, as this will be less noticeable, and try to even out any bumps or lumps.
When you're finished, dispose of any evidence. Place the vaseline back where you found it. If you bought it for the prank, hide it. Throw out the gloves you used. Then, leave the bathroom as you found it.
Vaseline can be very slippery. Do not pull this prank on young children or the elderly, as it may cause them to slip and fall.
Be careful not to sit on this yourself!

, Another fun prank involves covering the toilet seat in plastic wrap. If you have a lot of male family members, this can be particularly fun. Male family members will try to pee in the morning, only to have urine squirt back upward off the plastic wrap.


Get up before anyone else is awake. Take some plastic wrap from the kitchen. You also probably want to use gloves to avoid touching the toilet bowl with your bare hands.
Lift up the lid of the toilet seat. Place the plastic wrap over the toilet bowl. Try to make sure the plastic wrap does not crinkle, as this will make its presence more noticeable.
When you're done, put the lid down. Put the plastic wrap away, and dispose of your gloves. Leave the bathroom as it was before.
 A bar of soap that produces no suds is a great prank to play on a family member. You'll need a bottle of clear nail polish, which you can purchase at most grocery stores and drug stores, as well as a bar of soap. Go for the type of soap your family uses.The day before April Fool's Day, take a bar of soap from the bathroom. Go to your room, or a private place in the house, and prepare the prank.
Paint the soap in a thin layer of clear nail polish. Paint slowly and use smooth strokes. Uneven layers may make the soap look suspicious. When you're done painting, set the soap aside to dry.
Once the soap is completely dry, put it back in the bathroom. In the morning, a family member will go to use the soap only to find it does not produce suds.
 Empty out a container of toothpaste in your family's bathroom. Then, refill the container with mustard. Your family member will be annoyed when they try to brush their teeth in the morning only to find their toothbrush coated in mustard.You should do this prank early in the morning or late at night, to make sure no one catches you. You should also be sure to dispose of the evidence. You should empty the toothpaste into a plastic bag and then throw that bag away when you're done.
Keep in mind, if your family is on a tight budget, this may be more annoying than funny. You may end up having to pay for a new bottle of toothpaste. You should only play this prank if you believe your family members will take it well.
It can also be fun to choose a liquid similar in color to toothpaste, like mayonnaise. This way, your family member may not notice anything until they try to brush their teeth with mayo.

