 Remove the stones of the peaches by cutting all the way around the middle of them and twist the two halves to separate them. Slice each half into fairly thick chunks. Place the peach chunks in a bowl.;
, Twist the top off of the pineapple and cut the ends off. Slice off the skin and cut off any remaining bits of skin. Cut the pineapple log into individual slices and then cut the slices into smaller pieces. Add the pineapple pieces to the bowl.
 Cut both ends off the orange and place it upright. Slice around the sides to remove the peel. Cut down the centre of the orange and into slices. Add the orange slices to the bowl.
 Peel the bananas and slice them at an angle into chunks. Add the banana pieces to the bowl.
 Spoon out the centre of the melon to remove the seeds. Remove the skin of the melon and then slice it width ways and lengthways to create chunks. Add them to the bowl.
 Hull the strawberries and chop them in half. Add them to the bowl.
 Slice them finely and sprinkle them into the bowl.
 Put the pulp back on top and leave it aside to use it in the sauce.
 Heat the saucepan over a medium heat and add 1/2 tablespoon of water and sugar. Don't mix them until the sugar has caramelize. Wait until it fully caramelizes, and then carefully pour the rest of the water in. Mix everything together and then add the lemongrass and vanilla bean.


Lower the heat and continue stirring occasionally. Stir in the lime juice, bring it back to a boil, and then remove the saucepan from the heat. Leave it on the side for 10 minutes and then strain the mixture through a sieve. Allow the mixture to cool completely.
 Add the orange juice, brandy, and sugar to a small saucepan. Warm everything up and stir so that the sugar melts. Remove from the heat and let it cool down.
 Scoop a generous amount of mixed fruit into individual glasses or small bowls. Drizzle the desired sauce over the fruit and stir well. Sprinkle berries on the top. Serve immediately with crème fraiche or ice cream.
