 Because of this, they can usually only perform activities that are very simple or routine to them.


Getting dressed and brushing your teeth are two routine activities that you can do during your episode.You could also try getting up, walking to your closet, opening the door and staring blankly into it.
 A sleepwalker only performs simple actions during an event, and often they will do those simple things repeatedly. Think of it like a needle skipping on a record – when a needle skips, the same brief moments of the music will repeat over and over. Pick some sort of very simple activity and do it repeatedly, maintaining a demeanor that is completely dazed.


Prepare your routine ahead of time so that you can perform the activities without a lot of effort. A believable thing you can do is get up and make a snack in the kitchen. Make a sandwich, but set it aside. Then make another sandwich.
You could also try walking down the hall to the bathroom and back several times, or go downstairs and back upstairs a few times with no real purpose.
Sleepwalkers generally don’t communicate with others, but they do tend to talk in their sleep a bit, usually muttering incoherent phrases. Incoherent screaming has also been known to happen so if you’re trying to freak someone out, you’ll probably succeed by sleep screaming.You could also get up and starting cleaning the same area repeatedly, which is a common sleepwalking occurrence.
 Sleepwalking almost always takes place during the night, not during daytime naps.In addition, sleepwalking usually wouldn't occur in the very early hours of the morning.


You’ll want to keep this in mind when you plan your fake out, because you’ll probably be wearing your pajamas for the performance.
Sleepwalking is more likely to occur earlier in the night, within the first couple of hours after falling asleep, so a believable fake sleepwalk should occur pretty early in the night.
 A sleepwalking event can last as briefly as 30 seconds or go on for a maximum of about 30 minutes.The typical range for a sleepwalking episode is 1 to 5 minutes.For a believable sleepwalk, plan your nocturnal event to include the repetition of a few simple behaviors that will not go beyond the half hour mark.

