 It's not realistic to completely avoid indulging during the holidays. The holidays are a special time and you deserve to loosen up restrictions regarding food once in awhile. Instead of deciding you won't partake at all, set a series of healthy, realistic limits for yourself.Try to set daily or weekly limits. For example, you can have one or two treats a day. You could also decide on only eating a small amount of treats on certain days of the week.
Set your limits before gong out. If you're going to, say, your company's Christmas party, set a reasonable limit for how much you can consume. You can agree to only have a couple of cocktails and one to two snacks that night.;
, You're likely to get a lot of snacks and treats as gifts over the holidays. This can make it difficult to avoid overindulging, as you'll find yourself continually snacking throughout the day. A good way to combat this is to simply keep such items out of reach.If you have to work to get an item, this will slow you down. You'll be able to think about whether you really need that extra cookie or brownie before bed.
Do something, like, stashing baked goods and other snacks in a drawer you have to stand on a chair to open.
You can also pushed baked good far back into your fridge or pantry.
Try freezing baked goods. You won't be able to impulsively eat them, as they need to thaw, but can enjoy them later for a party or get together.
 Very few people complete avoid indulgence over the holidays. Neglecting regular exercise can make the impact of indulgence worse, but it can also encourage you to go overboard by affecting your mood. You may be less likely to track you're eating if you're off a regular routine altogether. Having a consistent exercise routine can help with other aspects of your life.Make plans to exercise over the holidays. While it's okay to skip big days, like Thanksgiving and Christmas, strive to keep up with your regular fitness in months like December and November.
If you're traveling, try to make plans that will allow you to keep up with fitness goals. See if you can book a hotel with a gym. If you're staying with family, find a local gym that will grant you a guest pass.

