 The first step in figuring out if she is using you is to examine your own feelings and views of the relationship. If you take a good look at your own conception of the relationship, you might be able to figure out if she is using you or if you are confused about the relationship.


Do you have expectations for the relationship that are unrealistic? If she wants to be friends and you want to be romantic, then the problem might lay on your end.
Have you been trying to impress her or “buy” her love by spending money? If so, reexamine your view of the relationship.
Do you think that you are really good friends when in reality she views you as an acquaintance or even less? If so, you should reconsider your view of the relationship.;
, One telltale sign that a girl might be using you is if she only talks at you and doesn't listening to you, too. While this might not necessarily mean that she is using you, it is a good sign that she might not truly care about you. Consider if:She ever asks you how you are feeling or how you are doing
She stops to consider your thoughts on what she is saying, or if she keeps talking
She cares to learn more about you than she already knows

, It is possible that the girl is much more interested in getting into your social circle than she is in you. Consider the following:Does she abandon you at parties or events that you’ve invited her to?
Does she seem more interested in doing things with your friends than with you?
Does she seem completely uninterested in doing things with you unless you are hanging out at a certain place or with certain people?

, There are many types of relationships that people can have, but ultimately, all healthy relationships benefit both people involved in some way. When evaluating the relationship, you should consider if you gain anything at all from the association or if she is the only party who benefits.


Do you feel like a better person by being associated with her?
Do you feel emotionally served by the relationship?
Is she around when you need help or support?
Do you feel like your social life or emotional life would be lacking without her?

, You may want to consider if she is using you for material goods or for money. Ultimately, this is a relatively easy thing to figure out.Does she ask you for money constantly? Some girls may ask for money sometimes, but if she never shares or uses hers, you may want to lay off of your wallet for a bit. If she disappears after you tighten up on money, it is a good sign she was using you.
Consider that there are some girls who think that the guys should pay for everything to be gentlemanly, but asking for money outright may be a sign that she is using you.

