 If you have to enter your wi-fi password every time you want to access the internet, your computer is not remembering your network. To correct this, click on the wifi icon in the top left corner of your screen. Click on “Open Network Preferences,” select “Advanced” and choose your network from the list. Check the box next to “Remember networks this computer has joined” and click “Ok.”, If your internet connection repeatedly and randomly cuts in and out, you can fix this issue by configuring your Mac to connect to a 5GHz network instead of a 2.4 GHz network. The 5GHz network has a shorter range, but has less interference.


Click on the Apple icon and select “System Preferences.” Click on “Network” and select “Advanced.”
Scroll through your list of Networks until you find your 5GHz or 5G network. Click on this network and drag it to the top of the list.
Click on the “Plus” icon below the list and enter your password.
You may also try turning on and off your wi-fi and/or router., DNS, or Domain Name System, translates a web address into an IP address and stores the information on your computer. Your computer automatically uses the DNS associated with your router. For faster processing times, you can manually change your DNS to one of two free providers: Open DNS or Google DNS.


Click on the Apple icon and select “System Preferences” and click on “Network.” Click “Advanced.”
Select your network from the list and then open the “DNS” tab.
Click on the “+” icon under the “DNS Servers” column.
Enter in an IP addresses for a free DNS server.

OpenDNS: 208.67.222.222 or 208.67.220.220.
Google DNS: 8.8.8.8 or 8.8.4.4.


Click “Ok” and then select “Apply.”, Home sharing allows multiple devices, including computers, tablets, and Apple TVs, to connect to and utilize the files in your computer’s iTunes library. If you are having trouble with this function, try the following:


Turn on home sharing. After you launch iTunes, enter your Apple ID and password. Select File > Home Sharing. Turn on “Home Sharing.
Make sure all of the devices you want to connect with use the same Apple ID and password.