 During times of great stress, it is common to feel worries, anxieties and frustrations piling up in our minds to the point that they feel in danger of exploding. Without becoming overly upset or emotional, take some time to tell someone you trust about how you're feeling. Simply tell your confidante what situations have been causing you stress, and how those situations make you feel, rather than complaining, blaming others or casting judgment.
If no one is available to vent to, and you are feeling pent-up frustration that is preventing you from relaxing, try writing it out in a journal instead.
Consider going to a counselor or therapist. Having a neutral third party to express your frustration to can be a remarkably effective tool for battling stress.
 After experiencing stress, your body needs time to recuperate. Failing to get enough sleep can, over time, increase your levels of stress. Make sure you're getting at least 7 hours of sleep every night, and talk to your doctor if you are having trouble getting to sleep, staying asleep, or if the quality of your sleep is poor., This will promote the production of endorphines which naturally combat stress in the brain. Take some time to get outside for a walk, play a favorite sport, or go to the gym for a workout. Focusing on exercise allows you to physically release the built-up tension from a stressful episode, and promotes deep breathing and a sense of physical wellness.It's important to choose a type of exercise you enjoy and are comfortable with, so that the exercise itself doesn't become a source of stress.
Always consult a doctor before starting a new exercise program.
 While many people respond to stress by isolating themselves, interacting with others can, in fact, be greatly therapeutic. Planning a social outing, getting involved with a club or community organization, or simply sitting down for a pleasant conversation with family or friends can help you disconnect from stressful situations and focus on more positive, constructive interactions.Sport and exercise clubs are great options, since they combine the stress-relieving benefits of social interactions and exercise.
Volunteering is another great option. Satisfaction from helping others will distract you from your own stress, and increase your feelings of optimism and positivity.
 Spending time doing and learning about the things you enjoy is an essential part of taking care of yourself. Make it a priority to spend time every day doing something just for you, whether simply enjoying a book, movie or t.v. show, or pursuing a craft, hobby or intellectual curiosity. Focusing on what you enjoy will distract your mind from stress, and connect you with yourself in a deeper way., While we often underestimate its importance, few things are as soothing as simple physical touch. Affection requires little concentration or thought, and connects us to our positive, loving emotions. Getting a massage, giving someone you love a hug, or enjoying physical intimacy with your romantic partner are all wonderful ways of relieving the physical tension associated with lots of stress.