 One of the most common causes of hearing loss is repeated exposure to loud noises.By reducing your exposure to loud noises as much as possible, you may be able to prevent hearing loss.Recreational activities such as concerts, hunting or shooting, snowmobiling can significantly impact your hearing.Consider wearing ear protection when doing outdoor activities such as mowing the lawn or whacking weeds.Many people work in places that require them to hear loud noises on a consistent basis. For example, working in factories, the military, transportation services, or construction may hurt your hearing.Noises above 85 decibels can harm your hearing.;
, Hearing loss related to sound is 100% preventable by taking proper measures to dampen sound.Purchase and wear protective hearing devices such as earplugs for any occasion in which you’ll be exposed to loud noises. Earplugs and earmuffs are options to help protect your hearing.Make sure to protect children’s ears from loud sounds with protective devices.You can purchase protective hearing devices from a wide variety of locations. For example: sporting stores will sell devices for activities like hunting and snowmobiling, music stores will offer protection for concerts and playing loud instruments, and hardware stores will sell products for noise from construction., You can help prevent noise-related hearing loss in your home by watching the volume of your appliances and also the volume at which people speak.By keeping sound levels to a minimum, you may minimize your risk for hearing loss or other conditions such as tinnitus.Keep the volume of electronics such as TVs, tablets, and video games at a minimum.If you use personal listening devices, keep the sound at a conservative level. Buying noise-cancelling headphones may help you listen at a lower noise level.Ear-bud type headphones are more likely to cause hearing loss than typical headphones. When using earbuds, it is highly recommended that you keep the volume to a minimum, especially if you are using special noise-canceling ones.
If you are wearing headphones and someone within 3 feet (0.9 m) can hear what you hear — it's too loud!
Buy quieter products. Many electronics come with decibel ratings on their packaging. Compare these ratings and buy the lowest you can find.Give your ears a break. Limit your time with devices that can produce high decibels, such as a TV or stereo. Find activities that do not involve high volume noises, such as hiking or biking in a park.
 Suffering a blow to the head can lead to hearing loss, temporarily or permanently.Make sure you are taking the proper precautions to protect your head while biking, skating, skateboarding, riding a motorcycle or scooter, or doing anything else that might lead to a head injury.