 First, pack only what you need to survive; second, what you need to do first; and third, what you need to do last. If you question anything you're packing, then don't pack it. You'd be better safe than sorry. Remember that you can most likely buy it from where you're going. If not, and you don't need it to survive, then don't worry about it.;
, Before you get to the airport, take the necessary precautions to make your experience as simple as possible.


Wear practical shoes. Slip-on shoes will be easier to remove quickly. Of course, make sure they are comfortable enough for standing in long security lines. If you're under 13, you can wear any types of shoes, as long they don't set off the metal detector.
Avoid metallic clothing or accessories, as you will have to remove these before going through a metal detector. The same applies to metal items in your pockets.
Package liquids and gels appropriately. All liquids in your carry-on bag must be in bottles of three ounces or less, and all these bottles must then be placed in a clear, quart-size, zip-style plastic bag. There are a few exceptions to this rule, including milk for infants and liquid medications, but be sure to check before you pack anything.
Pack your belongings in an organized way, so that if there is a problem, they can open your bag, check things out, and move on.
Avoid contraband. Check beforehand to make sure that anything you will bring along, whether in your checked luggage or your carry-on, is allowed on the plane. Otherwise, you may be forced to throw these items away or even face questioning and/or prosecution.
 The line, although long at times, can move quickly, and seasoned travelers can get irritated with anyone that holds up the line digging for the necessary papers.
 It pays to see what other passengers forget.
 Keep your boarding pass in your pocket, as it will be screened again, but put your ID back into your bag to keep it secure.
 Place these items, along with your carry-on, directly on the belt or in the provided bins. Most airports require that you remove any plastic bags full of liquids and any laptops from your carry-on bag, but be sure to follow instructions. If you have completed a "TSA PRE CHECK", then don't remove your 311s from your bag or your laptop from its case.
 The TSA requires passengers to remove their shoes when passing through the metal detector. There is not much room to squat down. People will try to pass around you, and benches are inconveniently far from your bags. Wear shoes that you can slip off without bending down or undo your laces before getting in line and tuck them into your shoe. This way, you will be able to slip them off easily to be placed on the X-ray belt. If you're under 13, keep your shoes on while walking through the metal detector, unless they have metal on them. Also, if you're over 75, you can your shoes on. Keep your shoes on if you have completed a TSA PRE CHECK.
 Take off any metal objects, as well as jackets and hats, depending on the airport. If you're under 13, over 75, or in TSA PRE CHECK, leave your jackets on unless if they have metal.
 Don't think about work, bills, or anything that could stress you out. Think about the adventure you're about to have or just had, and how long you're going to remember it for.
 Be polite and respectful, and do as you're told. Remember, if you don't have anything illegal on you, you're good. The security guards are there for your safety, not to scare you. If you don't have TSA PRE CHECK or anything that is "faster" than a regular line, you will have to take your shoes off and wait a little longer. This is nothing to stress about; it just adds to the safety of your flight.
 If you are selected for additional screening, comply immediately and politely. Tell security if you have any piercings or surgical implants, or any metal in or on your body that you can't remove. Remember to take off all jewelry that is metallic and lay it in the component bins that will be traveling into the X-ray machine.


Also, for kids under 13 who need extra screening, it's unlikely that they will get patted down. They're more likely to get multiple passes through the metal detector or technology and have their hand swabbed.
If you're 75 or older, you also get a second pass through the metal detector.
 This makes you look suspicious like you have something to hide. In your head, tell yourself "I have nothing to hide" repeatedly.
 It's okay to be nervous for a serious TSA check. They will most likely try to help you in any way you need or reassure you. They are people too, and you aren't the first person to be stressed by security.
 Making sure you have everything you need. Leave the security area quickly, making way for other passengers.

