 Choosing what you wish to teach can make preparing for a teaching job easier. This is in part because there are different requirements you’ll need to meet in order to teach at different levels. Most importantly, decide roughly what age group and subjects you want to teach. Make these sorts of decisions before beginning a teacher training program, especially a program that allows you to take other college course in pursuit of a bachelor’s degree. That way, you can select courses that will prepare you for the classes you hope to teach in the future.Visit the New York State Education Department (NYSED) website for information on what types of teachers are in greatest demand currently. Ensure you have a competitive advantage by preparing to teach these subjects.
Teachers with specializations in bilingual education, business and marketing, technology, and computer programming are commonly in high demand.
You can also supplement your knowledge of certain disciplines by taking specific courses outside of or after your teacher preparation program.;
, Enroll in a teacher preparation program designed to prepare you to become a teacher and earn a bachelor’s degree simultaneously. These programs include traditional courses, as well as experience student teaching.The NYSED provides an Inventory of Registered Programs on their website. Consult this resource to ensure the programs you are considering are accredited by the state of New York.
Reach out to admissions officers at any institutions you are interested with specific requirements for admission or other questions.
 Enroll in a “Transitional B” teaching program if you already have a bachelor’s degree, but did not complete an accredited teacher preparation program. Eligibility for these programs usually requires a 2.5 GPA for your undergraduate degree. Like the traditional pathway, you will also have to pass state specific teaching exams before receiving a recommendation from your program to be certified., If you already have your bachelor’s and want to go to graduate school and become eligible to teach, there are programs that will allow you to do so. These programs, much like alternative teaching programs, will focus on teaching experience, and will provide an accelerated version of the coursework that will prepare you to teach.A master’s program is likely worth your time and effort. Not only are you more likely to be hired, you’ll likely receive better pay to teach.
 This is an online portal managed by the NYSED. You’ll use the TEACH portal to apply for a New York teaching certificate. It’s best to register and familiarize yourself with TEACH while still in your teacher preparation program.Indicate which pathway you’re taking to get accredited. For example, register as a student in an “Approved Teacher Preparation Program" if this applies to you.
A school official from your program will also use this portal to submit a recommendation on your behalf once you’ve met the program’s requirements.

