 When you use Facebook for business networking, you need to be cautious of what you upload, post, and share. These things can all be seen by the professionals you are networking with, and can have a negative impact on your professional life.;
, If you decide to start networking professionally on Facebook, take some time to tidy up your profile. Take down any comments or photos that might be incriminating.


Avoid keeping pictures of you drinking or taking drugs. Sexually suggestive photos will also make you appear much less professional.
 While you don't want to turn your Facebook profile into your resume, you should still highlight all of your most important work milestones.
 Create a Professional list that only contains your professional contacts, and a Friends list that includes all of your social contacts. This allows you to set aspects of your profile to only be visible to your social friends. Whenever you add a professional contact, put them in the Professional list.


See this guide for details on creating a new list and adding people to it.
 Once you have a Professional list and a Friends list, you can start blocking off parts of your profile from your professional contacts. Open your Facebook home page and click the "Edit profile" link underneath your image.


For every entry in your profile, you can set who can view it. Click the button with the silhouettes in the corner of each item to select who can see the item. Use this to hide any information that you don't want professional contacts to see, but don't care if friends see.
Make sure to do this for any images that you don't want to share with professional contacts as well. Images can be very damaging if they contain content that a company might find objectionable.
 Before you start making new contacts, spend a few minutes tracking down old coworkers and other professional contacts. This can help you build an established network before you start meeting new people.


Click the Friends icon in the Facebook title bar. Click the Find Friends link, and then use the buttons in the upper-right corner to add contacts from various services.
 There are thousands of Facebook groups that appeal to virtually every interest. Find a few that directly relate to your field or area of interest. Use the search bar at the top of Facebook to browse through groups based on your various interests.


Think of keywords that apply to your area of expertise or your professional passions. Use these keywords to search for groups.
Use the filters to narrow your search to specific fields.
You can also find groups by looking at your professional contacts' profiles.
 You want to make sure that you join groups that are active and lively. There are a few things you can check before committing to joining the group:


Recent News — This section is updated by the group's moderators. Check that the information is up to date and not focused purely on self-promotion.
Member List — See how many members the group has, as well as the types of interests they share. This can give you a good insight on the types of people that the group attracts.
Discussion Board — Look at how often people are posting, and the kind of discussions taking place. If they aren't worthwhile discussions, then the group likely isn't worth your time.
Wall Posts — If there's a lot of spam here, then the moderators aren't likely very involved in the group.
 Each time you join a group, post a quick introduction on the Group's wall. Let people know who you are, if you're there to network or find a job, what your interests or specialties are, and if you can provide advice for others.Avoid being too "spammy". Don't advertise yourself or your services, don't link to your business's website, and don't try to sell anything during your introduction. Save this for when you are asked for it. You're here to make contacts, not make a sale.
 Link to news articles, blog posts, press releases, and other content that is relevant to the group. Be sure to weigh in in the comments section for what you post. The key is to try to start a discussion, while simultaneously expanding your personal brand.
 Discussions are one of the key functions of Facebook groups. Find and start discussions that relate to your business interests. When replaying to an existing discussion, don't post generic responses. Try to add value to every conversation you participate in. Avoid hostility with others and work to engage your fellow group members in productive discussions.


There will almost always be trolls whenever there is an online discussion. Trolls attempt to undermine discussions by posting comments designed to get under other users' skin. Replying to these users is a waste of your time, and troll comments should be ignored whenever possible.
 You should avoid immediately adding everyone in the group to your Professional list. Instead, wait it out a while and see if you develop a rapport with any other members. Once you've interacted on the group page for a little bit, you can add them to your list.


Make sure that you add them to the Professional list and not your Friends list. If you add them to the wrong list, they will have access to information that you don't want to share.
 Avoid joining every possible group, and focus instead on a few key groups. Take the time to interact regularly with these groups; you will see more results than simply joining a hundred groups and not participating in any of them.
 Once you've gotten to know someone in your group, you can start interacting with them one-on-one. Post interesting content on their wall to try to stimulate some conversation with them. Follow-up on any comments they make on your posts.
 Many professionals will not use Facebook chat, and chat programs in general are typically viewed as less-professional than email. If you want to send a message to a professional contact on Facebook, do your best to format it as close to an email as possible.
 When writing posts, messages, or comments to a professional contact, avoid using emoticons. These are very casual symbols, and should be reserved for chatting with friends.
 When communicating on the internet, your grammar serves as your first impression. Make sure that all of your messages are written clearly and are free of spelling and punctuation errors. Try to avoid exclamation marks.
 While it can be fine to chat with your friends at any time, you should limit your daily correspondence with your professional contacts. If you contact them too often, you may wear out your welcome and come across as desperate. Keep your conversations succinct and on topic.
 If you're setting up a professional Facebook profile, avoid using it to play games. While Facebook games are incredibly popular, they aren't well-suited for professional accounts. The games you play can broadcast to your friends, and can be a big turnoff for other professionals.


If you do want to play games, double-check to ensure that you aren't sharing any updates with your Professional list.
 Don't go overboard and flood your professional contacts' timelines. Try to limit your posting and sharing to a couple times each day. Any more and it will seem like you spend more time on Facebook than you do working, which will turn away most prospective employers and contacts., Taking a stand for what you believe in can prove beneficial to your career, especially if the cause is related to your field. Search for causes like you would search for groups, and Like the pages to associate with them. If it's something you really believe in, you can share the cause's updates with your groups and professional contacts.
 As you start joining some groups, you'll likely start coming across events and meet-ups. Take advantage of these to help propel your networking efforts. Meeting in person is still one of the most important aspects of successful networking, so you'll eventually need to take your networking beyond Facebook.


When attending an event or conference, make sure you have your "elevator pitch" prepared. This is a quick blurb about yourself that you can easily repeat to anyone you meet. Mention your education, some previous work experience and any interests. Think of it like a thirty-second resume.
Get comfortable with some small talk. There will most likely be a lot of mingling at your event, which means you'll need to be familiar with how to keep light conversations going. The key to small talk is finding a common interest with the person you are talking with. Look for these similarities when they introduce themselves, and encourage the other person to share.
Think before you speak. Before you open your mouth to respond, take a second to go over what you're about to say. This will help prevent you from stumbling over what you're trying to say, and will also help keep you from putting your foot in your mouth.
Follow up with people you meet. Make sure to get business cards or contact information so that you can follow up with the person later. This can help you continue your networking efforts beyond Facebook.

