 You should always try and incorporate tactile learning experiences whenever possible. For example, instead of talking about rocks and showing images of different types of rocks, you should actually have physical rocks available for your child to touch and handle.This can also be done with different foods, shells, or properties of matter.
This will allow your child to explore and learn without relying solely on sight.
 Raised maps, charts, and graphs will allow your child to be able to understand materials that are typically visual in nature. For example, a raised pie chart can help your child understand fractions in a tactile way. This is a great way to modify the teaching materials to assist your visually impaired or blind child., Although there are an increasing number of audio-based sources for blind or visually impaired students, you should still teach your child to read using braille. In order to do this you should learn how to read braille yourself and then begin teaching your child.


Although this may seem like a daunting task it is important to remember that your child will begin reading at a very elementary level.
You will only really need to know the alphabet and simple words for the first few years of teaching.
 Art class is one of the trickiest to teach to visually impaired or blind children because it relies heavily on vision. In order to make art accessible to your child rely more on tactile forms of artistic impression. For example, have your child work with clay to make sculptures. You can also help guide your child by creating raised lines or different textures to facilitate colouring.


For example, your child can use their hands to feel the paper and understand the shape. You can also use stencils to help guide them while drawing.
 Many children who are visually impaired will need written material to be presented in high contrast in order for them to read. It is best to write using a dark black marker on a whiteboard. Always write using large images and letters to help assist with reading.Avoid using colours. The highest contrast in colours is black and white. Colour should only be used sparingly for large images, such as titles.

