 Tea is very calming. Drinking hot tea while you study or while you take a break from studying can help you feel more relaxed and less stressed. Studies show that black tea is the most effective for relaxation.Avoid drinking too much coffee or caffeinated beverages because these may cause you to crash later on.
 Not only is dark chocolate tasty, it also helps to decrease the level of cortisol in your body. Cortisol is the hormone that is responsible for stress. This, in turn, will make you feel more relaxed.In order for this step to be effective the chocolate must contain 70% cocoa.
 You must find a balance between your schoolwork and your life. To do this you must take breaks from studying and spend those breaks not thinking about studying. Use this time to get some rest, exercise, or a bite to eat.Take a walk outside. The walk will give you some exercise as well as some much needed sunlight. Sunlight is known to help improve your mood.
Go out to dinner with some friends. Be sure to laugh, smile, and talk about things other than your schoolwork.
Take a vacation or a stay-cation.
Schedule yourself a day off from studying each week.
 Deep breathing is also known to reduce cortisol levels in your body. It is also shown to reduce your blood pressure. This will help you to relax and feel lower levels of stress and anxiety.Use the 7-7-7 relaxation technique. Close your eyes. Take a deep breath in through your nose and count to seven in your head. Release that breath through your mouth and count to seven again in your head. Repeat this seven times., Listening to a calming music, such as classical music, can help to improve your mood and make you feel happier. Listening to music may also help you to study longer.


Avoid distracting music such as hard rock or metal.
Classical or ambient music is the best option.
 If you are going to be successful, you need to be confident in your abilities. Negative thoughts and attitudes toward studying will undermine your efforts. Avoid engaging in these conversations with your friends, too.

Avoid saying or thinking things like “I can’t get this no matter how much I study.”
If the project seems overwhelming, just focus on one task at a time. Try not to think about the project as a whole or you may feel stressed and experience an increase in negative self-talk.
 Close your eyes and feel the tension in your body. Breathe deeply in and out through your nose. Picture yourself in a relaxing place. Allow your body to let go of the tension that you feel. This will bring you down to a lower level of stress, and improve your studying and/or test taking abilities.