 Perhaps you have striking blue eyes or great skin. Maybe you have toned, shapely arms or a terrific smile. Whatever your best features are, do things to accent them. If you’ve never thought about what your best features are, sit down and make a list for yourself.For example, a person with striking blue eyes could emphasize them by wearing a shirt of the same color, or by using mascara/eyeliner to define them.
Someone with toned arms could show them off by wearing sleeveless tops.
A person with a great smile could whiten their teeth or wear dark lipstick to draw attention to it.;
, Straighten your back, hold your head up and put your shoulders back. Practice walking like that. When sitting, remember to maintain good posture.If you spend a lot of your day sitting at a desk, consider investing in a chair that will support your back and encourage you to sit up straight.


Constantly remind yourself to stand up straight.Leave a sticky note on your desk or computer monitor to remind yourself not to slouch.
Good posture communicates confidence, good health and a positive nature – all of these qualities will make you look more attractive to others.
 People will naturally be drawn to you. You’ll be perceived as more vibrant, healthy and attractive. An upbeat attitude will make a better first impression, too. Smile often and laugh even more! Be more aware of your facial expressions and try to avoid a lot of frowning.Having a positive attitude doesn’t mean you have to overhaul your entire personality. It also doesn’t mean that you should walk around with a permanent smile.
Instead, work on pushing negative thoughts away and replace them with positive thoughts.
 Instead, opt for garments that fit you well and flatter your shape. When you find cuts that work for you, stick to them. It might help to buy a few staple pieces, like a well-tailored pair of black slacks, and build outfits on top of them.


Don’t be afraid to experiment! Work on creating your very own style.
 When you smell nice, it can enhance the way you're perceived by others – you will appear more attractive to them. Avoid dousing yourself with tons of perfume, since that will probably have the opposite effect. Instead, be subtle when you use a scent.


Wash your clothes with nice-smelling detergent. Use scented soap in the shower. Choose lotions and deodorants that are scented.
If you want to, wear perfume or cologne. Be moderate with your application.

