 Every CrossFit affiliate is unique. Before you get started, spend time at several in your area. Observe the workouts and make an effort to speak to the coaches at each location.If you live in a larger city, you may have dozens of CrossFit gyms to choose from. Visit their websites to narrow the list down to five or six you want to take a closer look at.
You may want to visit more than one time before you commit to a particular location, especially if you're more intimidated by the CrossFit experience. Take the time you need to get comfortable in the location so you can observe the workouts and the interactions among the athletes without much intimidation.
Think about any other time you've been intimidated by something unfamiliar where you were worried about how you would fit in, such as starting a new job or a new school. Once things became a little more familiar, you were no longer intimidated. This is what you should keep in mind as you're evaluating different gyms.;
, Talk to the coaches and other staff members, and make sure their coaching styles and goals mesh with your fitness goals and your overall fitness level.After you've visited several gyms, you're better able to compare and contrast to find the one that seems like it would be the best fit for you.
If, after visiting several gyms, you still haven't found one where you think you could eventually feel comfortable, you may need to go to some other places.
 Many CrossFit gyms have cardio classes, which use body-weight exercises rather than incorporating heavy weightlifting. You don't need any training on CrossFit form and technique, so these can be a less intimidating introduction to CrossFit.Cardio classes also focus more on muscle tone and fat burning. If you're concerned about your fitness level or want to shed a few pounds before you get fully into CrossFit, these classes can be a good introduction.
Keep in mind that you'll still be challenged by these classes – there will just be less of a focus on strength-training. But if you've never lifted weights before, that may be the most intimidating part of CrossFit for you.
 Even if you're a seasoned athlete, CrossFit workouts are challenging – and they're designed to be so. Make sure you're not trying to do more than you're currently capable of handling to avoid injury.In CrossFit lingo, you may hear coaches or athletes talk about "scaling" a workout. In introductory classes, the coaches will be able to help you scale the workout to better match your fitness level.
As your fitness improves, you'll be able to increase the resistance and speed with which you perform the workouts. Maintain a realistic assessment of your capabilities, and try not to push yourself too hard – especially when you're just starting out.
Remember that even the most hard-core and experienced CrossFit athlete was a beginner at one point. They understand what you're going through and won't expect you to immediately be competitive the first day you step into the box.
 Elements clinics are not workouts. Rather, they are hands-on clinics that teach you the correct form and technique for performing CrossFit workouts. Strong form is essential to prevent injury.These classes typically start with a warm up, then move to a specific skill or movement. Your coach will demonstrate proper technique, and then you'll get an opportunity to perform the movement yourself.
In most gyms, you can take these classes as long as necessary, until you feel comfortable with the movements and can perform them with perfect form. In some gyms, you may need permission from a coach before you can move on to "on ramp" classes, which further prepare you for the intensity of CrossFit.
As with Foundations classes, you typically can stay in the "on ramp" level as long as you need, until you feel comfortable advancing or your coach has given you clearance to advance.
 Many CrossFit workouts are essentially a race against the clock, so the intensity level of those workouts – and the athletes attacking them – can be extremely intimidating when you first get involved.Stay in introductory classes as long as you need to, and only advance when you feel comfortable doing so. Count on your coach to help you recognize when you're ready to advance.
Avoid comparing yourself to athletes who are more advanced and more experienced. Try to focus on your coaches, and compete with others who are at your own fitness level.
Expect to experience intense muscle soreness for several weeks after you start doing CrossFit regularly. Learn good recovery techniques from the start to reduce your risk of strain and injury later on.

