 NSAIDs are the most effective over-the-counter medicines for pain caused by menstrual cramps.


You can purchase an NSAID such as ibuprofen (Advil, Motrin) at your local pharmacy or drugstore. The typical dosing is 400 to 600mg every four to six hours as needed. You can also take naproxen, which does not require as many doses each day.
If you suffer every month from the pain of primary dysmenorrhea (painful menstrual cramps), your best bet is to begin taking an NSAID medication a day or so before the onset of your period, and to continue the medication for approximately three days (or for the duration that you normally experience painful cramps).
Keep in mind that NSAIDs work best when they are taken BEFORE the onset of pain. If you wait until you already have severe pain, then the medicine might not be as effective.;
, Acetaminophen can also be purchased over-the-counter at your local pharmacy or drugstore. The typical dose is 500mg every four to six hours as needed.


The mechanism of action of acetaminophen is to block the perception of pain in the brain.
Acetaminophen may be less effective than NSAID medications at combatting the monthly pain of primary dysmenorrhea.
Note that if you take acetaminophen and ibuprofen simultaneously, there is a heightened risk of gastrointestinal bleeding as a side effect.Do not combine these two medicines.
 Reducing painful menstrual cramps is another use for birth control pills, in addition to their use for contraception.


The reason that birth control pills help to decrease painful menstrual cramps is that they cause your uterine lining to be less thick each month.
Obviously birth control pills are not advised for women who are seeking to become pregnant.
If you choose to begin taking birth control pills, you will generally take 1 every day for 3 weeks, followed by one week off (or one week of "sugar pills").
You may also opt for "continuous" hormonal birth control, where you do not take a week off and go a few months in a row without a period (oftentimes you will take pills for 3 months and then allow your body to have a withdrawal bleed).
 The Mirena IUD releases progesterone into your uterus, and also decreases the thickness of your uterine lining each month.


This, in turn, reduces painful menstrual cramps.
Another benefit is that it reduces monthly menstrual bleeding!
There are a few different kinds of hormonal birth control and they can all help with dysmenorrhea pain. For example, there are hormonal IUDs, implants, patches, and injections available. Talk to your doctor to find the best option for you.

