 "Lockjaw" is a colloquial term used to describe spasms of the masseter muscles (the jaw muscles) as a result of being infected with tetanus.Tetanus is a bacterial infection that results in painful muscle spasms; there is no cure, and 10–20% of cases result in death, which is why preventative tetanus vaccination is key.Most people now receive the tetanus vaccine in their youth, which makes this disease quite rare.The vaccine lasts for 10 years, so after that point a booster vaccine will be needed in order to stay immune to tetanus.
The tetanus infection is not passed from person to person; rather, it is contracted via a wound, usually a deep wound that can allow bacteria from the environment (usually soil) to get into the body.This is why whenever patients present to the Emergency Room with a deep wound, they are asked about the status of their tetanus vaccination.
Symptoms of tetanus usually begin to appear about a week after being infected with the bacteria. In addition to the spasms of the jaw muscles (the "lockjaw" symptoms), other symptoms of tetanus can include headache, fever, sweating, restlessness, trouble swallowing, irritability, and strange-looking facial expressions due to the muscle stiffness and spasms.;
, If you have not been immunized within the past 10 years, they will inject you with tetanus immune globulin followed by the vaccine.


3,000 to 6,000 units of tetanus immune globulin drug is administered via intramuscular shots. This injectable solution contains Immunoglobulin G, an antibody that helps your body get rid of all the toxins produced by the tetanus causing bacteria. Administration of this treatment will boost your immunity, helping you fight the infection.
A local anesthetic can be added to the injection to lower the amount of pain. Administration of this drug must always be done under medical supervision.
The doctors will also clean your wound thoroughly, and remove any foreign material that may be present in the wound, to minimize the chances of a tetanus infection.Note that if you are already presenting with symptoms of "lockjaw," this means that you are late in seeking treatment; however, the doctors will give you the injection anyway even though it is preferable to have gotten it earlier (it can still be somewhat effective later on).
 If you have a tetanus infection, home treatment is not an option, and medications will be administered in the hospital. Muscle relaxers, such as Carisoprodol, and sedatives are commonly used to help relieve muscle spasms in your jaw and elsewhere on your body.Neuromuscular blocking agents are also useful in treating spasms. These medications include pancuronium, vecuronium, and baclofen.Your breathing and heartbeat can be affected by muscle spasms as well as by the use of sedatives. You may need to use a ventilator while in the hospital. In severe causes, you may be taken to the ICU, These facilities are ideal in severe cases because close monitoring of vital functions such as breathing and your heart rate can occur continuously, until you hopefully recover.

