 You can't know if a woman is right for you if you don't know what she is right for. People date for a variety of reasons, and it almost always goes over more smoothly when you find people with similar dating goals. Are you looking for someone fun but low-key, or are you searching for the special someone to live the rest of your life with? You could even be in the middle, staying open minded and just hoping to meet someone fun-- but you should think about it first to help find the right girl for you.
 Have you always thought that the right girl has to be intelligent? Has to like dogs? Has to have brown hair? While no woman is perfect, there are some things that just feel important to you in a significant other. The more of these things your potential date matches up to, the more you should take the risk and ask her out.


Ask yourself about the "big picture" things, not the small facts: would she ever go camping or does she need to love the city,? Does she spend money freely or save frequently? Are their hobbies you feel like your special someone must share with you?
Don't think of this so much as a checklist for women to reach as much as a map to help your find people you're compatible with.
 This doesn't mean you need to spend months courting someone before asking them on a date. Rather, it means to get past the surface with some pleasant conversation before paying for dinner. If you can't strike up a conversation with her, she probably won't be a fun date, so this is your chance to see how compatible you really are.

]

It is important for you to admire and respect her and off course like her for who she is. And if she is the one you used to dream about when you were a little boy then you are good to go.
 This is a classic dating "mistake:" confusing similar interests and ideas for chemistry or compatibility. Think about it -- there are plenty of people you've met at work, school, on sports teams, etc. who share many similar interests as you, but who you profoundly don't get along with. While having shared interest is important, feeling compatible is far more enjoyable. While compatibility takes more than a date to determine, some important things to look for include:


Accepting and openness to your hobbies/interests that you don't share.
Willingness to try new things with you, or learn about your interests/hobbies.
Does not try to convince you that they are "right," and accepts differing viewpoints.
You feel comfortable being yourself, not trying to think of the "perfect" thing each time., When determining whether or not to ask a girl out, never forget that this is a low-risk, high-reward game. If she says no, then you both move on about your lives with only a brief moment of awkwardness. If she says yes, then you both get the exciting beginning of a new relationship.


A date should not be well-researched and "perfect." That's what the date is for -- seeing if she actually is the right one moving forward.

