 Quite simply, a zoo experience involves spending some time walking and viewing outdoors.;
,, Finding a parking space will be simpler, and there shouldn't be long lines at the admissions booths. For a large zoo, realize it takes a lot of time to visit every exhibit, so coming early will allow more time to see what the zoo has to offer.
 Often, these will have information about different animals, locations of rest rooms and water fountains, and other information to help you enjoy your visit.
 Most zoos are designed with exhibit areas set up along pathways or sidewalks, and the signs at path intersections will guide you to the animals that you are most interested in.
 You may be surprised just how large some animals are when you get close to them. Elephants, hippos, and rhinos are some large species you may see.
 Many zoos have venomous snakes, carnivorous cats, and large reptiles like alligators you can enjoy observing safely.
 Predators use this to ambush prey, and prey also are adapted, to hide from the predators.
 Nature gives some of it's creatures bright fur (or feathers) to attract attention, often to help them find a mate.
 Some species futures may actually depend on the efforts of zoos to maintain breeding and animal health programs, as well as the research that may enhance the animal's survival.
 Zoos are home to many native and exotic species, from local rodents and birds who come and go as they please, to wild mammals, reptiles, and amphibians.
 Some larger, well-funded zoos build realistic display enclosures for some of the animals there.
 This zoo has a special jungle trail where kids can climb and explore, burning off energy and having fun.
 Many zoos have art themes around exhibits to enhance the visitor's experience and to add dimension to the understanding of the subject you are looking at.
, Many zoos are combined with gardens, and in fact, are often call zoological gardens, to help illuminate the public that they are a combined display of animals and plants.
 Stop and sit on the benches occasionally .If you don't, you will get tired, and you won't have fun.

