 You can find descriptions or summaries of classic works of literature online, or read the back cover of the book to gain a basic idea of what the story is about. Knowing a bit about the plot, characters, and setting may make it easier for you to follow and understand the writing when you begin reading.


Just make sure that you do not substitute summaries for reading the actual text. Remember that a summary is someone else’s interpretation of what happened. Even if the summary is quite objective, it may contain some bias about character motives and potential meanings behind events.;
, Understanding the time period in which a book was written can either help or hinder how you read that book.By researching the historical events that are depicted in the book or otherwise influenced its writing, you can come away with a better understanding of that novel's narrative.


You can get a quick understanding of a given time period and/or the author's life experiences by searching online.
 You can also skim a book or other work of classic literature if reading it seems too hard. Skimming will help you to gain a basic understanding of the plot, characters, setting, and concepts.Read the first and last paragraph of each chapter to get a sense of what happens on the pages within.
Read the first and last sentence of each paragraph to get a sense of what happens in that chapter.
 If you know someone who has already ready this piece of classic literature, then asking him or her some basic questions may help you. You could ask the person to give you a basic explanation of the:


Characters - the people (and sometimes animals) in a work of fiction.
Setting - the place, time, and culture in which a novel takes place.
Plot - the things that take place over the course of the novel.
Theme - the underlying concept, idea, or belief that runs through the entire novel.
Conflict - a struggle that creates tension in the novel.
Climax - turning point at which the tension (created by conflict) cannot rise anymore and must be resolved.
Narrator - who tells the story (a character in the story or someone else?).

