 The Peace Lily is a green leafy plant that produces an elegant and unique looking white flower; it is a house plant that likes sitting near a window, getting some indirect sunlight (not too much, in other words). Add some sand to the top of the soil of your Peace Lily to keep the soil drained and give it a nicer look. It is best to keep your Peace Lily indoors. However, it can survive outdoors if planted under a tree and kept watered and shaded. It needs to be watered about every other day...just enough to keep the soil moist, but not soggy. To start a new plant, be sure to pull roots and all up, when ready to transplant a piece.;
, You will need your own starter plants from your own garden, or from a nursery or friend.
 Their beautiful green foliage will certainly accent any room. Place philodendrons in front of a window, so they can get some indirect sunlight. Water every couple of days, just enough to keep the soil moist. To start a new plant, simply break a clipping from the original at the joints. The clipping can be placed in water to allow the roots to grow or be transplanted right away.
 It is pretty much trouble-free,and grows like crazy, needing a bigger pot in no time at all. You'll have plenty of plants to separate and start new ones; just pull some out, while being very careful not to break the the roots, and start one or more new plants.
 Many will grow from cuttings or divisions, and most need little maintenance. Here are some easy succulents to grow: jades, aloe vera, and the hen and chicks plant. Succulents all prefer the soil to be on the dry side; do not soak them. They are great if kept indoors or outdoors, but if keeping inside, set them where they can get some sunlight and they'll be happy plants.
 Add a few stones or rocks to the pot for drainage. Add a little soil and hollow out the middle and place the plant inside. Fill it in around the plant with more soil, leaving the soil at least an inch to 1/1/2 inch from the top of the pot.
 Once the stickers are applied, your gift or gifts are ready.
