 Electric shavers are all either rotary shavers or foil blades. Rotary shavers have several spinning blades that are usually pivoted so they can adjust to various angles of the skin. Foil blades have a linear blades that move back and forth underneath a flat, perforated steel cover.Models are made for men and women that are designed to perform optimally for gender specific applications. Models that perform best over the flat surfaces of the legs will not work as well on the sharp angles of a face and vice versa.;
, Providing a clean surface will help your shaver perform optimally by removing debris and oils. Using a gentle cleanser prior to shaving will also help to soften the hairs., To get the best results from an electric razor, the hair should be rigid and as a dry as possible.Many dry shave products are designed to stiffen the hairs using alcohol and degreasers., If your hair is longer than .25" you should consider trimming the hair first. Many shavers come with a trimmer attachment that can be used by flipping a switch on the device.
 Electric shavers are machines, and just like any other machine, they will perform best when they are well-maintained. Always check to be sure there are no remaining hairs in the blades prior to shaving. Rinse the blade for several seconds to clear away any dirt or hair.


You may also want to consider disinfecting the razor with alcohol before starting your shave.
Many shavers come with their own cleaning tools. Be sure to clean them after every usage so that they are ready to go the next time.
 This will create maximum contact between the blades and the skin. It will reduce shaving time and get more of the hairs with each pass over the skin. Foil blade shavers should be moved in long, straight strokes. Rotary shavers will work best when moved in a circular motion.
 Use your thumb and index finger to make your skin taut. This will provide a smooth, even surface to pass the shaver over. An flat surface will trim your hair more evenly.
 Sensitive areas of the face would include areas along the neck where razor burn most likely occurs. Starting here when the razor is still cooler and cleaner will give you a better, smoother shave. As the razor gets hotter and collects more hair particles, it won't perform quite as well and can be harsh on sensitive skin.
 Electric razors tend to get hot with use. Heat can irritate the skin and lead to razor burn. If you notice the razor is beginning to feel hot against your skin, shut it off for a few minutes. Once it cools down, resume your shave.

