 As with a snowman, ensure that your snow is not too slushy or icy.;
, Make a large round ball of snow, in the same manner that you would use to build the base of a normal-sized snowman. Build this with a slight angle forwards; while this will form the base of the snow cat, it is also going to serve as the snow cat's back legs, tummy and rump. Make sure that you leave a place on this ball for the next ball to be added on. Let this sit for about 2 hours to solidify.
 The aim is to create little curved upper leg shapes that look like a cat that is sitting down on its rump (see photo next to this step). If it proves too hard to carve these, just build them up from the ground using extra snow. Lean this snow against the base, making sure to mold them into a cat's folded leg shape. Artistic license is encouraged - any shape vaguely like a leg is great.
 Add a slightly smaller ball to the tummy area of the cat. Try to get it to lean slightly forwards (think of a cat sitting and how its body shape curves forwards). Smooth the joints over with additional snow. This is the middle "chest" section of the cat. While this chest area should be able to sit on the base without support, the addition of the front legs will provide extra support to this ball, so it helps to have the leg sticks propping up this middle ball if you find the ball not staying on its own.
 Take two equal length sticks and place these so that they angle into the second ball to form the snow cat's front legs. Pile snow around these sticks, from the base up to the "chest" of the cat which is the second ball of snow. Continue adding snow until the legs are solid and in proportion with the rest of your snow cat's body. Smooth the joints over with additional snow.
 Make little "patties" of snow and stick them at the base of each leg. Use twig strands to make claws; three even-sized twigs for each paw, laid flat at even intervals on the paw will provide an effect of claws. Experiment with curved twigs if you fancy.
 Prepare a smaller ball for the head, in the same manner as you would make a snowman's head. Add to the middle ball and smooth the joins over with additional snow. Shape two little pointy ears out of snow. Try to mold out a little pointy area for the cat's mouth and nose region. Don't worry if this is too difficult, the decorations will ensure the face looks like a cat.




Whiskers and mouth: Use fine twigs for the whiskers and the mouth. For some added humor, try adding a little cat's tongue made out of bright red felt poking out of the cat's mouth.







Nose: For the nose, there are many possibilities, including a round nose made from snow; a big black button; a piece of coal; a small pine cone; or anything else you desire.

Eyes: Use buttons; small pine cones; or try the suggestion in "Tips" below. If you make a cat with olives for eyes the squirrels might just be desperate enough to pluck them out.
 Poke a stick into the back of the snow cat's base, making it point upwards. As with the legs, coat this stick in snow, working from the base upwards. If the snow falls off, let it solidify stage by stage. If you prefer, you could start the tail once the base of the cat is made and add bits of snow to it here and there as you make the rest of the snow cat. Tie a decorative ribbon about the tip of the tail if you wish. Or try for a kink in the tail - look for an unusually shaped twig and experiment.
 and food coloring (diluted poster paint works, also) into a spray bottle. Have several bottles of different colors on hand.
 Add a scarf if you want kitty to keep warm. Take a photo.

