 Antioxidants are compounds that protect the body from damage done by harmful molecules called free radicals. An antioxidant-rich diet can help counteract the damaging effects that free radicals have on your skin, which helps reduce the appearance of wrinkles. Antioxidants and other important skin nutrients are found in a variety of sources, but the best source is fruit!, Some fruits that are rich in vitamins C and E include:


Tomatoes are packed with vitamin C, which helps make skin look firmer and plumper. They also contain lycopene, which helps neutralize skin-damaging free radicals from the sun and improves vascular function. One study noted that regularly eating tomatoes for six weeks resulted in extra circulation, a noticeable glow, and increased protection against sunburn (which causes wrinkles!) by 33%.Avocados are packed with both vitamins E and C, and they also contain B-complex vitamins and essential fatty acids that nourish the skin and keep it soft and wrinkle free. They are also high in glutathione, which flushes toxins from the body and is shown to help with acne and wrinkles.Citrus fruits, such as oranges, grapefruits, clementines, and tangerines, are very high in vitamin C. For example, a medium-sized orange provides about 117% of the recommended daily intake of vitamin C!, Vitamin A and beta-carotene, an antioxidant that converts into vitamin A within the body, are important nutrients for maintaining, protecting, and repairing the skin.The antioxidants found in vitamin A- and beta-carotene-rich foods help to fortify the skin against getting wrinkles in the first place, as well as the formation of new wrinkles. Some fruits that are rich in vitamin A and beta-carotene include:


Cantaloupes are high in vitamin A and vitamin C, and they contain the most beta-carotene than any other fruit. Regularly eating a quarter of a medium-sized cantaloupe provides enough of these nutrients to promote skin cell turnover and increase skin elasticity.Stone fruits, especially apricots, are very high in beta-carotene antioxidants and other compounds that help fight wrinkles., Quercetin is a type of flavonoid, which are natural compounds found in plants that contain antioxidant properties.These antioxidants, like the antioxidants found in vitamins, help fight free radicals and their damaging effects on the skin. Some fruits that are rich sources of quercetin include:


Apples are one of the best sources of the quercetin. Apples also contain a great deal of vitamin C and are extremely hydrating, which are both great for the skin. Just be sure to eat the apple skins, since that’s where the quercetin is the most concentrated!Red grapes are also very high in quercetin, and like the apple, the antioxidant is most concentrated in the skin of this fruit. The antioxidants in red grapes will also help reduce inflammation of the skin and improve overall skin tone.Berries, especially blueberries and raspberries, include a great deal of the wrinkle-fighting quercetin. Considered “free-radical scavengers,” many berries include high concentrations of quercetin, vitamins, and anthocyanins, which neutralize the enzymes that destroy connective tissue (i.e., that cause wrinkles!).