 Not only does it provide work for your company, but partnering with other organizations who have experience in the contracting world can help you learn more about landing a contract. Observe the process and requirements so you can work toward landing your own contract in the future.;
,


Check the federal government clearing house for open contracts. Find information at www.fedbizopps.com. The database contains a list of all contracts that are available and open for bidding and proposals. Basic information about the contract, requirements and the application process is available.
Contact your state government for available contracts. Just like the federal government, state agencies have work available for contractors.
Network locally with your area communities, businesses and non-profit organizations to learn about available contracts.



Identify yourself through your qualifications and experience. Create a slogan that indicates the number of years you've been in business or provide a summary of your qualifications. Allow your expertise to identify you.
Differentiate your company as a minority-owned company. Utilize your heritage as a minority, if applicable, to identify your business. Many organizations and the government favor doing business with a minority-owned company.
Market your business as a woman-owned business. Woman-owned businesses are experiencing an upward trend in business approvals, and the government attempts to work with woman-owned businesses when possible.
Introduce your business as a veteran-owned business. Many entities prefer to give their business contracts to veterans.



Enlist help from government agencies as a first-time applicant. Government agencies have representatives who assist with procurement of contracts for new applicants. Their assistance may provide you with procedural help, clearer explanations of the contractual needs and examples of previously approved proposals.
Attend seminars given by government agencies or companies that often have contracts available. These seminars often demonstrate to attendees the type of content required for proposals, along with the information that does not need to be included.
Examine previously accepted proposals. Pattern your proposal after successful ones. If possible, use a similar successful proposal as your template, filling in your own pertinent information.
Provide clear analyses as answers to each question or category for your proposal.
 Keep your name on a steady list of potential contractors with companies who regularly have projects available. Let the companies know you have the expertise, abilities and resources to complete potential projects they may have in the future.

