 There are a few things you can do to make sure your cleaning area is ready for you to begin the process of cleaning your diamonds. Start by adding a stopper to your sink to ensure that your diamonds do not fall through and end up going down the sink drain. It would be a major hassle for you to have to take apart the pipes to retrieve your diamonds.Additionally, you’ll need a medium sized bowl to work with. You can put the bowl in the sink and fill it with hot water. This will be the base for your cleaning solution.;
, Pour half a cup of the window cleaner into the warm water in the bowl in the sink. Mix the cleaner with the water and this will create your cleaning solution.Be sure to use enough cleaning solution that it will be powerful enough to clean your diamonds. You’ll need roughly at least a 1:5 ratio of cleaner to water in order to be effective.
 Dip the diamonds into the cleaning solution in the bowl and let the jewelry remain there for a minute or so. Then, take a clean toothbrush and dip it in the warm cleaning solution as well. Wet the bristles in the cleaner and use the toothbrush to gently scrub and clean the diamonds.Remove the diamonds from the window cleaning solution, and scrub them carefully with the toothbrush. Repeat this process several times until the diamonds sparkle and shine.
Be careful not to drop the diamonds or scrub too hard with the toothbrush. Make sure to get into the cracks and difficult to reach places where dirt and oil can get trapped to really clean the diamond jewelry.
Use rubber gloves for this process to protect your skin from the cleaning solution and from the hot temperature of the water.
 Once you finish gently scrubbing the diamonds with the clean toothbrush, dip them back in the cleaning solution. Then, use hot water from the sink’s faucet and rinse the gems individually in the stream of water – always being careful not to drop them.When you are done rinsing, pat the diamonds dry with a soft chamois towel. This will help remove any remaining residue or excess water.
Then your diamonds should be as bright and beautiful as the first day when you bought them.

