 If you're surrounded by peace and love, you'll flourish as strongly as negative emotions cause you to wilt.Studies show that when you have more positive emotions, you will have more satisfaction in your life.Think of someone you love. Think of the warmth and joy you feel around that person. Now apply that feeling to someone you know a little less. Find something about that person that makes you happy. Then apply that same feeling to others around you. As you learn to recognize other people’s positive traits, you can build positive emotions in yourself that keep you focusing on the good things in life, which in turn suppresses negativity.Build other positive emotions. Smile frequently. When you smile, your brain releases chemicals that enhance the positivity in your mind.
Do things that you love. When you engage in hobbies that you enjoy, you surround yourself with positive feelings.
 Surround yourself with people who make you feel good and who are supportive. Positivity can influence your well-being, just as negativity can. You may not be able to fully eliminate being sensitive to other people’s emotions, so it’s better to choose positive people over negative ones. Call a friend who sees the good in others. Spend time with a colleague who affirms the bright side of things. Listen to hopeful people. Relish hopeful words, songs, and art forms., Because some people are empaths, and are naturally more sensitive to what’s going on in their environment than others, they can feel overwhelmed in situations that other people might not even consider uncomfortable.However, no matter how uniquely sensitive you are, you don't need to be beholden to your ability to absorb other's emotions.


Recognize that certain situations might be too overwhelming for you. Remove yourself from these situations. For example if you know you’ll absorb the stress of people doing their Christmas shopping, avoid stores during this season.
 HSPs often exhibit an enhanced degree of creativity in aesthetic activities.Some philosophers, moreover, describe a capacity for creativity as being essential to growth and transformation. Creativity is something that we are all capable of regardless of whether or not we’ve ever picked up a paintbrush.Art, in this sense, can occur every time you have a conversation with someone else, or even each time you make breakfast. Learning how to become more creative in your day-to-day life.


Experiment with your personal style or daily activities. This can be a great way to turn an exceptionally high sensitivity to stimuli in your environment into a gift rather than a curse.
 When you feel overwhelmed by others’ emotions, use this feeling to your advantage by pursuing something positive. Pick a cause that is relevant to the emotions you feel.


For example, simply walking by homeless people on the street might cause pain in a highly sensitive person. This feeling might keep him from frequenting cities or certain neighborhoods in order to avoid this pain. Invest your emotional energy in something constructive. You might volunteer at a homeless shelter or offer to buy a homeless person a meal. Listen to this person’s story.
 Learn to use compassion as a way to defend yourself against overwhelming emotions. Compassion allows you to be empathetic with other people, but it also requires that you are compassionate toward yourself. This means that you don't need to feel guilty about seeking respite from being overwhelmed.


Be aware of your common humanity. You are not alone in your feelings. When you recognize that your feelings are part of a common human experience, you will not feel so isolated.For example, if you’re feeling overwhelmed, you can tell yourself: “Everyone feels overwhelmed sometimes.”

, Sometimes being highly sensitive to your environment can make you feel out of sync with others, especially when everyone around you appears to be outgoing or sociable. This is because HSPs and empaths can often be introverted. In fact, about 70 percent of HSPs are introverted, so you may feel at odds with others around you.,But because your degree of sensitivity is unique to your own body, it is essential to accept these feelings as part of yourself., Empathy tends to happen spontaneously, and can produce very different emotions depending upon the situation. If you are around the exact same people every single day, it’s going to be difficult for you to figure out precisely which types of emotions are elicited by which people. When you try out a situation you’d normally avoid, you might find that you respond differently.


Try a new hobby or go to a party where you don’t know very many people. Being in a new environment might just give you the freedom to respond differently.

