 Standing splits are a difficult pose, so you need your body to be well-prepared for before attempting. It’s important to stretch out and engage your muscles, but you can start by doing a light cardio warm-up to get the blood flowing and your heart pumping.Do a quick dynamic warm-up for around five minutes. This could include the following exercises:


Light jogging on the spot.
Leg swings and arm swings.
Butt kickers.
High knees.
Jumping jacks.
Squats.;
, Standing splits work your hamstrings especially, so it’s a good idea to stretch out these muscles a little before you begin.A good stretch for the hamstring is the crossover stretch. To do this, stand up straight and then cross your right leg over your left, placing your right foot next to, but outside, your left foot.


Then gently and slowly roll your upper body down and reach towards the ground with your hands until you feel a stretch.
Hold for up to 30 seconds, and then release.
Now cross your left leg over your right, and repeat the stretch., Before you move onto the standing splits, you should do a short yoga sequence to ensure that your body is fully prepared. This will help you stretch out your muscles and relax your mind. Sun salutations A and B are both cited as excellent ways to prepare for standing splits.You could also move through the following poses:


Start in mountain pose. Stand up straight with your hands in prayer position in front of your chest.
Then move into Parsvottanasana (Intense Side Stretch Pose). From mountain pose step your left leg back and turn your left foot out around 30 degrees. Then carefully tilt forward at the hips and bring your hands forwards and down towards your right foot.
From this position you can move into High Lunge by bending your right knee and dropping your hips as you lean back and raise both your arms above your head.
You can then move into Warrior III. Stand and bring your feet back together and then raise your right leg behind you. Tilt your body forwards and ahead of your standing foot.