 If you're doing stretching exercises separately from strength-building exercises, make sure you've spent between five and ten minutes warming up before you start stretches to avoid injury.When you build the strength in the muscles surrounding your knees, you also make them tighter. The tighter your muscles are, the more prone they are to injury. Stretching makes your muscles less tight, and also can reduce muscle soreness after exercise.
 Since many of the strength-training exercises to strengthen knees focus on quadriceps and hamstrings, you need to be sure to also stretch these muscles.The quadricep stretch is something you've probably seen joggers or runners do frequently. Hold on to a wall or the back of a chair for balance and lift one foot. Bring your heel towards your buttocks, holding your ankle or the top of your foot. Squeeze your heel closer to your body and hold this stretch for 30 seconds. Then move to the other leg.
Be careful to keep your back neutral as you do this stretch. Don't bounce or pulse while stretching, just hold the stretch. Go only far enough that you can feel the stretch – don't push your heel so close to the body that it's painful.
For hamstring stretches, sit with both legs in front of you and your feet neutral. Stretch your arms out and slowly walk your palms down the floor toward your ankles, stopping when you feel the stretch. Hold it for 30 seconds, then slowly walk your palms back. Make sure your back is long and straight, not rounded.
 Tight calves can cause your knees to move inward. This can cause pain and put you at greater risk for injury. You can stretch your calves without any particular equipment – all you need is a curb or step.Start by standing on the edge of the curb or step. The edge should be roughly even with your instep, with the balls of your feet on the top. You can stretch both calves at once, or put one foot on the ground for additional stability.
Allow your heel to drop below the edge until you feel the stretch. Hold that position for about 30 seconds. If you were doing one leg at a time, you'll want to switch and do the other leg. If you're doing both legs at the same time, make sure you're holding something for balance.
 Knee extension stretches can be incorporated as part of your workout, or you can do them periodically over the course of the day. This can be beneficial particularly if you have an office job that requires long hours of sitting at a desk.You can do knee extension stretches sitting in a chair. Rest one foot on another chair so that your knee is slightly raised. Using only your leg muscles, slowly and gently push that knee towards the floor until you feel a stretch.
Hold the stretch for between 5 and 10 seconds, then move your leg back to where you started and switch legs. You should do each leg five times.
 The glutes and performs are muscles that rotate your hips. There aren't many stretches that specifically target these muscles, but keeping them loose can decrease the stress on your knees.To do a Figure Four stretch, lie on your back on the floor. Your feet should be flat on the floor, knees bent. Bring your right leg up and cross your right ankle over your knee.
Put your hands behind your left thigh and slowly pull towards your chest until you feel the stretch. Hold for about 30 seconds, then switch and do the other side.
 Knee flexion exercises can strengthen your knee joint as well as the surrounding muscles, and give you an increased range of motion. Knee flexion stretches are crucial if you spend extended periods of time sitting at a desk.All you need for knee flexion stretches are a chair and a rolled towel, such as a beach or bath towel. Loop the towel under your foot, and pull on the towel with both hands to bend your knee. Pull until your foot is between 4 and 5 inches off the floor, or until you feel a stretch.
Hold that position for between 5 and 10 seconds, then slowly release your foot back to the floor and switch sides. You should try to do this stretch at least five times on each side.
 There are a number of stretches you can do using an exercise band that will help strengthen your knees and give you more flexibility. Many of these stretches are prescribed by physical therapists as rehabilitation following a knee injury or surgery.For example, you can add an exercise band to any of the other stretches you've been doing, such as quadriceps stretches, to add resistance and get some increased stability.
To do the quadriceps stretch with an exercise band, you want to lay on your stomach with the exercise band looped around your heel. Pull the band over your shoulder and tug it until you feel the stretch in your quadriceps. Hold the stretch for 30 seconds, then switch to the other leg.
Most gyms have exercise bands available for members to use. You also can buy a set of exercise bands fairly inexpensively. You also can use a belt in a pinch, although they don't typically have the same level of elasticity that exercise bands do.
Exercise bands are used by Physical Therapists to rehabilitate, and help the patient achieve stronger muscles, tendons, and joints. This will help the patient with joint stability, while allowing you to be more sure on your feet.

