 To make cupcake umbrellas, you will need a few items that you are likely to already have around your house. If not, they can be found at most any grocery, drugstore, or hobby shop near you. You will need cupcake liners, pipe cleaners, craft glue, and scissors.


You can use either plain cupcake liners or ones that are already pre-decorated. If you choose blank liners, you may also need markers, pens, pencils, or crayons for decorating them.This is a good craft for young children who may have trouble with the more complicated methods of making paper umbrellas.;
, If you would like to decorate plain cupcake liners, draw on them first before doing anything else. You can use anything you have on hand, like crayons or markers. Draw whatever designs you'd like on them.


You can also put different letters on each wrapper to spell out a word.
If you have other materials available, like stickers or glitter, feel free to add those, too.
If you're using pens or markers that bleed through the paper, work a surface covered with newspaper to keep from staining. Spread the wrapper flat and face down. The outside of the wrapper will be the most visible part of your "umbrella."
If you're using utensils that don't bleed through, such as colored pencils or crayons, you can decorate both sides of your "umbrella."

, Take each cupcake liner and fold it in half with the side you would like to be visible (usually the bottom of the liner) on the outside. Unfold the liner. Fold it in half again, this time making a crease perpendicular to the first one. There should now be two creases creating four equally-sized sections.
 Bend each pipe cleaner into a crook, with one long straight section that ends in a small hook looping back around. If your pipe cleaners are long, cut them down so that they are about one and a half times the width of your cupcake liners.
 Poke the straight end of one pipe cleaner through the center of each cupcake liner. You will be going through the folded down, undecorated side. If you have trouble getting the pipe cleaners through, try poking a small hole in the center first using a toothpick or pen.
 Position the pipe cleaner handles so that they stick only slightly through the top of the cupcake liner. Fold the liners down in the position you'd like them to set in. Dab some craft glue inside through the bottom of the umbrella. Focus the glue at the base of the umbrella where the handle connects most to the paper. Don't use too much, or it will spill and make a mess. Wait at least one hour for the glue to set.