 National laws in many countries, including the United States and Canada, require places of "public accommodation" (such as hotels and amusement parks) to be accessible to people in wheelchairs. However, some are more accessible than others.For example, if you enjoy skiing, there are many ski resorts in Colorado that have staff trained to provide adaptive, one-on-one skiing lessons for children with disabilities.
Many hotels have staff specifically trained to assist families traveling with children in wheelchairs, and may have activities in which the child can participate.
Resorts and vacation destinations with a focus on exploring and interacting with nature and the outdoors often have specific programs for children in wheelchairs.
Conduct research online or talk to other families with children in wheelchairs to learn about the best vacation spots that will allow the child to fully participate in activities.
 Children in wheelchairs can enjoy many of the same activities as able-bodied children, such as trick-or treating at Halloween. However, you typically have to do a little work in advance to make sure the child is able to fully participate.For example, if you want to take a child in a wheelchair trick-or-treating, you'll need to scout out a route in advance to make sure all the houses are accessible for that child. If you can't find an appropriately acceptable neighborhood, you may want to find alternative solutions, such as trick-or-treating at a shopping mall or participating in a local "trunk or treat" event that takes place in a parking lot.
Let the child take part in the planning so they're prepared for the event and know what to expect. Count on the child to let you know what you can do to help make the event more accessible and enjoyable for them.
Make sure you get the child's input to the extent appropriate before buying non-refundable tickets or otherwise committing to a particular event – especially if you are doing it solely for the child's benefit. It is important to include them in the decision-making process. Give them the power to choose what they want to do rather than forcing them to do something in which they're not interested.
 Making reservations online may not be an option if you are traveling with a child in a wheelchair. You need to talk to someone and explain the need for accommodations in advance so there won't be any unpleasant surprises.If you're flying to your destination, speak with someone on airline staff when you book the flight so you can explain the accommodations the child will need.
Try to arrive at the airport an hour earlier than you normally would, so you have time to go through security and get to your seats. Remember that airlines allow disabled passengers to board first.
If you're staying in a hotel at your destination, talk to hotel staff before you arrive rather than booking a room online. This way you can get direct confirmation that the room will be accessible for the child and have any specific requirements covered.
 Earlier flights are more likely to be on schedule than flights in the afternoon, and children tend to be better travelers in the morning when they have more energy and haven't already been exhausted by a full day.If at all possible, try to book direct flights. If you must have a layover, make sure airline staff understands that the child will need their wheelchair during the layover – otherwise, it may be checked all the way through to your destination.
Study airport layouts in advance so you'll be able to easily find your gates and navigate to baggage claim. You'll also want to know where snacks and drinks can be purchased once you go through security, in case the child needs anything on the plane.
 If you're traveling with a child in a wheelchair who has continuing medical needs, talk to the child's pediatrician to identify a doctor or specialist you can work with at your vacation destination in the event of an emergency.If you can get a recommendation from the child's regular pediatrician, you can talk to the doctor before travel so you can get to know them and they can learn more about the child's condition.
Carry the child's basic medical records with you when you travel, as well as a brief summary of the child's medical history.
Keep names, email addresses, and telephone numbers of all the child's healthcare providers handy in the event you need to get in touch with them quickly while you're out of town. It is also a good idea to keep a record of the places your child regular visits. Also, talk with your child about what to do and who to contact in case of an emergency.

