 Drinking warm water with lemon juice can be especially helpful first thing in the morning. You can drink warm water with lemon juice any time during the day, but drinking it every morning before you have had anything to eat or drink is a great way to regulate your digestive system.To prepare the warm lemon water, add about one teaspoon of lemon juice to a cup (eight ounces) of warm water. Sip the water slowly.
Drinking warm water with lemon juice should soften your stools and help you have a bowel movement, but it may take a little while before it happens.
If constipation is a frequent problem for you, then try starting every day with a cup of warm water and lemon juice.
If you don't have any lemon juice around, then you can also drink a cup of tea, coffee, or just plain warm water to help get your bowels moving.
 Dehydration can contribute to constipation, so make sure that you are drinking plenty of water and other fluids every day.Try to drink at least eight 8 ounce glasses of water every day.
You can also get fluids from drinking clear broths and from eating hydrating fruits, such as watermelon, grapes, and apples.
Don’t drink too much caffeine, or you can become dehydrated, making the problem worse.
 Regular exercise is essential for increasing the muscle activity in your digestive tract, so it is important to exercise if constipation is a common problem for you.Try to get at least 30 minutes of moderate cardiovascular activity on five days of every week.For example, you can try walking, riding a bike, or using an elliptical exercise machine., Not getting enough fiber can cause constipation. Try to eat at least 18 to 30g of fiber each day. High-fiber foods include fresh fruit, vegetables and cereals.Some good ways to increase your fiber intake include:


Eating a high-fiber breakfast cereal.
Choosing wholegrain or granary breads.
Adding pulses such as beans, lentils or chickpeas to stews and salads.
Having some fresh or dried fruit for dessert., Choose a fruit smoothie at breakfast, a salad at lunch and leafy vegetables like broccoli, spinach or sweet potatoes at dinner. Or in the morning have warm water with lemon juice and carrots on the side.If you are often constipated, then try adding prunes as a regular snack in your diet. Prunes increase fiber in your diet and they often work to speed up digestion.
One clinical trial found that 70 percent of people find relief from constipation with prunes., If you are struggling to get enough fiber into your daily diet, you could always opt for a fiber supplement. These supplements are available at your local drugstore and supermarket. They can be a good short-term measure, but try to incorporate fiber from fresh food into your diet in the longer-term., You should always try to listen to your body and respond to it. That means don’t delay when you need to go, and don’t try to hold it in.You may be constipated because you have been withholding when you need to go. In this case, feces can condense, making the stool harder to pass.People who are traveling or experiencing a change in routine can become constipated. Add in yogurt or prunes and try to stay near a toilet.
Ask for an aisle seat on a plane or stop frequently on a road trip.
 Sometimes it can help to raise your knees above your hips to make it easier to poop. Try placing your feet on a low stool when you are using the toilet. This will elevate your knees above your hips, and potentially make passing stools easier., If you have long-term constipation problems, an abdominal massage can help. The massage takes around 10 to 20 minutes, and can be done while you are standing, sitting or lying down. These massages can reduce the need for the regular use of laxatives, and can relieve flatulence. Abdominal massage is not recommended for everybody, so speak to your doctor first.


Pregnant women should not get a massage and neither should someone with a history of malignant bowel obstructions., If you have tried all of these methods and you were still unable to go to the bathroom, you could have a bowel obstruction. If constipation persists for weeks you should get checked to rule out other more serious medical issues. You should see a doctor straightaway if you have symptoms such as cramping, spasms, dizziness or fatigue.You can ask your doctor about a biofeedback appointment. This is a special consultation in which you will learn how to relax and tighten muscles in your pelvic area.If you are on any medications, discuss this with your doctor. There is a chance that medications could be causing your constipation., If you occasionally suffer from constipation, then it might be helpful to take a look at your diet and lifestyle for a couple of weeks to identify a potential cause. Some of the risk factors for constipation include dehydration, inadequate fiber intake, a sedentary lifestyle, and certain medications, such as narcotic painkillers, sedatives, and high blood pressure medications.Try keeping a diary for two to four weeks of everything you eat, drink, and take (medications). Also, keep track of how much exercise you get each day, as well as other pertinent information like stress level and illness. Note also when you are constipated over the course of this two to four week period.
After tracking your diet and lifestyle for a few weeks, review the log to see what foods, drinks, medications, or other factors seem to contribute to constipation. Then, use this information to make lifestyle changes. For example, if your diary reveals that you become constipated when you eat a lot of dairy, then you may want to limit your dairy consumption.
If your log reveals a connection between a medication and constipation, then discuss this with your doctor. Do not stop taking any of your medications without talking to your doctor first.
 If you are not sure what is causing your constipation, you may consider making some small changes to see if this reduces your episodes of constipation. Some things you can try include:Drinking more water. Try filling a large water bottle every morning and aim to finish it by midday. Then, fill it again and aim to drink it by dinner time.
Adding more fiber from whole foods like fruits, vegetables, and whole grains.
Limiting junk foods, fast foods, and processed foods like cookies, chips, and crackers.
Taking a daily fiber supplement, such as psyllium husk, Metamucil, or FiberCon.
 Regular physical activity can help to reduce constipation by increasing the muscle activity in your colon. If you do not get regular exercise, or if you do not get the recommended 150 minutes of moderate physical activity per week, then try to increase your physical activity.You can do this by:

Taking a daily 30 minute walk or a few 10 minute walks throughout the day.
Parking further away from entrances, such as at grocery stores, malls, and your place of work.
Getting up and walking around during commercial breaks when you are watching TV.

