 Adding barbells or dumbbells will increase the weight resistance and build the strength in your leg muscles by making the lunge more difficult. This also works out your core and upper body, although your legs are doing most of the work.If you're using a barbell, use an overhand grip on the barbell as you complete your lunges. With dumbbells, you can hold them up in front of you or straight down at your sides.
To add upper-body exercise to your lunges, do curls with the dumbbell in conjunction with your lunges. When you're in lunge position with your knees at 90 degrees, do the curl and release the dumbbell to your side. Then move forward from that position with the dumbbell by your side.
 With a Bulgarian split squat (or supported single leg squat), you'll need a barbell or dumbbells. Elevate one leg and squat with the other leg. Barbells provide more stability than dumbbells, and you can use the weight bench to elevate the leg you're not using.Complete 10 to 20 reps with one leg before switching to the other leg. Incorporate this move into your workout by doing between one and three sets with each leg.
 Romanian deadlifts (RDLs) are more advanced strength-training exercise favored by weightlifters and body builders. Attempt this exercise with caution. Make sure you have mastered the deadlift and single leg deadlift first before you try this exercise. If you are a strength-training novice, it's a good idea to have an experienced weightlifter or certified trainer with you.If you don’t feel comfortable doing this exercise, then you can try doing weighted bridge instead.

RDLs with barbells create additional weight-shifting that you must control due to the width of the barbell. This makes barbell RDLs more challenging than doing the same motion with a single dumbbell.
Stand tall on one leg, holding your barbell or dumbbells with an overhand grip. Bend your non-weight-bearing leg slightly and raise it behind you as you lean forward at the hips.
Think of your torso and legs like a hinge that you are closing. Lower your torso to the ground, letting that rear leg hang in the air behind you with your arms forward in front of your weight-bearing leg. Then slowly raise back up, squeezing your glutes as you do.
Do 10 reps with one leg, then take 30 seconds rest before switching to your other leg. This is not an exercise that you need to do alternating immediately from one leg to the other.
Keep your back flat and straight throughout the exercise, and don't move the weight too far out in front of you.

