 Flight Rising has registration closed most of the time, the most reliable sign up time is the week between the second and third Sundays of a month as this is what's called 'Welcome Week'. Occasionally, there will be times where registration is open for 24 hours, however, these are random and unexpected.
 Don't choose something boring and forgettable, like "Potato123" or "Bob." Instead, choose a creative name that others will wish they had thought of! It can be something involving a fandom you are in, a celebrity you love, or something that describes you., You want to be sure that nobody will be able to hack onto your Flight Rising account. Choose something with letters, numbers, and symbols, but make sure it's not too complicated to remember. You might want to write it down or get a passwords app, to make sure you won't forget it., If you are interested in fire, than join the fire flight. If you love swimming, maybe the water flight is your calling. You can only change your flight once, so choose wisely!, If you can't come up with a good name, then the name generator is there to help you out. You're going to breed this dragon, so you want to give it colors that you will willingly pass on to other dragons, They may give you one, two, three, four or even five eggs! Don't forget to incubate your nests every day, so  that the eggs will hatch as soon as they can., Now it's time to get some more dragons! On the left, there will be a variety of different hyperlinks. Click on the one that says "forums," under Library. At the bottom right, there will be a forum saying "(Your flight name here) sales." If you go to this forum, you will find many threads giving away free dragons to newbies. This is a great way to expand you dragon collection, and get some fancy ones to breed!, Playing games is the main way to earn Flight Rising's currency, treasure. You can find the ones you enjoy the most, and play them to earn treasure. The more treasure you have, the more you can buy!, You want to build up a large stock of food, so your dragons will never go hungry! Remember to gather the right amount of food based on what your dragons eat., Breeding dragons is fun and exciting! You can preview the results between two parents, so you have an idea about what your offspring will look like! Don't forget to incubate them daily!, What game is fun without friends? You can find friends by sending people friend requests, and chatting with them over pm., Each month, Flight Rising has a different event to represent a flight. These events give you new apparel and familiars, so it is recommended to participate! It's also fun!, The coliseum is where your dragons can battle monsters using a series of spells and attacks. It is very fun, and you can even battle other dragons that are around your level. Before you know it, you will be a Flight Rising Master!