 Edgy people are always willing to try new things. You don't have to go skydiving if it's not your thing, but you should accept invitations from people you're just getting to know, try a new cuisine you didn't even know existed, or take a last-minute road trip to hike a beautiful mountain. Don't just do the same old thing and make a goal of doing something completely new at least once a week.


Being edgy requires you to fill your life with new ideas, people, and places. To stay on the cutting edge of ideas, you need to constantly be exposed to them!
Start small, if you're feeling timid. Book a single vacation, take up the new hobby you've wanted to try, or try out a new bar or party.;
, This may sound like it has nothing to do with an edge, but finding your dreams and going after them have everything to do with being confident and cool. Being edgy means looking at everything a little differently, doing your own thing, and being okay with the fact that it may not fit the world's idea of what you should be doing with your life. Pablo Picasso, Albert Einstein, and Coco Chanel were all edgy in their own ways, even if they only seemed eccentric or "different" at the time. They succeeded because they kept trying.


Whatever your dreams are, be confident and comfortable about following them. So what if you want to be an actress or to publish a killer novel while knowing there's a good chance it won't happen for you? Following your dreams, however impractical they are, will give you some edge.
And if you don't know what your dreams are, then now is a good time to find out. You can't really be edgy if you're feeling aimless or like you're just plugging along instead of following a passion.
 Do things even if the result may be consequential. Unless you have reason to fear for your life and safety, sometimes you need to just "do it for the story." Edgy people understand that things won't always go perfectly in the moment, but that these challenges and tribulations are the bases of many incredible, edge-of-your-seat stories later on in life.


Though having goals is important, it's also important to sit at the top of a cliff once in a while. Make every experience matter. Do some things just because they feel right.
 It's okay if you don't rush downstairs to greet your roommate the second she walks in the house or tear your eyes off your captivating book the moment your crush walks by. Get engrossed. Get obsessed. Get completely absorbed. It's okay to be so focused that you don't completely notice what's going on around you; what's most important is that you're committed to caring about whatever makes you excited about being alive.


Whenever you do something, give your full attention and effort to the task. You'll not only be edgier, but you'll learn faster and have more meaningful experiences., Edgy people don't just roll over when challenged. If someone calls you out, gossips about you, or even says something nasty about you to your face, don't back off. You don't have to start a fight or start name-calling, but you should be proud enough to be yourself that you know you're worth defending. Don't let anyone think he can get away with putting you down.


You'll find that most people, when challenged, will back down. Don't feel the need to pursue or punish them if they do -- you've already won the battle.
 If you want to be edgy, you have to be on the cutting edge of things. This means you should see the new Sundance Film Festival winner, that you should check out the new Burmese restaurant everyone has been raving about, and that you should update your hair and fashion more than once every five years. It also means that you should actually watch the news, read the papers, and be able to carry an intelligent conversation about what's going on in the world.


Being up-to-date doesn't mean you have to copy every trend that comes your way. There's a difference between being aware of trends and following them obsessively.
You can never be current about every topic. Instead, get deeply immersed in the topics that mean the most to you, following your passion.
 If you run next to someone who is faster than you, you will run faster. If you run next to someone who is way slower, your body will naturally slow down. The same goes for being edgy. If you know someone who is the height of edginess, who you deeply respect and admire and want to emulate, then keep on hanging with that person.


If you know a group of people who likes to stay up late talking about Marxism, going green, or whatever it is that excites you, then make a habit of hanging out with them more.
You don't have to think of them as your "edgy" friends. Just think of them people who encourage you to develop your inner edge.

