 This method for making a fake cast requires a lot of toilet paper, so you probably want to start with a full roll just to ensure that you have enough. If you try to make a leg “cast” this way, you will especially use a lot of it.
 Much like a paper mache project, you will have to form the “cast” in smaller strips and sections, so begin by tearing off a strip of toilet paper about five or six sheets long.








To help make the process take a bit less time, you can actually double up each strip of toilet paper. So break off a second strip the same length as the first and overlap them completely.This not only adds thickness to the “cast” more quickly, but it also helps strengthen the strips as you start getting them wet.
 You want to get the strips a little bit damp but definitely don’t soak them yet because they’ll become too brittle to wrap around your arm. If you have a spray bottle, simply mist the strips with water instead of drenching them.
 Whichever placement you have chosen for your “cast,” start by wrapping the damp toilet paper around the top of where the respective cast would end.For an ankle cast, this will be around your shin; for a wrist cast, this will be around your forearm.









You want to start at the top of the cast because it’s much easier to get around the curve of your ankle or around your thumb after you already have a base with which to work.
Don’t worry about wrapping the toilet paper toward the end of your extremity, just wrap it over itself to begin with.
 Once you have the strip wrapped around your shin or forearm, add more water to it. You want to use a spray bottle or even to flick water at the TP from your fingers because placing it under running water will just cause the TP to crumble.
 With more water on the toilet paper, it will be more malleable, and additional layers will stick to it more easily; however, the layers won’t stick if it’s too wet, so start by wrapping your hand around the appropriate forearm or shin and squeezing any excess water out of the toilet paper.








Apply direct pressure because if you pull at the toilet paper instead of just pushing against it, it’s likely to tear.
 With the first sheet applied, you want to apply a second double strip of the same size as the first. Stick one end of the double sheet to the current portion of the “cast.” The moisture in the first part will make the second double strip stick to it enough for you to wrap it. Then add more water and squeeze it out again.








You will repeat this step until the portion on your arm has the thickness you’re satisfied with, which will likely be with three or four applications.
 With the top portion of the cast ready, you can now move down to your wrist or ankle, depending on where you’ve placed the “cast.” Using the same length of double strip as before, dampen it and apply it over the bendable joint carefully.








For your ankle, you’ll need to keep your ankle at a 90-degree angle from here out, otherwise you risk tearing the toilet paper.
For your wrist and around your hand, you want to wrap the toilet paper from your wrist around the palm of your hand (so it passes across the L-shape between your thumb and index finger), across the back of your hand, and then finally back across your palm (but this time on the outside of your thumb).This will give your hand realistic looking coverage while still leaving your thumb and fingers free like an actual wrist cast.
You will repeat this step until you are satisfied with the bottom of the cast, which will probably require three or four total layers or however many you used on the top portion.
Remember to keep wetting the strips and squeezing them out between each application.,









Be extra careful apply the tissue paper to the damp toilet paper since the tissue paper is even more fragile.
 Once you’re happy with the toilet paper and tissue paper, you simply need to wait for the paper to dry. The toilet paper will harden as it dries, which will give the “cast” a more realistic look.If you’re in a hurry, you can also use a hairdryer to help the drying process along.
 The toilet paper can still rip or tear pretty easily, so you have to remember to keep your wrist or ankle in one position while you have the “cast” on since movement can break it.


Using a pair or crutches for an ankle “cast” is a great way both to sell the prank and to keep your from bending your ankle.

