 Watch a TV show you've heard of or discover new ones.Create a "line-up" of various programs to fill up the day. For example, look at the TV guide and find when your favorite programs start. Look up online games that can entertain you, or play (massively multiplayer online role playing games).


Video games can occupy some idle time, but avoid being addicted to them. This can be a strong temptation, but you may regret it after you get better. When it comes to any idle activity, manage your time. Every 30 minutes take a 5 minute stretch or have a drink of water.
Stay on top of schoolwork if you are a student. Homework may not be the most entertaining thing to do, but it is definitely something you should. Likewise, homework requires time. It's best to work on your homework in parts rather than leave the entire thing for the night before it is due. If you are missing out on homework because of your condition, try to keep up with readings and lessons. Ask someone in your classes to send you notes or keep you up to date with what homework is being assigned. You may also ask your teacher about these things.
Take up intellectual hobbies if you're no longer in school. Many science projects welcome online volunteers and you'd be amazed at how much research can be done while you're in bed. If you liked science in school, you can help with real projects on the Internet.
Take up online activism, look into causes you're passionate about and see if you can put in some time spreading the word on social media like Facebook and Twitter.;
, Try keeping yourself busy with products that are not electronic, since staring at a screen all day can get old and is hard on your eyes. Some examples of non-electronic things include:


Literary entertainment. Read a book. Pick anything you enjoy, experiment with authors and genres.
Write a letter or an article, perhaps to a newspaper, or even a wikiHow article.
Toys, such as Etch-A-Sketch
Board games. Correspondence chess is great.
Puzzles, such as Sudoku (Some newspapers have them, but they are also free online), or crossword puzzles.
Get some interesting craft books: These products can be found at a local craft store/online. Some come with the materials included, which saves on effort and money. Crafts can include knitting, crochet, jewelry making, beading, leather crafts, whittling, braiding, paints, sketchbooks, sculpting, weaving, and much more.
 These will help you express your feelings and promote mental health, likewise giving you something to do. You can also browse through other people's blogs/journals for interesting information and all sorts of things.


If you enjoy blogging, consider creating multiple online blogs on different topics you're knowledgeable about. Getting readers and attention is very good for morale and you're doing a public service with your niche column on something you personally love. You'll also meet others who love it doing this. Answer all comments on your blogs unless they're from trolls.
 This can be very entertaining and it keeps your mind sharp. These days, you can buy a decent inexpensive guitar, or consider a pair of drumsticks and a practice pad (electronic drum). You can look for tutorials online, especially on YouTube.

The tin whistle or penny whistle is a flute-like instrument that's very easy to learn, small and can be handled in bed. Practice is easier if it doesn't involve getting up and moving around as much.
 Find free online courses in drawing and painting, start with a sketchbook and some charcoal and pencils. It's a lifetime study and learning how to draw realistically can gain a lot of social attention or even some money. At the point you can draw one popular subject well, other people will give you cash for your drawings.


Because learning to draw takes a long time, start posting your daily art online. You can see your progress a lot easier if you look back to last week's or last month's drawings to tell how much you've improved.
Get involved in art communities to socialize, get support and encouragement and teaching from more experienced artists. You'll improve faster and enjoy art more with online friends cheering you on.
 If you have Mononucleosis, this is a bad idea. You can spend bad days researching recipes and studying cooking, then pull your ideas together in a grand performance on a good day. Planning is tons better than moping.
 Crafts, baked goods, cards, ATCs (Artist Trading Cards) or anything you have the know-how to build that can be done on a low energy day is a good idea. Power tools are a good idea, especially something like a Dremel tool where you can polish or shape stones and wood to make jewelry, small boxes or puzzles.
 Light exercise is good to stretch your muscles and control your weight. Invest in some hand weights or an exercise ball to keep the pounds at bay. You can also try yoga or tai chi.
 Dream about anything in the world. Experiment with lucid dreaming. Lie down and think of something pleasant. If you doze off, you will sleep pleasantly.
 Write a short story, poem, or novel about whatever you feel. Think about your old friends. Send a kind letter to a neighbor/friend you admire anonymously.


Every year in November, an online event called <a href="http:NaNoWriMo</a> brings together hundreds of thousands of people creating a 50,000 word novel within a month. Participate, and if you don't finish your novel within November, keep going on it till it's done.
 Make a special playlist (without any music that tires or stresses you) to listen to while you are sick.


Judge your playlist on how you feel listening to the music, not on what other people think of it. Some people feel a lot happier listening to heavy metal or angry punk music than they would music that gets labeled "Soothing." Go with what you really feel.
 Chill with buddies. Hang out online in chat rooms.
 Maybe there are a few tricks your pet can learn that you've been meaning to teach them for awhile.
 Put your most precious thoughts down on paper, or just express the artistic side of you.
 Fun ways to learn are to watch YouTube videos, listen to music, and watch TV all in the language of your choice. It adds dimension to average entertainment, and opens your eyes to a new culture.


If you're learning a new language, socialize with others taking the class and visit websites in that language. Constant exposure will help you learn faster and retain it much easier.
 Once you stop worrying about it, it'll put your mind at ease and you can get to sleep.
 Goals that may have seemed impractical years ago like writing a novel, becoming an artist, becoming involved in science may turn out to be easier than doing the everyday things you used to do. Sort out what you really want in life and then start putting it together little by little.
 You'll feel relaxed and rejuvenated.


Try out that new facial you never had time for before, or maybe a new foot-scrub. Soak in the bath-tub to pass some time or try a new way to do your hair.
 There are even clubs of people who enjoy origami.

