 While some foods can cause inflammation, certain foods can also help reduce inflammation to help ease congestion and promote healing. A Mediterranean diet mostly consists of foods that help reduce inflammation, such as strawberries, cherries, oranges, almonds, walnuts, spinach, kale, salmon, mackerel, tuna, sardines, whole grain brown rice, quinoa, millet, oatmeal, flax seed, olive oil, and canola oil.


If you suffer from acid reflux, avoid the fruits with citric acid because they may trigger the condition, causing nausea, irritation, and occasional vomiting., Drinking warm soup produces an anti-inflammatory effect, promotes sweating, and increases movement of nasal fluids. This will help clear your nasal passages and ease congestion. The best way to benefit from this method without adding too much unhealthy sodium into your diet is to make your own broth. For a natural low-sodium chicken broth, boil skinless chicken leg quarters in 2-3 cups of water in a large pot. Add a chopped onion, a tomato, 2-3 celery stalks, 2-3 carrots, or other vegetables for flavor. You may also add herbs such as parsley or thyme. Once it is done cooking, drain the chicken and vegetables out. Drink the broth immediately.


It is important to drink the soup while it is still warm to get the most benefits. This soup should be taken 1–3 times daily until your symptoms reduce in severity or are completely cured.
If you’re using a slow cooker, cover and let it cook on low-medium heat for 6-8 hours, or on high for 4 hours. If you are using a stove or burner, heat until it is about to boil, then let it simmer on low heat for 1 hour.
If you want to make a natural vegetable broth instead, use a variety of vegetables such as onions, parsnips, carrots, celery, leeks, mushrooms, and tomatoes. Lightly brown them in olive oil or canola oil, then add 2-3 cups of water. Bring the broth close to boiling, then reduce heat to low-medium and let it simmer for 90 minutes.
Add lentils or brown rice to add texture. If you like spicy meals, add a 1/2 a chopped cayenne pepper or 1–2 teaspoons of cayenne pepper powder to the broth.
Do not throw away the chicken and vegetables after you drain them. They can be eaten., Pineapples are rich in an enzyme called bromelain, which is used in medicine for reducing the swelling and inflammation of the nose and sinuses that can lead to congestion. Eat two slices of pineapple or drink 2 glasses of pineapple juice on a regular basis to gain the benefits of bromelain. Don't eat pineapples in conjunction with potatoes or soy products. These foods contain substances that may slow down bromelain’s healing properties in the body.


If you are allergic to pineapples, don't eat them as consumption may cause your symptoms to worsen., Certain foods can slow down the body’s healing process, impair the immune system, increase body weight, and cause inflammation. This contributes to an increase in nasal inflammation, which makes congestion worse. Try to lessen or avoid foods that can cause chronic inflammation, such as white bread, pastries, donuts, fried foods, soda, sugary energy drinks, margarine, shortening, lard, veal, ham, steak, and processed meats such as hot dogs., Cayenne peppers contain capsaicin, which has antiviral, antioxidant, and anti-inflammatory properties to promote healing. These properties help reduce congestion, coughs, and fevers. Cayenne also stimulates sweating to keep your body cool when you have a fever. Try adding it into each meal in order to promote these beneficial qualities and reduce your congestion.


People who are allergic to latex, bananas, kiwi, chestnuts, and avocado may also have an allergy to cayenne.
Capsaicin should not be used by people with gastric reflux, low blood sugar, or people taking blood-thinning medications. Cayenne may cause nausea and irritation in the throat of young children, so avoid giving cayenne or other peppers to children and infants., People who get enough vitamin C are also likely to have shorter colds and milder symptoms of congestion. Add vitamin C-rich foods to your daily diet. Good natural sources of vitamin C are sweet red peppers, green peppers, oranges, pomelos, grapefruit, limes, lemons, spinach, broccoli, Brussels sprouts, strawberries, raspberries, tomatoes, mango, papaya, and cantaloupe.


You can also take vitamin C as a dietary supplement. A recommended dose is 500 mg split into two or three servings daily. Since smoking depletes vitamin C, smokers may need an additional 35 mg per day., Whenever you have a cold, you can take one to two tablespoons of organic coconut oil with or without meals three times per day. According to experts, this kills bacteria, viruses, many parasites, and is entirely safe for us to consume. The medium chain fatty acids destroy the intruders, but it is harmless for our system.