 Boards can give customers ideas on how to use your product in real life and incorporate their content into your pins. Create boards around current happenings, holidays, themes, or any other specific content. Your board should have an eye catching cover that reflects the content of the board as well.For example, during the summer, you may have a board focused on vacations or cookouts. Then pin your products that apply to the summer time theme.
You can create as many boards as you would like, but you do not want to overwhelm your users as well. You may want to create one or two boards and see how your customers respond first.;
, Rich Pins allow you to give your customers more information about your product. The most helpful type if Rich Pin is a Product Pin. These pins tell your customers the cost of your product, if the product is available, and where to buy your product. All of this information makes it much easier for people to purchase your products.Rich Pins are more time consuming than regular Pins but are a good tool to boost sales.


Product Pins must be linked to the page where customers can actually purchase your product., Make use of the most visually appealing product images to generate interest in your brand. Attractive, high-quality images are the most important tools for drawing people to your store. Taller images result in more clicks and repins as well. The best image size is 735 x 1102 pixels.Images with 50% saturation will receive more repins than images with 100% saturation.
Many customers may not read the description on your pictures. Your images should be interesting and eye-catching on their own.Lighter pictures are more pinned than dark images, and images that do not include faces get more repins., Customers use Pinterest to research, get inspiration and discover new things.Display your products with other complementary products so users can get a clear picture of how to use your product. Your images may also include infographics or visual lists.For example, if you are selling a decorative pillow, you may display the pillow on a bed or on a couch.
If you are selling accessories, customers may enjoy seeing how to wear the accessories with an outfit.
Pins that include instructions or step-by-step guides are also helpful and can show your customers how to use your products.
 E-commerce business happens both day and night. If you only pin a few times a day, you will miss out on business. Try to pin at least 10-15 times a day. If possible, pin 20-25 times a day. There are Pinterest scheduling tools that will help you pin throughout the day.You can upload pins in advance and have a have them released at different times.


Tailwind is a popular scheduling app that accommodates both large and small business owners.Try to schedule your pinning around your busy times. If you know that customers typically visit your page from 8:00 pm to 10:00 pm, you would pin more frequently during those times.
 When you create your pin descriptions, use relevant keywords so that your images will appear first in Pinterest search results. The most relevant keywords should appear first in your description text. Your keywords should help your customer find what they are looking for and correctly present your product.Words that generate a lot of traffic on Pinterest are "DIY," "use," "look," "want," and "need."If you are a local business, include the city in your description. For example, "Cincinnati handmade candles," is better than "handmade candles."

