 This is not the time to hide the vegetables in the veggie patch! Select eye-catching areas in both the front and backyards to grow your display. A raised bed is usually most suitable, as it sets the vegetables up higher and makes it clear they are part of the garden display.;
, The success of a decorative vegetable garden will be dependent on the vegetables chosen. Good decorative vegetables include:
Globe artichoke - a beautiful large flower, as well as fascinating foliage (see introduction image)






Zucchini / courgette - lovely yellow flowers at the end of each zucchini; train them to grow up bamboo or wooden sticks






Asparagus - delightful spray-like foliage






Swiss chard - dark silver and grey leaves and red or yellow stalks






Endive - lovely curly leaves






Broccoli - bunches of tiny little flowers, use green, white and light green versions; also brocco-flower and cauliflower varieties can be suitable






Chinese cabbage and oriental greens - differing shades of green and interesting leaf variants






Cabbage - just one lovely layer after another!






Rhubarb - brilliant red stalks; try planting pansies, marigolds or similar small flowers underneath for a very interesting contrast; it also has an interesting flower, as seen in this image






Eggplant / aubergine - wonderful lavender coloured flowers, let alone the interesting fruit






Peppers / capsicum and chillies - pretty fruits and small flowers, bright leaf colours, variety of fruit colours






Runner beans and sweet peas - have them clamber over tepee structures, and enjoy not only their productive side but also the lovely flowers and tendrils.






Beets. Some varieties have dark green leaves and dark red stems. Beet greens can also be used as salad greens.
 For examples of flowering herbs, see Choose Herb Blossoms for Eating.
 They increase both the colour spectrum and the variety of flavors.
 Vegetables tend to be annuals (rhubarb, asparagus, and artichokes are exceptions), so you have an excellent opportunity to vary the vegetable display yearly and to experiment with displays that you like best. In long growing summers, you might even vary the display twice or more during the season.


Changing the look can also help with crop rotation, which will help keep your garden and soil healthy.
 In some climates, you can plant a succession of cool-season and warm-season crops in the same spot. Planting new plants in succession like this means that you will spend less time looking at empty spaces. It will also improve your overall yields.
 Because of the seasonal, temporary nature of most vegetables, you will probably want certain elements to anchor your garden when nothing is growing, or when plants are very small. Here are some elements that can help create permanent structure:


Raised beds may be created in a variety of shapes, heights, and patterns. Remember that you will want easy access to the contents of vegetable beds for weeding and harvesting.







Paths, patios, and lawns surrounding the vegetable garden are important elements of negative space. Correctly planned, paths also give you access to your garden without stepping in cultivated areas.







Trellises give your vegetables somewhere to climb, but they probably also persist in your garden during the off-season. Make them attractive, by themselves.






Permanent plantings. These may be trees (fruit trees or ornamental), perennial herbs or vegetables, or simply ornamental perennials. Whatever permanent plantings you choose, try to situate them so that they do not compete too much with your vegetables for light, water, or soil.







Fences, hedges and walls create a perimeter for the garden and they add color and structure. They may also support climbing vines, trellises, or espaliered fruit trees






Garden statuary, fountains, sundials, and other ornaments are often placed at the center of a formal garden layout. Include one or two to create interest, but don't overdo it. After all, you're growing vegetables, not statuary.
 Since you wish to look at it as well as cultivate crops, keep it clear of weeds, remove spent foliage and spent crops, keep things pruned neatly, and so on.
 You will still need to give everything adequate spacing.

