 People feel close to people who convey interest in them. Try asking your boyfriend genuine questions about sports and his interest in them. This can help you get to know about his passions more, increasing your bond.

If it's a new relationship, starting with the basics is fine. You can ask things like, "What kind of sports do you like?" and "What's your favorite team?" As you go closer, however, ask open ended questions that allow you to get to know your boyfriend as a person.
Try something like, "What is it about sports you like?" and "When did you first develop an interest in sports?" Ask your boyfriend things like, "Do you find sports inspirational? Are there any players you find admirable?";
, Studies show having a shared hobby can strengthen a romantic relationship. Shared experiences can help keep a relationship fresh and interesting over time.

If your boyfriend is a sports fanatic, playing a sport with him can be a great way for the two of you to bond.

Aim for a sport you can both play with some success, if possible. If you figure skated in high school, and your boyfriend plays hockey, you could go skating together and occasionally have lighthearted hockey competitions.
Try to incorporate sports into your date nights regularly. You could, for example, make a point of shooting hoops together every Tuesday night when your boyfriend comes to spend the night.
If you don't like playing sports, find a hobby that involves sports. You could, for example, agree to play a sports related video game with your boyfriend. You could also promise to watch the games him, or play sports trivia at a local bar.
 If you're not also into professional sports, it can be confusing to get acquainted with the world. If you want to share your boyfriend's interest, it may be a good idea to try to learn a bit about sports yourself.


Watch ESPN regularly and watch a few matches of your boyfriend's favorite sport. Try to figure out the rules when watching. You can also look up the rules online if you're confused.
Read the history of your boyfriend's favorite sport online. You could also learn a bit about his favorite players and his favorite team.
If it doesn't bother your boyfriend, try asking about the rules while watching sports with him. However, be careful. If your boyfriend is invested in the game, he may get annoyed by your questions.
 Research indicates the more you bond with your partner's friends, the stronger your relationship will be. If your boyfriend is on a sports team, his teammates may be his close friends. Try to get to know his teammates to strengthen your relationship. If your boyfriend doesn't play sports, try getting to know the guys he tends to watch games with.When you're invited to hang out with the team or his sports buddies, don't just stay by your boyfriend's side all night. Chat up some of his teammates. Allow yourself to form somewhat independent friendships with them.
Be polite to his teammates and sports friends. Ask them questions that allow you to get to know them, such as where they're from, where they went to school, what their families are like, and so on.
 Touch is vital to fostering feelings of intimacy in a relationship. You should touch your partner frequently during sports related activities. This can make such activities feel more intimate, deepening your bond.Cuddle with your boyfriend when watching sports on TV. Place your hand on his knee. Hold his hand. Lean against him.
If you're playing sports together, take opportunities to touch him. Playfully rub his shoulder when playing basketball. Lightly wrestle with him during a game of football.
 Humor is one of the best means to bond with a person. People who laugh together frequently tend to feel closer to one another. You need to keep some levity in a relationship to keep things fun and happy.Try teasing your boyfriend lightly and in good spirits. You can give him a hard time when he's getting frustrated that his team is losing. You can also tease him lightly if he misses a shot while the two of you are playing basketball.
If your boyfriend doesn't take well to teasing, try making observational jokes about the game. Mock the announcer or the other team's outfits. If you two are playing sports together, try making a few self-depreciating jokes at your own expense.
 Flirtation is another means to keep a love bond strong. As couples grow more comfortable with one another, they may flirt less often. When playing or watching sports, find ways to work in occasional flirtation.Give your boyfriend a coy compliment about his body when he's playing sports.
Touch your boyfriend flirtatiously when you're watching sports together.
 Electronics can be a huge distraction when it comes to bonding. If your boyfriend is watching a game with you, he wants you to share in his interests. It's a bad idea to be on your phone or computer. You may miss a vital portion of the game. Be polite and put your phone and laptop away when watching sports with your boyfriend., While it's great to share interests and experiences, you can't hog all your boyfriend's time. He sometimes may want to watch sports alone. He may want to hang out with just his teammates after a game. It's important to allow for space in a relationship. If your boyfriend wants alone time to explore his interest in sports, let him have it.Ask your boyfriend if it's okay that you tag along. Tell him it's fine if he wants to go to a sporting event with a friend instead of you.
Keep communication open. Tell your boyfriend it's okay to let you know at any time if he needs some space.
 You don't have to become a sports fanatic to bond with your boyfriend through sports. If sports are not something that are personally interesting to you, do not commit too much. Ask your boyfriend about his team, and join him to watch the big game, but don't force yourself to remember the names of every player if sports are not something that interest you.
 You may never learn to love sports like your boyfriend. That's okay. Respecting one another's differences is important in a romantic relationship.Focus on the positive aspects of your differences. Why were you attracted to your boyfriend to begin with? Maybe you liked him because of his ability to feel excitement. His enthusiasm about sports may be a manifestation of that quality.
Respect that this is a passion that your boyfriend has, even if you don't share it. Remind yourself there are interests you have that may seem absurd to him.

