, The game will begin loading.
 After the Farkle Online loading screen finishes, you will be presented with the Lobby section of the game.
 If this is your first time playing Farkle Online, you will be presented with a Tutorial showing you step by step the process of playing Farkle.
 If you finish the Tutorial, you will also be rewarded with $6,000 in chips!

, The main lobby displays 3 game modes: Stage, Single and Versus Mode.
 Let's start with Single Mode to understand the basics of the game.
, Choose items that you wish to use during the game. Each item that you use must be purchased with your Gold.
 This item will allow you to undo a farkle so that your points are not lost in that round.
 Click this item at anytime during your game to double your score.
 If you desperately need to roll again, click this item at any time during your round to roll a fresh set of dice.
 The Joker item will allow you to choose any number you want from 1~6. To use this, select the Joker item BEFORE you roll. You cannot turn a die into a joker after you roll.
 Choose a hand that you will use to roll the dice with. You will find a variety of free hands to choose from as well as some other hands that can be purchased with your Gold.
 Click Start to begin playing.
 Click on the cup to roll the dice.
 Click on dice to add to the column on the left.
 The total for each row must reach at least 300 for you to Bank it and continue to the next row.
 If you don't feel like clicking on each individual die, just click on the Highest Possible Score image and we'll add the highest possible score to your roster.
 Your goal is to reach as many points as possible within 10 rounds.
 In Versus Mode, you can battle your Facebook friends who are logged into the game. The first player to reach 10,000 takes home the victory.
 Stage Mode is another single player game mode with numerous challenges, hidden keys, final battles and hand rewards to keep you occupied for hours. In order to move to the next Stage, you must complete all challenges within the stage.

