 Cutting your college career short is a big move, one that requires a lot of deliberation. Be able to come up with at least one major reason why finishing school isn’t in your best interest. If you’re going to take the plunge, you should do it with a clear purpose in mind.Feeling like your classes are too hard is not a strong enough reason to justify dropping out—realizing that you don’t need a formal education to do what you love is.;
, What would you be doing if it weren’t for school? Take inventory of the options you have available to you. It may be that you’re more interested in looking into a career in the military or you’re already working an internship that promises to lead to a full-time position. Find out whether (and how) it would be possible for you to land your dream job without a degree.
Be realistic about your other opportunities. Assuming that you’ll find a way to make things work without a concrete plan could just end up putting you in a more difficult position.
 While getting an education is important, your own health and wellbeing should come before anything else. Depression and deep-rooted dissatisfaction are not normal parts of the college experience. Being a student can be stressful at times, but that anxiety shouldn’t be consuming your life. If you discover that it is, you may be doing yourself more harm than good.If you’re feeling unfulfilled, it may just mean that you’re overworked or that it’s time to choose a different field of study.
A lack of motivation can cause your performance to suffer even if you choose to remain in school., No matter your motivations for calling it quits, you’ll be giving something up in the process. Keep in mind that by discontinuing your education, you might be forced to forfeit scholarships, grants or other benefits that you’ve managed to secure. It could also strain your relationship with your family if they don’t agree with your decision.Some schools don’t allow students who have dropped out to re-enroll, which could limit your opportunities should you make up your mind to go back later on.
Repaying students after dropping out will leave you stuck with the financial burden of going to college and none of the advantages., A trusted professor or adviser will be able to help you clarify your reasons for leaving and offer prudent advice about what to do next. Even if you’re not interested in hearing what they have to say, letting your instructors know that you’ll no longer be participating in their class is common courtesy.Meet with your professors in person to explain your circumstances instead of sending them a cursory email or leaving them to guess what happened to you., If the term is already underway and you’ve missed the deadline to drop classes, it may be a good idea to just see it through. That way, you won’t have to worry about ruining your GPA. When the following semester rolls around, you can tie up a few administrative loose ends and make a clean break.Completing a semester will leave you with a documented final grade and not a more ambiguous “W” or “I.”
The more classes you have under your belt, the more experience you’ll be able to show employers.
 As part of the withdrawal process, you’ll be asked to fill out a few forms and provide a reason for leaving. After that, your enrollment will be brought to a close. However, as long as your status as a student remains in good standing, you’ll always have the option of coming back if and when you’re ready.Speak with your academic adviser about the specific steps you’ll need to take to withdraw from your university or community college.
In most cases, you’ll still be responsible for paying off student loans, housing fees and other expenses for an aborted semester., The easiest way to drop out is to simply do nothing. Your professors will eventually get the hint when you cease to attend lectures or respond to emails. While this isn’t the most considerate way to take your leave, it may be the only option for students who are short on time or dealing with an injury or family emergency.

Expect to receive failing grades for incomplete coursework, which can come back to haunt you should you resume your education in the future.You’ll be burning a lot of bridges by simply walking away. Unless you’re positive that it’s recommended that you find a more tactful way to make your intentions known.
 Rather than giving up on academics once and for all, think of your decision to drop out as simply taking a break. If things work out in your favor, you’ll have made the right call and you’ll be free to pursue a more meaningful path. In the worst case scenario, you’ll have learned that college was worth your time after all and you can pick right up where you left off.Come up with a two, five or ten-year plan for yourself. At the end of that time, reevaluate whether higher education is essential for success in your chosen field.
When you look at dropping out as a temporary measure, it can make the whole ordeal a lot less scary., If you weren’t already working to put yourself through school, you’ll definitely need to find employment to make ends meet once you’re on your own. Even a part-time job will serve as a safety net and give you a chance to build up your funds while preparing for what may come—just be willing to start at the bottom and work your way up, since you’ll be coming in with fewer credentials.Sales, retail management, customer service, office administration and waiting tables can all be lucrative jobs for those who don’t hold graduate degrees.For some people, leaving school can actually be a plus, since it allows them focus their time and attention on a job they’re passionate about.
 Find someone who does what you want to be doing and ask them to take you under their wing. Many trade and vocational schools offer apprenticeships for professions like carpentry, plumbing and automotive repair. Learning the ropes firsthand from an experienced craftsman is an excellent way to gain practical knowledge that will help you break into a new industry.Apprenticeship programs tend to be cheaper, shorter and more specialized than working towards a degree at a traditional university or community college.Run a search online to find out which companies and organizations offer apprenticeship opportunities in your area.
 Apply your unique set of skills and expertise in a line of work you enjoy while filling a need at the same time. Your small business endeavor could be anything from personal training to clothing design to app development. You’ll have the freedom to make your own decisions, set your own hours and realize your vision for the company. Best of all, you can take satisfaction in knowing that you did it all without a college degree.Getting a new business off the ground requires capital, so you may have to save up for a few years before you can make your dream a reality.Many of the world’s most successful entrepreneurs got their start after dropping out of college, including Bill Gates, Oprah Winfrey, Steve Jobs, Ted Turner and Mark Zuckerberg.