 Once you have decided on a coach, you will begin with your coaching sessions. Typically the first session, often called an “intake” appointment, is slightly longer than normal and gives the coach an opportunity to get to know you. In this meeting the coach will ask you questions about your life in the present and possibly also your life history to determine a coaching strategy.For example, the coach may ask “What are your biggest problems?”, “What do you want to accomplish?”, “Why do you think you need a coach?”

, Many people have unrealistic expectations when they begin using a coach. For instance, a client may expect the coach to solve all their problems and quickly change their life. This is not the case. In most instances coaches will provide the tools to facilitate change and they act as a catalyst for change, but the client is the one who needs to incorporate these strategies into their life.In fact, most of the work to help improve your life will take place outside of the sessions.


It is also important to keep in mind that making changes to your life takes time and effort, but it is worth it. Don’t be in a rush. As you make progress (usually it takes about three months) the frequency of sessions will diminish.
 If you are interested in tackling an ADHD related issue such as chronic disorganization, your coach will help you set goals and come up with a plan to improve your behaviour. For example, they may focus on the importance of creating a daily routine, taking notes and writing “to-do lists”, maintaining an agenda or calendar, etc.Be sure to take notes during your sessions. You may not remember what you discuss and decide to do during your session.
 In many instances a coach will assign homework at the end of a session. For instance, they may ask you to try waking up 15 minutes earlier each day to get to work on time. Then they will begin the next session by following up on your homework. It is important that you actively try the strategies being offered.The coach will help to motivate and cheer you on when you are making lifestyle changes and improvements.
A coach will also be able to identify when certain strategies are not working. In order to change their approach they may say “Why isn’t this goal being met?” and “What is getting in the way?” This will help them come up with new strategies to suggest.
Be sure to tell your ADHD coach if you are feeling a complete lack of motivation or interest in completing your homework assignments. This may indicate depression, which can occur alongside ADHD.

