 Under the U.S. Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) Privacy Rule, there are certain privacy protections placed on a patient’s health records in the United States. Many of these protections do not apply to minors. However, your provider can choose not to relinquish your records to your parent if they feel that there is a danger of domestic abuse, violence or neglect against you.Be sure to let your provider know if you releasing your records to your parent may endanger you.
 If you contract an STI, you have a right to be tested and treated without getting your parent’s consent. However, in 18 states, a doctor can contact a minor’s parents if they believe that it is in the minor’s best interests. If you contract HIV/AIDS, you can be tested confidentially. However, if you are under 18, your doctor will have to get your parent’s permission to treat you, unless the doctor thinks your parents would deny your treatment.If you believe that you have HIV/AIDS, be sure to check your state’s rules and regulations about receiving treatment.
A detailed list of each state’s health and reproductive laws can be found at https://www.guttmacher.org/state-policy/explore/overview-minors-consent-law


, In the United States, only two states and the District of Columbia allow minors to get abortions without their parent’s consent. In many states, you will need to notify your parents and/or get their consent in order to receive an abortion. If your parents do not consent, you can go before a judge who will determine if you are mature enough for an abortion.If you are considering an abortion, visit with an educator at your local Planned Parenthood.
In some instances, your parents may be notified if there is a complication with the abortion.
 If you are interested in getting contraceptives, more than half of all states allow you to obtain it without your parent’s consent. Other states allow minors over a certain age or in special circumstances to get contraception without parental consent. Be sure to research your state’s laws before getting contraception., If live somewhere that requires parental consent and you need to reproductive or medical assistance, you may want to consider gaining emancipation from your parents. Successfully receiving emancipation grants you autonomy under the law, meaning that you no longer need parent consent. In order to obtain emancipation, you will need to go before a judge and prove that you are capable of supporting yourself and that your parents are not assisting you.


In most states you can become emancipated at the age of 16. However, be sure to check local laws and regulations.

