 One of the biggest concerns of many children leading up to a new school years is “Will my teacher like me?” Meet this worry head-on by taking the opportunity for your child to become acquainted with their teacher and/or aide before heading to class on the first day.


Many schools host yearly “Meet the Teacher” events that allow parents and children to visit the school and meet the faculty. During this event, your child may have the chance to be introduced to the principal, teachers, aides, and other students as well.
If your child is feeling nervous or shy, facilitate a conversation between your child and their teacher. Help the teacher get to know your child. You might say, "Mrs. Hanson, this is Joey. This summer we read The Lion, The Witch, and The Wardrobe, and it's his new favorite book."
This is also a good time to privately inform teachers about any special accommodations, illnesses, or allergies your child has.You may also quietly mention to the teacher that your child has been having fears.;
, If you are already familiar with other families at your child’s school, it can be a great idea to schedule a few end-of-summer play-dates for your worrisome children. Another common fear is not having any friends upon arriving on the first day. Dusting off their socialization skills before the school year starts can help your child get reacquainted with old friends and introduced to new ones.


Reach out to parents in your community or neighborhood with same-age children. Plan an end-of-summer picnic or barbecue to encourage whole families to come together.
If you aren’t familiar with any local families, attending meet the teacher events hosted by your school can provide an occasion to talk to other parents and set up play-dates. If you see another child who’s soon to be your kid’s classmates, say to the parent, “It looks like our kids will be in the same class. Why don’t we all go out for ice cream this weekend? I would love for Zoe to have a friend on the first day.”Don't be alarmed if they don't hit it off right away. Your child will feel better simply knowing someone who will be in their class.
 Worrying over school supplies and supplies to make lunches is yet another concern of kids heading back to school. Get the supply lists for each of your children’s respective grades and plan a day out for shopping. Do this far enough in advance to alleviate worries, such as stores being out of the necessary supplies.Use this opportunity to start building excitement around going back to school. Tell your kids, “Okay, kids, on Saturday we will go out for back to school shopping and lunch. I want to make sure you all have everything you need for a fun and productive school year!”

, Getting lost on the first day of school is probably a fear that tops most kids’ lists. As a parent, it’s easy to assume this is a concern inherent to small kids only — it’s not. Even older kids in high school can be overcome by nerves that make them forget the way. Don’t make a big deal about it, but ease everyone’s fears by taking the route beforehand.


Walking, biking, or in a car, take the route your children will use before the big day. Once at the school, make sure each child is confident about how to get to their individual classrooms.
Finding classrooms is also a concern that can be alleviated by attending back to school events like meet the teacher.Rehearse the route from the parking lot to the classroom, as your child may not want you accompanying them on their first day.
 Every kid needs their own “armor” when facing the prospect of heading back to school. Help your kid gain the courage to take on a new year by purchasing or planning a favorite outfit to wear on the big day.


It may even be fun to refer to the back to school outfit as “armor” with your kids. If you know one of your kids is frightened about going back to school, say, “Let’s choose some armor to help you feel brave on your first day back, okay?”
This may be especially important to older kids in junior high or high school. Kids at this age start to care more about what their peers think. Having a cool outfit to wear can help them feel courageous when entering a more socially-driven school environment.

