 (Normal Noodle) Oni mask, woman's body, bruise on left side of face.;
, If you look like Phase 2 Noodle, go to #4. If you look like Phase 3 Noodle (Cyborg Noodle), go to #5. If you look like Phase 3 Noodle (Normal Noodle), go to #6.
 She is never seen without her radio hat except for certain performances. An easy look for her to make from Phase 1 is from the 19-2000 music video. She wears a beige jacket and her radio hat. Her clothes from her waist down are hidden. You can use jeans for this or some sort of skirt that blends into the outfit. To make the radio hat, use a large bowl and attach smaller bowls to the sides with duct tape. The rest you can make yourself for a more original look.
 Her bangs now cover her eyes. One of the easiest looks is from DARE, in which she has white capris, white sneakers and a white shirt with a basketball on it. Noodle also puts on a football helmet and plays a small keyboard near the end of the video. If you need an outfit for a colder day, try the outfit she wears in Dirty Harry- an army cap, green pants, a beige shirt and a yellow handkerchief around her neck. Or you could go with her El Manana outfit- a black and white striped 3/4 length shirt, black short shorts, and black knee-high boots.
 She's wearing the same outfit in all three. There is also a bullet hole in her head (from the Stylo video), which you can easily make with an empty soda can, hot glue, a scissors, black felt, and a bobby pin. Cyborg Noodle wears black shorts, a black army jacket, black knee-high boots, and a blue beret/army hat with a red star on it.
 She wears a white mask with a green cat-face outline, black and white striped thigh-high socks, white gloves, a white shift dress with red lining on the bottom of the skirt and sleeves, as well as 4 pockets with red lining. She technically does not wear shoes, but a pair of ankle-length or knee-length black boots would be advised if you wear this outside or to a convention. Under her mask, she has a large bruise on her right eye.

