 Get a group of your friends together, or find a day when your family can all go out for a morning to a nearby park. Bring a few large trash bags and some gardening gloves with you. Start at the parking lot, and follow every path in the park, picking up every piece of trash you find. Within a few hours, your park will be spotless!


If you see trash off the path, don't hesitate – go and grab it. If it's hard to reach, find a stick and try to knock and drag it closer.
This doesn't sound like that much fun when you read it, but actually doing it is a great experience. In fact, you might like it so much that you want to set up a regular event once or twice a year to go back and clean it again.
 If you ask teachers and look at the local news, you'll probably find that there are other groups of people doing cleanup operations similar to your park project. In almost all cases, these people are happy to have kids and families join up. You might get to clean up a beach, a campground, or a pretty mountain trail when you go out with a bigger crew. You'll also get the thrill of being part of a bigger movement.
 Whether you like to plant trees, clean up trails, or even just spread the word about environmental change in your hometown, there's probably a local group of people who are interested in doing the same thing. Reach out to them and ask how you can help. If there isn't such a group, why not talk to your parents or school about making one yourself? You're never too young to make a difference, after all. That's just as true out in public as it is in your own living room.


If you know friends who are just as interested as you, have them all sign a piece of paper saying they're interested, and then take it to your principal. Knowing that a lot of people want to help will make the principal more likely to consider your request.
One program that many schools can do but few schools take advantage of is a composting program. Composting reduces waste by separating food scraps and yard debris and allowing it to decompose and turn into soil. With enough community involvement, a composting program at your school could be a big success, so start spreading the word and drumming up support among your fellow students and their parents.

