 Once the seizure is over, it is important to take your dog to the veterinarian for an examination. This examination will consist of numerous tests to rule out other causes of seizures, which will help your veterinarian to determine the best treatment option for your dog. If these tests are all negative, then your dog may be suffering from primary seizure disorder and your veterinarian will discuss medications with you.
 There are several medications available that reduce the number and severity of seizures in dogs. Most of these medications need to be given daily and will need to be continued for the rest of your dog’s life. The primary options include:Imepitoin. This is a new medication and has replaced phenobarbital as the treatment of choice. It reaches therapeutic blood levels faster than other medications, quickly suppressing seizures by returning the brain to equilibrium.

Phenobarbital. This is another common medication used for dogs with epilepsy. It works by suppressing seizure activity in the brain.

Potassium bromide. This drug is used if phenobarbital causes health problems. Sodium bromide may be used as an alternative to potassium bromide. They both decrease seizure activity in the brain.

Gabapentin. This antiepileptic drug is commonly combined with another medication to help control generalized seizures.

Diazepam. This drug is commonly used as a sedative instead of a regular drug to control seizures, but it may be used if your dog’s seizures are frequent and long-lasting.
 Most anti-epileptic drugs will cause some sedation early on, but most dogs will adjust to this sedative effect. Sometimes, too, combination drug therapy can help lessen sedation if your dog seems to react strongly to one medication.


Keep in mind that medication may affect your dog's liver and kidneys, so you should weigh the cost/benefit of treatment versus coping with the occasional seizure.
 If your dog is very high strung, you may have to use sedatives to prevent seizures during times of stress. Talk to your veterinarian about giving your dog an occasional sedative for these types stressful situations.You may want to sedate your dog on certain holidays, such as Independence Day in the USA, or others holidays when fireworks are used.
You may also want to sedate your dog if you will have a full house and your dog is stressed by strangers.
Even during thunderstorms, you may need to tranquilize your dog to get them through the frightening noises and flashes of light.
 Canine epilepsy, while treatable in most dogs, is a progressive problem. Even with medication, some dogs may continue to have seizures now and then. If episodes become more frequent or severe, consult your dog’s veterinarian immediately.Keep in mind that as your dog gets older, seizures and episodes can become more frequent and severe.

