 When choosing a blazer, the fit of the shoulders should be the first thing you check. If the fit is off in the shoulders, then the blazer likely will not be a good fit for you at all.


When trying the blazer on, observe where the shoulder seam hits. If the seam hits past where your natural shoulder ends, then it is too big. If it hits closer to your neck than to the end of your natural shoulder, then it is too small. Look for it to hit right about where your natural shoulder ends.If you have broad shoulders, seek a style of blazer that has thinner or no shoulder pads. Large shoulder pads will accentuate your broad shoulders further. On the reverse, if you have narrow shoulders, then you should seek a blazer that has a little more shoulder padding.
While wearing the blazer, reach one arm across in front of you to grab the other arm. Observe what the shoulder pad of the blazer does while you do this: If it juts out past your shoulder, it is too big.;
, Buttoning the blazer should not cause it to stretch or pull at the buttons or along the back.


Look for a blazer that buttons easily over the largest section of your torso, whatever that may be.It should naturally follow the curves of your body without pulling, bunching, or wrinkling.
If you are busty, then it is best to search for a blazer that has more buttons, because these will help keep you in place. You may also have to buy a blazer in the next size up in order to accommodate your bust and then have it tailored in other areas to fit you best.To determine if a blazer fits properly in the bust, it should cover about half of each breast when you measure coming in vertically from the sides of your torso.Take note of the size and shape of the pockets and lapels. Both of these elements affect how the blazer fits and looks on you. Petite women look good with small lapels, while busty and plus-size women look best with large lapels. Also take note of whether the size and shape of the pockets flatters your body shape and flows with the fit of the blazer. Large pockets can add size to the hips, which is often undesirable., When you are standing with your arms straight down at your sides, the sleeves of the blazer should hit just about at the joint where your wrist and thumb connect.There are some styles of blazers with different sleeve lengths, such as three-quarter length, which hit just below the elbow, and bracelet length, which leave room to show off a watch or bracelet on the wrist.
Observe the details on the sleeves, as well, such as buttons. If you need to get the sleeves altered, lining or buttons can make it more costly. However, these accessories add a nice touch to the blazer.Look at the width of the sleeves. Wider sleeves tend to take away from the overall fitted look of the blazer, so look for one with more fitted sleeves or consider having the width of the sleeves altered., If the arm hole is too wide, it may restrict your arm movement and look sloppy, but if it is too small, then it can be uncomfortable to wear and limit your options for layering underneath the blazer., There is a flattering length and fit of blazer for every body type, and typically, appropriate blazer length is when it just touches the hips. Knowing what your body type is and finding a blazer to flatter it are key to choosing a great-fitting blazer.


Women with broad shoulders but straight hips should aim for finding cropped blazers. These tend to add curves to the waist and hips without further drawing attention to the shoulders. A blazer without shoulder padding would be best.For busty women, single-breasted slim-cut blazers are recommended.Look for blazers that accentuate the waist and avoid a lot of structure or decoration.Women with a body shape that is straight and lacks curves should aim for a blazer that is fitted. Blazers with belts added as accessories also help to add curves.If you have a pear-shaped body, a blazer that has some padding in the shoulders or a wide lapel and some length on it (e.g. it skims your hips) can help give the illusion that your top and bottom are more evenly sized.A blazer that tucks in at the waste a bit will still accentuate curves.
 A longer blazer is better suited for pant suits, while a shorter blazer is better suited for skirt suits.If you work in an office environment where suits are expected, then pay attention to where the blazer hits your hips. A blazer that skims the top of your hips looks less professional when worn with dress slacks than when it is worn with a nice skirt.
Pay attention to how you match your colors when creating a suit outfit. For example, a stark white blazer may not look the best with dress slacks or skirts that are shades of brown; in that case an ivory or off-white blazer would be a better match.
 The modern blazer is fitted to flatter more body types, and it can still be dressed up to look professional. A blazer with a more classic or boxy fit is also viewed as professional, but some delicateness and style are lost with those fits.Blazers with a classic or boxy fit are often recommended for women who are 50 or older.Especially when a blazer is white, these fits detract from the overall togetherness of the outfit and tend to make it look sloppy.
If your white blazer is not as fitted as you would like, but it fits well in all other areas, then use an accessory like a belt to give the appearance of a tighter fit. Find a small belt that fits around your waist and matches the blazer; neutral tones of black or brown would be best.
 Blazers come in many different styles, ranging from professional to casual.


If you work in an office with stricter dress code requirements, you will need to choose a white blazer that meets those standards, such as one with full-length sleeves and without flashy details. A white blazer with buttons will likely also be ideal here.
If you work in an office with a more casual dress code, then you will likely be able to wear a white blazer that has shorter sleeves, like the three-quarter length, and possibly ruching. A white blazer that does not have buttons or that you choose to leave unbuttoned will be acceptable in this environment.
 They give you the sophistication and cover-up you desire while still looking fashionable.White blazers look great over tops or dresses that are patterned. Take the dress code of your work environment into consideration when choosing a pattern; for example, a more subtle pastel pattern may be preferable to a large, multicolor pattern.
They create a more professional look than cardigan sweaters, which is desirable in many office environments.Use the white blazer to dress up a more casual sleeveless top or dress.
Layering a white blazer over a sleeveless top or dress affords you the ability to transition easily from the office to an after-work happy hour or get-together., Pairing a white blazer with jeans is a great way to dress up jeans without looking too professional.


A fitted blazer will go well with jeans that are slim fit, especially if the blazer lacks structure and flows with your body.However, it also looks great with a great flare jean.Cropped or cuffed jeans also pair well with a white blazer. With a casual tee underneath the blazer, you have a laid-back look that is perfect for grabbing dinner with friends or running errands.Which pair of shoes you choose to wear with the outfit also dictates how dressed up or down you want to seem. A white blazer with slim fit jeans and heels is more sophisticated, while a white blazer with cuffed jeans and sneakers or sandals is more relaxed.



A fitted white blazer will look great with almost any style of skirt or dress. Whether your skirt or dress is fitted or flowing, the blazer will add a touch of sophistication and shape to your body.
Patterns or neutral tones will both be a cute match with a white blazer. Colorful, large patterns will be highlighted by the whiteness of the blazer, but pairing it with a black or charcoal gray dress or skirt will look excellent, as well.
Be sure to wear heels to elongate your legs. The blazer could have the opposite effect, so heels will help give the appearance that your legs are long.
 A casual white blazer with shorts is fun way to show off your fashion sense.Jean shorts, especially high-waisted jean shorts, would look cute when paired with a white blazer. Aim for a casual tee underneath the blazer and dress up the outfit a bit with heels or ornate sandals. You could also dress it down by wearing sneakers.
A white blazer would also look great with shorts that are a solid color but not necessarily denim material. You could pair a white blazer with coral, black, red, or navy shorts, for example.



Pairing a white blazer with some detailing, like studs, with a casual tee and leggings gives some visual interest to the outfit without dressing it up too much.
This is a great way to dress up an outfit when you have a meeting or an appointment but then intend to exercise afterward, for example. It gives you the ability to move from one to the other without a complete wardrobe change.

