 Natural remedies are often very safe, but you should always consult a physician before attempting to treat yourself with natural remedies.
 These teas act as diuretics, increasing the amount of urine you produce and thus removing excess fluids from your body. Be wary of plant allergies and consult your doctor or pharmacist about interactions between these teas and any other medication you are taking. Drink 3-4 cups of tea every day, adding honey, stevia or lemon to taste.Dandelion leaf tea: Be sure to get dandelion leaf tea, not dandelion root tea, which is also available but won’t help edema.

Cardamom tea: Make your own by adding 1 tsp of seeds or dried herb to 1 cup of hot water.

Chamomile tea: This tea can also help you relax and sleep.

Chicory tea: This can be a good substitute for coffee.

Fennel tea: Make your own by adding 1 tsp of fennel seeds or leaves to a cup of water. Fennel also aids digestion and freshens the breath.

Parsley tea: This tea is diuretic and helps with digestion.

Stinging nettle tea: This tea is a diuretic and offers vitamins and minerals as well.
 Antioxidants can provide indirect support for edema because they strengthen the veins. In addition to eating antioxidant foods, you can try taking a supplement such as grape seed extract (360 mg twice daily) or bilberry (80 mg three times daily)., Acupuncture, a common approach to Traditional Chinese Medicine, involves placing needles at specific points on the body. Traditional Chinese Medicine seeks to balance the body and views edema as a sign of imbalance. Acupuncture for edema would seek to re-balance to body so that the fluids all flow appropriately.To find a licensed acupuncturist, search the National Certification Commission for Acupuncture and Oriental Medicine here.
 Massage therapy can stimulate circulation and physically move fluids out of the tissues and back into the blood and the lymphatic system. Lymphedema massage, also known as Lymphatic Drainage (MLD) or Lymph Drainage Therapy (LDT), is a form of massage that helps the body's lymphatic system and supports immune function.Your physician may be able to give you a referral for someone who is specially trained in MLD/LDT.
To find a licensed and trained massage therapist in your area, you can also try the American Massage Therapy Association here and search for “lymphatic drainage”.
 Naturopaths often recommend a “water massage” as a method of stimulating lymphatic flow, which can lessen edema by contracting and dilating the lymphatic vessels and valves, pushing fluid towards your heart and out of your extremities. You can do this at home with a hand-held shower head.


Begin by showering your feet with cold water. Saturate one foot, then the other, then move the spray of water from your feet up your legs towards your heart on each side.
Then spray each hand with the cold water. After your hands are saturated, move the cold water from one hand up your arm towards your heart, then move to the other hand and move up the other arm.
Switch the water to hot. (It should be as hot as you can manage without scalding you).
Repeat the process of saturating both feet, then moving up the legs, then saturating both hands and moving up the arms, with the hot water this time.
Switch the water back to cold and repeat the cold water process once more to finish the procedure.
 Lymphatic brushing (also known as “dry skin brushing” is another approach from Traditional Chinese Medicine. You can do this method at home using a soft-bristled brush with a long handle or a fluffy cotton towel.Your skin and the brush (or towel) should be completely dry before starting this method.
All of your brush strokes should be long sweeping strokes in the direction of your heart. Do not use a rubbing or scrubbing motion.
Brush from your hands up your arms and towards your shoulders.
Brush up your back, from the base of your spine towards your shoulders.
Brush down your neck, from your hairline towards your shoulders.
Brush up your chest, towards your throat.
Brush from your belly button to the center of your chest.
Brush up and around the breasts into the underarm area.
Brush up the legs, beginning with your feet. Then brush from your ankle to your knee, front and back, on both sides. Then brush from the knee to the groin, front and back, on both sides.
Brush from your groin to your belly button.
The lymphatic brushing process should take about 5 minutes, and you should follow it with a warm bath or shower with a cool rinse at the end. You do the lymphatic brushing one or two times per day.

