 The buildup of dead skin cells on the surface of your skin can make the skin appear a little dull. To brighten your skin, it’s important to exfoliate regularly. One excellent way to exfoliate the skin is to use a body scrub composed of sugar or salt. In the bath or shower, wet your skin and rub the scrub in a gentle circular motion over your entire body. In this way you can “polish” your skin until it has a healthy gleam.


To exfoliate your face, use a gentler facial scrub. Ground up oatmeal or almonds have good exfoliating properties that won’t damage your fragile facial skin.
Using a dry brush to brush the dead skin cells from your body is another good exfoliating method Find a brush made from natural fibers, and brush your body before you get into the bath or shower.
 Keeping your skin moisturized will prevent dead skin cells from building up and sloughing off so quickly. For brighter skin, use a daily moisturizer after you get out of the bath or shower. Choose a creamy moisturizer that doesn’t contain alcohol, since alcohol can actually dry out your skin.


Coconut oil is another great moisturizer that keeps skin looking glowing and youthful. Spread coconut oil on your arms and legs after getting out of the shower. Wait ten minutes for it to absorb into your skin before you put your clothes on.
Jojoba oil also has moisturizing properties and is great for the skin. Olive oil or almond oil can also work wonders.
 It’s hard to stay out of the sun every day, but exposure to the sun darkens your skin. You don’t have to stay cooped up inside, though — just spend some time preparing your skin for sun exposure before you go out for the day. To keep your skin from getting too tanned, take the following measures:


Use sunscreen with a high SPF. 30 SPF or high is best, since lower SPF sunscreen still allows the sun’s rays to tan your skin. Reapply it throughout the day as necessary.
Wear a wide-brimmed hat. This will keep the sun out of your face and off of your neck and shoulders.
Wear long-sleeved shirts and long pants. During the summer, choose cool, swishy fabrics so you won’t get too hot.
Be careful not to stay out of the sun completely. Your body depends on some sun exposure to produce vitamin D, which is essential to bone health and other vital functions.

