 You can perform an Internet search for web designers and you will find numerous results. If you'd rather have the designers come to you, you can place an advertisement in local publications or on Internet job boards, such as Craigslist.;
, Most web design projects are conducted over email. If the job is particularly large or time-critical, they will be conducted over the phone or in person. Tell your prospective designer which method of communication you prefer and stick to that method throughout the entire process.
 A great web designer will always have his own website that showcases his previous work. Ask your prospective designer for a link to his portfolio so you can give it look through. Check to see if you like their design style and check if they are flexible in their designs. If all of their past websites look very similar, they will most likely not be able to customize your site design to fit your specific needs.
 Most designers won't be able to give you an accurate quote until you tell them exactly what you want, so be sure you know what you want before asking. Finding a quality web designer will cost anywhere from $60 to $125 an hour.
 One of the best ways to determine the validity and legitimacy of a web designer is to speak to the people with whom he has worked in the past. Ask them if the designer was easy to work with, if he worked hard to meet the client's goals, and if the final product was worth the cost. If multiple past clients respond positively, then that is a good sign that the designer is worth the money.
 Great web designers will often have more than a single project at any given time. The more projects they're working on, the less time they'll be able to devote to your project, and even the greatest designer will produce mediocre work if they are rushed. Ask the designer if they will be able to meet your deadlines with the expected level of quality.
 By now, you will have spent a good amount of time in contact with the designer regarding your site and your needs and how the designer can best fulfill your demands. If the designer proves difficult to work with, chances are you will not receive the end result that you asked for. In the case of a designer who is hard to work with, you may want to pass and continue looking for another.

