 Many restaurants offer fantastic lunch deals. If you’re not fussy about the time of day that you eat your main meal, try switching the dinner menu for the lunch menu. Lunch can often be a slower time for restaurants so they’re happy to drop their prices to fill the tables.Lunch menus are also often a bit smaller portion sizes, so that partly explains the lower prices.
Even some of the best restaurants in town have lunch menus with incredible price tags, meaning you can check out top eateries for fewer bucks.
 When you eat out, you often end up spending more on wine than you do on the food so why not slash your bill by bringing your own bottle of wine? Lots of restaurants let you bring your own these days, so take them up on their offer. You usually have to pay a few dollars’ corkage fee but this will be a fraction of the price of a bottle of wine in a restaurant.Bring your own also means you get to choose a wine that you know you’ll like, rather than picking from a menu of wines that you have never tried.
Make sure you approve this with the restaurant ahead of time because not all restaurants allow you to bring your own. It could be embarrassing if you bring your own wine to a place that doesn’t have a BYOB policy in place.
 Some restaurants offer cheaper takeaway options at a discounted price since they aren’t serving you. When you opt to forego eating in the restaurant, this leaves the tables open for other paying customers, so the restaurant can make more money.This also means that you can save even more money by buying drinks at home instead of at the restaurant.
You can try calling around to see what restaurants offer these kinds of discounts.
This also means you save on a tip, since you won't have a server (you may still want to leave a small tip to be passed on to those in the kitchen, however).
 If you fancy a last minute meal then you might be in luck in restaurants that have lots of empty tables. Some restaurants offer daily deals to entice people in from the street and you might be lucky to spot something great as you’re walking past. It could be a two-course set meal or a limited choice from the a la carte menu, but if you like what you see then you can duck inside and save a fortune.


Some of these daily deals include a glass of wine or even a half bottle of wine with each meal ordered so you really can grab a bargain.
This can be a great way of discovering a new restaurant or trying out a place that is usually too pricey for your modest budget.
 Another way to save money when dining at a restaurant is by eating something at home before you head to the restaurant. That way you won’t be starving at the restaurant, so you won’t have to break the bank to satiate your hunger.


This gives you the best of both worlds — a cheap meal at home (saving money) and a small fancy meal at a restaurant so you can still enjoy the experience of dining out.

