 Cruise ships are usually huge, so you'll want to familiarize yourself with the location of places such as the deck and the dining room.;
, Most ships nowadays have a spot where teens hang out and socialize. It's important to find this spot so you can make friends and mix with other teens. Look for a group/individual who looks friendly, and approach them with a casual introduction. A great conversation starter is talking about where you're from, since cruise ship passengers generally come from different places. Go to the teen area as soon as it opens and stay for a pretty sizable portion of time. It may be awkward at first, but later on in the night you will begin to meet the other teens and form your groups of friends. Remember, generally no one knows anyone here, so everyone is feeling how you are. Don't be scared to start talking to people! You only have one week, make the most of it!

, Request catchy club songs like Tik Tok and Just Dance. Make sure that your parents know where you are, so your they won't bother you for the night as you interact with other teens.
 Dance battles are classic forms of entertainment and most people enjoy them. Show off so that your side can win and make sure you have someone on your team who can cover stunts like flips. You can battle to a really old song like Can't Touch This!

, It is much more fun, and you will have the chance to talk to/flirt with that guy/girl you've had your eye on. Be confident and GO FOR IT!

, Go to a floor with bedrooms on it with all of your friends. Have 2 or 3 people hold the elevator doors open. The rest of the people all go kick or knock on someone's door. After you knock on the door, run for your life, because the person who was just asleep is wide awake now and is about to open up their door! The object of the game is not to get caught by the person in their room.
 A really good dare is to make one of your friends go up to an adult and make them dance with them like they are in the club. Remember not to get carried away with your dares, though. Stay safe!

, If you exchange, there's a chance they will text, email, video chat, or call you after the cruise! If they don't have one, sadly, the only thing you can do is make the best out of it. The only other way to see them would be by sheer coincidence or if you and your friend's parents became friends.
 Drink one energy drink like Monster or Full Throttle, and play the aforementioned Ding Dong Ditch.
 That's the punishment unless you want to look stupid. If you feel your eyes getting heavy splash your face with freezing cold water; it works.
