 This is a beginner's gymnastic bend that will help acclimate your back to more extreme stretching later. Your body will form a graceful arc.Lie on your stomach, with your hands on the floor about the same width apart as your shoulders. Your hands should be slightly above your head.
Push the top half of your body off the floor, while keeping your legs and hips on the ground.
Stretch your back while straightening your arms. Stretch as far as you comfortably can.
 This beautiful pose will contort your body into the shape of a circle, with your legs on the ground and your back bent. You should end facing the sky, with your hands at your feet.Kneel with your knees as wide apart as your hips, and your thighs and body perpendicular to the ground.
Rotate your thighs inward, and tense your buttocks. Keep your hips as relaxed as possible, and press the tops of your feet and your shins into the ground (or mat).
Put the palms of your hands on the tops of your buttocks, with your fingers pointed downward.
Lean back while keeping your head up.
Touch your hands to your feet, and try to lift your pelvis up toward your ribcage while you lengthen your spine as much as possible.
Rotate your arms so that the inside of your elbow faces forward, and place the palms of your hands on your feet. Be careful not to squeeze your shoulder blades tightly together. Allow your head to drop backward carefully.
 This position is named for its shape, which resembles an archer's bow. You will end up with your stomach on the floor, your head facing forward, and your hands gripping your ankles. Your body will form the shape of the “bow,” and your arms will form the shape of the “string.”Lie on your stomach with your hands stretched along your sides, with the palms facing upward. Bend your knees as far as you can, to bring the heels of your feet close to your buttocks.
Reach behind you and grip your ankles. Do not grip the tops of your feet. Your knees should be the same width as your hips.
Lift your thighs away from the ground, as you push your heels away from your buttocks. This will raise your upper torso and head off the ground.
Press your shoulder blades against your back to open your chest, while you press your tailbone toward the floor. Try to keep your back muscles as relaxed as possible. Stretch your shoulders away from your ears and face forward while you stretch.
 This is an advanced stretch that should be done only when you have mastered simpler stretches. With this stretch, you will contort your back into a U-shape. Your hands and feet will be on the floor, and your face will be toward the floor.Lie on the ground on your back, with your legs bent at the knee at a 90 degree angle. Your feet should be pressed firmly to the floor.
Put your hands on the floor near your ears, with your palms down and your fingers facing your feet. Point your elbows at the ceiling.
Keep your hands and feet on the floor, while you stretch your back off the ground. Continue to stretch your back until your legs and arms are completely straight. (It may take time – months, possibly years – to achieve this degree of flexibility.)
To successfully do a bridge bend, you need to have strong and fully developed shoulders. Young children (under 5) should not attempt this stretch.
 This is a more advanced variant of the bridge stretch, which is commonly seen in contortionist exhibitions. To avoid injury, have a friend or coach help guide your body while you first attempt to master this position.Stand and raise your arms straight over your head, with your palms facing up and your fingers closed and pointed behind you.
Stretch your body backward in an arch, and look at the floor.
Lock your arms (this will protect your head from landing on the floor), and place your hands on the ground.
Face backward toward the floor, while holding this position.
 In order to achieve a more extreme back bend without fear of falling over, you can practice while lying on your side. There is less risk for injury this way.Lie on your side, and bend your knees.
Bend your back as far as you can, while stretching your left leg toward your head.
Grasp your left foot with your left hand.
When you can do this comfortably, pull your leg even further until you can stretch it over your shoulder.
Roll over to your other side, and repeat the exercise with your right leg.
 This is an advanced contortionist pose that can only be achieved after many months of carefully and gently stretching your back and limbs. If you can comfortably bend your back far enough that your foot is past your shoulder, you can try to perform this exercise.Kneel on the floor with your body in an upright position, and raise your arms above your head.
Bend your back in an arc, until your hands touch the floor.
Continue to lower yourself toward the floor until your elbows rest on the ground.
When you reach a level of extreme flexibility, you will be able to put your head between your legs from this position.
 This is an advanced contortionist technique that should not be attempted until you have attained a good degree of flexibility in your back. You should be able to extend your feet past your shoulders before practicing the elbow stand.Begin with a standing back bend. Stand and raise your arms straight over your head, with your palms facing up and your fingers closed and pointed behind you.
Stretch your body backward in an arch, and look at the floor. Place your hands on the floor while bending your back, and lower your body until your elbows and forearms are flat against the floor. The elbows should be a little farther apart than your shoulders. The soles of both feet should be firmly planted on the floor.
Raise your head to look forward through your legs, while you lift your legs up onto your tiptoes. The tips of your toes should be touching the floor. Shift your body backward and balance, so that your legs are not supporting your weight.
Raise your head higher, and lift your feet off the ground. Practice this pose until you can maintain your balance for 30 seconds or more.
 This classic posture is incorporated into many contortionist poses. Warm up your muscles for at least 15 minutes before beginning the splits, by stretching your legs out in front of you while sitting on the floor. Try to touch your toes.Kneel on the floor with your back straight, and stretch one leg in front of you. Choose whichever leg you like – you may find you are naturally more flexible on one side than the other.
Position your back leg so that your shin is pressed against the floor and your knee is bent.
Slowly lower your body toward the ground, gently stretching the muscles of your thighs as you go. If you feel pain, stop. Each time you attempt the splits, you should be able to go a little lower toward the ground.
Keep your hands on the ground at your sides, to support your weight.
When your legs form a perfect 180 degree angle and your pelvis is touching the ground, you have achieved the splits. Hold your position for 30 seconds, then release.
 Once you can do side splits and your back is flexible enough to touch your feet to your shoulder, you can attempt this position. This is an advanced contortionist pose.Lie on the floor on your stomach, and arch your back until your left leg is resting on your left shoulder.
Your head should be facing forward, and your right leg should be stretched out straight along the floor.
Grasp your left ankle with both hands, and pull your leg forward until the toe of your left foot touches the ground.
Lean forward, and grasp your left leg higher along the shin. Lift your right leg off the ground, stretched out straight.
Your ribcage and elbows should be on the ground, along with the toe of your left foot. Your pelvis should be facing the ceiling, with your legs creating a graceful inverted splits.

