 Drink at least 6 to 8 glasses (8 ounces/240 milliliters each) every day. This will cleanse out any impurities in your skin, and give it a healthy glow. It also helps keep off water weight, which is caused when your body becomes dehydrated and stores extra water.
 Skipping meals is one of the worst things you can do to yourself, and it can actually cause you to gain weight, because your body enters starvation mode. You should eat 3 full meals each day, and 2 to 3 snacks in between. Be sure to eat a well-balanced diet, filled with healthy grains, lean meats, and lots of fruits and vegetables.


If you are vegetarian, you can get protein through eggs, dairy products, beans, and nuts. If you are vegan, you can get protein through beans, nuts, and soy products. Do try to consume some meat, egg, or dairy every once in a while, however; your body is still developing!

, This does not mean that you have to hit the gym and start weightlifting. Even a simple 30 minute walk each day can help keep you in shape. Not only will you be keeping fit, but you will be relaxing your mind. You may even find yourself feeling a little less stressed afterwards!If walking doesn't suit you, try doing something active that you enjoy, such as: jazz dance, ballet, sports, martial arts, jogging, or even yoga.If you are trying to lose weight, be patient, and try not to worry. Many girls find that their weight fluctuates during puberty. Weight loss also takes time.
 That may sound like a lot, but it is important. There's a reason it's called "beauty sleep" after all! Not getting enough sleep causes more than just bags under your eyes. It can also lead to things like mood swings, depression, or anxiety. It can also make your skin look dull and your weight to increase., Many girls think that they are ugly, but they are actually very pretty! If you feel ashamed and insecure about your appearance, take a look in the mirror, and try to find at least one aspect of yourself that you like. It does not have to be big, it can be very simple, such as the shape of your nose, your freckles, or the color of your eye. Look in the mirror each day, and compliment yourself. By boosting your self-esteem, you may eventually stop seeing your flaws, and start seeing the true beauty that you actually are!


A positive attitude will allow you to see the good things about yourself. A negative attitude only allows you to see your flaws.

