 A good mattress is the foundation for getting cozy in bed. You may need a new mattress if your mattress is 5 to 7 years old, you wake up with pain or stiffness, your mattress sags or has lumps, or you find that you get better sleep when you are not in your bed.Your mattress should be comfortable, support your body, and keep your spine in the same shape as when you are standing.


If you cannot afford a new mattress, try a mattress topper or a thick mattress pad. There are many options including feather toppers, egg crate toppers, and memory foam toppers.
It is important to invest in a good mattress that will last because you spend about a third of your life sleeping, and this should be on a quality mattress that meets your comfort needs.
Always test a mattress before you buy it. Take off your shoes, lie down on the mattress, and try different sleeping positions. It is best to test the mattress for 20 minutes to get a good idea of how it would feel to sleep on the mattress.;
, Scent is very powerful and contributes to the ambiance of your room. Light some candles or use a room spray that you enjoy. Lavender is a scent that is calming, promotes sleep, and can help you feel calmer. Any scent that you like will help create a cozy environment.


Some stores have pillow sprays that come in scents like chamomile or lavender. Spray the desired amount lightly on your pillow and blankets; if you like the scent, this can actually help you be more comfortable.
 The amount of light in your bedroom affects how you feel. Natural light is best during the day, but dimmed lighting is best at night. Bedside lamps create softer lighting than overhead lights. Your blinds and curtains should also keep light from coming into your bedroom at night.


You can also replace your light switch with a dimmer to better control the lighting.
A low watt bulb (40 watt or lower) is also a good lighting option., Your sheets should be the right size for your mattress so that they do not tear or come off when you are in bed. Cotton sheets are the most popular and do well in the warmer months. Silk sheets are very soft and retain heat. They are useful for cooler nights. Flannel sheets are very warm and are best in colder climates. Synthetic fabrics (e.g. polyester) are less expensive, but can still be comfortable.


Change your sheets once a week.
Look for cotton sheets that are 100% pure or Egyptian cotton and that have a high thread count.
Flannel sheets are measured in ounces and heavier sheets are higher quality sheets.
 Everyone needs quality pillows. Some people prefer pillows that are shaped to support your neck or head, other people prefer them well stuffed, while others like them soft. At the end of the day, choose pillows that work for you after a little trial and error.


Load your bed with pillows of difference sizes and shapes. You may want a full body pillow if you sleep alone, or a wedge pillow to put behind your neck.Firm pillows are best if you sleep on your side. Medium pillows are best if you sleep on your back. Soft pillows are best if you sleep on your stomach.
Clean or air pillows regularly and replace once every one to two years for complete freshness.
 Having a nicely made bed will make you want to get in it. Start with a fitted sheet on your bed. Then tuck your top sheet and/or blanket in on the sides and foot of your bed. This will create a cocoon and keep your feet from getting cold.Nothing is worse than being all warm and toasty in your bed, but your feet are hanging out.
 Top your bed with a comforter, quilt, blanket, or duvet that is comfortable to you. You may need to change your bedding based on the climate and season. For example, a lightweight, cotton bedspread may be best in the summer, but a thick, down comforter may be best in the winter months.


Add a throw or blanket on top of your bedding. Cashmere, faux-fur, and knit blankets are especially cozy.