 The most important thing you can do to help your mild stomach issues is to know what’s causing them. Keep a journal for a month – write down everything you eat, what time, and in what amounts. Also record what symptoms you have, how severe they are on a scale of 1 – 10, what time they occur, and how long they last. Look for patterns.


If your symptoms occur when you eat dairy, you might be lactose intolerant.If grains and carbohydrates cause you stomach upset, you may have a gluten sensitivity or, more rarely but more seriously, celiac disease. You can get this diagnosed at your doctor’s office.
 Many cases of upset stomach are caused by foodborne illnesses. The CDC estimates that there are 9.4 million cases of foodborne illness each year in the US, if not more, as people often think they just have the flu or a stomach virus. Avoid foodborne illnesses by washing your hands after using the bathroom and before preparing food or eating. Make sure all foods are cooked to the proper internal temperature and fresh foods (like fruits and vegetables) are rinsed thoroughly.Poultry and ground meats should be cooked to an internal temperature of 165˚F (74˚C). Whole meats (like steaks) and fish should be cooked to an internal temperature of 145˚F (62.8°C). F
Foods should be stored at under 41˚F (5˚C) or above 135˚F (57˚C) to avoid the rapid growth of bacteria.
 Limit how much air you swallow when you eat by eating slowly and eating smaller portions. Chew your food slowly and completely before swallowing. Try to eat multiple small meals throughout the day instead of two to three big meals.


Don’t chew gum or drink carbonated beverages — these cause you to swallow a lot of air and can contribute to stomach discomfort., Staying hydrated is important for keeping your bowel function healthy and regular. Drink eight to 10 cups of water, juice, tea, or milk (unless you’re lactose intolerant) every day., Not getting enough sleep affects more than your mood and your mind – sleep deprivation can contribute to upset stomach and diarrhea.Poor sleep also worsens stress and can cause weight gain, both of which can contribute to stomach issues. Try to get 8-10 hours of sleep every night.


Set a specific wake time and bedtime.
Have good sleep hygiene — only use your bedroom for sleeping, and sleep in a cool, dark space.
Get exercise during the day, and try not to nap.
 Exercise can help reduce stress, thereby reducing health risks associated with stress, and keep your bowel function more regular.Start slowly and gradually increase how much you exercise, and if exercise is new to you talk to your doctor about a workout program.


Aim to work up to exercising for 30 minutes five days per week.
 Consuming NSAIDs for stomach pain can exacerbate your problem instead of relieving it. NSAIDs have been known to cause or worsen stomach ulcers, abdominal pain, diarrhea, and upset stomach. If you have stomach problems, talk to your doctor about which pain relievers you should use. Common NSAIDs include (note that these can be over-the-counter, and appear in many medications like cold medicines):Aspirin
Ibuprofen (Motrin)
Indomethacin (Indocin)
Naproxen (Naprosyn)
Celecoxib (Celebrex)

, Smoking increases your risk of ulcers and can contribute to other causes of stomach upset.Use the START acronym to stop smoking:


S = Set a date to stop smoking.
T = Tell loved ones that you intend to quit.
A = Anticipate that there will be challenges.
R = Remove tobacco from your home, car, and workspace.
T = Talk to your doctor for support and advice on quitting.
 The stress hormone cortisol negatively affects numerous body systems – including your digestive tract – and stress can contribute to ulcers, nausea, diarrhea, and other stomach issues.Try yoga, meditation, deep breathing, taking a walk – anything that helps you relax. If you have a stressful lifestyle due to work or family, practice mindfulness meditation or learn stress management skills. Maintaining a calm, peaceful demeanor will help to improve your pain and health.Don’t exercise right before or right after eating.

