 Write what you know about and have a passion for so you can easily fill out your website. In order to qualify for Google AdSense, your website must have a lot of quality content. Streamline your website so Google AdSense will generate appropriate ads relevant to your content.


Find a niche and center your site on that subject. If you don't already know what you want to base your website around, research through keywords what would be popular enough to bring visitors to your site. Use Google AdWords and the traffic estimator to help devise effective keywords and a subject that will drive traffic to your site.;
, Consider placement, color and design. Test the placement of the ads to determine which placement brings the most clicks on each ad. What works for one site may not work for another. The placement that works is the one that brings in the most ad clicks.


Test the colors after you have determined the best place for your ads. Try the color that you are currently using for your links. This can create a more blended look to your website. Try other colors and use the one that brings in the most ad clicks. Match the background color to the ad theme.
 Keywords that are competitive are keywords that are searched for the most. In turn, competitive keywords will create ads that will earn more per click. Choose words or phrases that are not too competitive, though, or you may lose traffic to competing websites. Use high grade keywords throughout your site.


Add quality links to your website; this gives your website more clout. The better the quality of your website, the more return visitors it will have, which in turn increases the chances of ads being clicked.
 You can link your site to social networks but realize this may not bring the targeted traffic that will click on your ads. Register your website to search engines so your site can be found in searches. The key to getting traffic is ranking high in search engines, which will help bring more ad clicks so you can profit with Google AdSense.

