 Carrying extra weight puts a strain on your heart which can cause heart disease later in life. You are at an even higher risk if you carry excess weight around your waist. Strive to maintain a healthy weight to avoid complications of being overweight now or later in life.Check your BMI using the American Heart Association's BMI calculator: here


, Getting 30 minutes of moderate physical activity five days per week will help you to protect yourself from heart disease. Developing good exercise habits from a young age and maintaining those habits for your lifetime will improve your chances of staying in shape and reaping the benefits of exercise for your heart.Aim for five 30 minute moderate exercise sessions five days per week, but keep in mind that you can divide these sessions into smaller ones throughout the day. For example, you could exercise for 15 minutes in the morning and 15 minutes at night, or do three 10 minute sessions spread throughout the day.
As an alternative, you can do 25 minutes of vigorous activity three days per week and some kind of moderate to high intensity muscle training twice per week.
 Stress causes damage to your arteries which may lead to heart disease, so it is important to develop techniques for managing stress.Try yoga, deep breathing exercises, meditation, or another relaxation technique to help control your stress levels.


One study showed that meditation effectively lowered systolic and diastolic blood pressure by an average of 4.7 and 3.2 mm Hg., Not getting enough sleep can lead to all kinds of health problems including obesity, high blood pressure, and even heart attack. Take measures to improve your sleep quality and ensure that you get seven to eight hours of sleep each night.


Limit caffeine consumption and cut out all caffeine after 2pm.
Try to go to sleep at the same time every night to regulate your sleep-wake cycle.
Exercise regularly to boost serotonin levels.
Refrain from watching television or using a laptop while in bed.

