 You can use the Google Photos website to create a photo album to share with others. You’ll be able to control with whom the album is shared, as well as whetherother people can add to or change the album. When you go to this address, one of two things will happen:


If you are not signed in to your Google account, you’ll see the “Google Photos” website, displaying a blue “Go to Google Photos” button.
If you are already signed in, you’ll see a list of your photos and/or albums.
 If you’re not already signed in, click “Go to Google Photos” and then log in with your Google account name and password. When the password is accepted, you’ll arrive to your list of photos and/or albums on Google Photos.
 It’s located to the right of the search field. The “Create New” menu will appear.
 Now you’ll see a list of photos and/or videos already uploaded to your Google Photos account. Each photo has a circle at its top left corner.
 As you click photos, checkmarks will fill the circles on each photo. Click as many photos as you wish.


You’ll be able to add new photos to this album in the future.
If you change your mind about including a photo, click it once more to remove the check mark.
 The button is located at the top right corner of Google Photos. Now you’ll see the album page, which displays thumbnails of each photos and video you selected. You’ll also see a text area that says “Untitled.”

, Give the album a name that applies to its contents. When you share this album with others, this is the name they will see.
 This button is at the top right corner of the album. Clicking it will save the album and pop up a menu that has several sharing options.
 This will close the pop-up. You’ll want to do this so you can edit your sharing options before putting your album out into the world.
 It’s at the top right corner of the screen. A menu will appear.
, Adjust these options to suit your needs and then click the X to save your changes.


Share: Make sure this switch is in the On position so your desired recipients can view the album.
Collaborate: If you want others to add their own photos and videos to the album, enable this option.
Comment: Turn on this option to allow people to comment on photos and videos in the album.
 Now you’ll return to the album.
 This button is at the top right area of the screen and looks like a less-than symbol (<) with dots at each of its points. When you click it, the Sharing pop-up menu will appear.
 You can add more than one address to share with multiple people.


If you prefer, click “Get Link” to generate a URL to share with others over email or social media. Only those with this link will know that the album exists.
You could also click a social media icon, such as Facebook or Twitter, to share the album through that service.
 This is the blue paper airplane icon at the bottom right corner of the pop-up. This will send your chosen recipients an email containing a link to the album. When a recipient clicks the link, they’ll see the album in all its glory.
 When you sign in to Google Photos, click the ☰ menu at the top left corner of the homepage and select “Albums.” You’ll see a list of all of your albums here—just click an album to view and manage its contents.To change your sharing options, click ⁝ and select “Sharing Options.”
To share the album with other people, open the album and click the Share button.
Add more photos to the album at any time by tapping the Add Photos icon (a square icon of a painting with a + symbol).

