 If you want to stay visible and bring awareness to invisible illnesses, educate yourself on your illness. Do some research online and talk to your physician about any questions you have. That way, you can explain your condition to others clearly so that they understand and you can answer questions that they may have.You may wish to raise awareness of your own illness, or invisible illnesses in general. If you wish to raise awareness overall, get as much information as you can about invisible illnesses as a whole. Explore what makes invisible illnesses different than other illnesses, how people are treated differently, and why it’s harder for some people to get their needs met.
Remember that research and developments are always ongoing in the medical community. Make sure you are staying up to date by regularly refreshing your education. You might want to set up Google alerts to notify you when the illness is mentioned in the news, for instance.;
, More and more people are recognizing the importance of bringing visibility to invisible diseases and illness. Join an advocacy group and see how you can get involved. Participating in “Invisible Illness Awareness Week” is a great way to get involved and spread awareness about invisible illnesses.A simple online search can help connect you to organizations that help people with invisible illnesses.
Make sure you let the organization know about any limitations you might have and see if they can work with you to get you involved in a way that won't jeopardize your heath. For instance, you may not be able to physically show up at a fundraiser, but you can raise awareness on social media, or set up and promote a Kickstarter campaign.
 If you want to raise awareness about your illness and other invisible illnesses, start by talking to your friends and family about your experience. You don’t have to go on and on about it, but let them know that you have an invisible illness and that it’s important for you to let them know. Talk about how it impacts your life, even when others may not notice. Provide them with information and resources to learn more.While your struggles with invisible illness don’t need to be the center of your life, it can be helpful for friends and family to know what you need and how they can help.
Say, “I don’t like to complain or draw attention to myself or my problems, but I feel it’s important for you to know that I struggle with chronic fatigue syndrome. I’m working with medical professionals and while I appreciate your concern, I don't need recommendations for supplements or herbs. I would, however, appreciate your care and support.”

, If someone says something insensitive to you, take the opportunity to gently correct them or educate them. For example, if someone says, “But you don’t look sick!” or, “Maybe you need to lose weight or get on an antidepressant,” it can be hurtful. While they may be trying to help, it can backfire and make you feel misunderstood. Focus on letting them know what you need or want to say.While these comments may anger you or frustrate you, take the high road. Say, “There are lots of misunderstandings about invisible illnesses that can be hurtful. It’s hurtful when you say that because even if my body looks fine, it doesn’t mean that I’m okay.”
Say, “It’s easy to tell someone has a broken leg because they often have crutches and a cast. This helps others see that they need help such as with opening doors or getting around. For someone who has an invisible disability such as fibromyalgia, mental illness, or lupus, it’s much harder for people to know that they need help.”
If someone continues to be disrespectful about your condition, know that you can distance yourself from them or even terminate the relationship. It may also be helpful to set boundaries and say something like, "It's hurtful when you make comments about my illness not being 'real.' Please keep your opinions on my illness to yourself. If you say something like that again, I don't think we can continue to be friends."

, Yes, your illness is a part of you and a part of your life, but it is not who you are. You are a multifaceted human being with lots of ideas, abilities, and experiences. Focus on who you are as a person and not solely on your illness. While your illness can influence who you are and what you do, you are not your illness.Don’t let your illness consume your life. Choose who you are and what kind of life you have outside of your illness.
For example, you may be a dog lover, movie buff, or world traveler. Let the things you love define who you are, not your illness.
If you find that you have a hard time not thinking about your illness, try to set a period each day in which you can reflect on and process the thoughts and feelings related to your illness. It might be helpful to journal during this time. The rest of the day, try to turn your focus to all the other aspects of who you are.
 Having an invisible illness doesn’t mean you can avoid people or experiences. You may feel limited in your abilities, but this is no excuse to not enjoy life and fully participate in it. If there are things you want to do or have an interest in or curiosity about, go do them! Learn something new, take a risk, and have fun. Find something you’re passionate about and pursue it.Engage with life as far as your ability level will let you. Even if you feel restricted in one area (such as mobility), take advantage of your other abilities. For example, set your mind to win a photography contest, learn how to make mosaics, or build a telescope.
Remember that it may take you a little longer to complete a project and you may need to rest frequently. Let go of any preconceived time frame you have about when you "should" finish your project and work on it as your health allows.
 Find an agency that helps people with invisible diseases and illnesses and ask how you can help. Connect with an advocacy organization to get involved in a cause that deals with invisible illness. Volunteering is a great way to spread goodness and help others.Consider volunteering with children that have invisible illnesses and be a good example of an adult with an invisible illness. For example, work at an after-school program for children with learning disorders or ADHD.
 While people with visible illnesses are often offered help or assistance, those with invisible illnesses may feel ignored or misunderstood. People with invisible illnesses may need to be more proactive about getting support and assistance from others by asking for it when needed. When you have a need, ask someone for help. Don't expect people to know what you need or want and instead, ask for it clearly and directly.


For example, if you struggle with ADHD and are easily distracted, ask your workplace for a quiet place to work or to use headphones.
If you need help completing tasks, say, “I need some help with this, would you mind coming over?” If you need to be more specific, say, “I’m having a hard morning today with my lupus, would you be willing to pick up medications for me, please?”
Try to have a few trusted friends and family members on whom you can rely so that you're not always asking the same person for assistance.
 Connecting with other people who have similar experiences as you can be helpful in learning and understanding invisible illnesses. Meeting with others can help you feel that you are not alone and that other people understand similar struggles. A support group is a great place to talk about your experiences, ask questions, and give and receive support.Ask your physician or local mental health clinic if there are support groups in your community. You can also look up support groups online or join a virtual support group.
 If you feel alone in your struggles or unable to emotionally cope with your illness or the stress it causes, it can be helpful to talk to a therapist. A therapist can help you understand your feelings and cope in more effective ways. A therapist can help you find ways to feel more visible and cope more effectively with your illness. Everything you say to a therapist is confidential, which means you can be as open, raw, and honest as you want and know that you will not be judged or criticized for your thoughts, feelings, or experiences.Find a therapist by getting a referral from your physician, calling your local mental health clinic, or contacting your insurance provider. You may also get a recommendation from friends or family members.
 If you feel like you’re trying to convince your physician that you’re struggling, consider switching to a physician who believes you and wants to work with you. The professionals you work with should listen to you, take you seriously, and adequately address your needs. If you don’t feel like you are receiving the care you want or need, find a provider who you feel understands you and your illness.It’s important to feel supported by your treatment team and that they are helping you.

