 Follow the steps listed below on one hand first, and then repeat the process on the other hand. A good hand massage should take about 5 minutes per hand., You should be able to comfortably reach her hands. If possible, sit across from the person at a desk or table that is narrow enough to reach across comfortably, and place a towel on the table. Then ask the person to rest her hands on the towel.If you do not have a table available, that's OK. You can do this massage seated facing one another on a couch or two chairs, or even standing.
 This will help your hand glide over the other person's skin better. Use approximately 1/4 to 1/2 teaspoon of massage oil per hand, or a coin-sized dollop of lotion. You can always apply more oil or lotion as needed during the massage.


Popular oils used for massage include sweet almond oil, olive oil, coconut oil, and grapeseed oil.Be sure to ask the person if they have a nut allergy before applying almond oil.
 Use smooth, gentle strokes (called "effleurage") to apply the oil or lotion and warm and relax the muscles of the hand.Apply the lotion using your palm in several (3-6) long smooth strokes to the back of the fingers and hand.
Flip the hand over and smooth more medium into the palm and fingers. Work from the tips of the fingers to the wrist, and then back down to the fingers.
 Hold the person's hand, palm down. Beginning with the pinky finger, pinch the tip of the finger firmly for a moment. Then using firm, short strokes with your thumb, massage up the finger towards the knuckle. Finally, squeeze the finger all over.Repeat the process with each finger, and finish with the thumb.
Be sure to ask the person you are massaging if the pressure feels right, and remind them to speak up if they would like more or less pressure at any time.
 Hold the person's hand in your hand, palm down and use your thumb to massage the back of the hand. Place the pad of your thumb between the pinky and ring finger. Then using medium pressure, slide your thumb along the finger bone, up towards the wrist. Repeat this process, working your way up along each finger bone.
When you get to the thumb, take some extra time. Massage the webbed area between the thumb and index finger, using a circular motion.
 With the hand still face down, use both of your thumbs to massage the wrist using a small, circular motion. Focus first on the middle of the wrist, and then move out the sides., Turn the person's hand over, and cradle it in both hands. Then massage the palm in small, circular movements using your thumbs. Begin in the middle of the palm, and work your way towards the sides, and then up towards the wrist., Hold the person's hand palm down, and then interlace your fingers with hers to stretch the fingers apart. Grasp the whole hand in yours, and gently push back to stretch the wrist a bit. Then slowly and carefully turn the wrist from right to left, and then left to right., Hold the hand in yours, palm down, and give several long strokes with your palm and fingers. Begin at the back of the wrist, and smooth your hand down towards the fingers. , Use the same steps, and massage the person's other hand. Try to be consistent in the motions you use, and the amount of time you spend on each hand.

