 Most J-1 visas are privately sponsored. The purpose of the program is to let individuals learn about U.S. culture while studying or working. The more common categories include the following:Interns. A student or recent college graduate can intern with a U.S. business to learn more about the business culture and U.S. culture generally.
Trainees. Professionals can participate in a guided work program to learn more about U.S. business practices and U.S. culture.
Professors and scholars. Scholars and professors can get a visa to promote the exchange of ideas between research institutions. There is also a category for short-term visits to train, lecture, or perform some other professional task.
Students. Students may come to the U.S. to attend college, university, or a secondary school (called a “high school” in the U.S.)
Au pairs. A young adult can live with a host family for one year and provide child care services.
Other. There are also categories for teachers, camp counselors, specialists, and physicians.;
, Sponsors have the responsibility of screening applications, so you will need to find a sponsor for your category.You can find sponsors at this website: https://j1visa.state.gov/participants/how-to-apply/sponsor-search/. Search by program.


There should be an address and telephone number provided for each sponsor.
There should also be a hyperlink to the sponsor’s website, where you can learn more information about requirements.
 Contact potential sponsors as soon as possible to learn about eligibility requirements. For example, an au pair must meet the following requirements:Speak English proficiently.
Have a secondary school degree.
Be between 18 and 26 years of age.
 The application process will differ depending on your sponsor. If you apply to be an au pair, for example, you’ll need to complete the following before your sponsor will approve you:Pass a physical to show that you are physically fit enough to participate in the program.
Sit for an interview with your sponsor in English. Your sponsor will use the interview to create a profile of you to match you with families.
Pass a criminal background investigation.
Provide three personal and employment references from non-family.
 You’ll need certain documents in order to apply. Some of these you will get from your program sponsor after they approve you for the program. Collect the following:DS 2019, Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor Status. Your program sponsor will give this form to you after entering your information into the system. This document will have your SEVIS ID, which you will need when you apply online.
DS-7002, Training/Internship Placement Plan. If you are a trainee or intern, you’ll need to present this form when you apply for your J-1 visa.
Valid passport. The passport should be valid for at least six months past the date you intend to leave. For example, if you intend to leave on June 1, then your passport shouldn’t expire before December 1.
Passport-sized photograph. The photo should be at least two inches by two inches. The photo must be in color and taken within the past six months. Wear the clothing you ordinarily would.You will need to upload a digital version of the photo in JPEG format.The photograph requirements are very detailed, so read the relevant State Department webpages.
Other documents. Contact your embassy or consulate website to find what else you’ll need.
 Visit https://ceac.state.gov/genniv/. You’ll have to select the location where you will be applying for the visa. Generally, this is the country where you live in. Locations are listed in a “Country, City” format.


You should have your passport and travel itinerary with you when you complete the form. Also have your resume or CV available.Once you complete the online application, print off and keep the DS-160 barcode page., There is a $160 visa application processing fee you must pay. You should pay it before your consular interview.Some applicants may be exempted from the fee. After paying, make sure to print off your receipt and take it with you to your interview.
 Applicants between the ages of 14 and 79 must attend an interview at a U.S. embassy or consulate. After you submit your DS-160, you should call the consulate or embassy nearest you and ask about scheduling.You can find a list of consulates and embassies here: https://www.usembassy.gov/.
You can check your wait time for an interview by visiting the Visa Wait Times website here: https://travel.state.gov/content/visas/en/general/wait-times.html/. You may also check with the embassy or consulate where you are interviewing.
 Review the instructions provided to you by the consulate or embassy. Check to make sure you have all required documents, otherwise you can be denied for failing to have required paperwork. If you are applying for a J-1 visa as a student, you can prepare answers to the following common questions:What are your qualifications?
Explain why you want to go to the United States.
Describe what you are currently doing.
Where will you live in the U.S.?
What program are you applying to and when did you apply?

, At your interview, you must show the consular official that you intend to return to your home country after your visit to the U.S. You must show that you have strong ties to your home.There are different ways to show these ties to your home country, depending on your circumstances.


For example, if you are a student, you can explain how the education you receive in the U.S. will help you get a job or start a business in your home country.You can also show that you own property in your home country which you intend to return to.
You might also discuss relationships you have in your home country, with elderly parents, for example.
 You also need to show the consular official that you can support yourself while in the U.S. For example, you may need to show bank accounts or a letter from a family member promising to support you.


Applicants will typically need to give an ink-free scan of their fingerprints.You will usually give the fingerprint during your interview.
If you are approved, you’ll receive a visa foil in your passport. Many applicants will receive the visa foil on the same day as their interview.Your visa is valid until it expires.
However, some people might need more administrative processing, which can extend the process another 60 days. As part of the processing, you may need to provide additional information.

