 If you already own a pair of brightly colored rain boots, add them to your outfit to make it truly pop.
 If you aren't going to be walking around outside, you can simply wear a pair of high-topped soccer socks in the color of your choice.
 If you'll be roaming the neighborhood or dancing it up until dawn, duct tape boots are a fast and inexpensive alternative to buying colored boots.


Put on a pair of old sneakers and wrap a few layers of plastic wrap around the shoe and up around your calf as high as you want your boots to be.
Purchase duct tape in the color that you want your boots to be. Begin to tape on top of the plastic in small pieces, trying to keep the tape as flat as possible. Be careful not to tape too tightly around your leg.
Once you've covered the entire surface of your boot, you are ready to start trick-or-treating!
If you are making the boots in advance, however, you can use scissors to carefully cut a line down the back of the boot so that you can slip your foot out. When you want to wear the boots, slip them on over your sneakers and re-tape the back slit with duct tape.
For a more polished look, add a few inches of duct tape to the top of the boot to make them flare out slightly., Step on a piece of paper and trace your left and right feet with a marker, allowing about 1/4-inch of extra space between the outline and your foot.


Use a tape measure to measure from the tip of the toes to the tip of the boot on your calf and the circumference of your calf at the highest point on the boot. Add about 2 inches (5.1 cm) to the circumference measurement to allow the boot to flare out.
Transfer an outline of these two measurements to a separate piece of paper and connect them to make a rough upside-down T shape. Repeat for your other foot.
Cut out the two sole pieces and the four body pieces and lay them on your felt. Lightly trace the shape of each paper template onto the felt with a pen or pencil and cut out the four felt pieces.
Pin two of the body pieces in an L-shape on top of your foot and sew the pieces together along the top seam that runs across the top of your foot, and the back seam that runs up the back of your leg. Turn the boot inside-out to hide the seam.
Pin the sole piece to the L-shaped tube and sew around the edges at least twice for a strong seam. Repeat this process for the second boot, and you're finished!

