 Networking is an invaluable part of getting any kind of job, but it is especially important in the film industry. Before you start networking with people in the industry, first practice getting out there and socializing with strangers.


Go to dinner parties, social events, gallery openings, or any other kind of event that involves mingling with people you don’t know.Keep going to these events until you feel comfortable and used to talking with people you don’t know.
 If you know anyone within the film industry, reach out and tell them that you are interested in starting in the business. Ask them if you could meet with them or call them to have an informational interview. Even if they don’t live in the same city as you, they can still be a great resource.An informational interview is an informal interview in which you can ask a professional in a field that interests you about their job and their experience in the industry.
Ask your contact about their path through the industry, and what advice they have for someone just starting out.
Informational interviews are a great way of both learning more about the industry, and making a connection that could come in useful later.
Ask your contact at the end of the interview if there are any openings at their company. They will be impressed by your interest and your initiative, and may tell you about any opportunities at their company.
 A vital part of networking is branching out from your initial contact to others in the industry who could help you get a job. Ask your contact if they can put you in touch with others in the industry who can give you advice or tell you about upcoming opportunities.
 Even if your contacts don’t know of any openings now, it doesn’t mean that they won’t in the future. Stay in touch with them so that they remember you and will have you in mind if a colleague tells them about an opening they are trying to fill., Go to any industry conferences, openings or festivals in your area. You will meet a wide variety of people in the industry, and some of them may be looking for employees for their projects or their companies..


Bring a stack of your business cards to these events. If you are in conversation with someone who seems interested in you and your skills, give them a card.

