 This can be a personal anecdote about why you are passionate about the topic, an anecdote about another person who the audience can learn from, a wisdom tale, fable, or a historic event or anecdote that captures the key points of your argument.Your story should capture the essence of your debate. It could explore, for example, the challenges you have faced in relation to the topic, how you overcame these challenges, and the lessons you learned.
For example, "As a person who suffers from seizures, medical marijuana was a saving grace. My family and I had to move across to the country in order for me to get treated, but it was worth the risk. My seizures decreased from five seizures a day to only one seizure per week.";
, When rhetorical questions are crafted and delivered well, they can persuade an audience to side with your position. You want the audience to answer the question for themselves silently, while directing attention to your topic. Ask a question that convinces your audience that you are similar to them and that your share their beliefs.You can ask, for example, “Would you like to see a loved one suffer for no reason at all?”

, Your statistic should be directly related to your argument's main purpose. The impact of the statistic can persuade your audience to side with your way of addressing the issue at hand.You can say, for example, “A billion tons of plastic are floating in the ocean right now. That is enough plastic to make an island the size of Hawaii.” Then, proceed to talk about the issue and explain to your audience why your resolution is the best one.
 Using quotes in a speech reinforces and adds credibility to your ideas. Quotes also demonstrate that your are knowledgable about the topic. Your quote should be related to the topic, and relevant to the audience. Also, try to quote well-known people, or people your audience knows.For example, imagine you are giving a speech on why you think higher education is unnecessary for succeeding in life. You could open with, “Mark Twain once said, ‘Don’t let school interfere with your education.’”

, For example, a picture, video, or an object that captures the essence of your argument. A creative visual aid increases comprehension of the issue, adds aesthetic appeal, and engages your audience's imagination. It will also make the message more memorable.For example, if you are arguing that climate change is real, show a before and after picture of a glacier that has been affected by excessive amounts of carbon dioxide in the atmosphere.

