 Don't try to hand cash to the dealer; all you need to do is the place some money on the layout (before the shooter has the dice) and ask the dealer for "change only." The dealer actually isn't allowed to take anything from your hand.


You can tip the dealer, but do so in chips as well.
 While craps is very much so a game of camaraderie and group mentality, there's a definite etiquette that a non-shooter must abide by. When you're not rolling, keep a few things in mind. And when you are, the same goes.


You may make (Don't) Pass bets, the odds bets backing them, Field, and (Don't) Come bets yourself. All you need to do is place your chips on the table in the appropriate, marked place. On all other bets, place your chips on the table ask the dealer to make the bet. Once you've completed this, take your hands out of the table area. Craps moves very quickly -- you don't want to become an interference.

Store your chips in the rail in front of you -- that's its purpose. Put them right in front of you and keep an eye on them at all times. Though craps is about solidarity, that doesn't keep the occasional player from snagging a chip or two.


In general, cheer on the side of the shooter. Root for the point to come up as quickly as possible. If you're betting with the shooter, be as loud as you like. It's pretty common for the entire casino to hear the roars of the craps table. However, if you've opted for the "Don't Pass" option, keep your excitement to yourself. You wouldn't like it if someone were rooting against you, would you? If you do, you'll not feel very welcome (or be welcome) at the table.
If you're shooting, fling the dice to the opposite end of the table. And don't skip them along the sides -- the guys working the table want to see the dice in the air.
 In truth, you could play craps all your life and never have to roll the dice. Players take turns being the "shooter," and you can pass when it's your turn. Craps is a dice game, so you should probably at least learn how to roll in case you feel lucky. Generally when it's your turn, the stickman will present you with five dice. You then choose two to throw, and the stickman takes the others back.


Always handle the dice with only one hand. This is a must-know rule to prevent cheating. When it's your turn to roll the dice, you must roll them so that they cross the table, hit the opposite wall, and bounce off the wall.
If either dice goes off the table or fails to go far enough, you'll need to roll again. The craps table is fairly large, so you actually need to toss the dice rather than simply rolling them as you would for a board game.
 These are the most basic bets of craps. You can also bet on single numbers or single rolls, and you can even bet on certain more complex "propositions." To begin, however, you should learn the basics and get comfortable playing craps. It can be a very fast-paced game, so you want to be able to master the simpler bets so that you don't have to think about them. Once you've done so, do some research on the odds of other bets and learn more about betting strategies.


Playing only these simple bets will give you better odds than just about anywhere in the casino, but you can win more by playing riskier bets. You can also lose more, and quickly, so you'll need a hefty bankroll if you plan on doing anything more complex.
 Just as with every game in a casino, the house would have the edge. 7 is the number most likely to come up with a pair of dice -- and the house practically owns it. Know what you're getting into when you make your bets.


The house has only a 1.41 percent (7/484) edge on a Pass bet and 1.36 percent on Don't Pass.Most players bet the Pass line, in part because it builds camaraderie and solidarity, and in part because the house edge is low. They are called "right bettors,"; those who bet against the shooter are called "wrong bettors," unsurprisingly enough.
Don't Pass/Don't Come bettors may lay odds even when the point has already been established, which results in the same odds the house gives a Pass/Come bettor on an odds bet. For example, if the point is 4 or 10, a bettor with $5 on the Don't Pass line can bet another $10 to win $5 if a 7 is rolled before the point (2:1 odds). It's not that great of a deal, sure, but remember that once a point is established, Don't Come bettors will win more often than they lose. And points happen 2/3 of the time. Don't Come bettors who lay odds also lower the house edge to .7 percent with single odds and .5 percent with double odds.A bet on any craps (a proposition bet), for example, wins if the next roll is 2, 3, or 12; it loses if any other number is rolled. House percentages are huge on this type of bet: 1/6 bet on any 7, 13.9 percent on 2, 13.9 percent on 12, 1/9 bet on 3, 1/9 bet on any craps, 1/6 bet on 2 or 12, 1/6 bet on 3 or 11, 1/9 bet on 11.If it wasn't clear already, only do this if you're looking for a quick way to lose money.

