 Dating someone requires maturity, and is one of the main reasons many parents don’t want their children to date. Making mistakes or being immature or careless in a relationship can have real, long-lasting consequences. Maturity means taking care of your responsibilities without being asked or reminded and making responsible decisions.


A major reason parents don’t want kids to date is because they are doing poorly in school.
The more that you show you can handle your life and your responsibilities, the more you parents will think you can handle dating someone.
Maturity also means not arguing or bickering with you parents constantly. Try to go with the flow and make life easy for both of you.
 It might seem unrelated, but sometimes parents are just stressed and need more help around the house. Take the initiative at home to help the family. Do all your chores without being asked to do them, and ask your parents if they need help. The more you get on their good side, the more they’re likely to let you date.


Go beyond the chores. Help your parents out with stuff that takes up their time. If you can gain their respect, they will start to open up about dating.
Surprising your parents by taking initiative will always make them happier and possibly more receptive about dating.
 Another main culprit to why some parents don’t want their children to date is a betrayal of trust that has taken place prior. If you’ve went behind your parent’s back before, they can’t trust you won’t do it again. This specifically applies to sex, and the potential of STIs or an unplanned pregnancy.The more open and honest you are with your parents, even if they disapprove, the more they will respect you and will want to be involved in a positive way with your relationships.


Apologize about lying the first time, and tell them that you understand why it was wrong. Convince them by consistently telling the truth even if it doesn't work in your favor because it will show them that you won't hide things from them.
Don’t go against them and date behind their back, because it could have bad repercussions down the line and they may restrict you from dating for an even longer time.
Sometimes the best way to build trust is to tell your parents something that you did that they will disapprove of. If you show that you’re honest even when it looks bad, they’ll start to think that you’ll always be honest with them.
It might be hard to keep truthful if you parents punish you every time you do something wrong, but it’s the only way to build their trust.
 Ultimately you live under your parents roof and they provide you with the food and clothing you have, so you need to respect their final decision. If you’ve taken all the steps to win their trust and understand them, and they still don’t want you to date, try to compromise with them. Things like agreeing not to date for the next year, getting better grades, or not getting into trouble may be a compromise that could open the doors for dating for you.


There is usually a good reason your parents don’t want you to date, so don’t dismiss their opinions immediately.
Be honest with yourself about dating. Even though you may really like a person, it doesn’t mean you are ready to date.