 Hair loss is a common side effect of cancer related treatments and also can be hereditary and a part of aging. Hair loss can be painful for many. Talk to your family members and loved ones about your hair loss. Seeking emotional support from those closest to us is a great way to cope with a difficult situation.


If you have children, hair loss can be an issue. Young children especially love playing with their parents' hair and its sudden loss can be jarring for them. If the hair loss is related to cancer, very young children fail to understand cancer and mistake it as a hair disease alone. Prepare your child for your coming hair loss, assuring them it will grow back. Incorporate them into fun activities, like choosing wigs and scarves. Encourage your partner, if you have one, and other older relatives and friends to treat the hair loss like a normal part of life so your children are less likely to be frightened by it.Many people worry about how hair loss with affect intimacy with their partner. Remember intimacy and sexual attraction are not based solely around looks, and that a lot comes into play in regards to attraction. You and your partner should talk openly about your hair loss. It's okay to occasionally seek reassurance that your partner still finds you attractive despite the hair loss. You can also ask for your partner's input when selecting wigs, scarves, and other garments to cover baldness., While male pattern baldness is well known, many people do not realize thousands of women suffer hair loss as well. Oftentimes, women who suffer hair loss feel lonely and alienating. Talking to others about your condition can help spread awareness and promote acceptance.


Many women share stories online of their struggles with hair loss. You can find such stories on YouTube or online magazines. If you're too shy to share a story yourself, simply reading about other people's struggles can help remind you you are not alone.Start discussing your hair loss with friends, family members, and loved ones early on. Explain to them the medical condition that is causing your hair loss, any steps you're taking to prevent it, and what they can do to help and support you.Use social media to your advantage. Post links, articles, and videos about female hair loss to your Facebook page and Twitter feed. As social media allows you to reach a large audience quickly, this can be a great way to spread awareness.
 Many people see their hair as an integral part of their identity. The loss of hair can be jarring for cancer patients and seeking support from others in similar situations can help you cope with the loss.


Organizations like Look Good, Feel Good and Headstrong run support groups in a variety of areas. You could try browsing their websites to see if they have any locations in your area. You can also ask at your local hospital if they know of any cancer related support groups. Even a group that is not specifically targeted at hair and hair loss could be a place for you to discuss struggles with baldness.If you cannot find an organization in your area, there are many online groups where you can discuss hair loss and other cancer related worries with others. A simple google search should help you find many outlets for support.There are also support groups related to specific hair loss conditions, like alopecia, and others addressing hair loss in general. To find a support group in your area, you can look online, ask a doctor or therapist, or talk to people you know who are also dealing with hair loss., If you have a child who's losing hair due to a medical condition, there are ways you can help your child cope with her hair loss.


Make sure to take a picture of your child before hair loss begins. That way, if your child wants a wig she can use this picture to find one that resembles her current hair style.Talk to your child's teacher about her coming hair loss. A teacher can help discuss hair loss with other children and take preemptive steps to combat potential bullying.Try to find other children in your area going through hair loss. A social worker, doctor, or nurse can help you locate other families. It might be helpful for your child to see she is not alone and be able to have play dates with children going through similar issues.