 Combine 1/2 cup (113 g) of granulated sugar with 1/2 cup (115 ml) of water in a small saucepan. Turn the heat to low and cook the mixture until the sugar dissolves. Turn off the heat and refrigerate the syrup until it cools.You won't need all of the simple syrup to make one pomegranate martini. Store the remaining simple syrup in the refrigerator for other drink or recipes. The syrup will keep 1 to 2 weeks in an airtight container in the refrigerator.;
, This recipe will make a single pomegranate martini. Place your martini glass in the freezer to chill while you shake up the cocktail.If you think you'll make more than one pomegranate martini, consider chilling extra glasses in the freezer to have on hand.
 Carefully, cut 1 lemon in half. Use a citrus reamer or juicer machine to juice the lemon. You'll only need to end up with 1/2 ounce (1 tablespoon) of lemon juice for one drink. You can use bottled lemon juice, but the flavor won't be as intense.Keep the squeezed lemon half for preparing the rim of your martini glass.
 If you want to add a little salty or sweet flavor to your cocktail, salt or sugar the rim. Place a few tablespoons of sugar or kosher salt in a wide shallow bowl or plate. Run the piece of squeezed lemon around the rim of your chilled martini glass. Dip the rim into the sugar or salt.The lemon juice helps the sugar or salt stick to the rim of the glass.
 Measure out 1 tablespoon of your squeezed lemon juice and add it to a cocktail shaker. You should also add 2 ounces (60 ml) of citrus-flavored vodka and 1/4 of an ounce (1/2 tablespoon) of pomegranate juice to the shaker. Fill the shaker with ice.Avoid letting the Ingredients sit in the ice for very long since this could dilute your cocktail.
 Cover the cocktail shaker and shake it vigorously. The outside of the cocktail shaker should become cold and frosty once the cocktail is shaken well enough.


If you have a small cocktail shaker, make sure you don't overfill it. You may need to split the cocktail in two to shake it if you have a very small cocktail shaker.
 Pour or strain your pomegranate martini into your prepared and chilled martini glass. The cocktail should come to the very top of your martini glass and it will be bright pink in color.Try garnishing your pomegranate martini with a slice of lemon or orange.

