 There are countless ways to combine glass mason jars and baby’s breath to get a romantic, vintage vibe. Fill the mason jars halfway with water. Place loose, small bunches of baby’s breath in the jars for a very simple look. Use thicker bunches for a light, airy effect and to create more of an impact. Wrap the jars with ribbons, lace or burlap to incorporate the rest of your wedding colors into the centerpieces.For a more delicate look, use small apothecary jars instead of mason jars.
Use it alone or mix the baby’s breath with other flowers to create a variety of centerpieces. Baby’s breath looks stunning with white roses. Pair baby’s breath with daisies for sweet, simple centerpieces.
 Place sprigs of baby’s breath into tall empty glass vases. Add some water to the vases so that it covers the baby’s breath. You can put the baby’s breath completely underwater or leave a few inches sticking out of the top of the vase. Use these artistic arrangements as focal pieces for reception tables, or any other place you like.


To create an even more otherworldly and ethereal effect, place a floating tealight candle into each vase and light the wick.This simple, budget-friendly idea can create stunning results.
 Baby’s breath can be used to create a sophisticated atmosphere just as easily as a rustic one. Tall, slender glass vases filled with plump bunches of baby’s breath can create stylish statement centerpieces. The higher and more cloud-like the bunches of baby’s breath are, the more sophisticated the final effect.Use baby’s breath alone or mix other types of flowers in to accomplish different effects. Use different colored flowers to tie the centerpieces into the rest of your color theme.
Simple white vases (instead of glass ones) can look very tasteful and refined, too.
 Take a handful of baby’s breath and bunch the stems together. Chop off the stray branches so that you will have a rounded, plump bouquet that is densely packed together. Turn and twist the flowers until you get the look you want. Use floral tape to bind the stems together tightly. Cut the bottom of the stems off bluntly so they are all the same length. Wrap lace, satin or velvet ribbon around the stems to dress up the bouquets.For a more bohemian look, use twine or burlap instead of ribbon.
Set the bride’s bouquet apart from the bridesmaids’ by making it larger and fluffier. You could also mix other kinds of flowers into the bride’s bouquet to set it apart.

