 HMO plans generally restrict your coverage to doctors and specialists who either work for that HMO or contract their services. Depending on the HMO plan you're considering, you may be required to live or work in a specified service area to qualify for coverage.HMO plans do not usually cover out-of-network care, or only provide limited out-of-network care, unless you are seeking emergency services.
HMO plans generally provide you with the least freedom to decide where you will receive your health care. However, it also entails the least amount of paperwork.Under most HMO plans, you will need to get a referral from your primary care physician in order to see a specialist, even if that specialist works within your HMO network.;
, Under PPO plans, you are eligible for lower health care costs if you use care providers in your plan's network. If you need to see a doctor or visit a care provider outside of your network, you'll need a referral from your primary care physician, and you may be required to pay an additional cost for your care.PPO plans generally offer more freedom to choose your health care providers than an HMO would offer.Under PPO plans, you have the option of seeing in-network or out-of-network care providers. The advantage to using an in-network provider is that you will pay less for your care and services.
You can visit any doctor without needing a referral under a PPO plan., POS plans generally require you to pay less for services from doctors, hospitals, and other care providers who belong to your plan's network. You may be able to see specialists, but will need a referral from your primary care physician.Under most POS plans, you can generally seek medical care from out-of-network providers as needed. However, to do this you will need a referral from your primary doctor, and you may be required to pay higher out-of-pocket costs for your care.POS plans generally offer a moderate degree of freedom in choosing your health care providers, but seeing an out-of-network provider may entail a moderate degree of paperwork., EPOs offer you health coverage exclusively through the doctors, specialists, or hospitals in that plan's network. Exceptions are made in case of emergencies, but otherwise you'll be restricted to the service providers within your EPO., If you're not familiar with health care plans, the different types of marketplace plans may seem overwhelming and confusing. However, the healthcare marketplace you are choosing from should have instructions on their website, as well as on-call representatives who can help you choose the best marketplace plan for your needs.


When you visit your healthcare marketplace online, you will see all the different plan options available in your area. Underneath each plan it should clearly state which type of marketplace plan you are viewing, typically with initials (PPO, POS, HMO, or EPO).
You can get one-on-one assistance over the phone by calling the HealthCare.gov Marketplace Call Center at 1-800-318-2596, or find in-person assistance in your area by visiting www.LocalHelp.HealthCare.gov.
Generally speaking, no health plan will require a higher copayment or coinsurance if you visit an out-of-network hospital for emergency services, no matter which marketplace plan you choose. However, depending on your plan you may be billed for additional costs that are not covered by your plan. Talk to a representative from your desired plan if you're unsure about your potential emergency coverage., Bronze plans offer you the lowest monthly premiums for your healthcare. However, under most Bronze plans, you will be subjected to significantly higher deductibles and out-of-pocket costs (including copays) when you receive healthcare.Under a Bronze plan, you will typically be responsible for paying 40% of your healthcare costs for each visit, while the insurance company only pays 60% of those costs.
Bronze plans will cost you the most in out-of-pocket expenses when you need to receive healthcare, and in exchange for this your monthly premium payments will be significantly lower.
 The Silver plan category offers a middle ground in terms of balancing premiums and out-of-pocket costs. You'll pay a slightly higher monthly premium for your healthcare, but your deductibles and copayments when you receive healthcare will generally be lower than a Bronze plan would offer.Under a Silver plan, you will generally be responsible for paying 30% of your healthcare costs for each visit, while the insurance company will pay 70% of those costs.
Silver plans generally balance the costs of monthly premiums and out-of-pocket expenses at the time you receive healthcare. Other options generally trade off one for the other.
 The Gold plan category costs slightly more in monthly premiums than the Silver or Bronze plans, but will in turn offer you lower out-of-pocket costs when you receive healthcare. Under a Gold plan, you'll typically only pay 20% of your healthcare costs for each visit, and your insurance company will pay the remaining 80%., The Platinum plan category requires the highest monthly premium payments to maintain your health insurance. The tradeoff, however, is that you will pay the lowest out-of-pocket costs in the entire insurance marketplace when you receive healthcare. Under a Platinum plan, you are only responsible for paying 10% of your healthcare costs for each visit, while your insurance company will be responsible for paying the remaining 90%., The biggest factor to consider when choosing a healthcare metal category is how often you need to see your healthcare provider(s). The more often you need to see your physician or a specialist, the more in-office, out-of-pocket costs (deductibles and copayments) you will incur.If you typically only visit your physician or a specialist once every year, a Bronze plan might make more sense, since you won't incur as many in-office, out-of-pocket costs.
If you visit your doctor on a weekly or monthly basis, you may want a plan that offers lower out-of-pocket expenses, like a Gold or Platinum plan, even if that means paying a slightly higher monthly premium.
Silver plans are generally considered a middle ground between high monthly premiums and high in-office expenses.
 When you apply for health insurance through the online marketplace, you'll learn whether you qualify for a premium tax credit. These credits are based on your estimated household income for the year ahead, and when applied to your insurance company they can significantly lower the monthly premiums you pay for coverage each month.You can learn about any potential savings you might be eligible for by visiting https://www.healthcare.gov/lower-costs/.
It's important to update your insurance marketplace information if there are any changes to your income or to the number of members in your household.
If your income goes up or you lose a member of the household, your premium tax credit will be reduced. If your income goes down or you gain a member of the household, your premium tax credit will be increased to help offset these financial situations.
At the end of the year, your income and monthly premium tax credits will be re-evaluated. If you've received more premium tax credits than you were eligible for, you'll have to pay that money back on your federal tax return.
 Once you've narrowed down your choices by marketplace plan and metal category, you'll need to compare the individual insurance plans offered in your market. The biggest thing to consider here is what services and benefits are covered by each insurance plan, and how much each service will cost. This will vary considerably from one plan to the next, so it's important to be aware of your healthcare needs and to consider those needs as you evaluate each plan.The major services to compare among each plan include:


emergency care
hospitalization
emergency transport services (ambulance)
laboratory tests
maternity/newborn care
mental health care
substance-abuse treatment
outpatient care
pediatric services (which may or may not include dental and vision care for children and adolescents)
prescription drug costs (for both generic and brand-name prescriptions)
preventive care services (including immunizations and mammogram screenings)
services managing chronic diseases
rehabilitation services

, You should already have a general idea of the costs for each plan you're looking at based on the metal category you've chosen. Each individual plan will specify two costs that you'll need to consider: the monthly premiums you pay to maintain your healthcare coverage, and the out-of-pocket expenses (also called cost-sharing) you'll be responsible for when you receive healthcare from your physician or a specialist.The biggest out-of-pocket/cost-sharing factors to consider are:


Deductibles - this is the capped amount you will have to pay each year in out-of-pocket costs before the insurance company begins to pay your expenses. For example, if your deductible is $5,000 annually, you would have to pay the first $5,000 you accrue that year in out-of-pocket expenses before your insurance company would begin paying your healthcare costs. Some plans also pay a percentage of your costs for doctor visits and prescription medications before the deductible is met, but this varies by network and provider.
Copayments - your copay is the fixed cost you pay at the time you receive care. A plan with a high monthly premium will generally have lower copays, while a plan with low monthly premiums will have a higher copay due when you receive care. This is intended to essentially balance out the costs of having health insurance and paying for in-office care.
Coinsurance - this is the percentage of your medical care costs that you will have to pay. If your plan charges a higher monthly premium, the insurance company will generally pay a larger portion of your bill. For example, if a procedure costs $1,000, you might be responsible for paying 20% ($200), while your insurance company would pay the remaining 80%.
Out-of-pocket limit - this refers to the maximum in cost-sharing that you will ever be responsible for paying in a given year. It combines your deductible, copays, and coinsurance, but it does not include your monthly premiums. A plan with a high monthly premium generally sets a lower out-of-pocket limit for you. Once you've reached your plan's out-of-pocket limit, your insurance company takes over full responsibility for paying any other costs for the rest of that year.
 Depending on which insurance plan you're interested in, you might have to choose from that plan's network of providers. This means that you will have to use the doctors, hospitals, laboratories, facilities, and pharmacies that work with that insurance company. You will have to switch doctors if your current physician is not part of your new insurance plan's network, or the insurance company may not cover the bill or may burden you with additional costs.If you already have a doctor you like, you may want to choose an insurance plan that works with that physician. Otherwise, you'll have to find a new physician who works within your new plan's network.
The federal HealthCare.gov website, as well as many individual states' Health Insurance Marketplaces, allow you to view a directory of providers before you finalize your choice of health coverage. However, not all directories are up to date. Check the directory first, but then also call or email your physician's office to confirm that she works with the insurance plan you're considering.
If you are receiving health insurance through your employer, you should be given a list of providers from either your employer's benefits department, or from the insurance companies that work with your employer.
Even if your physician is a part of a given network, you may not be eligible for coverage with certain specialists that you've seen in the past. It's important to check on all care providers you are currently seeing if you wish to continue with that provider., Once you've found a plan that fits your needs, you may want to check the overall quality of that plan. You can read user reviews of each insurance company offering plans in your marketplace by searching online. You can also read a comprehensive ranking/evaluation of every insurance plan available in the United States through the National Committee for Quality Assurance (NCQA) website.The NCQA ranks plans based on clinical performance, member satisfaction, and survey results conducted nationwide.
Each plan is ranked on a scale of one to five (with 1.0 being the worst possible score and 5.0 being the best) in terms of consumer satisfaction, illness prevention, and treatment.
You can narrow your search by selecting your state marketplace, or by choosing between commercial/private companies versus Medicare and Medicaid. All of these filters can be found in the drop-down menu directly above the rankings.
 Once you've compared and contrasted all of the plans available to you, you'll need to make your final selection. You can do this through the insurance marketplace you are working with (either the federal HealthCare.gov website or your state's marketplace).


Once you select a plan and finalize your enrollment, you'll need to pay your first month's premium. Even though you make your payment through the marketplace, the premium payment will be paid directly to your new insurance company, not to the insurance marketplace.You will receive your new health insurance card in the mail. This typically takes seven or more business days, but it may take longer if there are a lot of requests being processed. If you're worried about when you'll receive your card, you can call the federal HealthCare.gov Marketplace Call Center 24/7 at 1-800-318-2596. If you're using a state-run healthcare marketplace, contact your state's call center for more information. You can find your state's call center phone number by searching online.

