 Creating a chalkboard card is a cute way to say you're done with school.Start with a set of blank note cards. Brown craft paper cards work well for this project, but you can use any color or style. You can also make your own cards by folding cardstock in half.Print or write your graduation announcement information on the inside. Remember to include your name, your graduation date and time, your school, the degree or level of education you're achieving, and the location.Paint a splotch of black on the front. The splotch should cover most of the middle of the card, but it doesn't need to be a perfect square. In fact, a swath of of black paint can look more interesting than covering the whole square. However, if you want to create a perfect square, you can use a piece of cardboard as a stencil.Let the paint dry. It needs to be dry to the touch before you move on to the next step.Draw a note on the chalkboard you've created. Use a piece of chalk or a chalk pen. For a graduation announcement, try writing something like "Done with My ABC's" in a fun font. If you're worried about your handwriting, use a stencil to help with your lettering.Spray a fixative over the design. In a pinch, you can use a light coating of hair spray. Hold the spray over the card and lightly mist it, being sure to cover the front in the fixative. Let it dry.Slip a picture inside. Your family and friends want to see you, the happy graduate., Use a textured piece of 8 1/2 inch- by 11-inch paper, such as watercolor paper. You can also use a textured piece of colored paper in your school colors. Cut it in half.Trim a patterned piece of paper to be slightly smaller than the first. Center it in the middle of the paper and glue it on.For this step, you can use your school colors, or just a pattern you like.
Print your graduation information on a smaller piece of paper. You should be able to use a fourth of an 8 1/2 inch- by 11-inch piece of paper. If you chose a serious pattern in the above step, choose a more serious scripted font. If you chose a less serious pattern, try a more interesting font. Glue it in the middle of the paper.Stick the whole invitation in an envelope with a picture., Choose a piece of paper in one of your school's colors. Cut it in half. Look at your local craft store for die-cuts. Choose one that is your school's other color and that is relevant, such as a mascot or the school's letters.Glue the die cuts on in a pattern on the left side of the page, going from top to bottom. For instance, you place the letters from top to bottom or layer shapes to make the card pop.Glue a smaller piece of paper on the right that either matches the die-cuts or is a neutral color.Print or write your graduation information on an even smaller piece of paper. You should be able to use a fourth of a printed sheet. Use the piece you just glued on as a frame. Glue the graduation information on.Place it in envelope with a picture. Address and send the invitation.