 To make shoes roll two small black fondants (or whatever shoe color you want) into a ball and flatten them in the shape of infinity (∞) but with a less narrow middle part. Indent two holes at the narrower end of the shoe by using a ball tool.
 Fix the cylindrical fondants into the show using glue. Make a flat circle of white fondant of diameter equal to that of the cylinder or the created hole and cut them into half. Now attach these semi-circular white fondants to the shoe and attach a black color spindle shaped fondant at the boundary between leg (cylinder) and the semi-circle to make a strap for the shoe., Insert two toothpicks into respective legs and attach the body of Hello Kitty using a little glue and these toothpicks. Make sure some part of the toothpick is coming out of the shoe so that the instability of the Hello Kitty can be compensated by attaching them to cakes, cupcakes etc., Simply make the shoe from the desired fondant color and attach them vertically to the facing part of the Hello Kitty using edible glue or toothpicks if needed. You can also attach the legs with shoes as created in the “Standing Hello Kitty” method by attaching them horizontally with glue and toothpicks present., This will allow Hello Kitty to accessorize with various stuffs like a purse, lollipop, cotton candy, Umbrella and various other accessories.

Holding Balloons: Bend one end of the florist wire to form a loop by using pliers. Now make a balloon shaped or any balloon shaped fondant of desired color. Indent a hole through the fondant and insert the loop part of florist wire into it and press the fondant to cover the hole. Now insert the other end of the wire through the body of Hello Kitty and customize the hand nearer to it, to make it look like holding the balloon. Make sure you don’t make the accessory item too heavy or else Hello Kitty will become unstable and also place the wire in such a way that most of the wire is stuck in between the body of the Hello Kitty. To make the balloon lighter you can use cotton candy to fill up the material inside the fondant.
 Use lighter fill ups instead of using fondant as a fill up material.,