 It's always best to talk to your doctor or psychiatrist before you start taking any new medication, and omega-3 fatty acids are not an exception. Your doctor can help you find a dose that's appropriate for you, as well make sure it's okay for you to be taking the supplement., One dose that has been studied is taking seven capsules a day. That should equal 3.4 grams of DHA and 6.2 grams of EPA, which are different types of fatty acids. Check the back of the package to see how much each capsule contains of DHA and EPA before deciding on a dose.Remember to check with your doctor first, as this dose may not be safe or right for you.
While more studies have been done on fish oil, some suggest using flaxseed oil is just as good.
 If you're on psychiatric medications for bipolar disorder, it's not a good idea to just stop taking them. An omega-3 fatty acid supplement is not a replacement for psychiatric medications. In addition, going cold turkey off of many psychiatric medications can lead to distressing side effects, including withdrawal symptoms and a higher chance of seizures., Omega-3 fatty acids have been proven to be mostly safe. In fact, they can be helpful for other conditions, may support heart health, and may potentially lower high blood pressure.Nonetheless, you should know all the possible side effects before you decide to take Omega-3s as a supplement. Omega-3 fatty acids may have the following side effects:Affect blood sugar levels
Cause low blood pressure
Increase your risk of bleeding
Create a vitamin E deficiency
Increase liver problems
Increase your chances of contracting colon cancer

, Studies have shown that people with bipolar disorder often have low levels of certain types of omega-3 fatty acids. The kind that people with bipolar disorder are low in are the ones that can go across the blood-brain barriers.Fats are essential to your brain working properly, as fats provide healing for the pathways between nerve cells, increasing communication across your brain.One of the earlier studies, conducted in 1999, showed a correlation between taking omega-3 fatty acids and people with bipolar disorder having longer remissions. According to this study, omega-3 fatty acids can help you feel better for longer when you do have breaks from depressive or manic episodes.While omega-3 fatty acids may be beneficial for you, it may take a while for them to really take effect, so be patient. You also may not notice a dramatic change but rather a gradual stabilization of your mood.Know the conflicts. While some studies have shown that omega-3 fatty acids can help with bipolar disorder, other studies have shown that it doesn't provide that much benefit. The jury is still out as to whether taking omega-3 fatty acids really helps with bipolar disorder or not., To track your consumption of omega-3 fatty acids as well as your mood, write down what you're eating and how you feel. This will allow you to see if the addition of omega-3 fatty acids is having an effect on your mood. Additionally, you can track how your level of consumption corresponds to your mood.

For example, you may find that the omega-3 fatty acids only help if you eat a certain amount. Every body is different, so you may need a different amount than someone else does.
Be sure to write down any supplements that you take that day. If you do use supplements, take them everyday at the same time. Talk to your doctor before adding supplements to your diet.
 Fish like mackerel, herring, catfish, halibut tuna, and salmon are all high in good omega-3 fatty acids.You should be eating fish several times a week to notice any difference in your mood.


Other good choices of fish include rainbow trout, anchovies, sardines, whitefish, and sable fish.A single serving of fish--about 3.5 ounces--gives you a combination of 325 milligrams to 500 milligrams of EPA and DHA, depending on the type of fish. You can eat a serving or more of fish a day, if you prefer., Vegetarian sources of omega-3 fatty acids include walnuts, flaxseed, tofu, canola oil.While these foods contain the fatty acid ALA rather than EPA or DHA, ALA can be converted to the other two by your body.However, the process is slow (about 1 percent of ALA is converted), so you really need sources of EPA and DHA if possible.EPA, DHA, and ALA are all different types of omega-3 fatty acids. You need all three to be healthy. Your body doesn't produce any ALA, so all of it comes from outside sources. However, your body can produce some EPA and DHA.
Leafy green vegetables are also a decent source of ALA., When eating other types of meat besides fish, try to eat more grass-feed meat like grass-fed beef, as they are higher in omega-3s than other types of beef. Most stores will promote which meat is grass-fed, but you may have a better chance of finding this type of meat in grocery stores that sell organic food., If you find yourself turning to alcohol or drugs to deal with your moods, make an effort to change your habits. Alcohol can send you into a downward spiral, while uppers like cocaine or ecstasy can send you too high. Plus, they may not mix well with the medications you are on.In addition, these substances can cause problems with your sleeping habits.
 When you have bipolar disorder, certain medications can increase your mood swings or interact with your bipolar medications. Therefore, it's always a good idea to talk to your doctor when taking new medications, even supplements.For instance, thyroid medications, caffeine, appetite suppressants, and antidepressants can all have negative effects on people who are bipolar.
 When your blood sugar dips too low, it can affect your mood. Try eating regularly throughout the day instead of large meals to help even it out. Also, make sure to stick to healthy foods, such as low-fat proteins, vegetables, fruits, and whole grains. Eating healthy can help improve your mood., Try to go to bed the same time every night and get up at the same time every morning. Making sure you keep a steady sleep schedule can help you stabilize your mood. Plus, it can help your body get in the rhythm of sleeping at a regular time, so you may find it easier to get to sleep. It also ensures you get enough sleep, which can help with your mood., Exercise is a known mood booster. Try exercising 30 minutes five times a week to see improvement. In fact, exercising regularly may even lower how many bipolar episodes you have. You can try walking, swimming, running, jogging, basketball, or really any exercise you enjoy., See your doctor a few times a year to make sure that you don't have any other medical issues that can be affecting your mood. Low nutrients or other imbalances in your body can cause or exacerbate bipolar symptoms.

For example, your doctor can do tests to determine if you are low on vitamins, such as vitamin D. They can also test your thyroid. Both vitamin D deficiency and thyroid issues can mimic bipolar symptoms.

