 Warm tortillas are much easier to roll, becoming softer and more pliable. You can warm your tortillas several ways:



Oven: Wrap the tortillas in aluminum foil and place in a 350 degree oven for 10-15 minutes.

Microwave: Wrap each tortilla in moist paper towels and heat on high for 6-7 each.

Stove-Top: On a lightly greased griddle (use a drop or two of vegetable oil), heat each side of the tortilla for 30 seconds., The amount may vary depending on how much filling you have, but generally 1/3 of a cup will do. Err on the side of less filling if you are not confident in your tortilla rolling abilities.


Leave at least a 2 inch border between your filling and the edge of the tortilla., Roll the tortilla like you would roll up a burrito. Fold in one inch of each side, then roll upwards from the bottom. Use your fingers to contain the filling as you go.


Stick each roll with toothpicks to hold them together if they keep unraveling.
 If you have a deep-frier, you can set it to 375 degrees. If not, heat up oil in a pot with large sides until it is just beginning to smoke. Set your stove-top to medium-high heat.Different oils have different smoking points -- so research yours if not using vegetable oil. You want the oil between 375 and 400 degrees Fahrenheit. That said, a little variation will not ruin the chimichangas if you remove them before they burn.
Fry the chimichangas for 2-3 minutes each in the hot oil. After 1 minute, flip the chimichanga so that each side is in the oil. Do not put so many in the pot that you have no room to turn them -- you can usually cook only 1-2 at a time.
Be careful of oil splatter. Never drop the chimichanga in from a high up and keep your face away from the top of the pot.
 Using a slotted spoon, remove the chimichanga and rest it over the pot so any excess oil drips off. Pat them lightly with paper towels to remove any more unneeded oil, then set them aside as you cook the rest.


Make sure the chimichanga is cool enough to touch before patting it dry.
 Coat an oven-safe pan with oil or melted butter, then place the chimichangas in it seam-side down. Lightly brush oil on the tops of each roll and cook them in the oven for 8-10 minutes at 450 degrees. Flip them after 10 minutes and cook for another 8-10 minutes.


After flipping them, you can add your shredded cheese so that it melts on top.
Every oven is different, so be sure to remove them if they start to brown or burn.
 While still hot, top the chimichanga with cheese, then add the rest of your desired toppings. Try diced tomatoes and lettuce for a classic chimichanga or experiment with guacamole, your favorite salsa, olives, sour cream, enchilada sauce, scallions, or Tabasco.