 Shading is what makes a drawing pop and prevents it from feeling flat. A big part of the illusion of three-dimensions in good drawings is the shading. But shading is tough to master, especially when you are trying to shade something from your imagination or memory.


Shading can imply lines as well. Think about the two small ridges between your nose and upper lip. While you could draw lines for them, that would make them unrealistically pronounced. Try shading them in instead, darkening the areas around them lightly to make them “appear” in the middle of the dark patches.
 Shadows are created because they are exposed to less light then other parts of the scene. Where the light is coming from, what type of light it is, and even the time of day will all affect your shadows. Shadows are created on opposite sides of the light. For example, if you place a ball down and shine a light on it from the right, the left side of the ball will appear darker. This is where you would shade if you were drawing the ball.
 The edge of the shadow is how quickly it disappears. Think of trying to make a shadow puppet—when your hand is close to the light and the wall, there is a hard edge where your shadow and the light meet; but when your hand is farther away you shadow softly fades into the light. Note however, the all shadows have a slightly soft edge. The difference between shading and contour drawing is the fading at the edges.Direct light, like spotlights and clear, sunny days, creates dramatic shadows with hard edges.
Indirect light, light far away lights, multiple lights, or cloudy days, create softer, muted shadows with faded edges.
 Make soft, gentle lines around the edges of your shadows before starting them so that you know where you are going to.


Map out the highlights: where is the light the strongest? Is there any glare?
Sketch out the shading: where does the shadow on each object start and stop?
Contour any hard shadows. Are there any dark shapes created by the light, like a person’s shadow in the sun?

, Shading is the art of gradually changing the amount of light from one area to the other. Start lightly, shading in the entire object with your lightest pencil strokes. Keep going over the drawing by filling in the darker areas slowly, one shade at a time.
 This is the best way to make realistic, gradual shadows on any drawing. Using a tissue, your finger, or light marks with your pencil, blend the darker areas into the lighter ones by rubbing from dark to light. Most pencils will blend only slightly, while drawing with charcoal allows you to dramatically blend your shadows with your fingers.
 Set up a basic “still life” to practice shading. Simply place several common, easy to draw objects (a ball, small boxes, water bottles, etc.) under a bright light and turn it on. Draw the contours of the objects, then practice shading them in exactly how you see them.


As you get more advanced, add in clear objects, complex shapes, or a second light to practice more difficult shading techniques.
Shade in an old children’s coloring book, which are usually simple contour lines, for advanced practice.
 While the most realistic form of shading is an even, gradual blending (“smooth” shading), there are a variety of shading styles for different artists and styles of work. For example, many cartoons use cross-hatching or dots to indicate shading. The basic principle, however, is the same – more marks equals darker shadows. Test our multiple types of shading to find what works best for you.


Hatching: Single, straight lines create shadows. More lines make darker shadows.
Cross-hatching: Crisscrossing diagonal lines make up your shadows. The farther apart the lines are, the lighter the shadow is. This works well when shading something with lines, like hair or fur.Stippling: A collection of small, black dots make your shadows. Adding dots makes it look darker, to the point where you may not be able to tell that there are dots on the darker edges.
Circular Shading: Making small, overlapping circles around with your pencil, you trace out your shadow. The longer you spend in one area overlapping circles, the darker it will become. This is often the best way to shade with colored pencils.