 To avoid overwhelming your boyfriend, you should start by being subtle and build your way up to talking about your own marriage. You should start by casually bringing up a conversation about marriage that doesn't directly involve your marriage. You can mention someone else who got married or engaged recently or make a comment on an engagement commercial, for example. A good way to start things is to express confusion or even mild criticism. Here's how to do it:


You could say, "A co-worker just got back from his honeymoon. You know where they went? To the beach. That's so weird to me because we go to the beach about once a month and it's so close by. If I was going on a honeymoon, I'd want to go somewhere new and exotic. Wouldn't you?"
You could also say, "Can you believe John proposed to Marla on a Ferris wheel? I think that's perfect for them, but I think I'd like something a little different."

, Don't say, "I can't wait to have ten kids with you!" Just subtly start making comments that allude to you being together in the future, whether you're married or not. If he isn't responsive to the indirect approach, start slowly making it more direct with phrases like, "if we stay together," "if we live together," and later, "if we get married."


Watch his reaction when you discuss the future. See if he carries that conversation on or avoids the subject.
Remember that even though this may have been on your mind for a long time, this is a new conversation for him and he needs time to sort out his thoughts. Don't expect him to have his answer prepared.
 If you think that your man has been waiting for the perfect time to make the right move, then suggest that it's time that you go on vacation. Make sure that you plan it far enough away -- at least two or three months -- so your man has time to think of it as a potential place to propose. Don't mention anything about how it would be the perfect proposal destination and wait for him to figure it out.If you don't mention that it would be a great place to get engaged, then he won't feel that you're putting the pressure on.
And even if he doesn't propose, seeing you in a romantic setting where many people do propose will put his mind on proposing.
 This is an important point. Many men don't propose because they're putting off figuring out what kind of ring their woman wants and what her ring size is. Many more men don't propose because they're not ready to shell out thousands of dollars for a diamond ring and think it'll take them forever to save up for it.


Well, if you don't want a fancy ring, or even a ring at all, then you can mention it, however subtly, so that he knows that this shouldn't be a factor in his plans for a proposal.
You can even mention your thoughts on the ring by mentioning someone else's ring. You could say, "Did you see that rock Rick gave to Sheila? I can't believe she didn't fall over with that thing on her hand. I would never want a ring like that -- I'd want it to be small and simple."

, Though a proposal does not mean an immediate wedding, many men are also deterred from proposing because they're worried that they'll never be able to afford an expensive 400 person wedding, or because they don't want to be roped in to the wedding-planning hoopla. Well, if you planned on just having a small wedding in the park with 50 of your closest friends and family and having a casual dress code, you should find a way to mention this too.


Though this shouldn't be a factor in a man's decision to marry you for life, it does deter men from wanting to get the ball rolling on the whole marriage thing. Can you blame them?

, Though he may think you're a ton of fun or a sex kitten, you should also let him see you as wife material -- as the woman who will be his lifelong partner and potentially the mother of his children. So, show him that you'd make a great wife as well as a fun girlfriend. Let him see that you're independent and career-oriented while also knowing how to take care of him when he's sick, how to tastefully decorate your home, and how to cook a healthy meal -- nothing fancy required.


If you want him to see you as a wife, then your relationship should be positive most of the time. If you spend most of your time fighting or crying about your insecurities, he won't think you're ready for marriage.
Let him see that you have your act together on your own and that you're ready to move towards marriage. If he thinks that your life won't be complete until you get married, he won't want to propose.

