 Double-click on any web browser on your desktop.;
, On the address bar of your browser, type in www.rarlab.com/download.htm on the address bar and hit "Enter" on your keyboard. It should take you to the official site’s download page. Up top are the most stable versions depending on your system type.


To know what your system type is, right click on "My Computer" and select “Properties.” Scroll down until you see “System Type,” and on the right side is your system type.
For Mac, just select the link to the MAC OS X version of WinRAR that is located right below the Windows versions.
 The installer should then be saved in your system’s default download folder if you haven’t changed it, which should be called "Download." Double-click on the installer to initiate the installation process.


The default installation settings should be fine, so just keep clicking “Next” until the process finishes.
After the installation finishes, the WinRAR shortcut should be right in your desktop.
 After installation finishes, you can launch the software. Double-click the shortcut to run it. You should then be shown several options.
 In the main window of WinRAR, you will see a directory navigation pane at the bottom of the toolbar. This lets you navigate through your computer’s files to find archived files. Click on an archived filed to see its contents. Select the ones you want to extract by highlighting them, then dragging them to your desktop.


You can also extract files to a specific folder by clicking “Extract to” in the toolbar at the top after selecting the desired files. Then your system will let you choose a specific folder to put the files in.
 It’s easy to create an archived file with WinRAR. First you have to select the file(s) or folder(s) you want to archive and compress by highlighting them, then right-click on your selections. In the context menu that pops out, select “Add to archive.” It should take you to the archiving menu, which will let you choose compression options.


First, choose a name you want to call your archived file by entering it in the “Archive name” field.
Then choose the archive format. Either RAR or ZIP format is fine.
Then you choose the compression method. The better the compression, the lower the file size will be, for easy transfer and upload.
In the upper-right corner of the window, click “Browse” to set a destination for the new archived file.

