 Open the cover of the brewer by lifting the handle and remove the K-Cup holder inside.


To remove the K-Cup holder, grab the top of the holder with one hand. Using your other hand, push up on the bottom of the K-cup assembly from below. The assembly should eventually release.
Use caution when removing the K-Cup holder. There are two sharp needles inside that could hurt you if you remove the assembly haphazardly.
The remaining pieces should disassemble with relative ease. Gently pull on the funnel until it separates from the K-Cup holder. Remove the drip tray by simply pulling it away from the base of the machine.;
, These elements are all dishwasher-safe.Place them in the top rack of the dishwasher and run the machine on a standard wash setting using mild dish detergent.


To wash the K-Cup holder by hand, simply rinse it under warm to hot running water. Additional scrubbing or detergent is not necessary for general cleaning, but you should exercise caution to prevent yourself from getting stabbed by the sharp needle inside the holder.
If desired, you can also wash the funnel, drip plate, and drip tray by hand. Immerse these pieces in hot soapy water and scrub gently with a non-abrasive cloth. Rinse well to remove all soap residue.
Dry all pieces well. You can either allow them to air dry for several hours, or you can dry the pieces manually with a clean dish towel or paper towels.
 The inside bottom and upper portions of the K-Cup holder both have exit needles with three holes. Remove any debris from these holes by inserting a paper clip into each one and working out anything inside.


Coffee ground and cocoa mix can easily get lodged in the exit needle, making this an important step in the cleaning process.
Insert a straightened paper clip or similar tool into each hole. You should be able to get it about 1 inch (2.5 cm) deep into the tube. Wiggle and move it around to loosen and remove anything lodged inside.
Note that you cannot poke through the needle to the other side. The opening of the needle is located on the side of the K-Cup, not the top.
 These pieces of the machine are not dishwasher safe and must be washed by hand using clean water and a non-abrasive cloth.


Avoid using cleansers or detergents on these elements. Using chemicals near the water reservoir can contaminate your water supply for future uses.
These elements should be wiped out thoroughly with a wet cloth and rinsed under warm to hot running water.
Dry thoroughly by allowing the components to air dry or by drying them manually with a clean dish towel or paper towel.
 Use a damp, non-abrasive cloth to wipe away any water stains or dried coffee grounds on the front of the brewer.


If desired, you could also use a soapy cloth for a more thoroughly cleaning. Just make sure to rinse the soap residue off the machine afterward with a clean damp cloth or under running water.
Never immerse the entire brewer in water.
 Snap the funnel back onto the K-Cup, and insert the K-Cup back into the machine.


Align the arrows on the top and bottom of the K-Cup with those marked on the machine. The two front tabs on the holder should should be on the bottom and the single tap on the front should be at the top. Push on the top rim to snap it back into place.
Reinsert the drip tray by sliding it back into place until it clicks.

