 You can get really creative here. You can use the same color and pattern for each envelope, or you can mix-and-match. You can use solid-colored patter, patterned paper, or even double-sided paper. Scrapbooking paper is great for this, but so are kraft paper, old book pages, wrapping paper, and origami paper.You can use pre-made envelopes instead.If you wish to do this, click here to continue.;
, You can make your envelopes any size you want, but you need to start with squares. A great idea would be to make the envelopes all different sizes, with the biggest envelope reserved for December 25th.
 Take your first sheet of paper and turn it so that it looks like a diamond. Fold the left and right corners towards the center. Run your fingernail or a bone folder along each crease to make them nice and crisp., You want the edges to overlap the bottom edges of the side flaps slightly. Once again, run your fingernail or a bone folder along the crease to sharpen it.You can trim down the corner so that it doesn't stick out past the center.
 Pull the bottom flap down, and run a glue stick along the bottom edge of each side flap. You can also lay down strips of tape instead. Fold the bottom flap back down again, and run your finger across the seams.Tuck your hand inside the envelope to ensure that you didn't get any glue inside.
 You want it to overlap the side and bottom flaps slightly. Run your fingernail or a bone folder across the top crease to sharpen it., Save the biggest envelope for the 25th, the last day of the Advent calendar. You can write the numbers by hand using a marker, or you can use number stickers stamps.


If you plan on gluing the envelopes down, put the number on the top flap.
If you are using patterned envelopes, place the number on a white label first. This will make it stand out more.
 You might want to skip this section, however, if your envelopes already have patterns on them. If you add more decorations to patterned envelopes, they may end up looking too cluttered.


You do not have to use all of the steps from this section to decorate your envelopes. Pick the ones that appeal the most to you.
 Depending on the size of your envelopes, you may have to cut the tape in half lengthwise. Choose festive colors and themes, or use ones that match your envelopes. If you are putting tape on the back of the envelope, be careful not to tape the top flap shut!

, Don't get too carried away, however; less is often more!


Pencil erasers make great polka dot stamps! Simply pat a brand-new pencil eraser into an ink pad, then stamp away!
Use a Christmas sticker to keep the envelope shut.
 Buttons, gems, or small charms would all work great for this.You can even attach mini present bows to the envelopes to make them look more gift-like.


Buttons will lend a rustic charm to your envelopes, while gemstones will make them look fancier.
 If you don't have a lot of time on your hands, you can always draw simple designs, such as stars, dots, snowflakes, or trees on your envelopes. You can draw these designs using markers, pens, colored pencils, paint, or even puff paint.


Gold or silver markers are a great way to add some sparkle to your envelopes.
Draw your designs in glue first, then shake some glitter onto the glue before it dries.
 Once you fill your envelopes, tie them shut using yarn, thin cord, or baker's twine. This will also give the envelopes a hint of rustic charm.
 Most store-bought Advent calendars will contain the same type of item for each day. You can spice things up a bit by containing a different item for each day. For example, you can have chocolate for one day, a joke for the next, and a charm for the third.


You do not have to use all of the ideas listed in this section. Pick and choose the ones that appeal the most to you.
 Most store-bought Advent calendars contain chocolate. You can use chocolate bars in yours as well. If you don't like chocolate, try candy canes or starburst mints. Whatever you decide to use, try to keep it small and thin to reduce bulk.


If this is for an adult, consider alcoholic chocolates!Give your calendars a hint of sparkle with chocolate coins.
Keep the candy wrapped so that it doesn't melt.
 Many stores during the holiday season will have a dollar or stocking-stuffer section that contain small toys that are perfect for Advent calendars. Consider any of the following:


Stickers
Temporary tattoos
Mini erasers
Mini jigsaw puzzles
Plastic jewelry

, Christmas-themed jokes and riddles are a great way to brighten up someone's day.Decorate small slips of cardstock, then write a joke or riddle on each one. Be sure to write the answer on the back! Insert one riddle into each envelope.
 Decorate small slips of cardstock with festive borders and designs. Next, write a Christmas-themed activity on each slip of paper. Insert a slip of paper into each envelope. Here are some ideas to get you started:Watch a Christmas movie
Make a Christmas craft
Volunteer at a shelter
Donate a toy or a blanket to a shelter.
Spend time with a family member.
Make a Christmas card to an active military member.
 In this section, you will find lots of ways in which to display your Advent calendar. Pick one that appeals the most to you. You can hang the envelopes in numerical order, or you can hang them randomly. Part of the fun for many people is hunting for the right number!, Paint a wooden hanger a festive color with spray paint or acrylic paint. Tie 5 pieces of ribbon or twine to bottom bar. Use mini wood clothespins to clip 5 envelopes to each one. Hang the Advent calendar from a hook or doorknob when you are done.Consider using washi tape or paint to make the clothespins look more festive.
 Cut a long piece of twine, and tie small loops to each end. Use the loops to hang the twine on your wall. Secure the envelopes to the twine using clothespins or paper clips.
 Cut 5 pieces of ribbon. Glue 5 envelopes to each ribbon, with the flap facing outward. Tack the ribbons up in 5 horizontal rows on your wall or on a bulletin board., Get some magnetic tape, and cut it into smaller pieces. Add a strip to each envelope, then arrange the envelopes on a small chalkboard. If you'd like to, fill in the empty spaces between the envelopes with chalk.


Can't find any magnetic tape? Use some festive magnets instead.
 Get a small bulletin board, and pin the envelopes to it using thumbtacks or pushpins. You can make your board look more festive by painting it or covering it with fabric first.


Don't like the frame? Paint it or decorate it with washi tape.
Can't find nice thumbtacks? Make your own by gluing charms to plain thumbtacks.
 Punch a hole into the corner of each envelope. Cut short pieces of string, ribbon, or twine. Thread each string through each hole, then tie the ends together to make loops. Hang the envelopes on a Christmas tree. You can use your current tree, or you can buy a mini tree, and use that instead.

