 You may know your friend better than anyone, and you probably have lots of fun memories together and some great stories to share. Use these as inspiration when you're trying to come up with things that make your friend happy, such as:


Favorite foods and drinks
Things or places the he or she likes
Favorite songs, music, or books
Photos from happy memories
Special ways to relax;
, Any box or container can be turned into a bad day survival kit, but you must consider what types of things will be going into the kit so you can determine how large a box you need. Great ideas for boxes include:


Old cigar boxes
Shoe boxes
Popcorn or cookie tinsGift boxes or priority mail boxes, This is again a great opportunity to personalize the bad day kit to the tastes of your friend, because you can decorate the kit any way you like! When decorating, consider patterns, motifs, colors, and styles that your friend likes. Some good ideas include:


Use glue to cover the box with a collage of photos from happy times you and your friends shared.Cover the kit with wrapping paper (you can even use Christmas or Halloween paper, for instance, if your friend particularly likes a specific time of year).For a friend who enjoys traveling, consider decorating the kit with post cards, maps, or photos from his or her favorite place.
For an even more personal approach, decorate the box by hand, using markers, stickers,glitter, crayons, paint, or whatever your own style and talents dictate.
 Once you decorate the kit, you can create a protective layer on the inside to keep the contents safe. This step isn't strictly necessary, but it’s a good idea if you're going to be carting the kit around a lot, or if it will contain delicate or fragile items.


To protect what's inside the kit, cover the bottom and sides with a thin layer of material, such as foam, fabric, or bubble wrap.
If you use fabric, use something you know your friend likes. This could be a material like velvet, satin, cotton, or something textured or patterned.
 You need somewhere safe and secret to store your kit, because you don’t want your friend finding it before it’s required. Choose somewhere that’s dry, so the contents don’t get wet, and pick somewhere dark so the sun doesn’t discolor your decorations. Good places to store your kit include:


In a drawer or closet
In your locker at school or work
On a shelf that’s protected from elements like light and dust

, Most people have some sort of comfort food or beverage that they turn to when upset, but what to put in your kit will depend on your friend. Just be sure you don’t keep anything that’s perishable or needs to be refrigerated or frozen! Popular choices include:


Candy and chocolate
Herbal tea (bags or loose leaves)
Granola bars
Water
Mints or gum
Crackers and preserves

, A great way to cheer up someone who’s feeling down is to remind them of the good times, so consider including photos of you, your friend, other friends, family, and all of you together. The photos could be:


From vacations or trips you went on together
Taken at parties you attended
Of fun an exciting activities you did together
From birthdays or holidays you spent together

, Sometimes all it takes to cheer someone up is to remind that person that there are others out there who care. Include compliments, words of encouragement, and reminders that while there have been bad days before, things always get better.They say laughter is the best medicine, so feel free to write some jokes into your letter.
If your friend likes literature, include a few verses of poetry, or a passage from his or her favorite book.
Another idea is to write a gratitude list, which is a list of good things that your friend has to be grateful for, such as health, loved ones, pets, children, or anything else that he or she appreciates., Along the same lines as including jokes, why not clip out some funny comics from a newspaper or print some off from the Internet. Just be sure to tailor the humor to your friend, otherwise the gesture could backfire!

, Comfort and distraction are great ways to get someone out of a funk, because sometimes people just need time to process something that happened, and making them comfortable can help ease their minds. To make your friend feel at ease, include things that are familiar, like a:


Cherished book
Favorite CD or DVD
Favorite game or video game

, Most people love getting greeting cards, whether it’s a birthday, joke, thank you, or other type of card. You can find a card that’s cute, funny, serious, or any other style your friend might like.


Inside the note, include more words of love and encouragement, a joke, or a reminder about how awesome your friend is.
 Bubble bath, face masks, aromatherapy oils, and scented candles are all small and easy things you can include in your care package,and not only will they help your friend relax, but they’ll also make the bad day kit smell wonderful!


Relaxation products are also a great idea because they're something your friend can take home and use later to continue the healing when you're not there.
 Another great way to get your friend’s mind off what happened is to distract him or her with a creative endeavor. This could be a:Coloring book
Small build project
Jar of clay or playdough
Craft or hobby

, For when your friend finishes the creative project, make sure you’ve provided another task that can occupy his or her mind for a while, such as a puzzle, crossword puzzle, a toy to play with, or a trinket that he or she might like.


If you do include a crossword, word search, or other paper puzzle, be sure to throw in a sharpened pencil as well.
 Some people find retail therapy to be the epitome of relaxation, and others might just need a good meal. Whether you plan to accompany your friend to the mall or restaurant or think he or she just needs some time alone doing something, a gift certificate is a nice way of helping your friend out of a blue mood.
 Sometimes getting back to nature, or a reminder of nature, can be enough to help ground someone and bring them out of a bad mood. If your friend is an outdoors type, remind him or her of the natural world by including something like:Sand or seashells
Dried flowers or herbs (this can also be for aromatherapy)
Gems or crystals

, Especially if your friend is the type to write in a journal or express emotions in a written way, make sure the bad day survival kit has a pen and paper that your friend can use to vent and process emotions.


Even if you do include writing implements, it’s also a good idea to remind your friend that you're available to talk, listen, or provide advice whenever he or she is ready to open up.
 Sometimes you may want to have a survival kit available in your locker, or a mini-kit that you can carry around with you. In this case, you'll have to make the kit smaller, so only focus on smaller things and the bare essentials. People often turn to comfort foods during bad times, and good food ideas for a mini kit include:


Mini candy bars
Snack-sized granola bars
Small snacks like crackers or cookies
A couple sticks of gum or a few mints

, You may not have room for an entire spa worth of aromatherapy and relaxation products in your mini kit, but you can throw in a couple items that may help alleviate stress and calm your friend. You can look for travel-sized versions of aromatherapy items like:Scented lotions and creams
Colognes and perfumes (try to find your friend’s favorite scent)
Scented candles (look for tea light or votive candles)

, Since you won’t have a lot of extra room, focus on small games and puzzles. If you include a paper puzzle, don’t forget a pen or pencil! Small and packable games you can have in your mini kit include:


Sudoku
Word searches and crosswords
Small wooden puzzles
Cards from a trivia game
A deck of cards
A mini Rubik’s cube
Car or travel-sized versions of popular games like checkers

, This will depend on your friend’s personality, so you're going to have to dig deep to think about inside jokes, preferences, memories, and other things that will mean something to a specific friend. You could throw in:


Some jokes
Comics
A coupon for a free hug
A cute or funny picture or card
A small toy
Some philosophical words of wisdom or a poem

