 Simply put, high-quality gin will usually taste better than low-quality gin, regardless of whether you choose to drink it plain or mix it into a cocktail.


Selecting a high-quality gin is especially important if you plan to drink it on its own, though. Low and medium levels can be so bitter on their own that they're practically impossible to drink outside of a cocktail.
Since gin rarely comes with an age statement or premium label, it can be difficult to identify high-quality productions. As a general rule, however, opt for gins distilled using traditional methods over those made from concentrate, and try to find gin produced by a copper still; following these two principles should guide you toward smoother gins.;
, Gin is always flavored with juniper berries, but craft gins typically contain flavors from other ingredients, as well. A good balance of flavors can improve the overall taste.Sweet, floral flavors are especially common. Look for delicate botanical elements with floral (e.g. elderflower or hibiscus) and berry (e.g. black currant or blackberry) notes.
Savory flavors are also growing in popularity. For something smooth and complex, look for gins flavored with herbs (e.g. chamomile, basil, thyme, or rosemary), nuts (e.g. almonds), or olives.
 If you aren't sure where to start, trust an expert opinion. Ask bartenders or gin enthusiasts for their favorite varieties. You can also research popular brands online.


Keep in mind that everyone has different tastes, so the gin your bartender or best friend favors may not appeal to you in the same manner.
Some acclaimed gins worth considering include Gin Mare, Tanqueray Rangpur, Beefeater's Summer Gin, Anchor, and Bluecoat., Ultimately, sampling a few different varieties of gin at a bar is the best way to choose a gin that appeals to your sense of taste before buying a full bottle of it.Sample each gin from a stemmed glass that curves inward at the top. Hold the glass by its stem.
Before sampling, mix the gin with an equal amount of still water. The water cuts the alcohol content and makes it easier to taste the underlying flavors of the gin.
Sniff the gin before tasting it. You should be able to detect some of the botanical ingredients used to flavor the gin. If it has a chemical smell, the gin is probably low-quality.
Sip the gin. You should be able to identify the juniper, as well as any other flavors. Determine if the flavor profile appeals to your personal sense of taste.
 Choosing a flavorful, high-quality gin is especially important when drinking it plain. Avoid lower-priced rail gin and invest in something from the top shelf.


Gravitate toward flavored craft gins and shy away from varieties that lean too heavily on the taste of juniper berries.
While price may give you some indication about the quality, keep in mind that not every expensive gin will be one that you find palatable on is own.
 The best method really depends on your own sense of taste. Regardless of the way you serve it, though, it's best to stick with small amounts, usually between 1.25 and 2 fl oz (35 and 60 ml).


To drink gin "straight up," stir the gin with ice and strain it into a stemmed glass.
To drink gin "neat," simply pour room temperature gin into a shot glass and enjoy it without adding anything else.
To drink gin "on the rocks," pour the gin over ice cubes in a rocks glass or short tumbler.
 If you want to make the gin-drinking experience special without mixing the alcohol into a cocktail, consider accenting the glass with an appropriate garnish.


Choose the garnish based on the type of gin you select. If the gin has savory accents or focuses heavily on the juniper, try basil. For citrus based gins, add a lemon wedge, grapefruit wedge, or coriander. Gins flavored with cucumber would do well with a slice a cucumber.Note, however, that you should avoid squeezing the garnish into the gin. Garnishes primarily add value to the drink by triggering your olfactory system (i.e. your sense of smell), which is strongly connected to your sense of taste.
 The gin and tonic is one of the simplest, most classic highball cocktails you can make with gin. Its origin dates back to the early 1800s, when it was commonly used for medicinal purposes.


To make a classic gin and tonic, fill a highball glass with ice and pour about 2 oz (60 ml) of gin over the ice, followed by 3 to 4 oz (90 to 120 ml) of tonic water.Dunk a spoon into the glass to help combine the elements, but do not stir them together since doing so can destroy some of the carbonation. Garnish the glass with a lime wedge or similar accent.
For an easy and interesting variation, try steeping four high-quality Earl Grey tea bags in one bottle of smooth, mild gin for two or more hours. Combine the newly flavored gin with tonic as usual., A true martini is made from a combination of gin and vermouth, and the amount of gin is typically twice as much than that of vermouth, if not more. Its exact origins are unclear, but it dates back to the late 1800s.


For a classic martini, fill a cocktail shaker halfway full with ice, then add 2 oz (60 ml) of gin and 1 oz (30 ml) of sweet or dry vermouth. Shake to combine, then strain the liquid into a chilled martini glass and garnish as desired.
You can vary the recipe by decreasing the amount of vermouth or adding a dash of orange bitters before shaking.
Note that popular garnishes include olives, lemon wedges, and pearl onions.
 Gin is only one of the liquors used in for this drink, but it's still an essential component. While its exact origins are debatable, literary references to the drink date back to the mid-1900s.


To prepare a classic Long Island iced tea, fill a shaker halfway full of ice and add equal amounts of gin, rum, tequila, vodka, triple sec, lemon juice, and gomme syrup (or simple syrup). Shake vigorously for several seconds before straining the liquid into a glass of ice. Top the combined liquors with a splash of cold cola.
While cola is the classic non-alcoholic addition of choice, some versions of the cocktail use actual iced tea instead. Similarly, lime juice can be used instead of lemon if preferred. Furthermore, if you do not have one of the liquors commonly used in the cocktail, you can cheat a bit by omitting it.
 Cocktails combining gin with various juices and syrups are almost too numerous to mention. Some have specific names, like the gin sour, gin rickey, and bee's knees, while others are only identified by their ingredients.


One nameless gin-and-juice cocktail would be a gin and grapefruit. Stir together 1 oz (30 ml) of gin with 4 oz (120 ml) or more of grapefruit juice, and garnish the glass with a wedge of fresh grapefruit or sprig or rosemary.To prepare a bee's knees cocktail, dissolve 2/3 oz (20 ml) of honey in 1/3 oz (10 ml) hot water. Add this to a shaker of ice alongside 1 oz (30 ml) of lemon juice and 2 oz (60 ml) of gin. Shake to combine and serve over ice.For a gin rickey, stir together 1.25 oz (35 ml) of gin with 0.25 oz (7.5 ml) of lime juice, then pour the drink into into a chilled glass of ice. Pour 1 oz (30 ml) of club soda on top, garnish with a lime wedge, and serve.
When making a gin sour, fill a shaker halfway with ice and add 2 oz (60 ml) of gin, 0.75 oz (22.5 ml) of lemon juice, and 0.75 oz (22.5 ml) of simple syrup. Shake briefly yet vigorously to combine, then strain the drink into a cocktail glass.

