 There are varying degrees of nerd chic that might suit your tastes. You may be most comfortable with a preppier look, dressing in a button down and layering a cardigan over top.However, a clean-cut graphic tee with a pair of khakis will give your look a more casual, edgier appearance.Graphic tees are a great way to represent the parts of nerd culture you love best. You may have one that features a math or science theme, a Doctor Who design, or even a Star Wars character.
Cardigans are a versatile over-garment that'll give your nerdy look a dapper appeal. This article of clothing is a cozy substitute for hoodies, which may come across as overly casual.
Button down shirts are a popular option in nerd chic fashion, especially when paired with a cardigan or trendy sweater. Patterned fabrics, like checks or stripes, will make your shirt stand out even when layered beneath a cardigan.;
, A pair of dressier pants will be usually compliment your nerd chic style. Khakis will often be enough to set your look apart from the everyday, but you can add a slightly more formal touch with chinos.A nice pair of jeans can work with this style as well, though you'll want to be sure the other elements of your outfit are more formal to offset the casualness of the jeans. Fitted jeans are a good option, as these will match with the clean-cut vibe that is iconic among nerds.
Slim, straight-legged Levis are timeless, go-to jeans that flatter many men and match nearly everything. Bootcuts and calf-hugging skinny jeans can look excessively trendy.
 For the style of your shoes to fit the nerd chic look, you'll have to abandon your sneakers for a less casual option. Oxford shoes, brogues, or shoes of a similar design to these are well suited for nerd chic outfits.Be sure that your shoes match your choice of pants or are similar tones, otherwise your outfit might not match well.Try to avoid black shoes and brown pants or brown shoes and black pants. Though there are some exceptions, generally these colors contrast too sharply to match well.
Brown shoes are very versatile, and match with most colors aside from black. If you are struggling with choosing the right shoe color for your nerd chic outfit, brown shoes are a safe bet.
Black shoes work best in a formal setting. You'll find that dark tones, especially gray and blue, pair well with black shoes. Lighter colors, like mustard, burgundy, and tan, can create an unpleasantly sharp contrast. This can be lessened by cuffing your pants to reveal a small amount of ankle., You don't have to have poor vision to wear a pair of stylish frames! You can buy glasses with non-prescription lenses at your local eye boutique or eyeglass store.More economic choices are also available online for the cost conscious nerd. Of course, if you already wear glasses, you probably already have this accessory as a part of your wardrobe.


When selecting a pair of frames, you should try to choose a pair that compliment the shape of your face and highlight your eyes. As each person's head is different, you'll have to try on pairs until you find out what looks best on you!
A thick framed pair of Buddy Holly-esque glasses can add an air of goofy innocence to your getup. Your lenses should be an expression of your inner nerd.
You should be careful when buying frames online. Although the cost of these is usually very competitive, without a try on first, you may find the pair uncomfortable or unflattering when they finally arrive., Bow ties have taken off in popularity thanks to characters like The Doctor, hero of nerd culture's adored TV series, Doctor Who.But if you're uncomfortable with a bow tie, a tie repping your favorite aspect of nerd culture, like a 20-sided die from Dungeons and Dragons, can further nerdify your ensemble.You may want to save your tie for collared shirts and avoid wearing one with a graphic tee. The lack of a substantial collar in tees can make your tie look out of place, causing it to clash.
 The nylon commonly used in the backpacks and satchels of your late high school days can come across as childish, losing you nerd points in the style game.You can improve your choice of backpack/satchel with a canvas or leather bag. Look for rich, luxurious colors and materials, like brass clasps and oxblood colored leather.These sorts of accessories frequently remind people of the kinds of bags used by professors and academics. This will only add to your air of nerdiness.
 This is not a necessity, but if you're a person who likes to have a watch on hand, a timepiece can be a classy alternative to checking your phone every five minutes. You should opt for a simple, elegant timepiece. One that is too flashy might seem more preppy than nerdy.


You may want a more retro look, in which case a large, multi-function plastic watch will do nicely. These have the added benefit of being relatively cheap and coming in many colors.
For nerds with an appreciation for class, a pocket watch can be a posh addition to your nerdy attire. What's more, many of these come in designs popular to nerd culture, like watches featuring styles from Doctor Who, Fullmetal Alchemist, or even mathematic formulas., You don't want to go overboard with pins and buttons, as this can give the impression of immaturity. However, you can proudly wear one or two of your favorites on your backpack, satchel, or shirt as a badge representing your nerd culture.A lapel pin can be a simple way of identifying yourself with nerd culture. These also make an excellent conversation piece, giving you an opportunity to share a little bit about your nerdier interests.
 Though this isn't necessary for dressing up in the nerd chic style, being able to easily use a computer will give others the impression that you're a dyed-in-the-wool nerd. You don't have to be a master programmer or software engineer, but a basic understanding of common programs and interfaces, like Windows and Apple, would surely help your nerdy appeal.


You might also want to learn how to type. This way you don't ruin your nerd chic image by having to hen-peck letters from the keyboard while typing., This is especially true of gadgets that are common in your areas of interest. For example, if you claimed to be a math nerd but couldn't use a graphing calculator, people may question whether or not you're really a nerd at all.Some people may feel as though they're being deceived if they find that you appear to be something that you're not. In this case, you may want to address this by saying, "You're right, I'm not a nerd - I'm just a fan of nerd style!"

, Your hard selected and well-chosen nerd outfit could fall apart like a house of cards if those smart glasses you've chosen aren't backed up by substance. You might want to take a little time to brush up on nerd culture. Pick out an area of interest that stimulates your interest and get nerdy with it!You could also proudly tell your friends that, although not a nerd, you're an advocate of nerd culture. This way you can enjoy fashion without having to invest time learning how to be a nerd.

