 Desensitizing your dog to the vacuum cleaner is a process that requires patience and consistency. Start by putting your dog on a leash and holding the leash in your hand. This will give you control over your dog while you work on desensitizing them to the sight and sound of the vacuum.If your dog is really jumpy or excited at even the sight of the vacuum cleaner, you may put them on their leash in an adjacent room so they can get used to the sound of the vacuum from a safe distance.
You may ask a friend or partner to assist you by holding your dog by its leash while you hold the vacuum cleaner. This can make it easier for you to keep your dog under control.
 Take the vacuum and unroll the cord. Your dog may react to the sound of the cord. Speak to them in a calm voice and instruct them to relax. Reward them with a treat if they do not run or chase after the vacuum upon seeing it.Hold the vacuum and stand in front of your dog. Tell them to stay calm and reward them again with a treat if they stay relaxed in the presence of the vacuum.
 Start with the vacuum unplugged to get your dog used to seeing the vacuum moving back and forth in front of them. Then, plug it in and move it back and forth slowly in front of your dog. The goal is to get your dog used to the movements of the vacuum without chasing or running after it.If your dog reacts by barking at the vacuum or chasing after it, turn the vacuum off and go back to simply standing in front of your dog with the vacuum in your hand. Once they calm down, reward them with a treat. Then, gradually turn the vacuum on and run it a few times in front of your dog.
 As you go through the process of desensitizing your dog to the vacuum cleaner, continue to reinforce their positive behavior. Give them treats and verbal praise like “good job!” or “great going!” when they stay calm around the vacuum cleaner.If your dog does not react positively to the process, do not get angry at them or yell at them. This will only make them more fearful and anxious around the vacuum cleaner. Instead, stay calm and have your dog try again.
 Repeat these steps several times until your dog appears calm around the vacuum cleaner when it is on and moving around the room. Once they appear relaxed around the vacuum cleaner, take them off the leash. Let them sit in the room while you vacuum. Reward them with a treat if they stay calm and do not chase the vacuum cleaner while it is on.


You may need to work on desensitizing your dog to the vacuum cleaner over a period of a few days to a few weeks, depending on how riled up your dog gets around the vacuum. Be patient and consistent with this process. Over time, your dog should learn to remain calm and stationary around the vacuum.

