 Film canisters, prescription containers, and empty fish food containers are perfect for this. These filters are great for small tanks.
 Do not use any soaps or chemicals, or you will kill your fish. If you are using a film canister, clean it with water and a few drops of a tap water conditioner. Make sure that the conditioner says that it will remove heavy metals. This is because film canisters usually contain traces of heavy metals.
 Find a ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) wide plastic tube. Cut it down to 6 inches (15.24 centimeters) long. Cut a notch into the bottom of the plastic tube. You can also cut the bottom of the tube at an angle. This will help the water flow better.


You can find plastic tubes at fish tank and pet stores. You may also find them in home improvement stores.
 The hole should be just a little smaller than your ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) tube. This is so that you get a snug fit, once you put the tube in. You can cut the hole right in the middle of the lid, or close to the edge.
 The notched/angled bottom of the tube should be hitting the bottom of the capsule. If you cut the hole close to the edge of the lid, angle the tube so that the notch is facing the center, not the side of the capsule.
 If you take a look at your lid, there should still be some flat area left around the tube. Fill this area with small holes. This is where the bubbles will come out of.
 Keep the tube inside the capsule/lid. Measure ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) up from the seam, where the tube meets the lid. Make a small mark. Then, make a hole right on the mark. You can use a heated nail and hammer or an electric drill to do this. The hole should be large enough for a piece of airline tubing to fit through snugly.


Make the hole just a little smaller than the airline tubing. This will give you a tight fit.
 Keep feeding it down the bigger tube, until it is about halfway down the capsule. It should not touch the bottom of the capsule.
 Do not pull the plastic tube out. Keep it pressed firmly against the bottom of your capsule. You will be filling the capsule with filter media next. If you pull the tube away now, the filter media will get stuck under it.
 You can use zeolite, or any other media used in aquarium filters. Activated charcoal is a great, cheap alternative. It works well for removing bacteria. Check your local pet store or fish tank store.
 The plastic tube and capsule will both be under water. The airline tubing will go out of the water, and to the air pump.
 Depending on how deep your tank is, and how far away your air pump is, you may need to cut the airline tubing down. Measure the tubing first and trim it down if needed. Plug it into your air pump once it is the right length. Your filter is now ready to use.Position the

