 There are charts that graph the average height of children at certain ages. These charts can tell you how your child’s height compares to the average population. Select a chart that covers your child’s age and gender.You can find these charts online, or you can ask your child’s doctor if they have a chart that they can give you.
 You should see a graph on the page that you have selected. The left hand side of the graph should be labeled ‘Stature (height)’ in both inches and centimeters. The bottom of the chart should be marked ‘Age’ (in years).To make your mark:


Place a mark next to your child’s height and draw a line across the chart. Find your child’s age, make a mark and draw a line upwards (vertical) until it crosses your first line. This is your child’s height percentile.
 Notice that the percentile curves are labeled on the upper right. You will have to estimate if the mark that represents your child is between the curves.


If your child’s measurement is less than the 5th percentile, or greater than the 95th percentile, contact your doctor with this information.
 Some children remain shorter than their friends for a couple of years until they experience their pre-pubertal growth spurt.


Many times, older siblings or parents will have had a similar experience. If you experienced a late growth spurt, your child will most likely also have a late growth spurt.
 Keeping track of your child’s growth can help you to monitor any underlying condition that may affect your child’s growth.


In particular, you should continue to check your child if his or her rate of growth slows down and he or she drops down two major percentile sections on the chart (for instance if your child moves from the 75th percentile to the 25th percentile).
This change may a problem with nutrition, underlying chronic illness (such as heart disease or kidney failure), or abnormal hormone production (such as thyroxine and growth hormone). It may also be caused by medications like corticosteroids., There are certain things that you can look out for to know if you should become concerned about your child’s height. These include:


If your child’s height percentiles increase or decrease quickly, especially if two major percentile curves on the chart are crossed.
If your child’s height percentiles are normal, and then begin increasing or decreasing so extremely that they cross the 95th or 5th percentiles.
If your child continues to gain weight but his or her height remains the same.

