 Downloading TV and movie files directly onto your computer is not recommended due to the risk of lawsuits and viruses. If you get caught, you could face very stiff fines and/or jail time. That said, millions of people torrent across the globe to find exactly the movies and TV they want for free.
 A torrent client is how you download torrents and convert them into a format you can watch. There is no central server – torrents are a way to share information from one computer to another. There are multiple clients available for free online. Some of the more popular ones are:


µTorrent
Vuze

, There are a variety of websites that list torrents, which you can find by searching for "torrent tracker" online. The most reliable ones are easy to navigate, have a variety of links, and are not impossibly cluttered with advertisements.
 Most public trackers will have a copy of every recent show and movie shortly after they are released.


Use popular shorthand for finding the file you want. For example: if you need the second episode from the third season of a show, search for "show name s03e02."

, Torrents are popular when they have "seeders," which is often noted right next to the title after you search. The speed at which you can download a torrent file is determined by the number of seeders available.


Most torrent sites allow you to sort search results by the number of seeders by clicking on the word "seeders" at the top of the page. Torrents with many seeders are less likely to have viruses, as multiple people have used it successfully.
 Most sites have a comment section underneath the link to "download torrent." Read as many comments as possible to determine if other users feel that the quality of the file is good and worth your time. Many sites also have a rating system that can help your quickly determine if the torrent is good.
 This will open the torrent in your client and automatically download the file. When it is done you can watch your videos!

, These files are slightly different than a standard torrent file. They match content based on an identifier that can then be found without central trackers.