 Though live gameplay usually doesn’t show it, the gaming community definitely watches out for its own. Whether you’re looking for advice on how to approach a particular game scenario so you don’t lose again, or need help controlling your temper after losses, plenty of people are able to give you advice.Start by talking to other friends that game. The harder they game, the more likely they’ll have endured a similar situation. In particular, ask about specific things they do to keep their cool.
You can also find plenty of advice online. You can even find play-by-play advice about how to avoid losing in certain ways.
Avoid paying for gaming advice online. There are plenty of free options on blogs.
If you can’t find what you’re looking for, post a question on a popular message board. Even if nobody knows what to tell you, someone will tell you where to look!

, Put simply, there is objective, scientific evidence that video games cause aggression. This aggression is not necessarily tied to gunning down hundreds of electric blips on a computerized version of D-Day or hatcheting your way through a horde of the undead. Instead, aggression is actually tied to poor performance. It’s losing itself that causes gamers to fantasize or engage in violence.If you can’t control your temper enough to follow a loss with healthy behavior, it may be time to take a break from gaming altogether.
If you can focus on how to improve after a loss, and keep having fun – stick with it. Not only will you get better at keeping your cool – you’ll lose less too!
If you ever have thoughts about hurting others, such as the desire to hit someone, see a mental health professional to talk about your anger.
 If you are in any way concerned about your ability to control your temper, or the amount of time you’re spending playing video games, set up an appointment to speak with someone about it. Mental health professionals can help you learn to control both your emotions and your behavior.


If you’re still in school, see a school counselor at your earliest convenience.
Outside of school, any mental health professional will help you identify your options. There are support groups online and in person for emotional control issues as well as gaming addiction.

