 You don't know if neighbors are using pesticides, which can live in the bodies of the insects for a long time and enter your body when eaten. If you live in the country and are far from farms or neighbors, you might be okay. In general, however, it is best to order edible bugs online or from a specialty market.
 Cricket flour is quickly gaining popularity as a high-protein substitute for wheat. It is also a good way to incorporate bugs into your diet without having to look the bugs "in the eyes" while eating. In general, you still need traditional flours when baking, but you can swap out roughly ½ to ⅓ of the flour for cricket flour. You can buy it online, or make your own:


Freeze the crickets overnight to kill them.
Dry the crickets in a dehydrator or bake them in the oven at the lowest temperature until crispy.
Grind the crickets into a fine powder using a food processor., This Mexican dish (known as "chapulines") is served on its own as a snack or mixed into salads and dishes that need some extra crunch. Use a little bit of oil to crisp up the outside of the bug, then season with some salt, chili powder, and fresh-squeezed lime.


Chapulines are often seasoned and used in tacos, or served with eggs.
Grasshoppers are perhaps the most common insect you can cook, and can be served in a variety of ways., Roast the bugs at 350 degrees for 10-15 minutes, until crunchy. Some chefs simply add the bugs to their normal dishes, like salads and slaws. Others have gotten inventive, using the nutty flavor to their advantage in cookies and pies, where they can substitute for pecans or pistachios., Both bugs are full of meat and are easily prepared and eaten. Start by removing the stingers -- the back of the tail for the scorpion and the abdomen (the "butt") of the spider. Then singe off any hairs on the legs using a lighter or creme brulee butane torch. You can then deep-fry the bugs in hot oil, with or without a batter on the outside. Cook them for roughly 1-2 minutes, until crispy, then serve with salt and garlic powder., Slugs and snails can, and will, eat a variety of plants that are toxic to humans. These toxins stick around if not purged and will make you sick. If you're looking to up your escargot game, you need to fatten up the snails on cornmeal for a week before cooking. Place them in a container with 1-2 tablespoons of cornmeal, allowing them to eat for a week until they have flushed out the toxins.You may also use steel-cut oats, or other fine grains, as food. For snails, you may want to put in leaves and bark from plants you know are non-toxic.

