 How long you need to be in cosmetology school depends mainly on how many hours are required by your individual U.S. state. You should determine how many hours of training and practice that you will need in order to qualify for a cosmetology certificate.For example, Montana requires 2000 hours, while New Mexico requires 1600 hours.
If you move to another state, you will need to transfer your license. Some states allow you to keep your license no matter the differences between state requirements, while others require that you get more hours or even take their exam.
The number of hours varies by specialty, such as nails or braiding. If your long-term goal is to be a haircolorist, you will need a basic cosmetology license, which can take a little longer.;
, You should find a good cosmetology school (also called a beauty school) in your area that is in your price range. Also make sure their curriculum fulfills the number of hours you need to get licensed in your state. Ask people you know for school recommendations or look online for beauty schools in your area.


You can find websites that compile beauty school directories for easier internet searches., Beauty school can be expensive, but that should not stop you from pursuing your education. You can find scholarships to help pay for school just as you might find for college.It is also helpful to save up money for materials while you are in school.


You may often find that vocational schools and community colleges have cosmetology programs, which can save you a lot of money. The tradeoff is that these schools don’t always have the reputation that beauty schools have., Once you have selected a few schools you’d like to attend, send in your application. Most beauty schools require a high school diploma or GED. If you are under age 18, you might need your parents’ approval (most schools require you to be at least 16). Be prepared to give letters of recommendation, although this isn’t always required.Some schools may also want you to submit written essays, aptitude tests, even video essays.
Visit the website of each individual school and read about their admission requirements. You may be able to submit an application online.
If there is no school website, or the website lacks an option for applying, contact the school for admission requirements. Either mail in your application or deliver it in person.
 Most cosmetology programs last between 12 and 14 months, even when the state requires a high number of hours.Upon completion of your beauty school program, you should take a cosmetology licensing exam that will most likely include three parts: a written standardized test on procedures, a practical exam, and a written exam on rules and laws for your state.You will need a basic understanding of subjects like anatomy, chemistry, electricity, nutrition, and infection control.
Keep your license up to date by researching the state requirements. Most states require a renewal every two years., The Board of Directors for the American Board of Certified Haircolorists (ABCH) has eliminated all prerequisites for becoming a hair color specialist, so you can move from getting your cosmetology license directly to taking the hair colorist exam.However, in order to pass the exam, you must know the content. Getting hands-on training and studying first is highly recommended.


Find a job where you can work closely with a licensed hair color specialist, such as an apprenticeship at a salon.
The exam is usually offered in only a few locations in the U.S. Choose the one that is nearest to you. For example, in fall of 2016, the exams were scheduled for Boston, Massachusetts; Washington, DC; and Atlanta, Georgia. , You will need several items for your exam. You should locate a test mannequin with its own small stand as well as hair bundles for making swatches. You can also purchase a “study portfolio” from the Board that has all the guidelines you need for two of the three parts of the exam.A basic exam fee is $375. If you want the Board to supply your testing materials, the package is $600 for both exam and materials., Just as with the cosmetology exam, the haircolorist exam requires studying. You can find a sample exam and practice exams on the Board’s website to assist your studies. You can take these exams 100 times, and you are given 20 minutes to finish each.Be prepared for the three sections: performance, written, and the interactive assessment at the end.The written exam has 250 multiple choice and true/false questions.
 Arrive at your scheduled exam with all your materials, ready for a day-long test. The written exam is timed at one hour and 45 minutes, the performance exam is one and a half hours long, and the interactive assessment is conducted at the end of the day after the take down.You will be on one of two teams, the blue team or red team. The two teams alternate sections at different times throughout the day.
After the exam, you must wait one week to find out the results.If you fail one section of the test, this means you only have to re-take that one section, not the entire thing.
You have one year from your failure date to re-take it; otherwise you must re-take the entire exam., In order to gain experience working as a certified haircolorist, advertise your certification. Get your name listed on the certified hair color specialist’s website. The American Board of Certified Haircolorists offers this to help students promote themselves.Having your name on this website gives you credibility, potentially leading to more clients and positions at higher-end salons.
 Once you have become a certified haircolorist, look for a salon that could use your skills. Advertise that you are now board certified. Look for salons that have the type of clientele that benefits from someone who knows a lot about hair coloring.


You may already work at a salon, but want to advance to a busier or higher-end salon once you have your haircolorist certification.
Talk to salon managers about their need for a haircolorist on staff.
Keep in mind that cosmetologists work for themselves even when they work at a salon with other cosmetologists. They usually pay chair rental fees, all their own taxes, etc.
 When you get a position at a salon, display your board certification on the wall by your chair. Once you pass the haircolorist exam, you should receive a framed certificate from the Board. Keeping your certificate visible will inspire the confidence of your clients and the clients of cosmetologists who sit near you.The Board will also offer you postcards and press kits to help you advertise your certification and get more clients.
 As a cosmetologist before you were a certified haircolorist, you probably grew your client base bit by bit. You probably handed out your business card to new clients, who sent their friends to you. Your salon might have assisted you in this process. Now that you’re a certified haircolorist, you are doing the same thing. But this time, focus your attention on clients who want hair coloring.


Ask your current regulars if they want a discount on a hair coloring to display your new skills.
Take pictures of your work and post them around your chair, or make a photo album for clients to look through while they wait.
Give your business card to friends and ask them to pass it out to anyone they know needing hair coloring work done.
 Even though you’ve received the ultimate recognition in hair coloring technique, that doesn’t mean you shouldn’t keep up your skills with practice. For example, if you lack clients who want hair coloring for a period of time, you may get rusty. Find people you can practice on, even if it means doing the work for less money.


If you start to lose hair coloring clients or you can’t find them in the first place, try asking around to find a cosmetologist you can work with. See if they will pass along some of their work for a reduced rate so that you can practice.
Find apprenticeships to advance your skills even more.