 Only shoot within the 18 yard (16.5 m) box. It has a much better chance to enter the net.
 It will then be easy to score goals by 1 2 1 pass.
 Just stand in front of your opponent's defender, steal the ball, and tap shoot. The goalkeeper is usually out of position, and it is an easy goal.
 FIFA has a very sensitive shot control system and most times pressing shoot will give your opponent a goal kick.
 These teams feature the world's best strikers who all have superior speed, shot accuracy, and shot power. Follow the trend and score some easy goals with the best of the best.
 Crosses are very difficult to defend.
 There are three different basic shots in FIFA 2010: normal, finesse, and chip. The chip works wonders on a charging keeper. Learn all three shots and use them when necessary. Result: You score more goals.
, Ground through balls work great, but lobbed through balls work better. It is nearly impossible to block a lobbed pass, plus it beats most offside traps with ease. You get lots of breakaways.
 Slow down your player when shooting. Use pace control if you need to. The less movement you are making, the more accurate your shoot will be.
 This means if you play in goalkeeper difficulty amateur, then you should practice kicking from far of the post. It is better to press Q+D instead of pressing D. Sometimes your opposing goalkeeper comes much forward from the goal post, in this regard try kicking from midfield by pressing Q+D and by giving full power to the shot.
 Keep running until you get to the line crossing which will cause goal kick. Turn around by pressing the left key(in action camera) run to the up-left of the opponent d-box if you are playing in the right wing and run to the right-left of the opponent d-box if you are playing in the left wing. Now facing the opposite bar press ↑+→+A (less power) if you are in right wing and press ↑+←+A if you are in left wing. If you practice this, it will be surely a goal.
 In this regard try the free kicks by taking the camera to the ultimate right, pressing Q+D+↑+← and giving full power to the shot with a player whose preferred foot is right. This is for the free kicks from right side. Try the opposite thing in the free kicks from left side.
 So try to throw the ball to another player when one on one. It will be a goal for sure.
,,;
, This will allow you to dribble ball easily, as only one or two defenders will oppose you.
 Most times when defense tackles the ball, it will be outside.
 Or, press maximum times RB while making a cut.
 Then when you will come in near corner, cross the ball in the striker's direction and head it by pressing shoot with power to the cross coming direction post. The goalkeeper will move through the ball and it will not easy for him to reflect. Celebrate!

