 Philodendrons need nutritious soil. Liquid fertilizer is a great food source, but be sure to follow the directions and use the weakest dilution that is specified on the label. Because philodendrons don’t get direct sun, they can’t process strong fertilizer.


If your plant is exposed to varied seasonal sunlight, you’ll want to fertilize a little more often in the fall and winter months. This will keep growth steady.
As your plant grows bigger, you’ll want to switch to a fertilizer with increasing amounts of nitrogen to support broad, green leaf growth., If you notice yellow patches or sunburn spots on the leaves, your plant is getting too much direct sunlight. If your leaves turn brown and fall off, you are using too much fertilizer. If the leaves start to yellow, you are watering too much. Wilting leaves mean that you need to water more.

Spider mites, mealy bugs, scale insects, and thrips are pests that can damage your plant. If you notice them, try wiping them away with a mild soap, luke-warm water, and a soft cloth., As your plant grows, it will need a bigger pot to live in. Philodendron roots prefer a bit of cramping, though not excessive cramping. When you notice your plant’s roots begin to compact into a ball, it’s time to move the plant into a pot that is 2 to 3 inches (5 to 7.5 centimeters) larger.Repotting should be done before the plant experiences new growth. Each plant will be different and growth habits will be dependent on where you live, but it’s usually best to re-pot in late winter or spring.
Monitor water levels closely after a re-potting. You don’t want the roots to dry out in the new soil space.
 If you notice your plant’s growth slowing, it is a good time to prune it. Using pruning shears, trim rotted roots and any areas on the plant where you see stunted growth. You can also trim tips of the plant to achieve a shorter, more-desirable height.To access the roots for pruning, de-pot the plant and gently remove any clinging soil. The best time to prune roots is when you are moving the plant to a larger pot.
 Many people keep their philodendrons indoors and the leaves can collect dust and clog their pours. Be sure to keep your plant clean and dusted with a soft, damp cloth.