 Many recommended treatments for pronounced acne scars must be administered by a doctor. This may seem like a hassle — why can’t you do it at home? —however, the risk and potency of these methods mean that they should always be done with proper medical supervision.


Make an appointment with a dermatologist. A specialist in skin problems, called a dermatologist, can give you informed advice on how to treat your acne scars.
If you don’t already have a dermatologist, you might make an appointment with your general practitioner and ask for a referral.
 Talk to your doctor about administering a stronger chemical peel. Using potent acid formulas, these procedures lift off the top layer or layers of skin, thereby minimizing the appearance of scars.Stronger chemical peels always need to be done under a doctor’s supervision. Depending on acne severity, skin type, and other factors, your doctor will advise a specific kind of peel, as well as give you instructions for after-care.
 “Dermabrasion” is the process of sloughing off top layers of skin with a rapidly rotating wire brush. Usually, this procedure removes blemishes on the skin surface and reduces the appearance of deeper scars.


Dermabrasion is not without risks. The procedure may can temporary redness or swelling, enlarged pores, infection, and, rarely, scarring. It can also cause changes in skin pigment for patients with darker skin.
Microdermabrasion is a lighter procedure that applies small crystals onto the top layer of skin, which are then vacuumed up, along with dead skin cells.Because the procedure only removes the top layer of skin, results are generally far less pronounced than dermabrasion.
 In laser resurfacing, the doctor uses a laser to remove the outermost layer of skin (the epidermis) and tightens the middle layer. The skin normally grows back looking smoother, usually in three to 10 days. Sometimes, multiple treatments are needed to reduce the acne scars.Laser treatments do not work for everyone, and can have unpredictable results. Doctors do not yet know why laser treatments are effective for some but ineffective for others.Many people are satisfied with the procedure, but few patients will see a 100% elimination of scars.Although it helps reduce the visibility of scars, it is almost never completely effective and it needs to be used along with other treatments.
 As a last resort, consult with a medical professional about surgery for large, deep lesions or scars. In this procedure, a doctor will use a punch excision to cut out the scar and replace it with stitching or a skin graft. Smaller lesions require only stitching, while large lesions may require a skin graft from another part of your body.Consider this option carefully and consult with your doctor before proceeding. Remember, this is a minor surgery and carries risk. It may require anaesthesia and a surgical facility and could prove quite expensive. You will also require time to heal.

