 This is an item that your Pokémon can hold to increase the power of their Steel-type attacks. It is required in order to evolve Scyther into Scizor. If you're trying to get it from a wild Pokémon, you'll need to catch the Pokémon and see if it's holding the Metal Coat.Gold, Silver, and Crystal - You can find one at the S.S. Aqua, and are held by wild Magnemite. In Crystal it is also held by Maggie at the Kanto Power Plant.

Ruby, Sapphire, and Emerald - They are held by wild Magnemite and wild Magneton.

FireRed and LeafGreen - You can find one at the Memorial Pillar and as a Trainer Tower prize.

Diamond, Pearl, and Platinum - You can get one from Byron at Iron Island, and they are held by wild Magnemite, Steelix, Beldum, Bronzor, and Bronzong.

HeartGold and SoulSilver - You can find one at the S.S. Aqua, and they are held by wild Magnemite, Magneton, Steelix, Beldum, Metang, and Bronzor. Maggie at the Kanto Power Plant also holds on. Finally, you can get on at the Pokéathlon Dome on Thursday, Friday, and Saturday.

Black and White - You can find one at Route 13 and at Twist Mountain, and they are held by wild Magnemite, Metang, Metagross, and Bronzong.

Black 2 and White 2 - You can find one at Chargestone Cave and at Clay Tunnel, or you can buy one at the Antique Shop at Join Avenue or in Black City (Black 2 only).

X and Y - You can find one at the Poké Ball Factory and receive one at the Pokémileage Club for Balloon Popping, Lv. 1. It is also held by wild Magneton.

Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby - You can find one at New Mauville, and they are held by wild Magnemite and Skarmory.;
, There are a few reasons you may want to continue using your Scyther before evolving it.Scyther learns some moves that Scizor does not, such as Air Slash at Level 53. Scyther also learns Double Team at Level 37 instead of Scizor's Iron Defense.
Scyther is is significantly faster than Scizor, but is very weak to Rock attacks as well as fairly weak to a few other types. Scizor is only weak to Fire attacks.
 This is required for the evolution.
 Scyther's evolution is triggered when it is traded. Find a friend or someone online who you can trade it to and will trade it back to you after it evolves.
 Scyther will evolve as soon as the first trade is complete. After the evolution, have your friend trade it back to you.
 In order to evolve Scizor into Mega Scizor, you will first need to get your Key Stone, which is embedded in a Mega Ring. To obtain the Mega Ring, you'll need to defeat your rival and then earn the Rumble Badge at Shalour Gym. Take the badge to the top of the Tower of Mastery to receive the Mega Ring.After obtaining the Mega Ring, you'll need to upgrade it by defeating your rival again in Kiloude City. Professor Sycamore will upgrade your ring after the battle.

Click here for more details on the Mega Evolution process in X and Y.
 In order to gain access to the Mega Stones in Alpha Sapphire and Omega Ruby, you'll need to defeat the Legendary Pokémon first. This is Kyogre in Alpha Sapphire and Groudon in Omega Ruby., This is the Mega Stone that Scizor needs to evolve into Mega Scizor. You can tell that you've found a Mega Stone by looking for sparkling ground.



X and Y - Scizorite can be found behind the Abomasnow in Frost Cavern 3F.

Alpha Sapphire and Omega Red - Scizorite can be found to the south of the Moss Rock in Petalburg Woods. You'll need Cut to reach it.
 You can only perform a Mega Evolution during a battle, and the Scizor must be holding the Mega Stone.
 You can only have one Mega Evolution in a battle at a single time. The Mega Evolution will last the entire battle, even if you switch Pokémon. If the Mega Scizor is knocked out or the battle ends, it will revert back to the regular version.

