 Behavioral leadership claims that successful leadership can be achieved through learnable behavior. This behavior is based in what leaders do and, specifically, how they interact with employees. This means that any manager can be taught to be an effective leader. Incorporate behavioral leadership practices in your business to improve the effectiveness of your managers., Effective leaders usually motivate and inspire their employees to work, rather than simply ordering them to do so. This can bring out additional effort from employees and drive the team towards project success. Leaders typically inspire employees through passion, enthusiasm, and a strong vision for progress in the organization or for the product.Work on instilling this sort of passion in your managers and training them to express it convincingly.
 Leaders can also inspire employees to action by providing an example. A leader should project any sort of qualities they hope to see in their employees and follow through on their commitments. Act with responsibility, integrity, and honesty. Doing otherwise will cause resentment among employees and distance the leader from them. The goal should be to create a sense that the leader and their team are "in it together" and should follow the same rules and meet the same expectations.You can also set an example by supporting your employees in their work. For example, you might support your employees by helping out your front desk manager if you are short staffed.
 A leader should provide a clear path to objective, project, and organizational success. Make sure to give a sense of perspective to employees and allow them to see how everyday tasks are linked to overall success. This helps employees see that their work is making a difference.This also includes clearly explaining how roles and responsibilities are divided., Leaders should not be distanced from other employees. Fostering a sense of collaboration and focusing on the relationship between leadership and subordinates is important both for communicating project details and for keeping morale high. Build this type of collaboration by listening to team members' concerns and balance that with achieving your objectives. Employees should not feel as though the company's concerns are more important than theirs.Ask your employees about their thoughts, opinions, and ideas as well. This will help to promote an open dialogue.
 You'll need to meet with your management team to explain to them the concepts of behavioral leadership. In many cases, they will already be doing some of the things suggested by this approach. However, remind them that there is always room for improvement and that another hallmark of a good leader is challenging one's self to improve.Lay out the concepts of behavioral leadership and suggest ways that it could be incorporated into their leadership styles.
Let them know what you will be monitoring their use of these strategies.
 Observe your managers as they attempt to implement behavioral leadership strategies. Look for success and areas that still need some work. You can also gain feedback about them from their team members or others employees. You might wish to use an anonymous comment box for this purpose to protect the commenter's privacy. Remember to reinforce that positive commentary is also encouraged and explain to your managers what they are doing well., If leaders are particularly bad at any of the aforementioned aspects of behavioral leadership, their effectiveness will suffer. Use the feedback gained from meeting with each manager to assess where their individual weaknesses lie. You can then have them focus their efforts on improving their performance in that area. Have them research methods for doing so and instruct them on any such methods you have found to be effective., A business coach helps improve manager performance through a variety of tactics. If your managers are not improving significantly under your direction, it may be time to hire a coach to help them. The coach can watch each manager closely, keeping on eye on their communication, behaviors, qualities, and overall effectiveness. They can then coach them through ways to improve., Recruit employees to help you keep the managers accountable for implementing the new behaviors. Have them report improvement, or lack thereof, to you so that you can remind the manager of their commitment to change. Have employees also how effective the new behavior was in its intended effect. For example, do they feel more inspired to work as a result of the leader's behavior?, Leaders may use a variety of decision-making strategies as part of a behavioral leadership approach. The two primary types are authoritarian and democratic decision-making. In the former, the leader does not involve employees in the decision-making process. However, in the democratic style, decisions are made with the input of employees. Both styles have been proven to be effective in different circumstances.


The right choice for your organization will depend on your employees' preferences and the conditions of the work environment.
In most cases, employees just need to feel as though their voice is heard in the organization and that they are participating in the process, rather than having an actual say in decision-making., Behavioral leadership studies have attempted to establish leadership behavior that is effective under all conditions and in all situations. However, there are little or no such behaviors. The effectiveness of any leadership strategy will depend on the leader, the employees, and the organization of the workplace. This is the primary weakness of behavioral leadership.


However, you can figure out which behaviors are most successful in your organization through trial and error and by studying strategies used in similar organizations., Behavioral leadership strategies can be used to support the two main types of leaders: those who are process-focused and those who are people-focused. Process-focused leaders give more attention to the workplace's organization, the procedures used, and having control over the project. They primarily organize, gather information, and motivate their employees.


People-focused leaders, however, motivate their employees through focusing on them, rather than directly on the process. They spend more time encouraging, coaching, and communicating with employees to make sure their needs are met.
Both methods can be effective for different leaders and organizational structures. Any behavioral leadership strategies used should be used in tandem with these overarching leadership styles.