 This is one of the oldest natural remedies for home plaque removal. Simply shake a small amount of baking soda into a bowl, wet your toothbrush, then dip the bristles into the baking soda to coat. Brush your teeth as normal. If you like, you can also mix a pinch of salt into the baking powder.Avoid brushing with pressure when you use baking soda as toothpaste. Also, do not use baking soda for more than five days in a row because it is abrasive and may damage your tooth enamel if you use it too often.
 Eating an apple or some melon directly after a meal will help to clean your teeth naturally and prevent plaque from building up on the surface of your teeth. This will also help to keep gums healthy and prevent them from bleeding.
 The vitamin C in citrus fruits such as oranges may help to prevent microorganisms from growing on the surface of teeth. Try rubbing the rind of the orange over the surface of your teeth before going to sleep at night.
 Chew a spoonful of sesame seeds, but do not swallow. Then use a dry toothbrush to brush your teeth, using the sesame seeds as a kind of toothpaste. They will help to remove plaque and polish your teeth at the same time., Tomatoes and strawberries, like oranges, are rich in vitamin C. Cut them open and rub the juice on the surface of the teeth, leaving it to sit for about five minutes. Do not use strawberries or tomatoes or apples or oranges or any other plaque removing foods if you're allergic to them. Rinse out your mouth with a solution of baking soda dissolved in water., If you prefer to stay away from the array of chemicals found in most store-bought toothpastes, it is possible to make your own plaque-busting natural version, using just a few simple ingredients. Combine 1/2 cup of coconut oil with 2 to 3 tablespoons of baking soda, 2 little packets of stevia powder and 20 drops of your chosen essential oil, such as peppermint or cinnamon. Store your homemade toothpaste in a small glass jar and use just like regular toothpaste.