 Some injuries last a long time, sometimes even for the rest of the dog's life. Treating these injuries requires patience and consistency. To begin with, give your dog any medicine your vet prescribes, following all instructions precisely.There are variety of medications available for treating the pain that may result from an injury, from anti-inflammatory medications to opioids and more.Talk to your vet about the benefits and possible side effects of any medications he or she recommends.
 Changing what your dog eats can also be helpful in treating injuries. For injuries that have resulted from weakened tissue, a high-quality, meat-based diet is best.There are also a number of supplements, foods, and dog treats formulated especially for helping dogs with joint injuries., If your dog has sustained an injury that makes it difficult to walk or stand, it may benefit from a splint, brace, or cart. There are number of such products available for both short and long-term use.Your vet will be able to help you select the most appropriate option for your dog.
 Some dogs will benefit from a gentle massage of the injured area, once it is no longer too sensitive. Lightly rub affected areas.If the dog exhibits any sign of discomfort, discontinue this immediately. This should be a pleasant experience for your dog, not a painful one.
 An injured dog should not overly exert itself, as this may result in further injury/re-injury of the damaged area. Make sure the dog doesn't, for example, walk or run for too long on an injured leg.


Total lack of exercise isn't a good idea either. This can result in a dog becoming overweight, which can produce its own problems, especially for dogs that have joint injuries., There are a number of herbal remedies that some people have found helpful in soothing the pain of an injured dog. Although these are not medically proven, you may wish to try the following:Boswellia, bupleurum, cayenne, ginger, turmeric, and yucca have all been used to relieve joint pain in both people and animals. They can be applied in compresses.
Hot compresses with these herbs, applied for 10 to15 minute intervals every two to four hours may help relieve your dog's pain.
A cool compress with peppermint can have an immediate soothing effect.

