 Set it to the front-facing camera (the webcam).


If you have a regular camera and a tripod, then use the regular camera. Put it on the tripod and set it so it takes the photo after 5 seconds. The photos will be more stable and you'll have extra time to get ready.;
, White or maroon work best. Try to arrange the lighting and décor so that it produces clear and crisp photos, and looks like a booth.
 Get all of your friends into a silly pose and take 6 selfies with different poses. Have fun with it - you can always take more than 6 to pick the best ones, too.
 Plug your device into your computer. Open up the device's storage and look for your photos. Copy those photos to your desktop.


Open one of them and see if it needs to be rotated. If one needs to be, all of them will be. Rotate all of them to the right way.
 Open Microsoft Publisher (or your desired editing/publishing software) and choose Blank A4 (Portrait).


If using Microsoft Publisher, go to the Page Design Tab.
Choose Create New Page Size.
Set the width to 4 centimeter (1.6 in) and the height to 15 centimeter (5.9 in). Set all the margins to 0.



To resize in Microsoft Publisher, place them all perfectly on top of each other so that you only see one. Drag a box around the one selfie so that you select all of them. If you click the front selfie, you only get the first one and not all of them.
With all the selfies selected, go to the Format tab (it'll have Picture Tools at the top).
In the Size section of the Format tab, make both the height and width 3 centimeter (1.2 in)-3.5 centimeter (1.4 in).
 Click outside of all of the selected selfies and this time click the top one so that you only get the top one. Drag it onto the actual page area, towards the top. Leave a bit of blank space!


Add the next selfie, with a bit of space between the two.
Add the next and last selfies. This time a line should appear, which will tell you when they're spaced perfectly.



Start with a title: Go to the Insert tab and insert a text box below all the selfies. Type something like "Photo Booth" and choose a font.
Add the date. Draw another text box and then type in the date.
Center those text boxes. It's helpful to stretch them out so that both sides of the text boxes are touching either side of the photo strip and then setting them to Centered text (CTRL-E).



Make sure you choose your page size. If your printer can print a smaller size and you have that smaller size paper, print on the smaller sized paper especially if you're only printing one. If you're printing a whole bunch (default), then leave as is on A4.
 If you have paper cutter with a long blade, use that as it saves time.
 Optionally, if they ask where you got it from, just say that you went to a photo booth. Then they would ask how you got so many copies. Say that you just scanned them and reprinted them, or had copies made.

