 Most cases of diarrhea are caused by viruses, like the common flu and others. Viral diarrhea should subside within a couple of days. Wait it out, stay hydrated, rest, and use over-the-counter anti-diarrheals for relief from symptoms., Diarrhea caused by contaminated food or water is often due to bacteria, or sometimes parasites. In this case, your doctor might need to prescribe you specific antibiotics or other medication to treat the infection.If your diarrhea doesn’t improve within 2-3 days, see your doctor to determine whether there’s an infectious cause.


Note that antibiotics will only be prescribed if bacteria is known to be the cause for your diarrhea. Antibiotics are not effective against viruses or other causes, and they can cause unpleasant side effects or worsen your digestive problems if used incorrectly.
 Antibiotics are actually a common cause of diarrhea, because they change the balance of bacteria in your gut. Cancer drugs and antacids with magnesium can also cause or worsen diarrhea. If you have frequent diarrhea and you’re not sure why, ask your doctor about your medications – they may be able to lower your dose or switch you to something different.Never stop or change your prescribed medications without consulting your doctor. This can have serious health consequences.
 Some digestive diseases can cause chronic or frequent diarrhea, including Crohn’s Disease, Ulcerative Colitis, Celiac Disease, Irrirtable Bowel Syndrome, and issues with your gall bladder (or after having it surgically removed). Work with your doctor to control the underlying disease. Your doctor might refer you to an intestine and stomach specialist called a gastroenterologist., For some people, feeling very stressed or anxious can cause stomach upset.Use relaxation techniques on a regular basis to reduce your stress level and during bouts of diarrhea to help ease discomfort. Try meditation or deep breathing exercises. Regularly practice mindfulness, go for walks in nature, listen to music – whatever helps you relax.

