 Keep your brain stimulated and active by picking up a new habit. Practicing something new forms new neural pathways in your brain. Repeating the same action over and over strengthens these newly formed brain pathways. The more you use your brain, the better it will work. If you’re learning a new instrument, practice playing it every day. If you want to learn a new language, practice speaking with others regularly.
Start with small actions and do them repeatedly to train your brain and make it a habit.;
, With so much information just a quick search away, it is easy to avoid using our memory. It’s not as essential to commit things to our brain as it once was, but the practice of remembering things can improve brain function. Repetition is one of the best ways to engage your memory.Memorize a few of your closest friends’ phone numbers to exercise your memory.
 Try to think about a situation from a different viewpoint or perspective. It can be as simple as thinking about why that crazy driver cut you off this morning. It’s easy to think they’re just a reckless driver, but maybe they genuinely didn’t see you there because you were in their blind spot. This will train your brain to think differently and more creatively about various situations.This can help you explore uncomfortable ideas without getting overly emotional about it.
 While you may feel like you are accomplishing more by multi-tasking, you are actually more likely to make mistakes and get frustrated when things go wrong. By not multi-tasking, you can train your brain to focus your attention on one activity at a time and do better work. Break up tasks into smaller blocks of time so that you can dedicate that time solely to what you need to accomplish.It is impossible to focus for hours at a time, so make sure you schedule breaks to regroup.
 Reading a thrilling book can actually enhance your cognitive function.Reading also helps to develop language skills and increase attention spans.Try to read a little bit every day to enjoy the brain benefits.


Pick up a book, magazine, or newspaper and get reading!

