 You can substitute a large, straight-sided skillet as a substitute for a Dutch oven. In either case, fill the receptacle with approximately 2" (5 cm) of water. Bring this to a boil, then add ¼ cup (59.1 ml) of white vinegar to it.When choosing an appropriate skillet, choose one that is deep enough to accommodate all your ingredients. A saute pan will likely be too shallow.;
, While the water in your dutch oven/straight-sided skillet is heating, insert your shallot and garlic into a large, nonstick skillet. Cook this for about one minute over medium-high heat, stirring regularly.

Depending on circumstances, these ingredients may take less time to cook. Generally, you can tell when they're done when emit a strong, fragrant smell., Use a wooden spoon or similar kitchen utensil to stir in the zucchini and tomatoes. Allow this to cook until the zucchini is tender. This should take about 10 minutes. Stir the mixture occasionally while it cooks., When this mixture is finished cooking, remove the skillet from the heat and stir in your seasonings. These include the basil, balsamic vinegar, salt, and a few twists of pepper., At this point, the water in your other dutch oven/skillet should be boiling. Reduce the heat so the water is at a simmer, with steam rising from it along with small bubbles. Crack each egg into a bowl, then gently transfer the egg to the simmering water.

For this recipe to turn out as intended, the egg of each yolk should be unbroken., Allow the eggs to cook for 4 minutes if you want them to be soft, 5 minutes for medium, and 8 minutes for hard. Use a slotted spoon to fish out the eggs. Allow the eggs to dry on a clean kitchen towel or paper towel.Be careful when transferring eggs from your skillet to your kitchen towel or paper towel. The yolks of the eggs should remain unbroken.
 Lay your toasted halves of muffin on a serving plate. Use a wooden spoon or similar utensil to layer the veggie mix on the muffin. Top the veggie mix with your cooked eggs, and enjoy.

For a little extra taste and improved presentation, sprinkle a little bit of cheese and finely cut basil on top the eggs.