 Chickens (especially free-range) like to fly up at night to roost, scratch, jump, run and dig. A minor splinter, cut or scrape can be an entry point for any bacteria to penetrate, and is usually caused by direct contact with fecal matter or wet bedding.;
, Place it in a mixture of 1/2 gallon distilled, warm water, 5 drops Betadine (or Oregano Oil) and 1/4 cup of Epsom salts until the visible scab has softened.
, It should be just about 1/4" outside the circumference of the scab, (do not attempt to remove the scab. It is attached to the heart (AKA: core, kernel, plug) of the Staph infection.
 Position one thumb at either side of the surgical punch (cut/slit), and gently push down (careful not to break or fracture any toes or tiny bones). This is a very painful procedure for the chicken, but the chicken will remain calm.


With continued pressure, the entire staph infection with scab and heart will rise out of the foot. You may notice some blood, but there should never be a stream of blood loss.
 Double check that the entire heart has been removed.


Visual inspection of heart should be either 1. appear dehydrated, solidified or a hardened pus mass. or 2. In the event the pus has not hardened, the visual appearance may be white to yellow, string-like decomposing tissue.
Once infected and dead tissue has been removed and only the remaining, soft, pinkish living tissue is present with some fresh bleeding, prepare the foot for final treatment.
 Add 4 drops of Vetericyn (or Tea Tree Oil), and screw the top back on.
,, Wrap the gauze into place using vetwrap (or similar self adhesive bandage).
 Make sure that it does not interfere with the natural circulation of the foot.
 Provide fresh, clean electrolyte water and fresh food.
 Check for natural healing and if it looks good, apply liquid bandaid (or a drop of honey). If using honey, then apply a small piece of gauze atop, and allow the wound to close and scab for another 3-days.


Upon final inspection, if the wound is closed, return the healing chicken to the range.

