 Hang lamps made of metal and glass in your bedroom for mysterious lighting and an instantly recognizable Moroccan feel. Choose less modern styles for more of an old-world atmosphere.


Get lamps with colored glass to match or complement the other colors in the room.
Hang lamps or lanterns from the ceiling right over your bed, or from the frame of a four-poster canopy bed if you have one, for a cozy focal point.Try making your own lanterns or candle holders with glass jars and paint.;
, Use pillows and cushions in bright colors and patterns to adorn your bed and create soft floor seating. Combine colors, shapes, and sizes for casual vibrance.


Include poufs or low ottomans, as well as rugs and throw blankets, for a cozy low-to-the-ground seating space.
Spice up an old plain pillow by buying or making a pillowcase in a bright color or pattern. You can even paint on a pattern with a stencil and fabric paint., Put down rugs in rich colors and patterns on the floor to make it feel soft and inviting. A striking rug can also provide another point of focus to the room.


Look for rugs that are woven, with simplistic, abstract patterns. Berber rugs, traditionally handwoven and knotted by people in the region, are still a popular style imitated by modern makers.You can also use decadent rugs as wall hangings for a soft, decorative touch.
 Adorn the walls with mirrors, paintings, and images that evoke Morocco and the Middle East. Try mosaic mirrors for a visually unique, light-reflecting look.


Make your own simple wall designs with a Moroccan-themed stencil design, paint, and watercolor paper or canvases.Think of classic Moroccan motifs, like camels or an “Arabian nights” style, when you buy or make your wall decorations.
 Don’t be afraid to add on lots of different textiles in different textures and colors throughout the room. This creates a very soft and rich feeling.


Mix up your bedding with different color fabrics, and have more throw blankets and pillows throughout the room.
Pick curtains that extend all the way to the floor, even if the windows in your bedroom don’t.

