 Measure the width of the slip at the widest point on the hips. Multiply that measurement by 2.5 and add 1 inch (2.54 cm). You will use this as the length of the tulle or crinoline strips. It needs to be considerably wider than your waist to allow for gather.


Once you have that, measure the desired length of your slip and divide it by 4. This will be the width of the first strip (the subsequent strips will be based off of this length (and referred to as the "width base.")). Pieced together, they will comprise the length of your petticoat. Allow an extra inch (2.5 cm) for seam overlap.
In case you haven't noticed yet, this tutorial uses a slip instead of making your own waistband -- it's a bit easier this way.
 Both crinoline and tulle work -- tulle is puffier but it's also itchy and rough to the touch. Either way, you'll end up with three pieces that are exorbitantly long and ranging for not very wide to marginally wide. The technical terms, if you will.


The first strip should be the strip width base by the strip length.
The second strip should be 2 times the strip width base by the strip length.
The third strip should be 3 times the strip width base by the strip length.
 Use a 1/2-inch (1.25 cm) seam allowance. Your result will be 3 loops of equal length and non-equal width.


Once you've completed this part, zigzag stitch one long edge of each strip to keep it from unraveling. The zigzag stitch is great for reinforcing and preventing tears.
 Make a line of stitching 1/4 inch (.6 cm) from the unfinished long edge of each tulle strip. Using the straight stitch here is fine.


Make a second line of long basting stitches 1/4 inch (.635 cm) from the first. The two parallel lines are strengthening, pleasing to the eye, and aid in gathering.
 What was once 2.5 times the width of your waist should now resemble a human-sized width. They should all be perky and ruffly now!

, Align the top hem of the strip and the bottom hem of the slip to one another. Stitch the strip to the slip with a 1/2" seam allowance. Again, a straight stitch is appropriate here.


Make sure you pin it on and sew evenly! You don't want it bunched in certain areas and laying flat in others.
 Pin the middle strip that measurement above the top of the strip you attached to the slip. Basically, if your widest strip is 15" (38 cm), you would have 4" (10 cm) of it showing at the bottom of your petticoat. Stitch the second strip to your slip using the same method as you did with the first.


Pinning first is always easier and guarantees that your ruffles lay evenly.
 Then, stitch it to the slip using the same method. Your petticoat is now ready to wear under your skirt! Your once boring slip is now frilly and adds volume to any dress!


If it's not ruffly enough for you, simply add another tier. Or three.

