 Meditation is an ancient practice linked to reduced rates of depression, anxiety and pain. In addition to improving physical and mental health, you can get more in-tune with your inner thoughts and feelings with meditation. The practice may help you in your search for bliss.Meditation may seem difficult for beginners, but it comes down to three simple steps: Find a comfortable seat. Focus on deep breathing. Return your attention to your breath when it wanders.Enhance your meditative state by designing a sacred space just for your practice. You might sit on a cushion, light a candle, or place a vase of flowers or a potted plant nearby. Start by practicing for about five minutes daily.;
, Take time each day to reflect on the events of that day. Journaling can help you spot recurring thought patterns, such as events or activities that bring you great joy. After a period of journaling, you may become more aware of your bliss.Take just five to ten minutes to journal daily.
 Often considered moving meditation, yoga is an excellent choice if you find meditation too intimidating. Yoga allows you to develop a deep, meaningful connection with your body and mind.


In addition, yoga also promotes body acceptance, encourages mindful eating, and offers cardiovascular benefits—all of which may bring you closer to your bliss.Either sign up for a class locally or watch a tutorial on YouTube. There are many types of yoga, so try out a few before committing to your practice.
 Beyond its natural beauty, the great outdoors can offer you an escape from the demands of daily life. Time spent in natural environments helps with psychological restoration, enabling you to release your troubles and get closer to your bliss.You may even find that in addition to clearing your mind for greater awareness, nature may function as a great source of joy for you.Dedicate at least 30 minutes each day to being outdoors. You don’t have to go to the mountains or wilderness. A green space in your city, such as a garden or park, offers benefits, too.
 Finding your bliss is about self-discovery. Many people find spiritual and/or religious practices help them gain greater understanding into their purpose in life, and ultimately their bliss. There are many ways to get in touch with your spirituality: nature, silence, meditation, prayer, and music, among others.How you activate your spirituality doesn’t matter. What matters is that you open your mind to discovering more about yourself and your existence.

