 Babies may not be able to lift themselves up yet, but it's important to encourage that skill. You can do this by having your baby spend some time playing on their stomach. You can start having your baby play on their stomach as early as zero to three months of age, though you'll still need to closely supervise your baby at all times.By having your baby play on their stomach, you'll help your child develop muscles in the hands, arms, and shoulders.
All of the muscles worked while lifting off the floor are essential muscle groups needed to develop gripping and hand use.
Once your baby is around four months old, you can begin having them play in different positions. Learning to play in different positions, like on the baby's side, helps build strength and develop motor skills.
 Operating individual fingers is a somewhat advanced skill for babies. Children under 10 months of age may not be able to move individual fingers on their own. However, you can try this activity to show your baby that each finger can move.Gather yarn in several different colors.
Tie short strands of yarn onto each finger. It should be slightly snug but not tight at all.
Make sure there are no repeat colors directly next to each other. You want your baby to be able to see that each finger is different.
Slowly and gently lift one finger after another. The goal is for your baby to see each finger move independent from the rest and understand that each finger has that ability.
 Once your baby understands that individual fingers can move independently, you can continue that muscle strength by encouraging clay play. Your baby may already have experience playing with playdough; poking holes in dough or clay will help your child learn how to operate each individual finger.Roll some clay out flat and give it to your child. You can encourage poking by gently guiding your baby's fingers to the clay.
This activity may be difficult for babies under the age of 10 months. However, you can start your baby early and teach how to poke even if your baby can't do it independently yet.

