 When a contact lens falls out, time is an issue. The longer you wait, the more susceptible the lens will be to germs and damage. Also, any motion on the floor can cause the lens to shift and become more difficult to find. As soon as a lens falls out, begin looking. Do not move around too much from the original spot where the lens was lost. Remove your shoes so you won't crush or damage the lens if you accidentally step on it.;
, A good trick to find small objects lost in the carpet is wrapping a nylon sock, panty hose, or other material around the nozzle of a vacuum. This way, when you turn the vacuum on the suction will still work but the lens will not be sucked into the vacuum.


Use a pair of old socks or panty hose. Wrap them around the nozzle of a vacuum.Slowly move the nozzle over the part of the carpet where you dropped the contact lens. Then, examine the socks or pantyhose to see if the contact lens is stuck to them.You may have to go over quite a bit of carpet before you're successful. Contact lenses are lightweight and sometimes fall far from where you were standing., A flashlight can also be used to find missing items. As contact lenses may reflect off the light, using a flashlight can be particularly helpful. It can make the lens more visible.


Turn off all the lights in your house and pull any blinds closed. Try to get the room as dark as possible.Take a flashlight and lie it down horizontally on the floor. Rotate the flashlight slowly, sort of like a lighthouse, until you find the contact lens., Contact lenses can cause eye irritation if they're cracked or torn. Once you've located the contact lens, take it into a bright room and examine it under light. Look for any cracks or tears. If the lens is damaged, do not try to put it in as this can cause eye irritation. Replace it with a new lens or wear your glasses., Once you've made sure your contact lens is damage free, you'll need to clean it. You do not want to put anything in your eye that could contain bacteria or debris.


If possible, disinfect your contact overnight by putting it in a case with solution. If you need your lens back in immediately, wash it thoroughly with solution before putting it back in your eye.Do not use saliva or tap water to clean your contact lens. These liquids have bacteria that can lead to eye infections. Always go with solution specifically made for contact lenses., When going out, you should be prepared in the event a contact falls out. Always carry your glasses, spare lenses, and solution. You do not want to end up vision impaired while at work, school, or running errands.