 You should move into retire position on releve. At the same time, close your left arm into first position and bring the left side of your back around.









Make sure, while turning, you keep your hips stacked under your shoulders, there should be no curve in your spine. This will ensure better balance

, Imagine you're bringing that retire higher as you turn. This will also keep your center up and balanced. Make sure your foot is still connected to your leg.









Keep your supporting leg nice and straight, and don't sickle your feet. Sickling means that you let your ankle slouch and you lose your balance. Also remember to spot, so you don't get dizzy. Don't try double or triple pirouettes if you can't get a single down.
 Imagine someone is pulling you by a string on the top of your head. The turn will come naturally when you learn to go up. Focusing too hard on the spin causes inexperienced ballet dancers to tilt slightly, losing balance. Focus instead on going up and nailing the mechanics of the turn.
 As you are turning, look at a spot on the wall level with your eyes and as you rotate, attempt to keep it in sight at all times, you'll have to whip your head around to find it again with each rotation. This is called spotting.


Stop and return to fourth position. Your feet should be placed in the same position they were when you started.
 Before attempting multiple turns, try to balance at the end of a single turn before landing. More force generally equals more rotations, but it is also a timing thing. Too much force will send you careening across the room and you will lose control. Equally, too little power and you'll stop dead in your tracks and fall face first. The proper amount of power comes with experience and you'll soon be able to tell whether you have too much power or not enough.


For the first few tries, only attempt a single pirouette to familiarize your body with the feeling and motion. It takes time to work up to a double, triple, or a quad. You may even want to start with only quarter/half turns. If you try doubles/triples right away you will be disappointed.
 Remember, every ballerina has fallen on a pirouette at least once. Practice makes perfect. It doesn't take long to be able to do a pirouette and once you get the hang of it, it feels quite natural.








