 Ask your teacher what the exam contains. Most exams consist of playing pieces with or without music, playing scales and arpeggios, aural tests, general knowledge, and sight reading.;
,,,, Scales are a lot to memorize. Don't learn them in order; instead, mix them up a bit.
, Ask your teacher to spend ten minutes at the end of each lesson practising this. You may be more worried about your pieces, but it is a good idea to start this as early as possible!


Sight reading is easy once you get the hang of it. Remember the key signatures and the beats in the 30 seconds the examiner gives, try out the piece both handed.
Aural is easy if you know your notes. They will ask you to say the notes, clap the rhythm, sing the piece and they will also ask you two features of a piece. To succeed in Aural, you need to learn the musical words.
, Try to learn to play without looking at the keys.



Many examiners give you enough time to play the piece through, even if the time they set you is, for example, 30 seconds. To cheat a little, play the piece through twice without stopping. It is likely that they won't realise until you play it for the real time, and therefore you will have two rehearsals.
 The examiner is looking for quality of your playing.
 Firstly, look at the time signature and key signature. Then, get the beat in your head (count 1-and-2-and-3-and...). You can also tap with your foot if you want. Look over the lines and get a feel for what it might sound like. Then, slowly play the notes, perhaps saying the notes in your head as you play them. If you make a mistake, keep going.
 Keep playing your pieces every day. When you're practicing, try playing the pieces twice through without stopping each time you play them.
, Your teacher should give you the pieces well ahead of time and will give you plenty of time to prepare. Keep practicing the pieces until they're in your head. While at school or work, tap out the song with your fingers on a desk or table. If you can tap right through without stopping or hesitating, you are probably all set. If you stop or forget what comes next, it usually means you still need to practice it. Once you have the notes down, add dynamics. Dynamics are usually easier, because once you have the feeling of the song, you can infer the dynamics.
, Most people like to start with a technically demanding piece and end with their favourite.
 Chances are you will be given a list of scales for your exam beforehand, and the examiner will pick a couple at random for you to play.



One of the most important parts of playing a scale is to know which key your fourth finger goes on. If the fourth finger is on the correct key, everything else will fall into place.
It can sometimes help to say the fingering in your head as you play, for example thinking "1-2-3-1-2-3-4-5". Concentrate on the hand that requires most work, and the other hand usually falls naturally into place.
Fingering is also key for scales and arpeggios.



When clapping the beat, clap hard on a strong beat (the start of a bar), and more softly on a weak beat.



If you clapped "strong-weak-weak", it is in triple time. "Strong-weak" implies dual time, and "strong-weak-weak-weak" quadruple.
 If there were usually three shorter notes in each beat (or a multiple of three), it is compound time. If there were usually two or a multiple of two, it is simple time.
 These include 2/4, 3/4, 4/4, 5/4 and 3/8. The lower number signifies what each beat is (2 means a minim; 4 a crotchet; 8 a quaver and so on). The higher number is how many are in a bar (eg: 3/8 is three quavers).
 These include 6/8, 9/8, 12/8 and 12/16. Complex time signatures are mixtures of simple and compound time, such as 5/8 and 7/8. There are usually different ways to split up the beat. Complex time can also be fitted into more usual time signatures such as 4/4, for example by the main beats being two dotted crotchets, then a crotchet.
 For example, in simple 3/8 there are three beats of three quavers in a bar. In compound 3/8 there is one beat in a bar, which can be subdivided into three quavers.
 You might be asked a series of questions after the administrator plays a piece. Study the syllabus for your examination for details. Some questions might be, "was the piece played piano fortissimo at the beginning?", "was the middle section staccato or legato?", "was there a ritardando at the end?", "was there a decrescendo at the end?". Make sure you learn all the terminology for this.

