 Oak is porous, and if the pores were not filled during construction, your paint job may look pock marked. It is a good idea to check with a professional to see what paint, primer or sandpaper is specifically necessary for your oak cabinets.;
, Ask the hardware clerk for a high-quality paint that is formulated for kitchen cabinets. Low quality paints can result in drawers and doors that get stuck after reinstallation.


If you want to replace the hardware in your doors, take the old pulls and hinges to the hardware store, so you can be sure you are buying the right measurements. New cabinet hardware is often made in different sizes than older hardware.
 Rinse thoroughly and dry with clean towels. The detergent you use should be identified as a grease-cutting detergent.


If the cabinets are extremely old or dirty, you should use trisodium phosphate (TSP) to cut the grease on your cabinets. This is an industrial strength cleaner that should be used with extreme caution. You can use 1/2 cup of TSP mixed with 2 gallons (7.5 l) of water. Make sure to ventilate the area well and rinse thoroughly before drying.
 A garage works well for this purpose. Cover the garage floor with drop cloths and bring in sawhorses.
 Write the location of the cabinet on a piece of blue tape and stick it in the inside of the door or drawer to help you reinstall correctly. Place the drawers and door fronts in your workshop.


Store the hardware in small plastic bags to ensure you don't lose anything during the removal process.
 Place a piece of painter's tape behind the hole, to keep the putty from spilling out of the other end. Allow it to dry and then lightly sand the surface with 220-grit sandpaper.
 Cover the floor and appliance surfaces with drop cloths or newspaper. Tape them down at the edges.
 Spend extra time making sure it is sanded, if the oak has a thick polyurethane coating. Sweep off the dust and wipe the surfaces with tack cloth.
 Apply 1 coat and allow it to dry for 24 hours. If the hardware store professional told you that your oak surface has not been filled, you will need to use an extra thick primer.


For best results, rent a paint sprayer from a hardware store to apply primer and paint to the doors and drawers. Otherwise, use small foam rollers for the cabinet surfaces that remain in the house. If you don't have a paint sprayer, use a foam roller on the doors and an angled brush to get into the smaller spaces. It is not recommended that you use a brush to do all the surfaces.
 Wipe it with a tack cloth. Apply a second coat of primer, and wait 24 hours before painting again.
 Apply the paint with a small foam roller to cabinet ends inside the house. Allow the coat to dry for 24 hours, unless otherwise directed by the paint's label.
 This amount will depend upon how well the paint covers your current finish.
 Some people wait up to 2 weeks to ensure the paint is well-cured and will not stick.


If you plan to paint the inside of your doors, wait 5 days before turning them and repeating the primer and paint procedure.
, Dispose of drop cloths. Clean your paint rollers and brushes thoroughly.

