 If all else fails, just grab something to eat! Each town has a specialty food item you can buy from the Chef NPCs, indicated by a hat icon hovering above them. Certain food items have certain stats they boost, like how a Golden Fried Chicken bought in Crescent Hill can improve your DMG by 231 points for an hour or how the Enthralling Baumkuchen of Demarech Mines boosts your Speed by 408 points for 30 minutes.
 If you can find some ingredients, like Fragrant Flowers or Chopped Nuts, from gatherable plants and items in the map, you can improve them even further! For example, the Golden Fried Chicken can be improved by gathering some Crescent Vanilla from the Crescent Flowers growing about near town and in the Flower Fields. If you right-click on the Crescent Vanilla, you’ll be taken to the Fusion screen, and when you click “Fuse,” you’ll be given a random improved version of your chicken. The quality, from lowest to highest, is green, orange, purple, then finally gold. Do note that fusing yourself some food costs money, in addition to what you paid to buy the food item to begin with.


Some recipes, like the Double-Colored Biscuits of Cactakara Forest and the Enthralling Baumkuchen of Demarech Mines require 2 ingredients, one of which is found in other areas. You can usually figure which ingredient can be used to improve which food item, but you won’t know if it needs another ingredient until you try to fuse the food and the ingredient.
 If you have money to spare and good reflexes, you can buy some Cooking Utensils from the Chefs for 1 Gold each. This will unlock the Manual Cooking option, which lets you play a minigame for a sure chance to get high-quality foods if you succeed. Each recipe has it’s own required tool, classified as Speed (knife), Complex (kitchen set), and Skill (skillet) recipes. You can figure out what tools to use by hovering over the “Unidentified (food name)” item in the Result area in the Fusion menu. Equip your desired tool with a right-click, then choose “Manual Cooking” to get started. You still need to pay the fee to cook, though.


The cooking minigame is simple enough: just click on the wrong ingredient, as indicated at the start of the game, before it reaches the red line at the left side of the minigame screen. The less wrong ingredients go through the line, the better the quality. And if you end the minigame with a full bar, you even get two gold-level food items instead of one!

