 For many people, going to the dentist can be an unpleasant experience. But it you do your research and find a dentist who makes you feel comfortable, you'll likely feel much more at ease. Ask your friends and relatives for recommendations. You can also read online reviews from previous patients. Make sure to choose a dentist who listens carefully and thoroughly explains all of your options., Your dentist might recommend laser whitening to help eradicate the nicotine stains on your teeth. This process involves painting your teeth with a peroxide solution and exposing your teeth to very strong light. This is a painless procedure that takes anywhere from 15 minutes to one hour., With this option, your dentist will use a bleaching agent to whiten your teeth. Sometimes, you might be sent home with a mouth tray and a supply of bleaching gel. Your dentist will instruct you to wear the tray for a certain amount of time each day. Other times, she might do the entire bleaching procedure in the office. Either way, it is painless.Be aware of risks. One of the most common side effects is increased sensitivity in your teeth. Ask your dentist about this possibility.In addition, in some cases, depending on the bite or the concentration of the whitening substance, tooth structure becomes weak and teeth may experience small cracks or even chip.
 Porcelain laminate veneers are paper thin "shells" made from porcelain that are used to create the appearance of bright, healthy teeth. The dentist will remove some of your tooth enamel, then apply a layer of adhesive, followed by the veneer. Veneers are considered one of the most effective ways to whiten and brighten your smile. Plus, they are stain-resistant. Ask your dentist if they are an option for you.There is also an option for "no-prep" veneers, which does not require the dentist to remove enamel before applying the veneer. This is not appropriate for everyone, however, so talk to your dentist to see if you are a candidate.
There are also composite veneers, which are less expensive than porcelain veneers. They are made of composite resin, which is a tooth-colored filling material., Any trip to the dentist can be pricey. Even if you have dental insurance, many plans to not cover whitening, as it is considered a cosmetic procedure. Contact your insurance company to find out the details of your coverage. Then, contact your dentist to inquire about pricing for the procedure that interests you.Once you know how much money you need to spend to reduce the appearance of nicotine stains, start planning your budget. It is possible that your dentist accepts payment plans. If not, come up with some ways to pinch your pennies.

