 The key to making this work is to convince people ahead of time that you're going to levitate. Ask people to stand back, as there is an inherent risk of falling during levitation, especially if your concentration is broken. Say this with authority, and people will want to believe you!






;
, Obviously, you are not going to actually float in the air, but the key to any good magic is that you set the expectations of your audience. Ask for a volunteer to come look for wires or gimmicks of any kind—which, of course, they will not find!








, When the volunteer returns to the group, stand in front of your audience, facing away, with your body positioned at about a 45-degree angle from them. Turn so that they can see your left foot and heel, and the back of your right heel.









If they ask you to face them, tell them you can't, for fear of losing concentration.
 Levitating is hard work: you're defying physics and the laws of gravity! Show that you are concentrating, trying to focus your energy so that you can pull yourself up into the air.









You can put your arms out, palms down, like you're about to push something down.
Take a deep breath, as if you're filling yourself with lighter-than-air energy.
 As you feel the universal energy course through your body, push down with your hands as if you're trying hard to lift yourself. At the same time, use your hidden right toes to slowly push yourself up a few inches, keeping your heels together.









Remember to keep the heel of your free foot (the one facing the audience) level with the ground. This helps the illusion of level levitation.
 You can use a number of methods to de-levitate:









Reverse your hands so they're palms-up, and push against the sky to push yourself back down.
Snap your arms together, and "fall" back to earth, bending your knees as if you have fallen from a greater height.
If you're not using your arms as props, nod your head briefly and "fall" back to earth.
Exhale clearly, as if you're deflating yourself, and settling back down.

