 Dental bone loss in its early stages is difficult to detect just by looking at your teeth. Dentists usually need radiographs or a CT-Scan to see if your bone is shrinking. If you haven't consulted with your dentist for a long time, chances are you'd only realize that you have dental bone loss during its more severe stages.


You can observe some changes if you are suffering from bone loss. These changes happen because your bone is shrinking and supporting your teeth less effectively. Note that these changes only develop over time:
Flaring of teeth
Formation of spaces in between teeth
Teeth feel loose and can be moved from side to side
Tilting of teeth
Rotating of teeth
Your bite feels different compared to before

, Periodontitis or severe gum disease, caused by the bacteria found in plaque, results in dental bone loss. The bacteria present in plaque inhabit your gums and secrete toxins that cause your bone to shrink.


Additionally, your immune system can contribute to bone loss as it is in the process of killing bacteria. This is because your immune cells secrete substances (e.g., matrix metalloproteinases, IL-1 beta, prostaglandin E2, TNF-alpha) that can also promote bone loss.
 Diabetes is a disease that is caused by the impairment of insulin production (Type I) and resistance to insulin (Type 2). Both types of diabetes have effects on oral health. People suffering from diabetes often have severe gum problems that can result in dental bone loss.


People with diabetes are hyperglycemic, or have elevated blood sugar levels that promotes the growth of bacteria responsible for bone loss.
People with diabetes have impaired host defenses because their white blood cells are weakened, making them more prone to infection.
 Osteoporosis is a disease often seen in women over the age of 60, wherein bone density decreases. This decrease is due to an imbalance in the calcium-phosphate equilibrium that helps maintain the mineral content of bone, combined with decreased estrogen levels.


A decrease in overall bone density also affects dental bone, putting it at risk for bone loss.
 Dental bone often shrinks as soon as you lose your teeth. After teeth removal, a blood clot will form and white blood cells go to the site where your tooth was previously located to clear the area of bacteria and damaged tissue. A few weeks after, new cells will go to the area to continue this clearing process. These cells (osteons) can promote bone formation.


However, these cells will only do so in the presence of teeth, because they demand bone for support. Since there are no teeth, there won't be any function for the bone and these cells will not create new bone.

