 You can use an open source processor on Google Drive or a fresh piece of paper in a typewriter; however, formal business letters should always be typed and printed, with a signature in pen.;
, At minimum, formal letterhead includes the person’s name, the name of the business, the address of the business, phone number and usually a company logo. This information takes the place of a sender’s address in the body of the letter.
 Only include your street address, city, state and zip code on the first two lines in the upper right hand side of the page. You don’t need to put your name or title, since it will be included in the closing at the bottom of the letter.


You may also choose to include your email address or phone number, if your letter suggests contacting you by one of those methods.
 Use a month, day and year format, such as “May 4, 2014.” You can include it two spaces below your address on the right or on the left.


There is a lot of variation on which side the date is written, so look for another piece of correspondence from your company to use as an example.
Dates in the UK may be written with the day, month and year. For example, “4 May 2014.”, This is also called the “inside address” and it should include the name of the person with title, the address in US Post Office or Royal Mail format. Include the name of the company, if applicable, on a line between the person’s name and the address.


Don’t indent the address, date, salutation or paragraphs. The paragraphs in a business letter are separated by spaces and begin flush with the left hand side.
If you are writing to a foreign country, type the country in all capital letters on the last line.
The inside address should be approximately one inch (2.5 cm) below the date if the date is on the left hand side, or it should be one space below the date if it is on the right hand side.
 Then, begin your salutation with “Dear” and the person’s title and name. For example, “Dear Mr. Reading” or “Dear President Reading.” Include a colon after the salutation.
 Finish it with a formal salutation, a signature and your name and title.