 Before you go through the work and expense of licensing your business name, you need to choose a strong distinctive name that will differentiate your company from your competitors. For example, if you make candy that includes natural low-calorie ingredients, a name like "The Clever Candy Co." is going to be stronger and more distinctive than "Healthy Candy.", Using an Internet search engine, you can check to see if any other companies are using the same or a very similar name. Use of a name by another company does not automatically disqualify your use. That company may be in a different state or country or sell different products. For example, a "Clever Candies and Cakes," operating on the other side of the country may be distinguishable from "The Clever Candy Co.". The test is - will your customers be confused and mistake you for another company? If so, then choose another name., Once you decide on a name, begin to brand your business. Put the name on your products, your literature, your advertising, and business cards. Logo t-shirts are a good way to get your customers to associate you with your business.Openly using your business name in commerce supports your trademark and licensing of your name. You begin accruing common law rights to the name.
 There are four basic types of business entities: corporations, Limited Liability Companies (LLC), partnerships, and sole proprietorships.If you have questions, consult with a business or tax lawyer on choosing the best business structure for you.


A corporation or LLC creates a separate legal business entity that can help deflect potential legal liability from your company. The downside is they are more complicated and expensive to set up and there are enhanced tax filing responsibilities. Consult with a tax professional about the additional filing deadlines and tax expense.A sole proprietorship means you have all legal and financial responsibilities for your business. It requires no additional legal framework and tax reporting is the least complicated of the business entities. You also assume all legal liability for the operation of your business.A partnership is when two or more people run the business together. There should be a partnership agreement splitting the earnings and legal liability. There is extra tax filing responsibilities in a partnership.How you structure your company will dictate some of the business name licensing requirements. State laws vary, but generally if you form a corporation or Limited Liability Company (LLC), you will have to register your business name., The US Small Business Administration (SBA), recommends registering your business name, also known as a "Doing Business As"(DBA) name with the appropriate state registry.Go to your state's Secretary of State, Corporations Commission, or Commerce Department to find out if your state has a DBA registry.You can contact them by phone or through the state agency's website.
State laws vary, but generally if you form a corporation or Limited Liability Company (LLC), you will have to register your DBA.Some states, such as California, charge you a fee for every search to determine if your proposed business name is available.Other states have searchable databases and only charge a fee once the name is registered.Expect to pay around $100 to secure your business name with the state registry.
There is no single procedure for registering your business name, if required, with the state. Each state has a different procedure. The website will either have an online procedure or contact information for receiving the instructions.
 Local business name licensing varies by county and even the cities and towns within the county. You will need to contact your local county clerk and city clerk to determine if you must get a business license to operate locally.If your company handles food, you may also need licenses from the state and local health department.
 The United States Patent and Trademark Office maintains a national trademark registry for business names, products, and services. If you use your business name to identify your goods and services (for example, "The Clever Candy Co. Heavenly Fudge,") you should consider registering your business name and logo as trademarks.


Trademark registration is not automatic ownership, but it is legal notice to potential competitors that you claim the business name., The USPTO "Trademark Electronic Application System" is the easiest and most economical way to register your trademark. By choosing standardized categories and procedures you can save up to 30 percent on the registration fee.The registration process typically takes six to nine months.
 When you begin using your trademark in commerce, you can add "TM" to your business name in connection to your products and services. Once the process is complete, you can add the distinctive "Circle R" symbol, denoting a registered trademark. On your packaging, you can also add the attribution "is a registered trademark of of ."The symbols are optional, but powerful. First, it puts competitors on notice that you claim the business name and it can look professional to your customers.

