 Many companies are increasingly offering insect repellents that don’t contain chemicals. Considering trying one of these natural products, which are as effective as natural products you can make using lavender.Companies such as California Baby, Buzz Away, and Bite Blocker offer natural, non-chemical, non-toxic and hypoallergenic insect repellents.Ask your doctor or pharmacist for recommendations for natural bug repellents that you can buy.
 Recent studies have shown that using a plastic bracelet or clip-on device that diffuse natural insect repellents are effective at keeping bugs from attacking you.Wristbands allow you to wear a repellent at all times and provide protection within a radius of a foot or two. Clip-on devices will either attach to a belt, or even a chair if you prefer to not have it on you.Buy wristband and devices and pharmacies, large retailers, and health food stores.
 Studies have shown that citronella candles may reduce insect bites.Burn citronella candles in areas that you will be to keep bugs at bay.


Buy a candle with a concentration of citronella that is 5-10%.Make sure to burn the candle for as long as you are outside or in an area where there are a lot of bugs because the oils can evaporate quickly and lose efficacy, leaving you unprotected., If you’re going to be in an area infested with bugs or outside for longer periods of time, wear loose, long-sleeved shirts and pants. This may keep insects from attacking you.Wear moderately thick fabric so that bugs cannot bite through material., Certain environmental factors can deter insects or keep them at bay. From using fans to filling puddles, you can make the environment around you unappetizing for insects.Place window, overhead, or standing fans around your home. Many insects have a difficult time navigating in the wind.Get rid of any standing water in your yard that can attract insects and promote breeding. This includes emptying birth baths and filling puddles., Studies have shown that most bug zappers and ultrasonic devices don’t work. In fact, they may kill bugs beneficial to birds and your garden.Scientists have not done enough research on insect traps, which mimic a breathing animal or person. In addition, these devices can be loud as they run on a gas powered engine.