 If you want to gain weight, go here for a discussion of how to do so in a healthy way. Doctors generally agree that other factors are more responsible for weight gain or weight loss than your metabolism.These factors include:


How many calories you consume daily.
How much and how intensely you exercise.
Your genetics and family history.
The medications you may be taking.
Other unhealthy habits such as not getting enough sleep.
 Slowing your metabolism can involve some pretty unpleasant things: skipping meals, eating few calories, etc. Proper, medically-sound weight gain often involves:


Increasing caloric intake. Eating more calories than your body burns in a day.
Addressing any underlying medical issue that might be causing you to lose weight, e.g. thyroid issues, diabetes, anorexia nervosa.
 If you want to decrease your metabolic rate, start skipping meals. This is not a healthy way to lower your metabolism, but it's effective. Skipping meals causes the body to think that it might have to start preparing for famine, causing it to lower its metabolism in an effort to save energy., When you give your body fewer calories, it compensates by lowering your overall metabolic rate.And it makes sense: with fewer overall calories to work with, your body can't expect to use the same amount of energy that it can when it's getting more calories.



Note: When you give your body fewer calories, it might start burning muscles or body tissue in order to compensate for the lack of calories it's getting. If you are already skinny, this isn't a good method for weight gain.
 Every time you sleep, your metabolic rate dips and then remains suppressed for a period after you awaken., Studies show that sugars and fruit are digested and absorbed more rapidly than complex carbohydrates, such as bread, producing a rollercoaster of blood sugar with high peaks and low troughs.It has also been shownthat the total carbohydrate oxidation over a six-hour period is lower with complex carbohydrates (bread and maize starch) than with sugars.Sucrose (table sugar) also contains fructose, while complex carbohydrates are made up exclusively of glucose units. Fructose consumption results in greater thermogenesis (calorie burning) than glucose consumption.Choose high-fiber foods such as grains (especially whole grains) and vegetables. High-fiber meals have been shown to reduce thermogenesis (calorie burning) for six hours after eating., Of all the foods you can eat, nuts and seeds, which contain almost no moisture and provide healthful unsaturated fats, have the highest caloric density, packing in the most calories per ounce. Polyunsaturated fats, such as those in nuts, have been shown to be oxidized more slowly than monounsaturated fats.Nuts and seeds are also rich in the amino acid arginine. Arginine is used by the body to make nitric oxide, a gas that has been shown to reduce the metabolic rate.