 Your preteen or teen will need an additional three servings of grains per day. Depending on their appetite, you could increase their portions of rice or pasta for lunch and dinner by half to help meet their needs.You could also include more whole wheat snacks during the day. Trying having them eat at least five whole wheat crackers or a mini bagel.
 Your older child will need an additional serving of veggies. An extra glass of vegetable juice, a larger portion of salad with lunch, or adding a veggie snack like carrot sticks can help fulfill their requirement.Remember to vary the kinds of veggies they consume.
 You can help your older child add the extra fruit requirement by including fruit in snacks, having them drink more juice, or by adding fruit to breakfast options.Slice up a banana into their breakfast cereal for an extra healthy portion of fruit. Try including a container of applesauce with lunch. Have them eat a large orange as an afterschool snack.
 An extra glass of milk is the easiest way to get that extra serving of dairy. A few slices of cheese, or a portion about half the size of a tennis ball, for a snack will add the needed serving. You can also have them eat a container of yogurt as a snack, too.Low or nonfat options are the healthiest sources of dairy.
 You can increase each portion of protein at lunch and dinner by a half ounce (14 g) to meet an older child’s additional requirement. Other healthy portion sizes that will help meet their protein requirement include an extra ping pong ball-sized scoop of peanut butter or hummus. Snacking on unsalted nuts, such as 12 almonds or 24 pistachios, will also help your child get additional protein., Guidelines for portion sizes are generally designed for kids that get the recommended 30 to 60 minutes of daily exercise. If your child plays a sport or is more active, they will need an additional portion or two of each food group, depending on their age, sex, and level of activity.Their pediatrician can help you determine the best amount of each food group. Keep in mind that feeding them more meals and snacks in between meals, rather than one or two larger meals, is better for their metabolism and energy level.

