 You can play games just with one other person to make the test more focussed. These games will work in the same way as those involving the whole class, but will require each person to answer more questions. Some examples of games that can easily be turned into one-on-one tests are Battleships, and Connect 4.


For each turn a player must get a question correct before picking a square to hit in Battleships, or a place to add a chip in Connect 4.
If you are doing this in class, you could make a regular feature at the end of the lesson.
You could create a tournament or league table from ten minute games of Connect 4.
Remember that you will need a lot more questions with the answers prepared to keep it going.
 There are lots of online quizzes that you can take to help you with your studying. Short quizzes can be a good way to break up the monotony of studying. They can also help you assess your knowledge, identify any weak areas, and give you practice of working with a time limit. Set aside ten minutes at the end of each study session for a quick quiz.Research suggests that multiple choice tests that offer a gaming element are often more fun and engaging for students.Try to set goals and have rewards for good results.
 If you want something a little different from a normal quiz, you can try out some PowerPoint games. These are like the games you might play in class, but are designed to be played on your own when you are studying.Games will often give you a scenario and a path that you can progress down by getting multiple choice questions right.


In one example, you will have to manoeuvre a spaceship and complete a rescue mission., You make tests a bit more fun by adding in a jokey question at the end. Having a joke question at the end of a test can be a nice surprise that helps you relax when you reach the end of the exam.An example of a joke question could be:


Q. How many psychiatrists does it take to change a light bulb?


A. One, but the bulb has to want to change.
B. None, the bulb has to change itself., You can add a little humour to a test while still asking a serious question. For example, you could frame a maths question so that it is about a celebratory. You can alter a question that asks "an object falls at 10m/s from a height of 250m. How long does it take to reach the ground?"


A funnier version could be "I pushed Justin Bieber off a cliff 250m high, and he fell at a speed of 10m/s. How long did he take to hit the ground?"