 If you live in a big city, such as New York or Los Angeles, then having an agent is ideal. However, if you live in a small or mid-size city with a population of less than one million, then you may want to consider working as a freelance model. While agencies in large cities will often cover the cost of things like headshots, agencies in smaller cities will not and they may also charge more for their services in order to stay in business.Keep in mind that working as a freelance model will mean that you are in charge of your own booking, development, billing, and dispute resolution. If you do not think that you are up to the task, then try to find an agent.
 Networking is a great way to meet models and people in the modeling industry who can help you to find modeling jobs. Networking involves meeting people, getting to know them in a casual, conversational way, and then asking them for suggestions and advice about how to find jobs.


Attend modeling industry events in your area. Mixers, parties, and other events can offer you some great networking opportunities. Make sure that you add these events to your calendar and start making yourself a regular presence in the modeling world.
Try to meet people who have influence. For example, someone who hires models for a magazine is more influential than someone who has modeled for that magazine.However, keep in mind that someone who it not influential today may be influential tomorrow, so be nice to everyone.Be friendly and engaging. It may be tempting to start talking about your career and as for help finding a job, but this is a mistake. Instead, try to have a nice, friendly conversation with everyone you meet. Ask questions, listen, and show genuine interest., Whether you plan to freelance or work with an agency, consider setting up a web site as another kind of digital portfolio. As a marketing tool, a web site under your own name will make you easier to find, and you can direct potential clients to a wider variety of your work.Social media sites are not as professional as a web site, and so potential clients might not take you seriously. In addition, on a web site of your own, you have control over the content and the format in a way that you do not on social media.
Make sure that your web site is attractive, professional, and easy to navigate. Potential clients want to get to your pictures and reel quickly, so make links to your work as clear as possible.
 These sites are a clearinghouse for models seeking work and clients looking for models. Most of them require membership fees, but a few reputable free sites do exist.Many sites allow you to tag your modeling interests, such as fashion, athletic, or parts modeling.
These sites often include photographers, too, so you can make new contacts with professionals in that field and further build your portfolio.
Use caution when listing your name and photographs online. Some of these listing sites have raised significant concerns about predators posing as photographers or agents. Models have been sexually assaulted or have gone missing after responding to a false casting call or contact., Use an Internet search to identify businesses in your area that might employ models, such as photographers, graphic design firms, casting companies, and advertising agencies. “Cold call” them by going by their front office and dropping off your composite.You can also “cold call” by telephone and follow up with an email of the composite as an attachment, although it’s wise to meet the client in person so that you can show them your friendly and relaxed personality.
Check your city’s yellow pages or local business directory for businesses and their contact information. You can find these directories in most local libraries.
 Search the Internet or your local paper for open casting calls for models in your area. These calls may be for anything from local fashion shows to television commercials, so be open to the challenge of different kinds of modeling situations.


Consider charity fashion shows for the experience and portfolio building, even if you're not paid for your work.
Be sure that the open casting is for a legitimate client and is not a scam or a dangerous situation. If you have any concerns, take a friend with you to the call or photo shoot.Know the signs of a modeling scam, such as unsolicited direct contact from a photographer, filmmaker, or advertiser., If you want to be successful as a model, you'll need to work hard at obtaining work every day. Thought the life of a model may seem glamorous, the most highly-paid models make their career their focus, and not the night life.Plan to do at least one significant thing every day to further your career, whether that's making a call or visit to a potential client, working on your portfolio, or searching for jobs online.
 A number of highly successful models have discovered other careers related to modeling, but in other areas, such as acting, hosting, and photography. Be willing to change direction if you're no longer suited to your preferred modeling style, or if you're not finding the success that want.

