 So you're not content with the basic ideas above? In this section, we'll discuss some more "out-there" ideas for covering your binder. For example, if your binder and the cover are different colors, consider using a negative space design for a striking effect.


Negative space is the area that surrounds an object. Playing with both negative and positive space in your picture will help bring balance and interest to your design.To create a negative space design, take a blank cover and cut shapes, letters, pictures, and so on into it — the binder underneath will show through and appear to give these shapes their own color.
If you're worried about the holes in your cover allowing your binder to wear, cover them with clear packing tape. You'll still get the negative space effect, but your binder will be well-protected.
 Ever notice how chewing gum usually comes in a shiny foil wrapper? If you have a lot of these wrappers lying around, you can use them to give your binder a cool metallic sheen. Gently flatten the gum wrappers and stick them to your binder cover (or the binder itself) with a small amount of glue. Repeat until the whole surface is covered. Voila—a metallic binder.


If you're having a hard time getting the wrappers perfectly smooth, try rubbing them with a coin or the front of your fingernail to smooth them out.
You can also use clear packing tape here as well to put a clear protective layer over your wrappers.
 Don't throw away your calendars after the year is over — instead, use the photos or artwork inside as a cover.


Simply cut the picture out, lay it on your binder, trim the edges to fit if necessary, and cover it with clear packing tape to secure it.
 This thick, durable tape is great for protecting your binder and can give it a semi-metallic sheen. You can also find a wide array of color selections. If you don't want to stick the tape directly to your binder, try making a "sheet" of tape by sticking two layers of tape so that their sticky sides face each other.


Making basic designs like checkerboards and stripes is fairly simple and will definitely liven up your binder.
On the other hand, you can also make more complex designs with the "negative space" approach. Cover your binder with one color, then lay a second (different-colored) layer on top of this. Carefully cut shapes from the top layer with a craft knife and peel them off to make a negative space design.
 Give your binder a dash of humor or inspiration by recreating your favorite quotes on the cover. For instance, try typing your favorite speech excerpts, song lyrics, or poems on the computer.


Be sure to pick an attractive font, print out the quote, and then affix it to your binder with clear packing tape.
You can also try your hand at calligraphy.
 For something a little out-of-the-box, you can try “aging” a paper cover by soaking it in tea. This can make it look like your binder is an old-fashioned book or tome!


See our wikiHow on how to age paper using tea for detailed instructions.
 Even if your binder contains boring history or math homework, it doesn't mean that the outside of it can't be fun and fabulous.


Glue on rhinestones or sequins for a binder that sparkles.
 You don't necessarily have to make your binder cover all by yourself. One fun idea is to give your binder a plain white cover and have each of your friends add something different to it (like a doodle, sticker, funny saying, etc.)


This way, when you get your binder back, you'll have something amusing on it to remind you of each friend! Plus, your binder cover will become a cherished keepsake that you'll enjoy looking at years down the road.

