 Shock may lead to reduced blood flow to a dog's tissues, which can damage their organs. If shock is present, seek attention as quickly as possible, as the condition may worsen.Generally, injuries that lead to either internal and/or external bleeding are the most likely to lead to the low blood pressures that may result in hypoglycemic shock.
Other types of shock include cardiogenic shock (which may follow a heart attack), anaphylactic shock (caused by severe allergic reactions), septic shock (from infections), and neurogenic shock (following a head or spinal injury).
In addition to injury, dehydration, blockage of the airwaves, and illness may also cause shock. Regardless of the type or cause of shock, get an afflicted dog to the vet.
 Rapid heart beat, anxiety or agitation, inflamed red gums, and shallow breathing may all indicate the onset of shock. As the degree of shock rises, the dog’s heart beat will speed up, gums will turn whitish or blue, the pulse will diminish, and the dog will become weak and lethargic. Further, breathing may become more rapid or more shallow.As late-stage shock sets in, gums will appear white or mottled, heart rate and respiration may fluctuate, eyes may become glazed over or unfocused, rectal temperatures will fall, and the dog may fall into a stupor or coma.
Do not assume your dog is not suffering from shock. Continue to watch them closely for several days, and know that the onset of shock can happen rather quickly.
 Most importantly, you need to get the dog to the vet. There are several things you can do to help counteract shock on the way. Note that there are also a few things you should be careful to avoid.Provide any necessary first aid, including restraining the dog, reducing blood loss, etc.
Keep the dog in as quiet an environment as possible.
Position their head slightly lower than their body.
Cover the dog’s body with a blanket or towel to maintain body heat, but do not apply a heating pad.
Minimize the dog’s movement as much as possible.
Do not place anything in the dog’s mouth, including food, water, or medication.

