 If you're using a blandly colored colander, a bright colored spray paint can make it look more ornamental. Choose a spray paint suitable for the colander you are using, spray paint it, then allow it to dry according to the paint's label instructions.


Although drying times will vary depending on environmental conditions and the kind of spray paint you've used, generally you can expect it to dry within an hour.
Metal surfaces and plastic surfaces will require different kinds of spray paint. Check the label to ensure you're using the right kind before painting.;
, Depending on the size and shape of your colander, you may only need to use a single piece between the handles. Larger planters might require you to string two lines of twine between the handles of your colander for better stability.


Wrap your twine around the handle, tie the loose end off to the part being strung to the other handle, and repeat the process on the other side.
Allow enough excess twine between handles so your planter hangs easily. If there is too little slack in your twine, it won't hang well.
You may want to use a dab of glue on the knots on both sides of your colander. This will help preserve the knot., If your colander doesn't have handles, you can use a drill and a drill bit (or some other suitable tool) to make small holes in the colander's sides. Push your twine through this hole and tie a simple knot to hold the twine in place.
 This will prevent water from dripping too freely out the bottom when you water your plants. Line the inside of your colander with sheet moss, then use a suitable cutting tool to adjust the shape of the moss to the colander.Sheet moss can be bought at your local nursery or home and garden center. In some cases, you may even be able to purchase this supply from a florist.
 Depending on the kind of plants you intend on using, you may want a special blend of soil, but in most cases potting soil will do just fine. After adding soil, plant your plants, hang your planter, and enjoy.