 When grilling season begins, you'll want to give your grill a thorough cleaning. Before cleaning, be sure the propane tank is turned off.


Remove cooking briquettes and cooking grates.






Detach gas tubes and the burner. Clean the gas tubes with warm, soapy water. Rinse them thoroughly and dry them with a clean towel. Wipe the burner clean with a damp towel.






Use a dry towel to wipe down the gas ports on each burner. Use a toothpick or bamboo skewer to clean out each port thoroughly.





;
, Cover all of the gas valves with aluminum foil to keep them dry (and to prevent rust). Using soap and warm water, clean all of the grill's internal and external surfaces and dry them off with a clean dry towel. When you have finished, reattach the gas tubes and burners.


Use a long-handled grill brush with wire bristles to scrub any areas of caked-on debris.
 Turn the briquettes over, close the lid, and heat the grill on high for 15 minutes. This will loosen any grease on the cooking grates, making them easier to clean.


Cool the grill for 10-15 minutes before safely removing the cooking grates and briquettes. Wash the grates in soap and water, using the grill brush to remove any stuck on grease. A steel wool pad can also be used to remove stuck-on grime.
Dry the grates with a clean, dry towel and replace the briquettes and grates.
 After every use, use the grill brush to give the grate a good brushing. Remove all food scraps and particles.


Pay special attention to the area around the briquettes or lava rocks as food often falls through the grate. Remove the food particles and wipe the area down with a rag.
 As soon as it has cooled down, cover your grill to protect it from the elements. Cover the gas line connections to prevent insects from chewing through.


If you are storing your grill outdoors, simply cover the grill and leave the propane line attached.
If you are storing the grill indoors, cover the grill and disconnect the propane tank. The tank should be stored outside. Keep it in a shady area away from heating, dryer, or furnace vents.