 In the first tab, login to your website's admin area. If you do not know HTML code, or you do not have access to the website's admin area, seek the help of your website's web developer.;
, Sign into the Twitter account that you want to post to your website. Creating a badge for a business or personal Twitter account involves the same process.
 Click on the word "Resources." You should arrive at a page that says "Buttons, widgets, logos, and more."

, What used to be called a Twitter badge is now called a Twitter widget. If you want to place a "follow" button your website, you should choose the button option, rather than the widget option.
 On the next page, click on the "My Website" tab. This section will allow you to choose which Twitter badge you would like to put on your website.
 Most websites show a Profile Twitter badge, because this only shows what you tweet or retweet. It does not show the Tweets from the people you follow.
 This will take you to a page where you can customize it according to the appearance of your website. Go through the tabs on the left hand side to choose the color, the size and the number of Tweets.


Look on the right hand side of your screen as you adjust your widgets settings. It should reflect your Twitter badge's appearance, giving you a preview of what you will see on your website. Keep in mind that if you do not like your Twitter widget once it's on your site, you will have to return to this page to create a whole new widget.
 Then, click the "Finish & Grab Code" button. You should arrive at a page with a box full of HTML code.
 Return to your first tab. Find the right section of your website, usually the home page, and paste your Twitter widget HTML code into the proper place.


Twitter also gives Blogger users the option to add the code automatically to a Blogger website. Click on the "Add to Blogger" button below the HTML code box to do this.
 View your website to ensure that the Twitter badge was appropriately placed on your website.

