 In the United States, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC), which insures consumers' bank deposits, offers free financial education programs that you can take online. In other countries, you may be able to find similar services.You also can find a lot of information online or in personal finance books at your local library to help you get your financial life in order.
If your bank account was closed due to overdrafts or bounced checks, you may want to use these resources to get a better handle on your finances.
 If you've had problems in the past keeping up with your finances, you may want to check your bank account on a daily basis and make sure you know what's coming in and what's going out, and when.Set up online access to your new bank account so you can check the transactions in real time.
Use a debit card rather than checks, which will make it easier for you to keep track of your money since checks can take several days to clear your account.
 If you open a new bank account, make sure you read the terms and conditions carefully and understand what fees you'll be charged and when you'll be charged them. This is especially important if you have a second chance checking account, as these typically come with more fees than a standard checking account.If you regularly take out cash at ATMs, try to do so at your own bank's ATM rather than the ATM of another bank or third party. Even if the fee is small, these can add up and are easy to forget when you're mentally calculating how much money you have.
 Your bank will send you a statement every month, whether electronically or in the mail. Even if you review your transactions online regularly, it's still important to go through this statement.Deadlines to report errors or fraudulent transactions, or to dispute transactions or fees, often are connected to the date the statement was issued. For this reason, it's important to review your statement and make sure everything is correct.
Keep your own records and keep track of your receipts. You may want to use an online finance app for this purpose. Most require you to pay for a subscription, but some are free.
 If you've set up automatic payments for your bills, a reminder a few days or even a week before will ensure that you check your bank account and make sure there's enough money there to cover the bill.The reminder also puts the payment to the front of your mind, so you remember to mentally discount your balance by that amount.
 If you have the means to do so, opening a checking and savings account at the same bank and linking the two accounts can help you avoid overdrafting your checking account in the future.When you have a linked savings account, if your transactions exceed your balance, your bank will automatically transfer money from your savings account, or draw from the savings account rather than from your checking account.
Check for and be aware of fees for doing this. Some banks will only withdraw a certain amount from your savings account at a time to cover overdrafts, and others charge a fee for this service, which may be as high as the fee they would charge for an overdraft or bounced check.

