 Depending on your school, you may have a variety of challenging classes available to you, from honors classes to AP and IB classes. Try to take the most challenging classes you can. This will make you look ambitious and studious, and it will also help you develop the skills you will need to succeed in college level classes.Advanced classes are a great way to show your passions. Even if you don't take a ton of AP classes, consider taking one in the subject that is most closely related to your intended major.
Take advantage of elective classes too. These will give you the opportunity to explore your passions, and it will show admissions officers that you are curious and interested in learning new things.
 If you already know what you want to study in college, you should try to demonstrate that you have already begun pursuing your goals, even before college. Even the smallest amount of experience can set you apart from your peers.A part-time job or internship that's related to your field is a great way to show that you're committed to your career goals.
Even if you can't get paid, you can till pursue your passions and explore your interests through volunteer work. This will make you come across as both driven and generous in your college application.
You can also consider participating in a summer program at a local college during summer vacation. This will not only look good on your application, but it will also give you a taste of what college courses will be like.
 It is important to show that you excel both in and out of the classroom, so find a few activities and hobbies that you are passionate about and pursue them to the fullest. Your extracurricular activities will also give the admissions officers a better impression of who you are as a person than your transcript will.


Try to have a good balance of activities. Athletics will show that you are a team player, while artistic pursuits will show that you are inventive. Colleges are looking for well-rounded applicants.It is important to convey that you are intelligent, inquisitive, and inventive in your college application, so think of any unique interests or hobbies you have. Keep in mind that they don't all have to be school clubs or other organized activities. If, for example, you maintain a large aquarium at your home or you have been trying to teach yourself a foreign language, mention how your curiosity led you to pursue these hobbies.Whenever possible, try to present tangible evidence of your accomplishments, whether it is an award, a publication, or a portfolio of your work.Don't forget volunteer work! Colleges love to see that you are spending your free time helping to make your community a better place. Look for opportunities to help out a local soup kitchen, build houses with Habitat for Humanity, or mentor children in need.
 Show strong leadership skills by taking on roles that require a high level of responsibility. You can also try initiating something, whether it's a new club, a volunteer group, or even a blog.While participating in activities is great, taking the initiative to start something new is even better, especially if what you do is helping your local community. If, for example, you are passionate about sports, consider starting a club at your high school to mentor younger athletes. This will look much more impressive on a college application than simply being on a sports team.
Even if you don't start something from the ground up, you can highlight ways in which you contributed significantly to existing organizations. If, for example, you volunteer at an animal shelter, you could mention the initiatives you took to educate other young people about the problem of homeless animals in your community.
 It may be tempting to request recommendations from the teachers who have given you the highest grades, but this may not always be the best choice. Think about how well each teacher knows you and what unique characteristics they would be able to point out. Teachers who know you on a more personal level will be able to write much more sincere recommendation letters, which will really stand out from all of the generic ones colleges receive.


Try to get recommendations from teachers who can speak to who you are as a person and why you will excel in college. The more specific examples they can offer, the better.If you struggled in one particular class, but were able to motivate yourself and pull through with a decent grade despite the difficulties, that teacher might be able to write an excellent letter of recommendation that highlights your resiliency.You may also want to get a recommendation letter from someone who is not your teacher, like a boss, if this person can talk about characteristics that your teachers may not be privy to. This can be especially helpful if your boss can talk about traits you have that would help you excel in your future career, like a talent for working with children if you want to pursue a teaching degree., If a personal interview is an option at one of the schools you are applying to, go for it! Make sure you ask a lot of questions about the school and express enthusiasm for the school and a passion for your studies. The interview is also a great opportunity to tell your unique story.You should approach a college interview the same way you would approach a job interview. Be sure to dress appropriately, be on time, turn off your phone, bring copies of all relevant documents, take notes, and carefully elaborate on all your answers.

