 If you react to your own stuttering with fear and panic, it will be difficult for you to talk to girls. One way to get over your fear is to intentionally practice stuttering with people you feel comfortable around, such as your parents or a close friend. This is called “voluntary stuttering” or desensitization. Voluntarily stuttering gives you the sense that you’re in control of your stuttering.Talk to a close friend or relative for about 5 minutes, and stutter on purpose at least 5 times in a clearly noticeable way. Stutter in the very first part of the conversation to put your stuttering in the open right away.
Go to a fast-food restaurant or store, and intentionally stutter when asking a question or giving your food order.
The goal with these exercises is to practice feeling confident through a stutter. This won’t eliminate your stammer, but it will help save you from feeling terrible about stuttering when you’re talking to a girl you want to impress.
 One of the challenges of stuttering is that you’re likely to feel confused, embarrassed, and unable to think when a stutter comes up. One way out of this is to stretch out the initial sound of a word (where the stutter usually occurs), allowing you to pull through the stutter to the rest of the word.For example, in the word “soda,” intentionally linger on the s-sound, and gently pull through to the o, as “s-s-s-s-s-s-s-s-oda.”
Repeat this practice with your parents, or a trusted friend, intentionally slowing down the consonants at the beginnings of words. For example, ”Wwwould yyyyou like to go out for ddddinner tonight?"
Try challenging yourself by intentionally stuttering on words or consonants that tend to be difficult for you to say without stuttering.
 If you’re so intent on getting through your own speech without stuttering, chances are you’ll miss out on what a girl has to say. She’ll notice this, and assume that you’re not interested in her - which might be far from the case! By learning to pay close attention to what she’s saying, you’ll be a better conversational partner.One way to put aside your self-consciousness about speaking is to intentionally stutter right away in a conversation. Then you won’t have to worry about when it might crop up.
Once you’ve stuttered, notice her response. Did her way of interacting with you change once you stuttered? Or did she seem not to mind?

, Other stutterers will understand the difficulties of talking to girls when you have a stutter. Support groups can offer self-motivation, and are a good way to learn and practice new skills.The National Stuttering Association (NSA) offers groups specifically for teenage stutters, as well as groups for children, and groups for adult stutterers.
Sometimes attending a support group is the first time a stutterer meets others who share their problems.
Groups are often open to parents, friends, and families of people who stutter, as well as professionals who want to learn more about stuttering.

