 Once your have identified your face shape, you should look at frames that will complement your face shape. If you don’t know your face shape, there are several charts you can look up online to help you determine this. You should also keep in mind certain frame styles you should avoid.Round: If you have a round face, you have noticeable curves on both sides of your face and less defined angles, or cheekbones. The width and length of your face are mostly equal in size.
Oval: Individuals with oval faces have balanced features, and their chin is slightly narrower than their foreheads.
Oblong: If you have an oblong face, your face will be longer than it is wide. You will also have a long straight cheek line, and you may have a longer nose.
Base-down triangle: If you have a base-down triangle face, you will have a narrow forehead that widens at your cheek and chin areas.
Base-up triangle: If you have a base-up triangular face, you have a very wide top third area of your face and a narrow or small bottom third of your face.
Diamond: This is the rarest face shape, where you have a narrow eye line and jawline and broad cheekbones that are high and dramatic.
Square: If you have a square face, you have a strong jaw line and a wide forehead. The width and length of your face are the same proportions.;
, If you have a round face, you should go for eye glasses that are square or rectangle to contrast the roundness of your face. Avoid round frames and rimless frames, as these will only highlight your round face and will not complement your face shape., If you have an oval shaped face, you should look for frames that have a strong bridge and are wider than the broadest part of your face. Geometric shaped frames tend to look good against an oval shape. You should avoid glasses that are oversized and cover up more than half of your face. Big frames can throw off the natural balance and symmetry of your face., Make your oblong shaped face appear more balanced by choosing frames that have more depth than width. Look for frames that have decorative elements on the sides of the frames and a low bridge. Avoid round frames or small frames., Highlight the narrow upper third area of a base-down face with frames that have color and detailing on the top of the frames. You can also try cat-eye shaped frames. For a base-down triangular face, go for frames that are wider at the bottom to balance out the wider top area of your face. Frames in light colors and materials, as well as rimless frame styles, are also ideal for this face shape., If you have a diamond shaped face, you should look for cat-eye glasses or oval frames. These frames will play up your narrow forehead and chin and accentuate your cheekbones. Avoid boxy or narrow frames., Individuals with square shaped faces should look for eyeglasses that sit high on the bridge of their nose and have oval or round frames. You should avoid angular and boxy frames that will draw attention to your angular features, as this can make your face appear bulky or heavy.