 Before the heating season, hire a professional to inspect your stove. They will inspect all the parts but also clear out ash in parts difficult for you to handle, such as the vents and chimneys. This is important to prevent chimney fires and smoke leaking from the stove.If your stove is newer, check your service contract. Your supplier can perform maintenance for you.;
, The pellets you can use as fuel in your stove come in various grades. While your stove will run on lower-grade material, better pellets are more efficient and produce less ash. In the long run, good fuel saves you money since it does less damage to your stove over time.An example of premium fuel is softwood pellets with less than .5% ash in them.
When burning pellets, buy a small bag of pellets and try them out before you purchase more. Watch them go through your stove to make sure they don’t crumble and clog it.
 Put your fuel in a location sealed and safe from the elements. Pellets that are exposed to the air and soil absorb water and stick inside your stove. Most pellets are fine when raised off the ground and kept in the manufacturer’s packaging. Cover up any damaged areas on that packaging with waterproof tape or plastic.When your stove is not in use, remove any pellets so they don’t stick to the hopper.
 The glass covers part of the inside of the stove, allowing you to view the fire. When the stove is cool, take a specialized glass cleaner for pellet stoves and wipe it over the glass with a soft cloth.Never scrape the glass. Doing this can damage and weaken it.
During the heating season, turn off the stove and wait for the glass to cool before cleaning it.
 Soap and water are enough to take care of the stove’s outside unless it is made of cast iron. Choose soap that isn’t abrasive and add a little vinegar if desired. Vinegar on a rag works for steel piping as well, but wipe down black surfaces with a dry cloth when you’re done in order to avoid streaks. For cast iron stoves, use your brush and vacuum.