 Adding some small plants to your office can be a great way to make your environment feel more natural, comfortable and personal. Some plants can add a pleasant fragrance or a unique splash of color to your office. If your office is feeling empty or boring, try picking out some of your favorite plants and adding them to your work space.Make sure you'll have enough space to store your plant.
Decide if the color and shape of the plant will be a good fit with the rest of your decorations.
Make sure your office has the right temperature and lighting that your plant requires.
Don't forget to water your plant after you've added it to your office.;
, You might not be able to bring your family to work with you, but you can bring in some family photos. Hanging up family photos can be a great way to showcase your family to coworkers or clients and can make your work space feel more like home. Try adding some family photos to your work space to make it more comfortable and personal.You might try keeping some photos close to your desk to easily remind you of home.
You can try putting larger family photos around your office to help others feel at ease in your office.
 If you are able to do so, adding contact paper to your office furniture or equipment can be a quick and easy way to bring some exciting color and style to your work space. Contact paper comes in a large variety of styles, allowing you to pick the pattern or color that's right for your office. Take some time to browse for your favorite styles of contact paper to help make your office space a unique one.Most types of contact paper will require you to peel off the backing and stick the paper onto whatever surface you'd like.
Contact paper can easily be cut to conform to the shape of whatever surface you're applying it to.
Make sure you aren't applying contact paper to anything that isn't yours.
 Many people who work in an office enjoy hanging up artwork that they find motivational or inspiring. Artwork can change the feel, style and mood of any space and offices are no different. Consider hanging some of your favorite pieces of art in your office to make it your own.Avoid any art that wouldn't be considered appropriate for your work place.
Try to select art that sets the appropriate tone for your professional role.
Displaying art can be a great way to show some of your personality to anyone visiting your office.
You might ask local artists to display their work in your office to help connect with the community.
 Although colors may seem simple, they can have a big impact on how your office space feels. Colors can set various moods or present certain images to someone who visits your office. You'll want to carefully think about how the colors in your office are affecting the feel of the room or how other people might feel when visiting.Beige or white can be good choices for law or financial offices.
A graphic artist's office might benefit from bright or vibrant colors.
Try to select a color scheme that fits your professional role.

