 Whole-grain spaghetti is a great option if you’re looking for pasta that is lighter on the processed wheat and healthier for you. Choose a whole-grain spaghetti when shopping for pasta for the dish. Or make your own whole-grain spaghetti at home.You can also try using pasta made with rice, beans, quinoa, or egg whites. These options have a better texture and flavor as well as a higher protein content.
 Rather than serve pasta made of grains, try using noodles made of spiralled vegetables. Use a vegetable spiralizer or the spiral setting on your food processor to make noodles out of vegetables like zucchini or carrots. Vegetable noodles are much healthier than pasta made from grains and add nutrients to the dish.You may try making zucchini and carrot noodles and combining them together to make a healthy meal of vegetable spaghetti and meatballs.
This is a good option if you are allergic to wheat or grains, but still want to enjoy spaghetti and meatballs.
 Avoid overdoing it on the amount of pasta you prepare for a meal. Making a healthy amount will ensure you can fill the remainder of your plate with vegetables or healthy meatballs. One cup of cooked pasta per person is often enough and well within the healthy amount.One cup of cooked pasta contains 200 calories, making it a healthy option for a meal. Try starting with one cup of cooked pasta per person and balance it out with the meatballs for a light, but satisfying meal.
 Cut down on calories and sugar by making a simple spaghetti sauce at home. A homemade sauce is healthier than packaged sauce and free of sugars or unhealthy fat. To make a simple spaghetti sauce, combine:1 18 ounce can diced tomatoes
2-3 fresh tomatoes, diced
2-3 cloves garlic, minced
1 tablespoon olive oil
Oregano and parsley to taste
You can also buy spaghetti sauce at the supermarket that has no sugar or added salt.
 Another option is to skip the sauce entirely and make a pesto instead. Combine basil, spinach, or arugula, pine nuts and olive oil to make the pesto. You can also buy pesto pre-made at the store and use it in your spaghetti and meatballs dish.


You can keep the dish really simple and healthy with no sauce, just olive oil and a light dash of Parmesan cheese.

