 Decide what you want out of the situation, and then make a choice about the best course of action to achieve that goal with the least amount of tension. If you just want to see the person less, then you may not need to tell the person you don't like them. If you want to cut the person out of your life completely, it's probably best to tell them upfront rather than just ignoring them.Ask yourself questions like:

What do I hope will happen when I tell this person I don't like them?
Do I want them to leave me alone? (Then maybe I should ask for that instead.)
Do I want to see them less? (Then maybe I should tell them I can only hangout once a month.)
Do I want to hurt this person's feelings? Will I regret hurting their feelings afterward?

, Even though you're essentially rejecting someone, you shouldn't be a jerk about it. Rather, try to keep the meanness to a minimum, so that you don't leave the person feeling horrible or hopeless.For example, saying, "You're an idiot, and I don't like you," isn't really appropriate. Instead you could say, "I know you'd like to hang out more, but I am not comfortable with that. I feel our beliefs are too different."

, If you're trying to tell a close friend that you've grown apart, treat it like you would a romantic relationship. That is, break up with them like you would do with someone you're in a romantic relationship with.Sitting down with them in person is the best, though you can send a letter or email if that's your only option. Establish why you want to stop being friends. Ideally, put the blame on yourself, such as "I'm just not the same person I was, and I think we don't fit together as friends anymore."
Another option is asking to take a break. Maybe you just need some space to adjust, although taking a break can also be a way to ease the person into a more permanent break.
 While this option may not be the best, it is an option. You can simply stop returning a person's calls or avoid talking to them when you see them. They may eventually get the message that you don't want to be friends with them.People sometimes use this method in an attempt to spare the other person's feelings, but sometimes "ghosting" like this can actually be more confusing and hurtful, and just prolong the inevitable. The person may start to worry about you and may not understand that you're trying to end the relationship, so it's usually best to just be direct if possible.
Know that if you avoid the person, you may end up having to be direct in the end. They may ask if something is wrong or if you are mad or avoiding them. Prepare yourself to answer these questions.
One way to avoid people in person is to use work as an excuse, such as, "I'd love to chat, but I really need to get back to work."

, It hurts to reject a person, especially a persistent one, just as it hurts to be rejected. You're not going to get out of this situation without hurting both of your feelings; however, if the friendship is truly a bad fit, it may be time to let it go so you can both create healthier, more productive relationships.
