 Most snakes are not venomous, but all snakes can bite.The most common venomous snakes are cobras, copperheads, coral snakes, cottonmouths (water moccasins) and rattlesnakes. While most venomous snakes have a triangular shaped head, the only real way to know if a snake is venomous is to be able to identify it or locate the fang glands on a dead snake., Cobras are found in Asia and Africa. Copperheads are found in the southern and eastern portions of the US, and parts of Australia and Asia. Varieties of coral snakes can be found in the southern US, parts of India and SE Asia, China, and Taiwan. Cottonmouths, or water moccasins, are found in the Southeast US and rattlesnakes range from the southern parts of Canada and extend all the way down into Argentina.


Certain areas of the world, such as Australia, have a higher concentration of highly venomous snakes than others. Remember that venomous snakes can and do live in cities as well as the wilderness, and exercise appropriate caution.
 When a non-venomous snake bites, the biggest concern is infection and tissue swelling. When venomous snakes bite, in addition to tissue damage and infection, the concern is the effects of the snake venom. Most snakes will not bite unless they are disturbed or handled by people.


Fangs in snakes can be fixed or folded back until the snake bites. Venomous snakes can have either type of fang, although snakes with fixed fangs, such as the coral snake, tend to affect the nervous system, while those with folded fangs, such as rattlesnakes, tend to affect blood cells.All types of snakes have substances that can cause tissue destruction-- if you get bitten by a snake, limiting this damage may be the most critical problem.
 Snakes are “cold-blooded,” meaning they get their body heat from their surroundings and the sun.Because of this, snakes and snake bites are much less common in cooler climates or colder seasons because the snakes are hibernating.


Snakes and snake bites are more common the closer you get to the equator because the snakes found in these areas don’t hibernate and are more active during the hotter days.
 The best way to treat a snake bite is to avoid a snake bite. According to wilderness experts, here are the best ways to avoid snakes and their bites:


Don’t sleep or rest next to areas where snakes may be hiding. This includes brush, tall grass, big rocks, and trees.
Don’t poke your hands into rock crevices, hollow logs, heavy brush, or any place a snake may be waiting for its next meal.
Look down as you walk through any brush or tall grass.
Don’t try to pick up any snake, dead or alive. Snakes have a reflex where they can bite for a minute or so after they are dead...strange but true!
ALWAYS wear hiking boots to cover your ankles and keep your pants legs tucked into your boots.
Make noise. Most snakes don’t want to see you anymore than you want to see them!To ensure that you don't scare a snake, make sure they can hear you coming.
 If you are a frequent hiker or wilderness explorer, consider investing in a snakebite kit that includes a pump suction device. Do not use kits that include razor blades or suction bulbs.