 Use a comb or brush to help distribute the product throughout your hair. If your hair is tangled or knotted, now would be a good time to brush it as well.
 Pull all of your hair, except for the bottom-most layer, up into a high ponytail. Tie it off, preferably with a scrunchie and not a hair tie. A hair tie is more likely to leave dents in your hair.You can also pile your hair loosely on top of your head and secure it with a claw clip., Choose a curling rod with the narrowest diameter possible. If you can, try to find one that is labeled for corkscrew curls. It should be thinner than your finger., Make sure that you are grabbing a section that is closest to your face. It can be on the right or left side. If you have thick hair, grab a slightly thicker sections; if the section is too thin, your curls may end up frizzy., Don't overlap the hair as you wind it around the rod. Instead, wrap it down the entire length of the rod, like stripes on a candy cane. The rod will get very hot, so be careful not to touch it with your fingers or scalp.If you are worried about burning yourself, consider wearing a pair of protective gloves meant for curling hair.
 Carefully unwind your hair from around the rod. Once your hair is loose enough, slip the rod out, and let the curl hang down naturally., Grab another section right next to the first one that you just curled. Wrap the hair around the rod, wait a few seconds, then unwind it. You can wrap it in the same direction as before, or you can wrap it in the opposite direction for more movement., Once you have finished curling the entire bottom layer of your hair, undo your high ponytail, and let down another layer of hair. Pull the rest of your hair back up into a high ponytail.

The thicker your hair is, the more layers you will need to work in.
 You can continue wrapping the sections of hair around the rod in the same direction, or you can alternate them. If you alternate them, your curls will look more natural and voluminous.

Keep the strands horizontal to your scalp, not vertical.
 This will help make them look more natural. Do not brush or comb your hair, or the curls will turn too fluffy and lose their corkscrew shape.For a more vintage look, part your hair off to the side. Use the handle of a rat-tail comb to create a neat part.
 Apply some shine serum throughout your hair. This will not only make your curls glossy, but also help smooth them down and eliminate frizz. If you need to, give your hair a light misting of hairspray to set the style.