 Do not place women, or any particular woman, on a pedestal. No woman is perfect. Women are human beings just like you, with their own struggles and challenges. Many women are just as scared and vulnerable as you are. Being realistic in your evaluation of women as a whole can render you less afraid of them.


Every woman has her own unique characteristics and traits. Learn about them in greater depth to find out how to best converse with a given woman. For instance, you might ask one woman about her favorite sports team, while you might inquire with another about her family. Learn what each woman values in their life, and encourage her to share it with you.
Accept that not all women will get along with you. Women are individuals, each of whom has their own tastes and preferences. Some people just don’t get along.
 Women confront huge problems in their everyday lives that men never have to think about. Wage disparities, sexual harassment, abortion rights, and the double day are just a handful of the challenges unique to women.The more you understand women and their struggles, the less they will seem to be an alien race, and the less scared of them you will become.


Read accounts of women’s liberation and struggles. Literature by feminist activists like Gloria Steinem will enlighten you as to how women’s experiences and goals are different than -- but just as valid as -- those of men.
Other important feminist literature like A Room of One’s Own, Herland, and The Yellow Wallpaper will illustrate women’s issues for you in great relief. Understanding these differences can erode the fear you have for women and replace it with an abiding respect and admiration.
 Some people think women are best suited to simply being mothers or wives and doing domestic chores. When you see that women are just as capable of greatness as men, you’ll be less likely to think of them as another, separate category unto themselves.Think of a professional field and think about all the women who have contributed to it. Seeing accomplished women will help you realize that they can inspire you as much as a man can. Conversing with talented women can expand your horizons.


Women artists include Mary Cassatt and Georgia O’Keefe
Women scientists include Marie Curie and Carolyn Porco
Women politicians include Margaret Thatcher and Elizabeth Warren

, While society tends to reinforce the idea that beauty is of paramount importance to a woman’s identity, this is not the case. Women can be tall, short, fat, thin, and conform to various notions of beauty. Beauty is “in the eye of the beholder,” after all, and is defined very differently in different cultures.


Instead of immediately being scared off by a tall or very beautiful woman, try calmly introducing yourself to her. Say something like, "Hi, my name is ___." As the conversation progresses, focus on the topic at hand, not the way she looks.
 Being a materialist means you only care about the superficial things in life, like being beautiful and having money. Not all women pursue men who are rich simply because they want money. Lots of women are not attracted to the most handsome, buff guy; some prefer funny or introspective men. Others value kindness and a warm heart. Recognizing that women don't share a single set of values and goals will help you revise your stereotyped image of them and thus, overcome your fear.


Try to get over your fear of women by approaching every woman with an open mind. Don’t create negative associations between one woman and another based solely on gender. Ask yourself how you’d like it if a woman judged all men’s worth and value by comparing them to thugs and criminals.
In actual fact, men are more materialistic than women, placing greater importance on status and wealth.