 The physical components of your computer can get dusty and clogged over time, leading to overheated parts that underperform and can eventually cause serious problems. Unplug and remove any batteries from your computer, then carefully open the case and clean it out with cotton swabs and compressed air. Sometimes, the bulk of the problem is just a huge dust bunny on the other side of the fan vent keeping your CPU cool.
 ISPs (Internet service providers) continue to offer faster and faster service every few years, to keep up with the increasingly image- and sound-rich world of the Internet. Even a connection that was blazing fast 10 years ago may seem agonizingly slow today. If you haven't upgraded the speed of your Internet service in several years, it's likely that the Internet, rather than your equipment, could be the culprit. Fix this problem by purchasing newer, faster service.


You can compare prices and service plans online or by calling ISPs and speaking with their salespeople. Always read the fine print: is there a contract required? How much extra will you have to pay in government fees or rental costs? Shop around until you find the best deal.
You don't necessarily need the very fastest Internet service available in your area. Speak with a representative about what you generally use the Internet for, and ask what he or she thinks would be an appropriate speed for your connection.
 Over a period of years, old communications equipment can begin to underperform simply because the company that provides your Internet service assumes you have newer equipment. The problem can also be exacerbated by mismatched equipment, such as a newer modem hooked up to a very old wireless router. Fix it by purchasing a new replacement for each piece.


To help speed the process along, bring your old equipment with you to the store, and write down the name of your ISP just in case.

Double check your monthly bill to make sure you aren't renting your modem from the ISP. If you are, you can probably request a newer one from them instead.


There's no need to buy top-of-the-line equipment for a simple household Internet setup, but don't always opt for the cheapest items, either. Aim for a price that's economical, but a bit above the discount level.
 In some cases, your Internet may be slow because of a physical problem with your computer's hardware. It may be worth bringing your machine to a repair shop and having them take a look at it. Settle on a diagnostic fee beforehand, and be sure the repair shop is reputable.


Often, the cost of fixing a significant hardware problem is more than the cost of just buying a new mid-range computer, so don't agree to pay for repairs until you know what's wrong with it.
If the technician says that your problem is a lack of hard drive space or RAM, your computer is probably very old and overdue for a replacement. You can clear more space and add more RAM, but it's not likely to make any long-term difference to your connection speed, in most cases (though it may improve performance elsewhere on your computer).
 When all else fails, chances are that your computer is too old or too worn-out to provide an adequate connection speed. As mentioned previously, content on the Internet becomes more demanding and data-intensive every year. Eventually, your CPU and system bus just won't be fast enough to keep up. Set a budget and head out in search of deals.


Don't be pressured into buying add-ons or extra insurance for your computer. You rarely need them; your computer manufacturer's warranty should cover any flaws in manufacturing perfectly well.
You don't need to buy the fastest, most expensive computer on the market to get a perfectly useful and fast machine that will last you another several years. Instead, read computer magazines or online articles comparing newer models of computer, and pick one with a high rating that has the features you need.
Be sure to install your favorite antivirus and spyware program as soon as possible, along with the latest version of your favorite browser. With a little bit of work, your computer will be all set for blazing fast Internet speeds for a good long while to come.
Internet speeds may vary depending on the distance between your internet provider (Internet Exchange) and your home. In some places, fiber optic cable may need ran from the nearest telephone pole to your home since the signal strength for cable modems and wireless routers can diminish if the distance is too great from the sending source.

