 Get in contact with other people that knew the specific person you're searching for (or can put you in touch with someone who does). Ask them questions about when they've last seen them, talked to them, or any personal information like last known email addresses or phone numbers.


Be sure to explain why you're looking for this person. They may not tell you anything to protect the person's privacy, but they'll probably tell the person that you're looking for them, and the person might want to get in touch with you. Leave your name and phone number behind for that purpose.
 It could be a hobby, church, non-profit, or professional organization. Ask for a copy of their membership directory, if available, and check for the person's name there.


This is also a good place to find people who may know something. If they can't tell you exactly where the person is, they may be able to get you one step closer.
 If you're really hard up to find this person, spending some change may get you the info you're looking for. Sites like www.intelius.com (which is actually used by zabasearch.com) often have more comprehensive files but charge for their data. If you're willing, it could solve your troubles.


If the internet doesn't or won't do it, consider hiring a private investigator. If you're having no luck, or you don't have enough time to track this person down, it may be better to pay a professional to do this.
 Though it might be a bit awkward, the best way to get to the person is through their network. Whatever you know of them last, get the people in those circles on the phone. Whether it's a boss, an old girlfriend, or a neighbor, make the call. It sure beats driving all over the place.


Be sure to be friendly and to appear sane. The world is so full of negative media nowadays that a stranger inquiring to us about a friend of ours comes off as really shady. You might get a few nasty responses, but you also may strike gold.
 Though an online search should warrant similar results, sometimes a good trip on foot to your local courthouse (or whatever courthouse is in the person's vicinity) can churn up new information. Find the public records office and make good with the clerk. Who knows? Maybe there's something back there that could get you on the right track.


Fair warning, there may be a charge. It should be fairly insignificant. Just be glad they're not handing out your public records, too, like candy.

