 Tie the yarn onto your crochet hook using an adjustable slipknot. Form the knot near the tail end of the yarn to minimize the amount of excess yarn hanging off the end.


Create a loop near the tail end of your yarn.






Create a second loop next to the first and carefully insert it through the first loop.






Place your crochet hook into the top portion of the second loop and pull on the working end of the yarn to tighten the knot into the hook.





;
, Create a chain of four even stitches to form the base of your heart.


For each chain stitch, wrap the yarn around the top of the hook once and pull that portion of yarn through the loop already on your hook. This creates a single chain stitch.
 Pass your crochet hook into the first chain stitch you made, which should now be the fourth from the hook.

For each triple crochet, wrap the yarn over the hook twice before inserting the hook into the first stitch.






Wrap the yarn over the top of the hook once more before drawing the yarn back through the stitch.






Wrap the yarn over the top of the hook again and pull that portion through the top two loops.






Wrap the yarn over the top once more and pull this newest portion through the remaining two loops on the hook to complete the stitch.
 Make three double crochets in the same stitch you worked the triple crochets in. You should notice that one half of the heart is beginning to form.


For each double crochet, wrap the yarn over the top of the hook once before inserting it into the first stitch.

Wrap the yarn over the hook again and pull it back through to the front of the stitch.
Wrap the yarn over the hook once more, and pull this section through the top two loops on the hook.
Wrap the yarn over the hook again and pull it through the remaining two loops on the hook to complete the stitch.
 To make the point of the heart, you will need to crochet one chain stitch, one triple crochet, and one more chain stitch.


Note that the triple stitch will still be worked into the same stitch as your previous triple stitches, and it can be created using the same technique you used before.
 Make three more double crochets, working them into the same stitch you used for the first three.


Use the same technique for these double crochets as you used for the first set.
You are building the second half of the heart. The steps are essentially the same as they were with the first half, except in reverse.
 Work three triple crochets into the same stitch all your other crochet stitches have been worked into.


The second half of your heart should really take form after this step.
 Make three more chain stitches to round off the top edge of your second heart half.
 Place the hook through the first stitch of your original chain, which is also the same stitch your other crochets have been worked into. Wrap the yarn over the hook and pull this portion through all the loops currently on your hook to complete the stitch.


This should complete the heart.
Cut off the working end of the yarn to separate it from the ball, knot your end on the final stitch, and trim or weave in the excess yarn.

