 Before you decide to buy a timeshare, you should have a good idea of how far in advance you're comfortable planning your vacations and what you enjoy.A timeshare tends to be a better option for families accustomed to planning their vacations well in advance. Regardless of the type of timeshare you choose, there will be stiff competition to book time during the prime vacation months.
If your idea of an ideal vacation is a week at the beach, and you don't care about exploring different places or having adventures, a timeshare can easily fit those desires and expectations.
Keep in mind that a timeshare is an investment in your future vacations and the time you'll spend with your family – not a real estate investment. Accordingly, the timeshare you buy should reflect the type of vacation you and your family will enjoy for years to come.;
, A prioritized list of your desires in a vacation property can help you compare available units.


For example, you may enjoy spending your days at the beach and not care about any other amenities, or you may prefer to stay at a resort with a spa, fitness center, and other amenities such as pools and tennis courts.
If you plan on vacationing with your family, keep in mind the things others like to do on vacation. Children, for example, may prefer a location with playgrounds or other activities designed for them.
You also should consider whether you prefer a property that is in close proximity to restaurants and shops, or whether you want the seclusion and peacefulness of something more off the beaten path.
Don't neglect the characteristics of the unit itself, in terms of the number of bedrooms and bathrooms you want, its overall layout, and features.
For example, if you know most of your vacations will be working vacations in which you'll have to spend some time checking in with your office or working for clients, you may need something with a private or secluded workspace and available Wi-Fi.
 With a deeded timeshare, you actually own a portion of the property and are responsible for the mortgage.Whether a deeded timeshare is right for you depends to some extent on how you plan to spend your vacation time in the coming years. If you like to go to a different place every year, you may want to look at an exchange system rather than a traditional deeded timeshare in which you're basically locked in to a week at the same place.
On the other hand, if you have always imagined having a vacation home, and prefer to spend your vacation in a relatively familiar spot where you can relax, a deeded timeshare can provide you with the comfort and consistency of knowing what to expect.
As a practical matter, there's not much difference between a deeded or a non-deeded timeshare, except that deeded timeshares can be more difficult to sell or transfer once you decide you no longer want the property.
 Depending on what you want out of your timeshare property, a points-based plan or floating time system may be a better option for you.For example, exchange companies such as RCI or Intervals International allow you to easily swap a week at your "home" property for a week in one of the other properties affiliated with the company.
Keep in mind that to keep the same rate you typically must book your vacation at a unit of the same size as the one you purchased, in a location with similar amenities, and during a similar time of year.
For example, if you bought a week during peak months, you typically must exchange it for another peak week – although keep in mind the time of year that is considered "peak season" may differ depending on the location of the resort and the amenities it offers. Peak season for a ski resort might be the winter months, while a beach property's peak would be in the summer.
Another option is to buy into a point system, in which what you're actually purchasing is a set number of points that you can redeem for accommodations or sell to other time-sharers.
A point system may be a better option if you prefer the flexibility to vacation in multiple places, or if you don't always plan your vacation at the same time every year.
 Although the specifics vary among companies, to buy a timeshare you must meet the company's age and income requirements.Some timeshare companies may be restricted to retirees and older couples, while others are geared towards young families.
All timeshare companies have minimum income requirements, and may run a credit check before they consider your application.
 Even if you've decided on an exchange program or a points system, you still want to visit the property and evaluate its maintenance and operations.Take a tour of the property and pay attention to the upkeep of the resort as a whole and its amenities.
You also should tour one or more units, even if you're not staying there during your visit. Evaluate the general upkeep and cleanliness of the unit just as you'd evaluate such things if you were renting an apartment or purchasing a home.
You also should feel comfortable with the staff of the resort and the management. If you have any problems during your stay, you'll have to work with them.
Ask for information regarding the property's ownership and financial history, including the property's maintenance budget. You should research the track record for both the developer and the management company to make sure they're legitimate and have experience with vacation properties.
 Make sure you understand your ownership rights and responsibilities as laid out in the timeshare agreement.Take care not to confuse marketing terms with standard legal definitions. When you're trying to understand your agreement, you should be more concerned with your benefits and obligations under the contract than what the timeshare company calls something.
If you see terms you don't understand, ask the timeshare representative to explain to you what they mean.
If the contract as a whole seems confusing, you may want to have a licensed real estate attorney give it a look and explain it to you. Don't let the timeshare representative rush you into signing an agreement you don't fully understand.
 If it isn't included in the agreement, ask for an itemized list of the fees and other expenses you'll be required to pay each year for your timeshare.Almost all timeshares include monthly or yearly maintenance fees, and also may include homeowners' fees, rental fees, trading fees, or property taxes. In general, you should expect these fees to be somewhere between $500 and $700 each year.Some of these fees won't necessarily be mentioned in the sales presentation for the timeshare, but will be included in your contract. This is why it's important to read that contract carefully and make sure you know what you're getting into.
Although many timeshare companies require annual fees be paid in a single lump-sum payment, some companies offer financing through which you would pay a portion of the fees each month. Check with your timeshare company to find out what financing options are available to you., Once you have a breakdown of the annual costs, fit those amounts into your budget and make sure you and your family can afford the timeshare.Don't forget to include the cost of traveling to your destination, as well as any other expenses. For example, if your timeshare is only a three-hour drive from your house, your travel expenses might not be that big of a deal. It's a different story, however, if you have to fly cross country to get to your timeshare property, then rent a car once you get there.
 When you sign the agreement you typically must pay a significant amount in deposits and fees up front.Typically you'll be required to pay a deposit up front, as well as your first year's maintenance fees.
If you've signed on with an exchange or points program, you also may have to pay membership fees or dues to join that club.

