 The biggest pot you can get your hands on will allow you to distill larger amounts of liquid. The pot should at least be large enough to hold another smaller container like a metal mixing bowl.


If you have a curved lid that will cover the pot, use that instead of a flat lid. The shape of a curved lid will help in collecting condensation toward the center.
If you can't find a curved lid, you can use some aluminum foil and shape it over a large bowl to get a curved shape. Then you can place the foil, curved side down, over the pot and hold it in place with the lid. This will help to direct the condensed water toward the center and your collection container.;
, Select a container that can withstand boiling temperatures.


You will likely want to elevate the collection container toward the top of the pot. You can place a small rack in the bottom of the pot and prop your container on top of it. You can even use a brick or similar object since it won't be in contact with the distilled liquid.
You can also drill a hole in the lid and use a length of tubing to collect the distilled liquid in a separate container. However, you have to be willing to put holes in your cookware to do so.
 Be sure not to get any of the dirty liquid into the collection container.


You will only want to fill the pot so that the water level is a couple inches below the height of your collection container. If the water is too close to the height of the collection container, it might splash into the container of distilled water and contaminate it.



You can also place some ice packs or cool water on top of the lid to help the vapor cool faster and return to a liquid form.
 Turn on the stove and heat the water. Monitor the temperature of the water and keep it at a slow boil. You want to avoid heating the water too much and having the dirty water splashing into your collection pot. Adjust the temperature as needed.
 Do not boil the pot dry or you will risk causing permanent damage to it. Let the distilled liquid cool.


It may take several hours of boiling to collect a significant amount of liquid, so be patient.