

Hamilton International Airport (YHM) - about 1 hour to the north.

Buffalo Niagara International Airport (BUF) - about 30 minutes to the south

Niagara Falls (New York) International Airport (IAG) - about 15 minutes to the east;
, The airport that you fly into will depend on various factors such as where you are flying from, the price of the flights, and whether or not you have a preference with connections.
 It is a major airport and is Air Canada's international hub with over 150 direct flights to and from the airport. Various bus and taxi companies provide services to and from YYZ to Niagara Falls. Or, if you prefer a rental car, it is a 1.5 hour drive via highway 427 and the QEW highway.
 Not only is it cheaper, but it's also closer to the falls. There are many low cost air carriers with service into Buffalo, including Southwest, JetBlue and AirTran. There are various bus and taxi companies that provide service from Buffalo Airport to Niagara Falls. There are no direct flights from outside of the US to Buffalo airport; however, if you are coming from overseas and do decide to fly into Buffalo airport, you will first need to connect at a major US airport such as JFK, Philadelphia, Boston, etc. If traveling to the Canadian side from Buffalo airport, a passport and at least one form of photo ID is required to cross the border.
 There is also Niagara Falls International Airport in Niagara Falls, New York and Hamilton International Airport in Hamilton, Ontario. Niagara Falls airport is served by Spirit Airlines and Allegiant Air with flights to and from Myrtle Beach, SC and various Florida airports. Hamilton Airport is served year-round by WestJet to and from Calgary, AB, and Aeromexico operates seasonal service to and from Mexico City. These two airports are mostly used by locals in Ontario and New York for flights to warm destinations, but if you live in one of the areas served by these airports, you will probably be able to get a low airfare.
, If you're flying into Toronto or Buffalo, be sure to book tickets for shuttle services to Niagara Falls before embarking on your journey. However, if for whatever reason you don't get around to this, there are many taxis available 24 hours a day at Toronto and Buffalo airports.

