 When you're writing your final paper, be sure to keep track of which source each cited statement came from. How you do so depends on which format you're using.
 Write author (last name) and page number in parentheses. If the author is already mentioned in the statement, just put the page number in parentheses. If there are two authors, name them both with "and" in the middle. Use commas if there are more than two authors. Place the citation before a punctuation mark.


E.g. Leaving the ground in sod increases the organic matter of the soil by 15% in 10 years (Alison 45).
 Add a superscript number at the end of the statement to denote which source it is referring to. Even if you refer to the same source multiple times, it gets a new superscript number every time. Start the superscript numbers from 1 every time you start a new page.


E.g. Leaving the ground in sod increases the organic matter of the soil by 15% in 10 years.1


, Write the author (last name or organization name) and year in parentheses. Use commas. Add "p." and a space before the page number if the statement is a direct quote. If the author is already mentioned in the statement, put the year in parentheses next to the name (and put the page number in parentheses at the end of the statement, if applicable). Place the citation before a punctuation mark. If there are two or three authors in parentheses, use "&" instead of "and".


E.g. Leaving the ground in sod increases the organic matter of the soil by 15% in 10 years (Alison, 1987).
E.g. Allison (1987) asserted that "leaving the ground in sod increases the organic matter of the soil by 15% in 10 years" (p. 45).
 Add a superscript number at the end of the statement to denote which source it is referring to. Unlike with the Turabian footnotes, there's only one superscript number for each source. It's possible to have superscript numbers on one page that are out of order if a source was cited on a previous page. You can also cite multiple sources at once by specifying a range, or using a comma. The citation can go in the sentence or at the end, after punctuation.


E.g. Leaving the ground in sod increases the organic matter of the soil by 15% in 10 years.3 As discussed earlier in this paper, the root system of the sod aerates the soil.1 Multiple studies suggest that this is a phenomenon observed in every soil type.8-12


, Write the author last name and publication year in parentheses. If the author is already mentioned in the statement, just put the year in parentheses. If there are two authors, name them both with "and" in the middle. Use commas only if there are more than two authors. Place the citation before a punctuation mark.


E.g. Leaving the ground in sod increases the organic matter of the soil by 15% in 10 years (Alison 1987).
 Chicago style usually lists author and then date. This style is recommended for natural and social sciences, as well as the other humanities.


Similar to MLA as described above.
 Depending on the type of work, may use in-line citations or footnotes/endnotes. The general format follows the form of case name or author and article name, followed by a comma, then Authority Name , followed by the date in parenthesis.


For example, Marbury v. Madison, 5 U.S. 137 (1803) (a case named Marbury v. Madison, found in the fifth volume of the reports of the U.S. Supreme Court, starting at page 137), 12 U.S.C. ยง3401 et seq. (a statute beginning at section 3401 of the 12th volume of the United States Code) and Warren and Brandeis, The Right to Privacy, 4 Harvard L.R. 193 (1890) (a journal article from the fourth volume of the Harvard Law Review).

