 Choose a size that is best for you. Binders can be 1 inch, 2 inch, 3 inch, or 5 inch.If you are using the binder for more than one class or subject, get a 3 or 5 inch binder. Get the 1 or 2 inch binders if you plan to use separate binders for each of your classes. Do whatever works best for you. Either method is fine.;
, Get all of the papers for you classes that you need to put in your binder including your syllabus, notes, assignments, homework, class requirements, etc. Separate the papers by class/subject and the type of paper (e.g. science notes, science homework, math syllabus, etc.). Place each in separate pile.

This will make it easier to place the times in your binder.

Use a 3 hole punch to put holes in all of your papers that will go in your binder.
 Dividers are used to create separate sections in your binder. The sections should match the type of papers that you have for your class. For example, have a notes section, homework section, projects section, class information section, etc. Label each divider tab and then place it on top of the corresponding papers. You can write on the divider tab or use the computer to type and print the section names.Your teacher may have specific instructions for the sections that you need to include in your binder. Check with your teacher before you label your dividers.You have some options for dividers. Some dividers have pockets that you can slide papers into if you have a few papers that you do not want to punch holes in., Once your papers are sorted and your dividers have been made, put them in your binder. If you are using a single binder for all of your classes, it may be helpful to put the dividers in the same order of your daily schedule. However, organize the sections in an order that makes sense to you. .


Keep extra notebook paper in the back of your binder in case you need it.Always date new papers that you add to your binder., Go ahead and file your papers as soon as you get them. It can be easy to drop papers in your backpack or lose them between home and school. Make a habit of filing them in your binder as soon as you get them. This will help you avoid misplacing papers and stay organized., Your binder can become cluttered with papers that you do not need anymore or old completed assignments. Go through your binder periodically to keep it neat. Set a time period (e.g.every grading period, once a quarter) for how often you will clean out your binder.As you go through your binder, look for torn holes. You want to repair them so you do not lose the paper.