 Do you have any of the things listed in the "Things You'll Need" section? Do you have a First-Aid Kit in case something goes wrong? Have you activated a nearby Vita-Chamber just to be safe? Once you have everything and done all the necessary things, then you are ready to take out a Big Daddy.;
, Have you hacked any turrets that you can use? Have disabled all those annoying security cameras? Have you gotten rid of opposing splicers? Did you notice any puddles that may come to an advantage? Having an advantage in the environment you fight the Big Daddy in can come in handy when the battle becomes more intense.
 Depending on what types of ammunition you can afford to buy or make, you should try different, and often equally effective, tactics (listed here as #'s 4-9).
 They are usually over-kill against any lesser enemies, even Spider Splicers, so they are being put to best use against a Big Daddy. Those explosive rounds will deal a considerable amount of damage and set the Big Daddy on fire. But make sure you have a vantage point or some cover after you shoot your first shell, because explosions don't slow down these monsters.
 The electric shells zap the Big Daddy into paralysis, which may give you some time to get a shot or two with a frag grenade or a whole clip of armor-piercing machine gun rounds. If there is a near by puddle, you can deal even more damage by using the water as an amplifier for the electricity. This tactic usually eats up more ammo than other ways, but it leaves you with less damage done in the end.
 Though using your Proximity Mines may seem like a bad waste of ammo, it's not. The only real use for these mines is to set up a perimeter, and when a perimeter is needed in the game there are usually turrets and cameras provided. Simply stick 3 or 4 proximity mines on a telekinetically-moveable object (an oxygen tank would be most effective) and pick it up using your Telekinesis. Hurling the bomb at the Big Daddy will certainly ruin its day, if not kill it completely. If the monster survives the initial explosion, finish off its few remaining health with any ammunition you choose (armor-piercing bullets are best).
 Getting a higher vantage point is crucial in scoring a direct hit against a Big Daddy. Once you are above the Big Daddy, through means of winding stairs or a balcony, start off with a frag grenade. This will surely get the Big Daddy angry, which causes him to get closer to either charge or shoot you. He'll take the quickest route to you, so keep him in sight as you launch RPGs at him. This should be able to kill him, unless he gets behind cover. If that's the case, find another spot to start, or he'll find you. Avoid using RPGs against an unaware Big Daddy, because they are far more expensive than the standard frag grenade, but just slightly weaker.
 Once you have used the plasmid on a lone Big Daddy, lure it to a Big Daddy with a little sister and shoot it with any bullet. When the Big Daddy attacks, your Big Daddy defends you. Once the dust settles, you may find your Daddy won, or the other did. Either way, finish off the survivor with the shotgun or other weapon and claim your prize of the little sister and a wallet-full of cash.
 Trap bolts are powerful, but not so practical against normal foes, so they meet their full potential defensively. Find a suitable hallway and proceed to shoot the trap bolts so they make a corridor of electricity. Once this is done, lure a Big Daddy (by either angering or hypnotizing it) through the shocking pathway. To avoid setting off the wires yourself, crouch as you walk to avoid wires shot at chest-level.
 Big Daddies offer a large sum of money, as well as many inventing items. Using the 'Scrounger' tonic (found by researching leadhead splicers) can find you extra money and/or inventing trinkets as well.

