 Microfiber furniture is typically labeled with one of four codes to indicate what can be used to clean it: W is for a water-based cleaning solvent, S is for a water-free solvent, S/W is for either, and X is for neither (i.e. vacuum-only)., If your sofa doesn’t have a tag or has a tag that is unclear, do not assume that water can be used to clean your sofa. Instead, assume that you should not use water. In this case, you should stick to vacuuming, scrubbing with a dry brush, or using a product that doesn’t have a water base., Decide what type of solution you will use before beginning to clean your sofa. Good water-based cleaning solutions include gentle soap, mild dish detergent, carpet cleaner, and upholstery shampoo. Water-free solvents include rubbing alcohol, clear alcohol like gin or vodka, dry-cleaning solvent, lighter fluid, baby wipes, and oxygenating solutions that don’t contain bleach., Do this to remove dust and loose debris. You should use the soft brush attachment to vacuum. Do not use a high-powered vacuum attachment. This could pull at the fabric and cause it to wrinkle.You should vacuum your couch once a week.
 Since it is better to avoid using liquid whenever possible, begin scrubbing at stains with a dry brush. This will help lift crusty spills from the fabric. Scrub gently so that you do not pull at the fabric too much., Specifically, remove the seat cushions, back cushions and loose pillows. Vacuum and brush the newly-uncovered areas. Use the vacuum attachment if necessary to remove hard-to-reach crumbs or dust., Pour a small amount of the solution onto a clean washcloth. Gently scrub at a small portion on the fabric that is not very visible. Wait for the fabric to dry before gauging whether or not it has been damaged., If the solution did not cause any damage, you can begin to clean the sofa. Use a clean washcloth or sponge and gently scrub. Do not saturate the couch with the solution. Instead, use only a few drops and reapply more solution if necessary., Even though your solution should not stain, it is better to use a blow dryer on the wet part immediately after you have finished cleaning. Use the coolest setting on the blow dryer. Hold the dryer about six inches away from the spot until it evaporates completely., Microfiber tends to stiffen after being cleaned. It can be restored to its normal texture with a little brushing. Make sure to use a soft-bristled brush., Once you have cleaned all of the cushions, you can put the couch back together. It should look and feel like new. You can do extra brushing and vacuuming if you aren’t completely pleased with the outcome.
 Use an aerosol can of original Lysol. Spray a small amount of the product onto the stain. Blot the stain with a clean cloth until it lifts. Then, blow dry and use a soft-bristled brush to restore the texture., Mix baking soda and water in a bowl. It should create a thick paste. Apply the paste to the stain and wait a few minutes. Then, wipe the stain clean., If you don’t have WD-40, you can also use Dawn dish soap. Apply a small amount to the spot and blot it with a towel or sponge. Rinse with water until the stain is removed. Avoid using this method if you can’t use water on your sofa., Do not use this method if you can’t use water on your sofa. Rub a cube of ice on the chewing gum until it hardens. Then, peel it off. Do not rush or you may damage the fabric.If there is still a stain, apply a mixture of warm water and liquid laundry detergent to the fabric. Rub gently until the stain lifts.
Call a professional. Do this if you are in doubt about how to properly remove a stain or clean your sofa. Continuing attempts to remove the stain on your own can damage the couch. Look online for an upholstery cleaner in your area. 