 DEET is one of the most effective bug repellents for use against chiggers and other mites. Apply the repellent to your exposed skin, especially on the hands, arms, and legs.


DEET treatments can last for two to three hours.
Do not spray DEET repellents near your mouth or eyes.
Do not spray DEET repellents on skin covered by clothing, as doing so may cause skin irritation.
Follow label directions carefully when applying. Some repellents can damage clothing, plastics, nail polish, and painted or varnished surfaces.
If any allergic reaction occurs, seek emergency medical treatment.
 Permethrin repellents (0.5%) are also very useful against chiggers, but these should only be applied to your clothes and not directly to your skin.


Permethrin repellents can last for several days after application and remain on your clothes after being washed once or twice. In fact, it is recommended that you treat your clothes one day before you wear them.
Apply the repellent to both sides of your clothing, focusing on openings like cuffs, necks, and waistbands. Let the repellent dry before putting your clothes on.
Follow label directions carefully as you apply the repellent. As with DEET repellents, some permethrin repellents can damage clothing, plastics, nail polish, and painted or varnished surfaces.
If an allergic reaction occurs, seek emergency medical treatment.
 Insecticides containing any of these chemicals will usually prove effective at killing chiggers, but you should read the label carefully to determine if a specific insecticide is formulated for mite or chigger removal.


When applying insecticides to use against chiggers, you should treat hot spots instead of treating the entire area. This is less expensive, quicker, and generally more effective.
Pick out hot spots by placing small squares of black cardboard around the edge of the grass. Watch for a few minutes for yellow or pink chiggers. If you spot any, you can consider the area a hot spot.

Test 10 to 12 locations and focus on areas with ideal chigger habitats. Weeds, tall grass, dead leaves, and briars are the best areas, but you should consider any location in your yard that is moist and shaded.


Follow label instructions concerning application carefully. Wear protective clothing to prevent insecticides from coming into contact with your skin or eyes as you apply them.
Note that you may need to retreat the area two to three weeks later if you have a large number of chiggers infesting your yard.
Note that liquid spray insecticides are generally more effective against chiggers than granular insecticides. If selecting a granular insecticide, however, choose one containing bifenthrin., If preventative measures, natural remedies, and home chemical remedies do not succeed in getting rid of your chigger problem, contact a professional exterminator to help out.


Pest control professionals are licensed to use stronger formulations of chemicals that are more hazardous yet more effective. For instance, the exterminator will often use propoxur, cyfluthrin, or fluvalinate to get rid of chiggers from a yard.
Stay off treated areas until dry. Prevent children and pets from walking over treated areas, as well.
Even with these stronger chemicals, you may need to retreat the area after two or three weeks if the infestation is heavy enough.

