 Harsh soaps will strip the natural oils from your skin, making it more vulnerable to drying out and this can make your winter eczema worse. Wash yourself with plain water and use a mild soap to clean yourself., This might be hard to do on cold winter days, but it will prevent your skin from becoming waterlogged.Try to restrict the length of showers and baths to less than 15 minutes.
Rub in almond oil while you are still wet (at least in trouble spots).
Dry yourself thoroughly.
Shower promptly after exercise to prevent sweat from irritating your eczema.
 People who have eczema are often highly sensitive to strong soaps and exposure may bring on an outbreak. Add thick lotion before putting the gloves on. Avoid contact with:Solvents
Cleaners
Dish soaps
Detergents

, Consider whether your eczema is worse when you are exposed to environmental irritants, such as dust and cigarette smoke. Because you spend more time indoors in winter, you may be more exposed to these irritants more often.Try to reduce your exposure to environmental irritants as much as possible.
 Eczema is related to allergies, so you may want to consider eliminating foods that you are allergic to. You can ask your doctor to test you for allergies if you are not sure if you have any allergies. Foods that may irritate your eczema include:Eggs
Milk
Peanuts
Soybeans
Fish
Wheat

, Avoid sudden changes in heat and humidity. If the weather is changing dramatically, stay inside as much as possible to give your skin a chance to adjust.


If the weather suddenly gets very dry, try using a humidifier in your house to moisten the air.
 Loose clothing will allow your skin to breathe. Dress warmly in winter and protect your skin from drying winter winds.Avoid scratchy wool.
Wear cool clothing that breathes well during exercise.
 Stress may make you more prone to eczema. By reducing your stress, you can promote healing for existing patches and reduce the likelihood of it flaring up. Excellent ways to reduce stress include:


Getting 8 hours of sleep each night. This will give you the mental energy to face the challenges in your life.
Exercising for approximately 2.5 hours per week. This can be harder to do in winter, but it will pay off. Your body will release endorphins which will relax you and lift your mood. Possible activities include sports, jogging, swimming, and biking.
Using relaxation techniques such as meditation, yoga, deep breathing, visualizing calming images, and massage.

