 Your conflicts check system is only as good as the information you enter into it. Accordingly, you should gather all relevant information from clients and potential clients. Have them fill out an in-take form and remember to update it as the case unfolds. An in-take form should request the following:name of the client and any entities related to the client (such as their employer or business that they own)
contact information for the client and related entities
nature of the representation (why they need legal help)
name of the person authorizing the agreement
terms and conditions of your representation
name, address, and contact numbers for all parties involved in the representation, including witnesses and experts

, You can type up a list of your client information in Excel and check it as part of your conflicts check. However, the best case management software will allow you to perform thorough conflicts checks quickly.


You will keep detailed information about your clients in the system, including the names of opposing counsel, witnesses, interested parties, etc. You can then search this information for any name or term that you want., You should perform a conflicts check before meeting with a client for a consultation.Have your secretary gather basic information from the person, such as their identity and who they are adverse to. Perform a check to see if they are adverse to current or former clients, or if there is a potential personal conflict.


You should certainly perform a conflicts check before the client signs an engagement letter.By checking early, you can prevent the potential client from divulging confidential information to you and potentially causing a greater ethical problem.
 Conflicts can arise at any point, and your firm should perform rolling conflicts checks at various points, even after you have begun the representation. Perform another check at the following milestones:Before opening a new matter for an existing client.
When a new attorney, party, or witness enters the litigation.
 You also need to obtain a full list of client matters from any lawyer you hire. Obtain this information when you decide to interview an attorney and run a conflicts check before hiring.Remember that Rule 1.10 provides ways for screening conflicted attorneys so that your firm won’t have a conflict. However, you need to know potential conflicts early so that you can take adequate measures.
If you are unsure of how to properly screen a lawyer, contact an attorney who specializes in professional responsibility.

