 When your child has bipolar disorder, you should learn everything you can about the disorder. Finding and researching more about your child's disorder will help both you and your child cope with their disorder.


Start by reading books, listening to audio recordings, researching on the Internet, and visiting bipolar communities or online forums.
You may also want to talk to teachers who teach children with bipolar disorder, or consult professionals, therapists, your child's doctor, and other parents of children with bipolar disorder.
 Your child needs to be seen by a professional in order to feel better. Find qualified doctors and therapists in your area to help your child learn how to live a full life with bipolar disorder.Inform the doctor and therapist clearly about the way your child acts. Explain in as much detail as possible how they behave during various points of the day, what they say, and how it affects them.
A doctor and therapist will provide techniques, methods, and medication to help your child feel better and less inclined to a manic or depressive episode.
Talk with your child about how these appointments are designed to keep them healthy, and are not because something is wrong or because they are in trouble.
Set up all necessary appointments and attend them regularly and on time.
 Keep a notebook to write down and track how your child feels throughout each day. Monitoring your child's behavior is a great way to present your child's actions to their doctor and therapist so they can keep track and notice a routine or cycle of the mood swings from your child.When your child behaves oddly or has an episode, record it. Write down the details and make sure to include the time, date, and what may have triggered it.
If they have an episode at school, ask them to tell you as much about it as possible. You can also check with their teacher and see if they can provide you with more information.
 Your child will most likely be given medication by a doctor to help them feel calm, relaxed, and less inclined to an episode. Research the medication and ask the doctor questions about any side effects so you will know what to expect.You should also ask your doctor about any warning signs of negative reactions to the medication.
When your child first starts the medication, make sure to monitor them closely for the first few days to ensure the medication doesn't have an adverse effect.
 Keep a notebook to track and monitor how your child is doing with their treatment. This is especially important if your child is taking medication since some medications can result in side effects. While some treatments may help your child significantly, other types of treatment may make your child feel even worse.Pay attention to signs of relapse. Always keep track of these signs by mentioning the time, date, and what seems to be triggering your child.
You can track the treatment in the same notebook you use to monitor your child's moods.
 If you notice something is wrong with your child or notice a change, tell your child's doctor and therapist right away. Contact them when signs of a relapse start — do not wait until a full-blown episode occurs. Don't stay quiet if you notice a problem; state it at once and find out what's going on.Some treatment may cause your child to feel great, but later on cause them to feel worse or even suicidal.
 Tell your child firmly but gently that taking their medication is important so they can feel better. Tell them about the positive side effects of taking it so they know that they will get from it.If your child constantly tries to avoid taking their medication, talk to their doctor or therapist about it.
 Set a medication schedule up so your child will know and recognize when it's time to take their medication. It may help to set timers or alarms to remind your child as well.If your child needs to take their medication at school, talk to their teacher or school nurse about how they can take while they're there. Some schools do not allow children to take medication by themselves.
When your child reaches adolescence, talk with them about being responsible for taking their medication on their own. You want to show them how to refill prescriptions and make doctors appointments before refills expire. They should have several years of practice before they become adults and move away.

