 Mindfulness is continuous undisturbed awareness of the present moment. Fully aware of here, and now, we pay attention to what is happening right in front of us, we set aside our mental and emotional baggage. To be mindful we have to re-train our mind.;
, Our mind is constantly busy with thoughts and feeling about our past, present and future. To stop it from useless constant chat, we must learn how to hear this noise, how to become aware of it, and to transform it through concentration into mindfulness.
 Sit and meditate mindfulness meditation. The person meditating should be mindful of whatever enters the mind. Silencing the internal dialogue, observe your thoughts, and feelings without labeling them as good or bad. Mindfulness works with continuous awareness of: the body posture and breath; of the feelings, of the mind and of the mental objects that appear during the meditation. Through bare attention, we learn to see things as they really are, without judgments and preconceptions. Sit and meditate for 30 minutes every day.
 We train ourselves all through our life to waste energy following our inner narratives. We are often unconsciously driven by our fears, worries and fantasies. We interpret, speculate, and project the words, thoughts and emotions around us. We should enter a space of awareness of our present moment with no emotional filters, no regrets of the past or hopes for the future, with no daydreaming and no nightmares. An ability to concentrate will give us an ability to transform a mundane situation into a very special one.
 Self-remembering is an attempt to be more conscious, and more aware. It is a form of active meditation were we work to be aware of ourselves and our environment through self-remembering. The essence of the Self-Remembering technique is that while we are doing anything: reading, singing, talking, tasting, we must be aware of the Self who is reading, singing, talking or tasting.


Mindful Walking. Walking next to the sea: the sounds are there, the wind is there, we are there with the sun, with the breeze, and with our breath and awareness of our body moving, but without our thoughts.






Mindful Eating. When eating, taste your food with mindfulness without external interruptions. Experience the joy of tasting food with no TV, reading,mobiles, messaging, etc...






Mindful Showering. When showering and bathing suddenly remember yourself, and stay as long as you can – remembering the water flow, its temperature, its contact with the body. Shower with cold water it will make you aware and awake.
 Mindfulness increases the awareness of the nature of the mind. If we learn to control our mind and listen to our souls we can consciously choose to be joyful instead of sad, peaceful and loving, alert and relaxed.
 Get Delighted. The quality of life is in proportion of our capacity to get delighted. The capacity for delight is within our capacity to pay attention to things around us. Pay attention to birds singing, to clouds formations, to flowers greeting you, to kids laughing, to a beautiful person that has just passed by. Be aware of synchronicity among all living beings and be alert for the presence of Divine in All.

