 If your bunny is sneezing, you’ll want to examine her for any other signs of illness or infection. Be sure to look carefully at the bunny’s nose and eyes to see if they’re becoming “runny,” or filled with mucus.Pay attention to what and how much your bunny eats. If there’s any loss of appetite, you’ll want to take your bunny to a vet immediately.
If there aren’t any other symptoms, the sneezing may well be an ordinary response to getting dust in her nose.;
, If your bunny starts to sneeze only in the presence of certain substances (such as cigarette smoke, hay, pellet dust, or pollen) then he may start sneezing as an allergic reaction to the substance.You’ll want to make sure your bunny’s living area is free of the allergen. If you are a breeder with many bunnies, regularly power washing the bunny’s living areas is recommended.
If your bunny still sneezes despite clean quarters, absence of cigarette smoke or ammonia from litter, then check with your vet for other possible causes.
 One of the causes of a rabbit’s sneezing is the ammonia build-up from soiled bedding. To prevent sneezing, change her bedding regularly.Never use pine or cedar shavings for bedding, as these shavings will alter a rabbit’s ability to respond to medication.Make sure the bunny’s cage is well-ventilated.
 Like humans, rabbits will sneeze if they get dust in their nose. A good strong sneeze will clear their nasal passages and restore good breathing.This type of sneezing will go away on its own, as soon as the nasal passages are clear.
Sometimes a bunny may sneeze as an expression of dislike or disgust when confronted with a smell he dislikes.
 If your rabbit is sneezing frequently, and showing other signs of illness such as runny eyes and runny nose, it’s likely she has a bacterial infection. Unlike the common cold in humans, this condition (commonly called “snuffles”) is a bacterial infection.Your vet should do a culture and sensitivity test to determine which of multiple common bacterial culprits is causing the sneezing in your rabbit.
Once the pathogen (i.e., the disease-causing bacteria) has been identified, the appropriate antibacterial medicine can be prescribed.
 Infection in the teeth and/or gums is a common cause of snuffles in rabbits. Teeth and gums are closely connected to the sinus passages, which is why issues there can result in sneezing.This kind of infection is more often found in older bunnies as they’ve had time to develop molar spurs or molar root problems that cause inflammation and infection.
You might need to get an Xray of your bunny’s head to see root problems, as the visible portion of the teeth may appear normal.
 If your bunny’s nostrils are frequently clogged, this is a problem for his health. Bunnies are obligate nasal breathers, which means that they can only breathe through their noses. You can help keep your bunny’s nose clear by using a pediatric ear syringe to suction out the excess matter that’s preventing your bunny from breathing., In the wild, rabbits eat a very high-fiber diet that consists mainly of grass, hay and bark, and they rarely suffer from dental problems. The majority of your rabbit's daily diet should be grass and hay, with only a small amount of commercial rabbit food.Because a rabbit's teeth grow throughout her life, the rabbit will need to eat foods that will wear down the teeth.
A bunny’s teeth need to be continually worn down by the action of chewing on food in order to maintain good dental health.
 Offering too many pellets or commercially prepared food may result in obesity. Typically, pellets are high in calories and low in fiber. If you do feed pellets to your rabbit, make sure they’re high quality with a good amount of fiber.Realize that obesity in a bunny is a serious medical condition. It contributes to many health problems, such as stomach and urinary tract conditions, and foot problems from bearing too much weight on his feet.
You can tell if your rabbit is obese by looking at him from above. A healthy rabbit should be shaped like a pear, with the larger portion at the base. An obese rabbit will be shaped more like an apple with a head.
 A bunny who spends too much time in her cage is likely to become obese. She needs time every day out of her cage to exercise. In the wild, a bunny usually covers around two acres of land as she forages for food. While you may not be able to provide this amount of free space, make sure you allow it ample time (at least four hours per day) to exercise in your home, backyard, or a fenced area.Diet and exercise are the best treatment for obesity in bunnies as well as humans.
Rabbits are naturally more active at dusk and dawn. If you can, provide two two-hour sessions of exercise for your rabbit every day in the morning and evening.
 One of the best ways to keep your rabbit healthy and fit, as well as giving you a good chance to observe your rabbit, will be to play games with him. Lie down on the ground and let your bunny hop all over you, for instance. Playing “chase” with a rabbit means allowing your rabbit to chase you around the yard. Call to him (practicing voice commands), and let him try to catch you. Most bunnies will get the hang of this game pretty quickly.You can build an obstacle course for your rabbit out of cardboard boxes, newspapers, and other household items.
Some bunnies enjoy chasing balls or rolling them around on the floor.
These playing sessions are best done in the morning and evening when your rabbit will be more energetic.

