 The line between legal and illegal employer conduct is very thin. For example, you can state your opinion about a union but not ask the employee what he thinks about the union. In everyday conversation, it is very natural to follow up an opinion with a question. However, in the union context, you could inadvertently commit an unfair labor practice if you do.


To help you understand what you can and can’t say, you need an experienced labor lawyer. To find a qualified labor lawyer, you can get a referral from another business which has recently undergone a union drive. Ask the company’s management if they would recommend their lawyer.
Before hiring the lawyer, make sure that the lawyer has experience representing companies (and not unions).
Also check that the lawyer is experienced in training managers and supervisors. You need all management at the workplace to understand what is not allowed. Many labor lawyers can present training seminars where they coach your staff.
 The law closely limits what you can say or do, and your supervisory staff must know how it can respond to the union drive. In some situations, a supervisor can commit a labor violation so serious that a union election won’t need to be held.Employees will often approach your front-line management to discuss the union. Your staff must be prepared to answer questions lawfully., One common question employees ask supervisors is whether or not they must sign the authorization card the union gives them. In order to hold a union election, a certain percentage of employees must sign the card. If employees are confused, they might ask their immediate supervisor if they have to sign.


The answer is “No.” Every employee has a legal right not to sign the authorization card., Employees might also ask whether it costs money to join the union.


The supervisor can tell the employee that the union charges dues in addition to potential fines and assessments. For example, the union can assess fines for working if there is a strike. A union can also fine members for not attending a union meeting., Some employees might think a union guarantees job security. In this situation, they might ask their supervisor to confirm their suspicions.


In fact, a union does not guarantee job security. Your frontline supervisory staff can tell employees that the best way to assure job security is for the company to continue to grow and remain competitive in its market., Your employees might also wonder whether they will be paid if they strike. Your staff should be prepared to answer accurately.


An employee has no right to payment. Furthermore, the employee has no guarantee of continued employment if they strike.