 You need to click on Greg, and you will see a short scene where money blows out of his hands and over to two teenagers. Rowley will ask you to help Greg. (Isn't the color awesome? In Wimpy Wonderland Island it's just black and white.);
, Click on it, the clue is "Sweeter than honey." Jump up on the ride by the kid with the helicopter and click on the trash can lid. Walk left a little, you should see a trash can with flies around it. Click on the trashcan to put the lid on the trashcan, then push the can right until it is next to the cotton candy stand. Click to open the trash can.
 Then, move left and click on the popcorn stand (not the guy--the stand). Your bag should be filled with popcorn and added to your backpack.
 Jump up on the trash can and wait until the Seagull flies close to you. Jump at the seagull; he will drop a Souvenir keychain. It will be added to your backpack.
 Click the third option. He will give you Suntan lotion. Now move right and click on the guy that has a bad sunburn. He'll be right next to the water. Give him the suntan lotion, and the guy will give you back some Extra Oily Sunblock. Now, click on the guy with the red metal detector and hand him the Souvenir keychain that you got from the seagull. He will give you the metal detector. Move right till you are standing next to the girl lying under the umbrella.
 She will run away screaming when the seagulls come down for the popcorn.
 First, you need to find a Ring of Keys. These will be put in the backpack. Next, move around and find 8 game tokens. You will need these later. To find stuff, move the metal detector around until it starts flashing really fast, Click the middle part when it turns green to dig up the tokens and the keys.
 Move left until you see a woman in the parking lot. She will say she lost her keys. Give her the Ring of Keys in your backpack; she will give you a pair of Flip Flops that fit just right. Now move left until you reach the Arcade Area.
 Grab the flying disc sitting on the roof. Now jump down and give the flying disc to the little boy that is crying and carrying on. He will tell you that the Claw Machine will give you a free game if you jiggle the handle.
 Jiggle the handle; the game will start. You want to pick up the unicorn, the football, and the other thing blocking your way. Finally, pick up the fake vomit and it will be added to your backpack.
 Go to your backpack and click "Use" on the fake vomit. The line will clear out, now click on the guy sitting under the awning. He will let you play the Bumper Cars.
 Keep bumping into Rowley, in the red bumper car, until a small blue thing falls out of the car. Drive over it, the Lucky Rabbit's Foot will be added to your backpack.
 Grease the slide down with the suntan oil from your backpack; when he hits the pool of balls, Fregley will pop out. Fregley's mom will thank you for finding him and give you his leftover fish sticks.
 Complete all the games; you have 8 tokens, in case you mess up. In case you need more, go the funhouse. There are always tokens lying somewhere in the funhouse. You have the rabbit's foot, so Himalayan Hurl is easy. Click anywhere.
 He will give you his helicopter. Click "use" on the fish sticks to bait the helicopter. Now go right to The Beach.
 Guide it over to the crab. The crab is now clinging to the helicopter in your backpack. Head left to the Arcade Area. Use the helicopter and crab in your backpack. Guide the helicopter over to the money. The crab will grab on, and the teenagers can't get it.
 The crab releases it and Greg gets his $20 back. Greg will give you an island medallion.

