 Wearing soiled clothing can lead to body odor and physical discomfort. Having wet clothing pressed against the body for prolonged periods of time may also cause some skin irritation. You may want to remove the soiled clothing before you change the sheets to reduce the chances of discomfort and skin irritation.Keep extra undergarments and/or pajamas near the bed if bedwetting is a frequent problem. This can make it easier to change your clothes when accidents occur.
Consider bagging up soiled garments until they can be washed. This will help prevent odors from filling the room.
Keep a plastic bag near your bed so you can bag up soiled clothes more easily. If you're traveling or staying at someone else's home make sure you bring a plastic bag to keep near you at night.;
, Showering is best after an accident, if at all possible. If you're at home and your family or roommates know about the problem you may choose to bathe. If you're staying with someone who doesn't know about your problem, there are more discreet ways of cleaning up.Use wet wipes to clean off the affected areas, which may include the groin, buttocks, and thighs.
Use a clean towel or disposable paper towels to thoroughly dry off the soiled parts of the body.
If urine-soaked clothing was touching the skin for prolonged periods of time before you woke up, you may want to consider using a talc-based body powder. This can help manage moisture on the skin and prevent irritation and rashes.
 Once you're clean, you'll want to put on a pair of dry undergarments and/or pajamas. The soiled garments should be put in a laundry hamper or wrapped up in a plastic bag to prevent odors from lingering in the bedroom.


If bedwetting is a frequently-occurring problem you may want to consider leaving an extra pair of undergarments and/or pajamas near the bedside on a nightly basis.This can make cleaning up much easier and more discreet.
 Never yell at or punish someone for wetting the bed. Whether it's a child or an adult, no one wants to wet the bed. Be kind and offer assistance any way you're comfortable doing so.


If your child wets the bed, help the child get clean and change their clothes.
You should also involve the child in changing/cleaning the sheets, as this will help teach the child what to do in the future.
 Any soiled linens should be immediately stripped off and put in a laundry hamper or sealed in a plastic bag. The bedding will need to be washed, and if you plan on going back to sleep your room may smell by the morning if it's not properly stored overnight.Proper storage of soiled linens is particularly important if you have a roommate or don't want others to know about your bedwetting issue.
You may want to have a designated laundry basket for soiled linens. You can also keep plastic trash bags handy near your bed so that you can seal the soiled laundry up and contain the smell.
 If you find that you're having a difficult time cleaning up the bed, you may need to ask someone for help. This may be particularly relevant if you're spending the night at someone else's house.


Wake up someone you can trust to help you clean the bed. A relative or close friend would be ideal.
Say something like, "I'm really sorry but I'm not feeling well and I had an accident. Can you help me clean up?"

, Depending on how much urine is released, you may need to clean the mattress in addition to changing the bedding. You'll want to focus on absorbing any residual urine and treating the spot to prevent stains and odors.Dab at the wet spot with a dry towel.
Spray the affected area with an upholstery cleaner or an enzyme-based pet odor remover. You can purchase these products at most general housewares stores and many grocery stores.
If you don't have an appropriate cleaner at home you can make one quickly and easily. Mix one teaspoon of dish detergent into one cup of warm water, then transfer the mixture into a spray bottle or dab it in with a towel.
 If bedwetting is a frequent problem, the mattress may begin to smell over time. You can remove some odors from the mattress by treating it with baking soda.Sprinkle baking soda on the affected area. Apply the baking soda generously; some accidents may require an entire box of baking soda to properly absorb the odors.
Baking soda needs time to absorb odors. You can leave the baking soda on your mattress until the morning and vacuum it up then; if you do, just put a clean, dry towel down between the baking soda and the bed sheet.
 Absorbent underwear is the first line of defense against bedwetting. These products will not prevent bedwetting, but they will make cleaning up much easier and quicker. Absorbent undergarments come in both reusable and disposable forms. They are made for children and adults of varying body sizes.You can purchase absorbent undergarments at most pharmacies and grocery stores.
 Mattress covers are designed to protect your bed in the event that urine soaks through your clothing and sheets. These products can help prevent wetness and odors from reaching the mattress, making clean up much quicker and less labor-intensive.There are many types of mattress covers, including waterproof, absorbent, and even sheet protectors.
You can purchase mattress covers at many department stores or through an online retailer.
 Reducing the quantity of fluids you consume can help reduce the chances that you'll need to void your bladder during the night. This is particularly true of the quantity and type of fluids consumed later in the day, as drinks consumed closer to bedtime are more likely to affect your body at night.


Fluids should be especially limited in the afternoon and evening. Try to limit your evening fluid intake to approximately 1/5 of your overall daily fluids.Go to the toilet twice before bed: once when you begin your bedtime routine, and once more right before you go to sleep.Avoid caffeine and alcohol. These diuretics are also considered bladder irritants and may contribute to increased urination and bedwetting.Restricting fluids is especially important for children and seniors. Children have smaller bladders that are still developing and seniors have weaker bladders due to age. Adult women who have birthed children may also have weaker bladders.
 Bedwetting alarms can be helpful to individuals of all ages who experience incontinence. The alarm is strapped to the body and goes off at the first sign of urination to wake you up right away. Over time, this may help condition your body to wake up when you need to urinate before you actually wet the bed.Bedwetting alarms can be programmed to emit sound or to vibrate. This feature may be convenient if you want to remain discreet about your bedwetting.
Bedwetting alarms are easy to clean when they get soiled.
These alarms are sensitive enough to pick up on a very small amount of urine, but not so sensitive that they will go off when sweat is detected.
 Your doctor can help determine whether there are any underlying medical issues that may be contributing to your bedwetting problem. Your doctor can also prescribe medication to help you manage your condition. Don't delay seeing a doctor if there are any changes in the frequency or type of voiding you experience, as this may be a sign of more serious problems.


Your doctor may perform a variety of tests, including a physical exam, a urinalysis and urine culture, uroflowmetry exams, and post-void residual urine measurements.See your doctor immediately if you experience cloudy or bloody urine, painful urination, or daytime incontinence., Your doctor can prescribe a variety of medications to help you manage your bedwetting.Commonly prescribed medications that your doctor may recommend include:


Desmopressin — helps regulate how much urine the kidneys produce. Side effects include nausea/vomiting, changes in appetite, headache, tiredness, restlessness, and irritability.Oxybutynin — relaxes the bladder muscles so that it can contain more urine without needing to urinate during the night. Side effects include headache, dry mouth, constipation, diarrhea, and feeling ill.
Imipramine — has the same effect as oxybutynin. Side effects include dry mouth, headache, dizziness, and increased appetite.

