 If you have a runny or stuffed nose, do not automatically assume it is a sinus infection. Typically, home care of over the counter antihistamines, rest, hydration and cold remedies can be utilized to help your body recover. The unnecessary prescribing of antibiotics is causing bacteria to no longer respond to antibiotics, rendering them ineffective. To avoid this, allow yourself time to rest and recuperate before contacting your doctor. If necessary, your doctor can evaluate your condition and prescribe medicines to help you recover and feel better. Seek help if you experience any of the following symptoms:Sinus congestion that lasts for more than 10 days
A fever of 102°F (38.9°C) or higher
Symptoms that improve and then worse at or around the 6th day of your illness;
, Ask your doctor for recommendations on what over the counter medicines might help to ease your symptoms. Sinus infections are often accompanied by mucus buildup and congestion, medicines that fight these symptoms can help you get relief. These medicines are available in both pill form and as a nasal spray.


Popular decongestant pills include phenylephrine (Sudafed PE), pseudoephedrine (Sudafed 12 Hour).Generic versions of these medicines will work just as well as long as they contain the same ingredients.
Don't use nasal sprays, such as Afrin, for more than three days unless directed — this can actually increase congestion., Painkillers (or analgesia) won't usually fight the direct cause of the sinus infection, but they can help with painful aches and sinus pressure. Always follow the directions on the label with these medications — they can be dangerous if taken in very high doses. Don't rely on OTC painkillers for more than about a week and a half without consulting with a doctor.Ibuprofen is an especially good choice because it's also an anti-inflammatory. This means that it can reduce the swelling in the sinus passages, helping to relieve mucus buildup and pressure.
Other good OTC painkillers include acetaminophen (paracetamol) and naproxen sodium.
Only take recommended dosages of these medications. Overdoing it with these medications can cause serious issues, such as kidney or liver problems.
 Sinus infections can have a wide variety of causes. For instance, some sinus infections aren't the result of a disease, but instead a reaction to substances in the air that the sufferer is allergic to. Luckily, there are medicines available to fight allergy symptoms and make you feel better:


Most OTC medicines used for allergies belong to a type of drugs called antihistamines. Examples include diphenhydramine (Benadryl), Brompheniramine (Dimetapp), and Loratadine (Claritin).
If you have a sinus infection and you haven't ever been tested for allergies, it can be a wise idea to schedule an allergy test with your doctor. This can prevent you from wasting time with solutions that don't work for you.
 Antibiotics are a type of medicine that kills harmful bacteria in the body. If your doctor believes that your sinus infection is caused by bacteria, she or he may prescribe you some antibiotics to fight it. Do not take antibiotics that were not prescribed for you and do not take old antibiotics that were prescribed for a different condition.


If you are given antibiotics, it is important to follow your doctor's instructions as you use it. Don't stop taking it if you feel better before you're done with the medicine — always take the full course of antibiotics. This can cause the bacteria to adapt to that antibiotic, which will keep it from working in the future.
Keep in mind that the use of antibiotics to treat sinus infections is controversial among doctors, so some doctors may not be willing to prescribe them., In some cases sinusitis may be severe or chronic in nature, and not due to bacterial infection. In these cases, your doctor may prescribe you a type of medicine administered through nasal spray which includes a corticosteroid. These drugs help fight inflammation in your sinus passages, improving the flow of mucus and relieving pressure.Brands include Nasacort and Flonase.

