 Build about 10 feet (3.0 m) away from tents, trees, roots, overhanging boughs or dry leaves, and other flammable items. This is especially important if if there's no fire ring available.


Sweep away loose twigs, sticks, leaves or roots.
Underground roots can catch on fire in dry conditions. Do not place a fire near these.;
, Dig it a few inches into the ground (a fire pit) to contain the fire.
 Put rocks around the pit to create a barrier between the fire and everything else.


Don't use rocks saturated with water. When they heat up, the steam pressure created can cause the rocks to explode and fracture. Use dry rocks.
 This makes it a lot easier to keep under control.
 Do not add anything dangerous to the flames, such as pressurized cans or glass.


Never use flammable liquid or fuel to start a fire. Keep gas canisters/bottles and fuel cans well away from the campfire zone.
, Have the tools ready to put out any escaped fire if necessary.


Prepare a bucket of water. Keep it near the fire. In some cases, you might even consider having a bucket of water beside each tent.
Keep a fire extinguisher nearby. Not only is it safe, but if you have children with friends, then parents will be reassured that their child is safe.
 Make sure all children are kept away from the fire's edge. If they are close to it, make sure they have adult supervision.


Never leave children, pets or the fire unattended when camping.
 Put chairs in a circle far enough from the fire where you can feel heat, but it is not threatening to catch on fire.
 Stay alert for sparks and for coals that roll out.


Handle hot cooking gear with oven mitts or gloves. For example, hot handles from cast iron pots etc. and food wrapped in aluminum foil should not be touched with bare hands while over the fire or for a while after it has been removed.
Sticks or tongs can be used to wedge cooked things out of the fire.
 Be sure to extinguish every last ember properly.


Allow the fire to burn to ash.
Pour water over all the ash, as much as is needed to completely smother it. When the hissing sound stops, you can stop adding water.
Stir with a shovel, breaking up any branches or twigs left.
It should all be wet and cold to the touch. Be careful testing!


A fire should be extinguished before the last person goes to bed at night.

