 These instructions use about three or four differently-colored sheets of construction paper to make a fun mask. You shouldn't need any more than a standard-sized sheet of each. This mask also uses standard white paper for the eyes, but it's semi-important to use construction paper as the base material of the mask itself because it's sturdier.


Making a mask out of just a single piece of construction paper is certainly possible, but using multiple pieces of paper as your base lets you pick color combinations you like.
 Masks come in all sorts of shapes and sizes. This particular mask is roughly oval-shaped, like a real human face. To make this oval shape, fold one of your sheets of construction paper in half, then cut off the corners opposite the crease with curved, rounded cuts. When unfolded, your paper should have a symmetrical oval shape. This will serve as our mask's face.
 Cut your second sheet of construction paper in half by folding it down the middle and cutting along the crease. Then, make two small ovals by using the method in the step above for each of the half-sheets: fold down the middle, then use a curved cut to remove the corners opposite the crease.


These ovals aren't the eyes themselves - rather, they're the outlines of the eyes. So, make these ovals slightly larger than you'd like the eyes themselves to be.
 Secure your eye outlines to the mask with glue, a glue stick, tape, or any similar adhesive. Ensure that they're level with each other, unless you want your mask to have misaligned eyes.
 Take a sheet of white paper - you can use white construction paper, but standard 8x11 printer paper also works well - and cut it into two ovals using the technique described above. These ovals will be the eyes, so make them just a little smaller than the eye outlines that you just glued to the mask. When your white ovals are ready, glue each one in the center of one of the larger eye outlines that you've already placed on the face.
 Use a black pen or marker to give your mask's eyes pupils (the black circles at the center of an eyeball). Not only will pupils make your mask look more realistic, but they will also help hide the holes that you'll add to your mask so that you can see through it.
 To make your nose, you may want to use the same oval-cutting technique as before, then add small notches to your oval to make nostrils. Alternatively, you can use a simple triangle or a more realistic curved appearance - the choice is yours.


When you've finished your nose, use glue to secure it in the center of the face below the eyes.
 Use the leftovers of the eye outline construction paper to form two eyebrows for your mask. Glue these eyebrows above the eyes. You have many options here when it comes to shapes - you can cut thin eyebrows, thick ones, curved ones, or even zig-zag ones.
 Fold a third sheet of construction paper in half. Cut a curved scimitar or cornucopia shape in your paper, making it thickest at the crease and increasingly thinner as it goes toward the "open" end of your folded paper. Unfolded, this should give you a smile-shaped mouth (or, if you turn it over, a frown). Glue this to your mask under the nose.


If you have leftover white paper from cutting out your eyes, you may want to use it to cut small, square teeth for your mouth.
 Take a square piece of paper of the color of your choosing and cut long strips into it lengthwise. Stop your cuts just short of the far side of the paper - in other words, don't quite cut all the way through the paper. Next, use your scissors to put curls in your hair - hold one blade of the scissor against the paper, then pull it firmly down the length of the strip. This process is the same as that used to curl ribbons.


To expedite this step, you may want to stack two sheets of paper on top of each other before every step. This way, you'll cut identical strips into two sheets of paper at the same time, curl two sheets of paper at the same time, etc.
 Cut your strips of hair as short as you'd like them, then glue your hair around the upper edge of your mask to give your mask a full head of luscious locks. If your mask's hair is especially curly, you may also want to use it for sideburns, and if it's especially short and straight, it can make a mean mustache.
 Put a small hole in the center of each eye so that you can see through your mask while you wear it. You can do this by carefully folding the mask at each eye and using a pair of scissors to cut a half-circle in the center which, unfolded, will make a small circle. You can also use a hole punch, if you have one handy.
 To be able to wear your mask, try making a small hole at either edge of the face and tying a loose string from one to the other along the back. Slip this string over your head to create a makeshift headband.


You can also glue a short stick (like a popsicle stick) to the bottom of the mask to give yourself a handle to hold the mask in front of your face with.

