 Visit AirAsia’s official webpage and use the login option under the “My Account” heading. Enter the email address and password you used to book your flight, or sign in using your Facebook account for quicker access.You will need to register an account before you’ll be able to check bookings on AirAsia.;
, If you've booked a flight with AirAsia over the phone or through a secondary affiliate like Expedia, you'll have to sign up for a user account on the AirAsia website before you can check your bookings over the internet. From the main page of the AirAsia website, click the drop-down menu that reads "My Account" and choose the "Sign Up Now" option. Enter the information it asks for and select the language you'd prefer to receive updates in, or sign up via Facebook to save some time.


Once you have an account registered with the AirAsia website, you'll be able to refer back to your existing bookings and flight details at your own convenience from any computer or mobile device., Once you’re logged into your account, you’ll be able to use the “My Bookings” page to go back over scheduled flights, departure and arrival times, financial transactions and any other accommodations you may have booked alongside your flight.From the AirAsia website you can also confirm bookings, select seating and track luggage that is lost or delayed.
Bookings can be changed or canceled as need be from your account.
 Alternatively, you can check your flight's status and booking details online through your personal email. After you’ve booked a flight on AirAsia, you should receive a confirmation email containing the details of your flight and a link to your online itinerary. Following this link will take you to an attached itinerary document summarizing all of your booking information.Your email summary will also provide a list of anything else you’re required to bring or be aware of concerning your flight, such as travel laws, airline policies, boarding times and a reminder to have the appropriate forms of identification with you when you depart.
 Open the itinerary attachment in your email or select your flight information under “My Bookings” on the AirAsia website and print this page out. You’ll now have a physical copy of the details of your booking to consult whenever you need it.


If you don’t have a printer, copy the relevant information down by hand.
You could also log in to the mobile version of the site on your smartphone and use your screenshot function to capture a pic of your itinerary or account summary.

