 No matter what you previously believed, if now deep down you find no belief in god, your transformation is already complete. There is no process or initiation for becoming an atheist (except possibly a "coming out" to others). If you can honestly think, "I don't believe there is a god/gods," you are already an atheist.;
,
Consider the following examples:


A stranger comes to your door and tells you that your child has been killed in a car accident outside their school.

You would feel a pang of emotion, but this is a stranger. Do you believe them? Do they know who your child is? Is this some sort of cruel joke? Do you really believe that your child has been killed? You will be inclined to harbor some strong doubts.


Two police officers come to your door, squad car in the driveway. They tell you your child has been killed. They need you to come with them to identify the body.

You will in all likelihood believe them, they are police officers. You will feel the emotion as though you know for a fact that your child is dead. It will be real to you.


You should notice that the difference between these two examples is the authority of the messenger, not the message itself. These examples are also chosen for their emotional content, because the emotional content is a large part of what makes a situation real to us.
The point is, whether we believe something based on authority, or emotion, or both, we cannot know it is true until we see with our own eyes. The highest authority you can imagine could tell you the simplest thing, and you may believe them, and they may believe themselves, but that does not in any way make it true.

The difference between belief in a scientific theory as opposed to belief in a religious dogma, boils down to the difference between the institution of science and the institutions of various religions.
The underlying concept in religious institutions is that the nature of reality is known. The nature of reality is written in a book or scroll. This writing was originally done, or dictated, or inspired, by a god. Religious institutions are primarily concerned with spreading information about the "known" nature of reality, because in their understanding of reality, that is what they are required to do. Religious "facts" are not subject to testing, and in most cases cannot be tested. Religious "facts" are supported by evidence that is open to interpretation, or no evidence at all. Religious "facts" are not reviewed by all religions to reach a consensus.
The underlying concept in the institution of science is that the nature of reality is unknown. The institution of science is primarily concerned with discovering the nature of reality without making assumptions. Scientific theories must, by definition, be testable (falsifiable). Theories must be published for review by other scientists with the intention of reaching a consensus. Accepted theories are supported by evidence that is not open to interpretation, or is consistently interpreted by qualified scientists. If evidence is found that contradicts a theory, the theory will be abandoned.
One believes in a scientific authority, because they derive their authority from the review process, and because they have an interest in discovering truth. One believes in a religious authority, because they have been given authority by their superiors, who in turn get their authority from their subordinates. Religion has no interest in discovering truth because the "facts" are already known.
 People throughout history have looked critically at their religious beliefs and found fault. If you have issues and problems, then look at them honestly, with the notion that you will not be punished for trying to find what you truly believe. If your beliefs are valid, then they will stand up to scrutiny.
Most of the religions that have ever been, have gone extinct. You would be hard pressed to find people worshiping Thor or Quetzalcoatl. Take a hard look at why you don't believe in Thor, or Rah, or Zeus. Would you be Islamic, Christian, or Jewish if you where raised in Iran, Mississippi, or Israel?

, You don't need a god/gods to be moral. Atheists are not unethical. Like many theists, many atheists donate to charity and live lives that are morally similar to those of theists. Atheists just might have different motivations for doing so.
With or without religion, good people can behave well and bad people can do evil; but for good people to do evil—that takes religion.
-Steven Weinberg

,


An atheist does not believe that a god/gods do exist. Most atheists observe that there is no proof that a god/gods exist. Because there is no verifiable evidence that a god/gods exist, they do not incorporate a god/gods into their decision making. Agnostics do not believe it is possible to know of the existence of a god or gods.
You do not have to be anti-religion. Most atheists, however, do disapprove of organized religion as well as the doctrine of faith as a virtue. There are others who still attend religious services for their own reasons, such as an agreement with some of the moral tenets, membership in a community, or even just a fondness for the music.
You do not have to write off the possibility of unverified or unverifiable phenomena. You can acknowledge that they are possible without insisting or acting as if they are true, or trying to convince others that they are true.
You do not have to subscribe to any set of beliefs. Atheism is not a religion. Atheists hold a wide variety of beliefs and outlooks, the only similarity being a lack of belief in a god or gods.
 Culture, tradition, and tribal loyalty are important to many people, including atheists. By denying belief in a god/gods, one need not totally dissociate oneself with the culture associated with his or her former religion. Virtually every northern hemispheric culture celebrates a winter solstice holiday. A possible explanation for this is the lack of agrarian work to be performed and the abundance of food stores for the dearth winter months ahead. Such a celebration can be, and is in many cases, still important to an atheist for its intrinsic values -- those of sharing and community, among others. Formerly Christian atheists still exchange gifts with their theist friends, put up Christmas trees, and gather with family and friends during Christmastime, without any religious connotation necessary. The same can be said of those formerly of other faiths or never of any faith.
 The Scientific Method is universally accepted as the best way to understand the world.
 This will help you understand why people believe what they do and help you understand your atheism in that context.
 While most atheists argue that theists are making a positive assertion (and thus bear the burden of proof), it is important to thoroughly understand your former faith and its tenets as well as those of other faiths. The more versed you are in other religions and the more you understand why people believe what they do, the better basis you'll have for your worldview. Also, it will help you fend off those that will try to convert you to their religion, once they learn of your atheism.
 Do not be shy, but don't be condescending. Try to help them understand your point of view in a non-confrontational manner. However, you may choose to hide your perspective if it is clear you are going to run into trouble. In some countries or regions, the price of atheism can be very high.

