 Handbrake is a free, open-source video encoding program that will allow you to rip your DVD discs onto your computer and then convert them into an iPad compatible format (with a few tweaks). It is available for Windows, Mac, and Linux. You can download it from handbrake.fr.;
, Most DVDs are encrypted to prevent copying. The libdvdcss file will enable Handbrake to bypass this restriction when copying the DVD to your computer. You can download it from download.videolan.org/pub/libdvdcss/1.2.12/. Make sure to select the correct version for your operating system., Once you've downloaded the libdvdcss file, you will need to place it in the Handbrake folder.


Windows - Copy the libdvdcss-2 file to C:\Program Files\Handbrake, or to the location that you chose to install Handbrake to.
Mac OS X - Run the libdvdcss.pkg file to automatically install the file into the correct location.
 You can only legally rip movies that you own, and even that is a gray area, but you shouldn't get in trouble as long as you don't distribute the files.
 Don't worry about all of the complicated options, you will be using presets to quickly convert to the proper format.
 Handbrake will begin scanning the DVD that's inserted in your computer.
 If your DVD contains both the wide-screen and the full-screen version of the movie, you can select the appropriate one from the "Title" drop-down menu. The "Size" section of the Picture tab will help you determine which is which.
 Click the Browse button next to the "Destination" field to select where you want to save the movie file.
 This will automatically convert the ripped movie into an iPad-compatible format. If you don't see the list of presets, click the "Toggle Presets" button.
 This will likely take a while, as the movie needs to be copied to your computer and then converted into a format that the iPad can read. You can monitor the progress at the bottom of the Handbrake window.
 Once the file has finished converting, you can add it to your iTunes library so that you can sync it with your iPad.


Click the File (Windows) or iTunes (Mac) menu and select "Add File to Library". Browse for the movie file that you just ripped and converted.
 This will display all of the movies that you have imported into iTunes.


To move the movie into the "Movies" section, right-click on the movie and select "Get Info". In the "Options" tab, use the pop-up menu to select the category that you want to move the movie to.
 Now that the movie is in your iTunes library, you can sync it to your iPad to watch any time. Click here for more details on syncing video files to your iPad.

