 Many people find that the landscape of their social circle changes after a marriage ends. You and your spouse may have shared friends who now have to pick a side. Other friends may not be as interested in you as a single person, or you no longer have common interests. Make a point to seek out new friendships with people who reflect your personal values.Connect with people through your professional network, parenting groups, social and political organizations, volunteer commitments or religious/spiritual groups. You might also make friends by participating in a support group for divorced people or joining a local Meetup.
Keep in mind that there is often a secondary loss of friends and family members who do not approve of divorce, and who are no longer there for you.
 There’s no better time to revive old passions or explore new ones than after a divorce. You may find your social calendar has more free space, so fill up those empty hours doing activities you enjoy. Pursuing a hobby also helps you connect with potential friends.Think about an activity that you have always been interested in, but never tried. Find a class or group in your area and sign up immediately. Don’t second-guess the decision—just go for it.
 A great way to reinvent yourself post-divorce is by creating new memories. Identify a place, near or far, that you would like to visit and plan a trip. You can ask close friends or family to join you, or venture out on your own., There’s no better way to send the message that you’re starting over than an actual makeover. Look at yourself in the mirror and decide how you want to present yourself to the world moving forward. A change can be minor like selecting a new signature scent, or major like getting your hair colored or cut.You might even choose to sort through your closet, getting rid of clothes that no longer reflect your style. Go shopping for new pieces that flatter your body and compliment your skin tone.
Many people also like to replace the marital bed, and re-do the bedroom in their own style.
 Dating is a tricky area post-divorce. Some loved ones will hound you with blind date proposals. Others will remind you that you should “take your time.” Ignore others’ advice and tune in to yourself and your own needs. You might be ready to date three months after your divorce, or you may decide to wait a year. It’s completely up to you.When you do decide to date, don’t take yourself so seriously. Try not to focus on finding “the one.” Instead, have fun casually meeting new people and going to interesting places.

