 The freestyle stroke is perhaps the most popular competitive swimming stroke, and it's good for stretching your entire body. You'll get a particularly good workout of your shoulders and back, biceps, triceps, quadriceps, glutes, and hamstrings.To swim freestyle, you'll be on your stomach in the water. Push off from the wall and extend your arms straight out in front of you. You'll pull your body forward with your arms by lowering one arm deep into the water and circling it back around when it reaches the outside of your thigh.
As you're bringing one arm up, push the other arm down to repeat the motion. Rotate your body with the stroke.
Do flutter kicks with your legs to help propel your body forward. You may want to practice your flutter kicks while holding on to the wall.;
, While the breaststroke can be technically difficult to perform well, it can be a relaxing stroke because you can better control the pace. It provides the same whole-body benefits as freestyle, and can be a good stroke to alternate for slower laps.For the breaststroke, move both of your arms at the same time. Start on your stomach on the water with your arms out in front of you. Push both hands down into the water and back, propelling your body forward. Continue the cycle, bringing your hands out of the water and then back down again.
For the breaststroke kick, bring your knees together and tuck them in towards your body, then push them out and apart from each other, kicking in a circular motion – out, and then coming back together again.
Coordinate your arms and legs so that you're kicking out as your arms are up out of the water, and tucking your knees in ad you push your hands down into the water.
The breaststroke may exacerbate existing neck, back, or knee injuries. If these areas are an issue for you, talk to your health care provider before you start doing the breaststroke.
 With the backstroke you can breathe normally the whole time, so you can use this stroke if you want to take a break from the more technical breathing required for other strokes. The backstroke can improve your posture by extending your back and shoulder muscles.Try to keep your body as flat as possible at the surface of the water. If you let your hips dip too far down, it can slow you down.
The backstroke is more or less the same as freestyle, only you're laying on your back instead of on your stomach.
When you swim the backstroke, you'll be looking at the ceiling the whole time. Identify markers that will let you know when you're near the end of your lane so you don't run into the wall.
 The butterfly stroke is a difficult stroke to pull off technically, and exhausting to maintain physically. But if you are swimming several different strokes, it can provide a break from the monotony.Sweep your arms out, then down and out to form a "Y" shape in front of your body. Push them down and back along the sides of your body and then shove them forward to start the stroke again. These movements should be powerful, using your full range of motion.
To kick, propel your legs outward from your hips. Break the surface of the water with your heels and the soles of your feet, then bring your feet together and push them down against the water to propel yourself forward.
The butterfly stroke is a real calorie burner that can help you burn as many as 800 calories in an hour., If you need to improve the efficiency or power of your kicks, kick board laps allow you to focus on your kick strokes without worrying about your arms.You also can use kick board laps as a restful break between harder, faster swimming laps.

