 People who are underweight may get full faster than others. Instead of eating the typical two to three large meals, break your meals down into 5 or 6 smaller meals to enjoy throughout the day. Strive to eat a small meal or snack every 3 or 4 hours.For example, if you rise at 6am every morning, you will want to eat breakfast within the first hour before 7am. Then, you can have a healthy snack around 10am, lunch at 12pm or 1pm, another snack around 4pm, and dinner at 7pm. If you are hungry later, enjoy a small snack or dessert before 9pm so that you are not eating too close to your bedtime.;
, The very best method to improve likelihood for increasing weight in a healthy way is to consume a nutrient-rich diet. Select vegetables, fruits, lean sources of protein, whole grain breads, pastas, and cereals and nuts and seeds for an overall healthy diet. Doing so may help you to gain a few pounds, and it may also support greater physical and mental health.Examples of nutritious snacks to help you pick up weight may include nuts and seeds, dried fruits, granola bars, bean spreads with chips, and fruit juice or nectar., It may be tempting to gorge on high-calorie processed foods just to see an increase on the scale.But that route is not beneficial for relieving your depression, increasing your energy, or improving your mood. Remember that you get your energy from foods. If you choose packaged foods that are loaded with sugar and salt, you are basically fueling your body with these.


Beware of eating from packages since that tends to indicate “fake”, processed foods. Also, avoid the fast-food drive-thru and try to cook more meals at home.
 If you are trying to put on weight after a sudden loss, it can be helpful to supplement your usual meals with fatty extras. Again, you’re not going for unhealthy or empty-calorie foods. Instead add on healthy fats to increase your calorie intake without sacrificing nutrition.For instance, you can add in veggies and healthy fats like avocado to your morning omelet. Swap out skim milk for whole milk. Dip your apples in all-natural peanut butter for snack.
 Even though you can afford to put on some extra pounds, you still don’t want to consume excessive sugar and unhealthy fats. However, an occasional treat can be a nice perk when eaten in moderation. If you like ice cream, treat yourself to frozen yogurt. Or, mix up a batch of cookies made from healthy ingredients like oatmeal and applesauce.