 Make sure that the material you are using is thin and soft, of your tassel will be too stiff.
 You can use the same color as your tassel, or a contrasting color.


Make sure that the rectangle is oriented horizontally, with the long edge facing you.
 If you'd like to make a keychain, place a key ring inside the loop before you add the glue.
 Once the glue dries, you can remove the clip. If you don't have any clips, then place a heavy object, such as a book or jar, down on top of the folded loop.
 You will be cutting the fringe up to this line. Make sure that you are drawing the line on the back of the leather/suede. This way, you won't see it when you are done.


If your leather/suede is very dark, try a light-colored pen or a white colored pencil.
Use a ruler to make your line as straight as possible.
 These will be the cutting lines for your fringe. The vertical lines should not go past the horizontal line.


Remember to use a ruler so that the lines will be as even as possible.
 Do not cut past the horizontal line, or your tassel will be uneven.
 The edge of the loop should be aligned with the narrow end of the rectangle. The bottom of the loop should be touching the horizontal guideline.
 Apply some glue every inch or so to help the tassel hold together. Also, try to roll it as tightly as possible. This will keep your tassel from being too bulky.
 Once you reach the end of the rectangle, draw a line of glue along the side, going from the horizontal guideline all the way up to the top. Do not get any glue on the fringe. Press the glued edge down firmly onto the tassel.
 You don't need to wrap anything around the fringe part, because there is no glue there. Once the glue dries, you can remove the rubber band.
 Once you have pulled the rubber band off, your tassel is ready to go. If you want, however, you can wrap a piece of ribbon around the top part of the tassel to hide the side seam.
 You can attach it to a key ring, or sew it onto a purse, handbag, or pair of boots.

