 Ginger has been used in countless natural remedies for hundreds of years, including treatment for dizziness and its accompanying nausea. This isn't just some herbal mumbo-jumbo -- scientific studies have proven ginger's efficacy at stopping dizziness in its tracks, also finding that it can actually relieve dizziness faster than some over-the-counter medications. Ginger helps dizziness by stimulating blood flow to the brain, as dizziness is often caused by poor circulation.Some ways to incorporate ginger into your diet include:


Taking ginger supplements in capsule form.
Chewing on a small slice of fresh ginger root.
Drinking ginger ale or ginger tea. To make ginger tea, add a little fresh ginger root to a cup of boiled water.
Nibble on ginger candies or suck on ginger lollipops.
 Celery juice can ease feelings of dizziness that are brought on by low blood pressure. You can buy celery juice at a health food store or make your own using fresh celery and a juicer.
 Two teaspoons of apple cider vinegar together with two teaspoons of honey in a glass of hot or cold water three times a day helps to regulate blood pressure and may ease symptoms of dizziness.
 If your dizziness is a symptom of iron-deficiency anaemia, you may need to take an iron supplement. Watch out for other symptom of anaemia, such as tiredness, shortness of breath or headaches. If you think you make be anaemic, consult your doctor before starting on an iron supplement., Ginkgo biloba is a certain type of tree which has many medicinal uses. Ginkgo biloba aids with dizziness problems, since it boosts circulation of blood within the inner ear, correcting some inner ear problems. It is available in tablet, liquid extract and dried leaf form., Another good herb to treat dizziness is feverfew. Not only has it been shown to help with migraines, it can also reduce inflammation processes in your inner ear, while improving blood circulation. Feverfew supplements are available in capsule, tablet and liquid extract form.