 It's okay to ask for help; you will not get the help you need if you don't ask. Your parents may be happy to pay for a tutor; one-on-one learning can be very beneficial when you're willing to improve.;
, Ask the smart kids as they might have easier methods for math. You might even make some new friends.
 If Ramanujan could teach himself maths and prove Euler's identity on his own, you can easily pass your algebra without failing and extend your knowledge of math more widely. Read the history of mathematicians who have contributed to the field you are currently studying. This can help you to gain an interest in the topics you are studying, by giving you the inspiration to be as clever as these people and to strive for their mentality.


Broaden and expand your mind, if you block your mind and give up on math, then chances are you aren't going to get better at math, so give math some tries before you give up on it.
 Put the cell phone aside, turn off the TV and radio and put away the music. Don't have anything on your desk ,as you might be tempted to play with the object and lose concentration with learning. Really aim to concentrate on the work before you in the time you've set aside for it. There will plenty of time for the other things later.
 Also read the instructions which are provided in the school curriculum course books. Doing this will help you to understand the topics currently being discussed.


Listen closely. It's very likely that what the teacher is saying is important and is something you should remember that will help you study for tests.
Take lots of notes. When you take lots of notes, you have something to study with and you can remember math with greater ease.
 Practice makes perfect, as does getting back on that metaphorical horse every time you fall off. If you practice as hard as you can at math anywhere, you will see results.


Do each sub-part and beyond. Go beyond the math work given to you in class and find extra exercises to really test and push your understanding.
 When the teacher says a test is coming up, study in regular bursts over time rather than cramming the night before. If you study your hardest, you will be better than you would be if you didn't study at all, or left it until the last moment.
 If you freak out, you can scare yourself into not thinking it through. This can happen from obvious things, such as... not revising. You know you have the power to revise in you, so use it to reduce and even eliminate the anxiety.
 Remember to really try to do your best so you can get your best scores.
 If you really tried your best and you followed all the steps, you might find that you're now starting to get more Bs and even As. Keep it up!

