 Make sure that you are eligible to donate your baby’s cord blood to a bank before deciding to donate. The standards for donation are consistent across public banks in the U.S. and may disqualify you as a donor. To donate, the expectant mother:must be at least 18 years old
must carry to at least 34 weeks
must not have had cancer or an organ transplant
must not test positive for HIV/AIDS, hepatitis B or hepatitis C
must not be on prescription medication to treat diabetes
must be pregnant with only one fetus

, Before deciding to donate, see if the hospital where you intend to give birth is affiliated with any public cord banks. Many U.S. hospitals are not able to participate because of the cost of funding limitations. If you are unsure about your hospital’s policies about in-hospital cord blood donation, inquire about further information from your doctor or with hospital administration.For a list of U.S. hospitals that collect cord blood for donation to public cord blood banks (in association with Be The Match Registry®, the largest marrow registry in the world), visit https://bethematch.org/support-the-cause/donate-cord-blood/how-to-donate-cord-blood/participating-hospitals/.
 If you are not giving birth in a hospital that facilitates in-hospital donations, ask your health care provider about mail-in donation as an alternative option. Public cord banks will provide mail-in donation kits for free so that your cord blood can be collected following birth and submitted back to them. Health care providers must agree to the procedure and complete training in how to use the kit, if they have not done so before.Because of overcrowding and numerous patients, many doctors will avoid introducing cord blood donation as an option to expectant parents.
 Ask your healthcare provider if there are any public banks in your area that accept cord blood donations. Visit the Parent’s Guide to Cord Blood foundation’s website at https://parentsguidecordblood.org/en/public-banking to find a local bank. If there are no public banks in your area, consider donating to one that accepts mail-in donations (such as Lifeforce Cryobanks, located in the state of Florida)., If you intend to donate your baby’s cord blood to a public bank, contact the bank of your choice and sign up between the 28th and 34th weeks of pregnancy. Public banks require several weeks to process your information, as well as to verify your medical history and eligibility to donate. Most banks will provide you with a consent form and health questionnaire to fill out, either online, by mail, or in person., When you arrive at the hospital to deliver your baby, remind your health care provider that you have decided to donate your baby’s cord blood. If you were sent a collection kit for the cord blood, give it to your doctor so that they can collect the sample directly after the birth, when they cut the umbilical cord. Make sure that the mail-in kit, pre-paid by most public banks, is shipped to the correct address to complete your donation.