 Quinoa is now available in most local supermarkets. You don't have to go to a specialty store or health foods store to find this nutritious grain.

When you're looking for quinoa, it will be found in the grain aisle along with rice, couscous and pasta.
There may be more than one type of quinoa available. You may see white, black, red or even tri-colored quinoa.Of all the quinoa colors, white or tan quinoa has the lightest texture and it cooks up slightly fluffier than other types and has the most delicate taste. Black quinoa has a slight earthy flavor while the red quinoa has a richer taste and a bit chewier texture and nutty. These two take slightly longer to cook than the white quinoa.
If you're using quinoa in a breakfast recipe, especially if kids are eating it, you may want to stick with white as it's most similar in color to oats.
 Most of the time, you'll be able to find uncooked quinoa in the grain aisle of the grocery store; however, some stores may have pre-cooked quinoa for you.

Quinoa only takes about 15 minutes to cook from scratch. If you can only find uncooked quinoa, that will work perfectly in many breakfast recipes. Plus its not hard to cook from scratch.
If you are lacking in time or are unsure of how to cook quinoa, some stores sell precooked quinoa. You might find this in the grain aisle, refrigerated section, on the salad bar or even in the frozen section.
Pre-cooked quinoa may be a little bit more convenient and make for a faster breakfast recipe.
 If you haven't cooked quinoa before, there is a little secret trick to make it correctly. You'll need to rinse it first before cooking it.Quinoa has a coating on the outside of the seed that acts as a natural pest repellent. It's called saponin. This is a natural compound that tastes bitter and soapy if not removed from the quinoa.
Place quinoa in a fine mesh strainer or a sieve. Run it under cold water, stirring or shaking it to help get all the seeds washed thoroughly.
Transfer your washed quinoa directly to your pot or pan and begin to cook it.
Note that some boxed quinoa or quinoa mixes are already washed or rinsed. You do not need to repeat this step. Make sure to read the instructions on boxes or packages first.
 Many of the breakfast recipes that do use quinoa, call for cooked quinoa. Making it in advance can help cut down on an extra step and cooking time in the mornings.

Consider taking time on the weekend or a free weeknight to go ahead and cook up a batch of quinoa.
Make sure to review what recipes you'll be making for breakfast and note how much cooked quinoa you'll need for the week.
Dry quinoa usually doubles in volume after cooking. 1/2 cup of uncooked or dry quinoa results in about 1 cup of cooked quinoa.
Store quinoa in a airtight container in the refrigerator for about five to seven days. You can also store it in a freezer container for up to three months.

