 Since we are dealing with a child here, it is very important to communicate clearly and talk to your child as simply, but firmly as possible. Tell your child not to pull or sweep off the tick by himself.;
, Reassuring the child will decrease his anxiety. If the child is crying or frightened, comfort the child by talking to him gently and staying close beside him.
 Never try to frighten your child with silly jokes. Explain to the child what you intend to do and how you will go about it. Explaining to the child important information in a loving way may help him be more calm and composed.
 Wash your hands thoroughly for at least two minutes. This will minimize the spread of bacteria. Use warm running water and a mild soap.
 The tissue or gloves will serve as a protection for you and your child. They will prevent you from having to touch the tick directly and stop any bacteria from entering the child's body through the tick bite.
 This is the most important and effective tool for removing a tick from your child. Though there are different types of tweezers, a fine-pointed tweezers will help you to be more precise when pulling of the tick and prevent you from pinching the child's skin.


At this point in time, if you think that there is a risk of tick bites in your home, it's a good idea to buy a fine-pointed tweezers so they are always easily at hand.
This will ensure that you have the right tool in case the problem arises again.
 This can easily be done with a fine-pointed tweezers. Never try to grab the tick on its body or abdomen.


There is a risk that you squeeze its abdomen, which will push infected blood back into your child’s blood stream. Additionally, pulling the tick out by its abdomen might leave a part of its body stuck on your kid’s skin.
 With enough gentle pressure, the tick will hopefully let go of the skin. Never try to twist or rock the tick from side to side. This will increase the chance of leaving some portion of its mouth or head attached to the skin.


However, do not worry too much if you see that something was left behind on your child’s skin. It will come out eventually on its own.
 You can do this in case you want the tick to be examined or properly identified later by healthcare professionals.


Never release the tick. Kill it if you do not have any need of it.
 Pat dry, and then further clean the bite site with a cotton swab dipped in alcoholAfterwards, wash your own hands as with running water and mild soap.
 Signs of localized inflammation are normal. These include swelling, redness and being warm to touch. Oftentimes, tick bites are harmless and the bite site will heal without any medical intervention.
 Under special circumstances, you might not be able to remove the tick by yourself. If you don't think you can remove the tick effectively, it's a good idea to seek professional help.
 Though it is uncommon, it is still possible that a tick can cause Lyme disease. This disease is caused by the bacterium Borrelia burgdorferi.


You should call the doctor if your child develops signs and symptoms related to Lyme disease. These include a circular rash at the site of the tick bite resembling a “bull’s-eye”, generalized weakness, headache, stiff neck, muscle and joint pain, and fever.This bacterium is commonly found in mice and deer. When a tick bites a bacterium-infested animal, it can transmit the bacteria to humans.
It is helpful if you have stored the tick in a container. You can bring the tick along with you as you visit your doctor.
 Immediately call your doctor if your child experiences signs of an allergic reaction to the tick bite such as severe headache, paralysis, chest pain, heart palpitation and difficulty of breathing.

