 You'll need 1/4 cup of aloe vera gel, 1/4 cup of raw honey, and 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml) of an oil of your choice (extra virgin olive oil, jojoba oil, almond oil, avocado oil, apricot oil, argan oil, or coconut oil). You should also have a small container to store the cleanser.You can use a 4 to 6 ounce jar or soap dispenser. Just make sure it has a good lid to keep the cleanser well sealed.
Try to buy an aloe vera gel with few preservatives or other ingredients. You can find high quality aloe vera gel at most health stores.;
, Measure your ingredients into your clean and empty container. Stir them together until the honey is completely dissolved into the gel and oil.If you can't easily stir the mixture in your container, you can mix them up in a bowl and transfer the cleanser to your container.
 You can keep the aloe vera makeup cleanser at room temperature if you bought the aloe vera gel at the store. This is because the aloe vera gel will have preservatives. If you used aloe vera gel directly from a fresh plant, you'll need to refrigerate it and use the cleanser within a few weeks.You can store the cleanser at room temperature for several months.
 To use the aloe vera face cleanser, scoop out a spoonful from your jar or squeeze a pump from the soap dispenser onto your hand. Rub the face cleanser over your makeup and let it sit for a minute. This will help the cleanser work deep into your skin. Remove the cleanser by wiping it off with a damp cloth.The cleanser should be thick like a gel, so you may need to rinse your cloth several times while removing the makeup and cleanser.
 Aloe vera makeup wipes only contain oil and aloe vera juice. You'll need 1/2 cup of a high quality oil (like extra virgin olive oil, almond oil, avocado oil, apricot oil, argan oil, coconut oil, or jojoba oil). You'll also need about 1 1/2 cups (12 ounces) of aloe vera juice. Find a clean 16 ounce bottle or jar with a tight-fitting lid and get a package of cotton face wipes.You can buy aloe vera juice at most health food stores. Look for pure aloe vera juice that doesn't contain other ingredients.
 Pour the aloe vera juice into your empty and clean container. Pour the oil of your choice into the bottle and screw on the lid so it's tight.








You can use a glass bottle or plastic squeeze bottle. If you plan on squirting the makeup remover onto a cotton wipe instead of dipping it, consider using the squeeze bottle.
 Shake the container of aloe vera juice and oil vigorously. The mixture should combine for several seconds, but you'll notice it separate if you set it down for long. This is normal since the oil will always float on top of the juice.









Store the aloe vera mixture in the refrigerator when you're not using it. Try to use the mixture within a month, since the aloe vera juice is water-based and may spoil over time.
 To use your makeup wipes, simply shake the bottle of the aloe vera juice and oil to combine them. Moisten a clean cotton face wipe with the a little of the mixture and wipe it over your makeup. Rinse your face with clean water to completely remove the makeup and traces of the cleanser.








If you don't shake the mixture well enough before using it on the wipes, the wipes will only contain the oil and not enough of the cleansing aloe vera juice.

