 One way to avoid getting too emotional in situation argument is to try to find common goals. Making goals together with another person will help you focus on what you both want, which in turn can help the conversation be more focused on finding a solution, rather than on a heated emotional argument.The goal can be something like "find a solution for our problem," or "make sure the discussion stays respectful."

, While empathy stems from emotion, it comes from being able to see things from another person's perspective, which can help remove you from your own strong feelings and make a fact-based decision. In other words, most decisions affect other people in some way. When they do, it's important to consider how that decision will affect them. Will it make their lives better or worse? To make a good decision, look at the facts of how it will affect people, and try to lean towards the good.One way to help take emotion out of the equation is to place yourself last. When you're not in the equation, your emotion is less likely to affect your decision.
Or try closing your eyes and remember a time when someone treated you with kindness and empathy when they didn't have to, and think about how that felt.
 If you're just sticking to facts, using an attack on the other person isn't helpful. A personal attack isn't about facts. It's resorting to an emotional response based on how you feel about the other person's beliefs and character. This is called an ad hominem argument. If you find yourself wanting to attack the person's character, bite your tongue and move back to your statistics.Avoid bringing in things from the past or other irrelevant points that serve only to hurt the other person and do not move the conversation forward.
Focus on the behavior or specific issue, not the person. Yes, you sometimes need to talk about behaviors the other person is doing that hurt you in a conversation. However, you shouldn't focus that discussion on the person's personality. Rather, you should focus on the behavior itself. Attacking a person's personality will feel like a personal attack.For instance, instead of saying, "You never help around the house," you could say, "I would appreciate it if you helped around the house more."

, You may not see how this advice relates to feelings, but exaggeration tends to be an emotional response. You're twisting the facts to fit your argument, which is based on emotion. If you stretch the facts too far, you could be called out on it., In a fact-based discussion, you must be willing to own up to it when you make a mistake. If you're not willing to do that, you're not engaging in a fact-based discussion. You're having a feeling-based monologue. Therefore, if someone proves you wrong, concede the point. That doesn't mean everything you've said is wrong, just that particular point.


Admitting that you made a mistake, or that you're not a perfect person, doesn't automatically mean you are wrong or invalidate your point of view.
 This advice involves a bit of willpower on your part. If you have the hope that the argument can be resolved, it frees your thinking a bit to focus on the facts and solutions rather than your emotional involvement. This type of thinking is especially important when you're in an argument with someone you have a close relationship with; resolving the argument is integral to keeping the relationship going., While you should believe you can resolve an argument with someone you're close to, sometimes the better part of valor is walking away from an argument about politics or religion, even if you do know the person well. If the argument is getting heated and it's obvious the other person isn't willing to stick to the facts, you may need to just concede the point and move on. You can't control the other person's feelings, only your own.