 This is the best way to buy a legitimate Versace bag. You can find a location of a store near you by going to the Versace website. There are primary stores and outlets selling older season merchandise as well. Or, you could buy a bag directly from Versace online.


If you decide to the buy the online route, it may be a good idea to at least visit a store in person to look at the bags firsthand.Try to stay away from generic designer bag outlets. These stores, whether online or in person, are often not affiliated with the brand itself. This makes it more difficult to determine authenticity.
 You want to find a seller who has been in business for a while and who has gotten a good number of positive reviews. On sites such as eBay, look for narrative reviews that describe how the quality of the bag matched up to the photos provided. It is also a good idea to buy from a site where the sellers are held accountable for negative reviews., If you are looking for the main Versace website, pay attention to the final URL to make sure that you’ve reached the correct site. Sometimes fake bag sellers will use websites with typos or other subtle errors. You should also click on each of the website’s links and portals to make sure that they are accessible and accurate.For example, a blank “Support” page is a clear red flag that the site may be trafficking in fake goods.
 Whether you buy in person or online, a seller should be able to answer any questions that you have about the Versace bag. Ask about the sources of their bags. Ask about how long they’ve been in business. Discuss any warranties and the return policies. Keep asking questions until you feel comfortable with your purchase., Start off by saying that the photos they’ve provided are good, but you’d like just a few more images. Request that the photos show specific parts of the bag, such as the zipper areas or the threading at the bottom of the bag. Request both close and distance shots.Check to make sure that the photos you’ve been given are not on another website or elsewhere. Also, look for signs of doctoring, such as blurry spots or obscured areas.
 There are many ways to purchase a Versace bag and it is best to pause for a moment if you have any doubts about the seller, bag, or price. If the purchase price seems unbelievable, it should arouse your suspicions and require some extra checking. Just wait a bit and continue to do your research. Consider your efforts as an investment toward making a good final purchase.


Versace does have seasonal sales, but these deals will not generally lower the price of a bag by half or more. When in doubt, contact a Versace store directly to ask for a price comparison.If a seller mentions that the bag is cheaper due to a flaw, this is likely not the case. Many brands, such as Versace, will destroy flawed bags instead of selling them.

