 Form a circle with your foam cups on your floor. The size of the circle will dictate the overall size of your snowman, so keep this into consideration when laying them out. Once you have a good sized circle, staple each cup to one another while maintaining your shape. This should create a ring of cups that are attached to one another.The cups should be laying on their sides. Your goal is to layer rows on top of one another to eventually create a sphere.


Try to staple the cups so they lay as flat as possible on the ground.
Stapling the cups together on an uneven floor or table will make the final project lopsided.
You may need up to 24 cups to create your circular ring.
 Stack another set of cups on top of your initial ring of cups. Pull the cups around a half an inch in towards the center and staple them to the cups below them. Finish going all the way around the ring of cups.
 Continue to stack your cups and staple them to the cups below them. Pulling each row of cups in a half inch will make your snowman body begin to form a sphere as you add more rows. Once you cannot staple any more rows of cups, you should have a half sphere that will serve as the snowman's body.
 Now that you have a half-sphere, it's time to create a completely spherical snowman body. Staple more rows below your original ring of cups. Continue to do this until your snowman's body is complete. You should only need to create two or three rows of cups for the base.Make sure that your snowman can stand upright on its base without falling over.
 The next part of the project is to create the snowman's head. Do this in the same fashion that you created the snowman's body, but make a smaller ring of cups this time. Another thing you can do is use smaller cups to make this portion appear smaller.
 Repeat the steps that you performed to make the snowman's body, to make the snowman's head. Creating the smaller head should require fewer cups and take less time to complete.
 Staple the bottom row of cups on your head sphere with the top cups on the body of your snowman. You should now have a two-piece snowman with a larger body and smaller head.
 Take your balled up pieces of construction paper and put it inside of your cups on the head sphere of your snowman to represent eyes. You can also create a mouth using this same method., You can put a hat or scarf on your foam cup snowman to make it more unique. For the nose, you can use a cone created from orange construction paper or use an actual carrot. Before adding anything heavy to your snowman, make sure that it can carry the weight or you may break it.


Display your snowman on a shelf to keep it from being stepped on.

