 Having kids in attendance at the wedding ceremony can be a nice way to include adults and their families. But of course, kids will be kids and may have a hard time sitting still during the ceremony. You may let parents know that they can take kids to a different area or outside of the wedding venue if their kids start to fuss or get bored. Do this in a friendly, open way so parents know this is an option.For example, you may have the master of ceremonies announce, “Parents, feel free to take your children outside if they start to get fussy during the ceremony.”

, You can keep children entertained on your big day by giving them a job or role at your wedding. Hand out confetti to the kids at the beginning of the ceremony and tell them to throw the confetti on the bride and groom at the end of the ceremony. They will enjoy having a job and feel part of the wedding.For example, you may tell the kids, “Here is some confetti. When the bride and groom walk down the aisle at the end of the ceremony, throw the confetti on them to celebrate.”

, To make sure the kids at your wedding feel included, have kid-friendly food and drinks ready for them at the reception. This may be mini burgers, fish fingers, and french fries as appetizers before dinner. You may also make sure the bar has juice and soda for the kids so they have something to drink.You should also make sure there are kid-friendly meals available for dinner, if you are hosting dinner as part of your wedding. The portions for the kids should be smaller and contain food that is familiar and appetizing to kids.
 You may try dividing the dinner into two, one dinner time for kids and one for adults. Most children will want to eat quickly and then go back to playing. To accommodate this, allow the kids to be served first so they can eat and move on to another activity. This will then free up the adults to linger over their meals and socialize.For example, if you have a buffet style dinner, let the kids go first through the buffet. Then, have the adults go after them. If you have a multi-course meal planned, you may simplify it for kids and give them one course so they can eat and move on to another activity.

