 Brushing your cat’s teeth is the best way to prevent dental disease. The mechanical action of brushing removes plaque, which can cause dental disease if left on the teeth. Do not use just any toothbrush and toothpaste, though—select cat-specific products. Human toothpastes are abrasive and have foam that your cat could swallow or inhale.Consider purchasing the toothpaste and toothbrush through your veterinarian.Alternatively, you could find them at your local pet store.
Cat toothpastes usually come in tasty flavors, like poultry or tuna.Cat toothbrushes are very small, an example of which is a finger toothbrush.;
, Although cats can learn to tolerate teeth brushing, they need to acclimate to the process first. Begin by allowing your cat to lick toothpaste off your finger. You can then let her lick the toothpaste off the toothbrush (without putting it in her mouth). Do not rush this process—it may take 1 to 2 months of daily practice before your cat is ready to have her teeth brushed.Reward your cat with verbal praise and a tasty treat when she licks the toothpaste.This will help her start forming a positive association with teeth brushing.
If your cat does not like the toothbrush, you can use a small piece of gauze instead.Throughout the acclimation process, have your cat lie comfortably in your lap in a quiet area.Start the acclimation as early in your cat’s life as possible.
 Your cat will also need to be comfortable with the action of teeth brushing. Put some toothpaste on a finger and rub that finger in a back-and-forth motion along the outside her teeth.Give her verbal praise and a tasty treat if she behaves well when you do this.
 With your cat lying comfortably in your lap, put your non-dominant hand over her head, with your thumb and index finger on either side of her upper jaw. Angle her head upwards and use your thumb and index finger to lift her upper lip slowly. Angle the toothbrush at approximately 45 degrees and use a gentle back-and-forth motion to brush the outside of her teeth. Start with her canines.After cleaning her canines, go to her back teeth and work your way forward to her middle teeth (incisors), spending about 30 seconds per side.To brush her lower teeth, reposition your non-dominant hand to cradle her lower jaw.
It may help to clean her mouth in 4 parts: upper left, upper right, lower left, and lower right.
Make sure you brush along the gum line as well.Talk to your cat and give her verbal praise as you brush her teeth. You could even give her a treat afterwards for a job well done.
 The more often you brush your cat’s teeth, the better protected she will be from dental disease. Daily brushing is ideal. If this is not practical for you, brush her teeth at least 2 to 3 days/week.Be aware, though, that plaque remaining on the teeth for more than 3 days cannot be removed by brushing.Infrequent and inconsistent teeth brushing can be painful for your cat., Chlorhexidine is an antiseptic solution that is safe for pets and very effective at preventing plaque buildup. There are several ways you can give your cat chlorhexidine, one of which is to squirt or spray a small amount on the inside of each cheek.You can also add chlorhexidine to your cat’s water.In addition, you could apply chlorhexidine gel directly to your cat’s teeth with a cotton tip applicator or gauze sponge.Chlorhexidine products are available through your veterinarian. Some of the products can be used with or without brushing.Given the different ways you can administer chlorhexidine, discuss with your veterinarian which method would be best for your cat. Your veterinarian can also advise you on how often to use the chlorhexidine.
 Specially formulated dental diets are available that help prevent feline dental disease by preventing tartar accumulation.You can purchase these diets directly through your veterinarian or at your local pet store.Look for a Veterinary Oral Health Council (VOHC) seal on the label to indicate the products delays plaque and tartar accumulation.Dental diets are usually dry kibble, which may be specifically designed to prevent plaque and tartar buildup. In addition, the diets may have chemical anti-plaque ingredients.Talk with your veterinarian about feeding a dental diet either exclusively or as an addition to your cat’s normal diet.
 In addition to special diets, there are also specially formulated dental chews that can prevent feline dental disease. Purina and Feline Greenies® make dental chews that have the VOHC seal of approval.Be aware, though, that there is not a lot of information available on the effectiveness of dental chews for cats., Table scraps are not only bad for your cat’s overall health, but they can worsen dental disease.Not only can sweet table scraps can lead to more plaque accumulation on your cat’s teeth, but they can also cause cavities., Although daily dental home care is the best defense against feline dental disease, your cat may still end up developing oral health problems that will need veterinary care. Your cat will give you clues that her mouth is bothering her, including discomfort when chewing, reluctance to eat, and bad breath. She may also start preferring canned food over dry food.If you look in her mouth, you may see inflamed gums (‘gingivitis’) and a buildup of yellow or dark-looking material on her teeth.
When you notice signs of dental disease, it is time for your cat to receive professional, veterinary dental care.Be mindful that cats can be very good at hiding signs of discomfort.You may not notice right away that your cat is having oral health problems.
 Your veterinarian can examine your cat’s oral cavity to determine the extent of dental disease. In order to do a safe and thorough evaluation, your veterinarian may want to anesthetize your cat. Or, your veterinarian may be able to easily detect the dental disease during the physical examination., Home dental care is not a substitute for regular veterinary dental cleanings.A veterinary cleaning requires that your cat be anesthetized—a simple scraping of the visible portions of your cat’s teeth while she is awake will not be sufficient.Your veterinarian will use a combination of hand and power instruments to clean above and below the gum line.Once-yearly veterinary dental cleanings are recommended., Diseases such as renal failure and diabetes can make a cat more susceptible to developing dental disease.Your veterinarian can determine if your cat has some underlying medical conditions would make dental disease more likely. The better you can manage those conditions, the better you will be able to prevent dental disease.

