 They will let you know whether your claim has been approved, the amount of benefits you will receive, and when you can expect to receive your first check. For all types of social security claims, you will receive benefits dating back to the date you first applied. Though social security claims can take up to six months to evaluate, you will receive payment for the time you waited.


If your claim for any Social Security benefits is denied, the written notice of denial will state why you were denied.
If you are denied, you have the opportunity to appeal.
 The appeals process requires you to follow four major steps. The first you can take is to file a request for reconsideration.


You must fill out a Request for Reconsideration form. It is available online from the Social Security website (link below). As you fill out the form, you must provide your name as it appears on your social security card, your social security claim number (which should be listed on the claim decision), your address, and the type of claim that you want them to reconsider (retirement, disability, etc.).
You must state the reasons why you do not agree with the denial of benefits. Here, you should briefly state why you think it is unfair that you did not receive benefits. You do not need to go into great detail because the Social Security Administration has your file.
Along with your Request for Reconsideration form, you may submit a form called a Disability Report - Appeal (link below).This will explain any changes in your condition since you filed your original claim for benefits. This form is not required. .
After you send in your form, you will receive another decision from the SSA in the mail. You can also call the Social Security Administration at 1-800-772-1213 to check the status of your claim.
 The hearing will be heard in front of an administrative law judge who is not associated with the Social Security Administration.


You must file a “Request for Hearing by Administrative Law Judge” within 65 days of the denial of your reconsidered claim. The form is available on the Social Security website (link below).After sending in your form, you will be contacted by the Social Security Administration.
To prepare for your hearing, consider hiring an attorney who is familiar with social security. You will receive notification of the time, date and location of your hearing.
At the conclusion of your hearing, after you present all of your evidence, the administrative law judge will make a decision. If they decide in your favor, He or she will then overturn the denial of benefits.
 If your appeal was again denied, you should file a written appeal with the Social Security Administration Appeals Council. These appeals are rarely successful, and will usually be decided on the basis of your file. You will probably not have an opportunity to be heard. Usually, the committee only reverses the decision of the administrative law judge if it can be argued that the judge made a legal mistake.


Because this requires technical legal knowledge, you should hire a lawyer to help you with the claim.
You will need to fill out and submit the “Request for Review of Hearing Decision/Order,” available on the SSA website (link below).After requesting a review of the decision, you will wait to see if your case is set for a hearing before the council (though this is rare). If your claim is not selected for a hearing, the Committee will inform you by mail.

Do not attempt to contact the appeals board regarding the status of your claim. The average processing time for an appeal to the Committee is 364 days., Finally, if you have exhausted all other means of appeal, you have the option of filing a lawsuit in federal court. In order for file a lawsuit, you must have completed the three previous levels of appeals. You then must file the suit within 60 days after the Appeals Council decision denying benefits.

