 You can use any type of mug for the cake. A larger deeper mug will create a softer moister cake, while a smaller shallower mug will create a firmer cake.;
, Add two tablespoons of brown sugar or honey to the mug. Add 1/2 teaspoon of vanilla extract, and then 3 tablespoons (44.4 ml) of flour.









It is okay to use regular flour if you don't have self-rising, but the cake will end up more like a brownie in texture.
 The great thing about mug cakes is that there is virtually no cleanup; just toss the shell in the compost or trash.
 Soften a stick of butter on the countertop and scoop a tablespoon into the mug. You can use salted or unsalted butter, or margarine.
 Adding the chocolate chips will create a chocolate flavored mug cake. If you prefer a vanilla cake, you can add an additional tablespoon of vanilla extract instead.
 Use a spoon to stir up the contents of the mug. Stir until the chocolate chips are folded in, or all the contents are combined. Don’t worry about the top edges of the mug getting messy, your cake will rise up in the microwave anyway.
 Put the mug in the microwave for 50 seconds on full power. After 50 seconds, check to see if the cake is baked by sticking a toothpick straight down into the center. The toothpick should come out clean. If there is gooey cake residue on the toothpick, put the mug back in the microwave and cook it in 30 second increments until done.Take care not to overcook. If you microwave the cake for too long, it will dry out. It shouldn't need to be cooked for any longer than 2 minutes.
Don’t worry about the toothpick creating a hole in the cake, you won't be able to see that when you frost it later.
 Microwaves often don’t distribute heat as evenly as ovens do. Let the cake sit on the counter for 1-2 minutes after baking, giving time for the heat to distribute throughout the mug.
 Take a spoon and dig in. If you'd like, frost and decorate the cake first.


Be careful when removing the mug from the microwave. Use a hot pot holder or a towel to lift it out. It will probably be too hot to grab.

