 While you're in the store, find a tester container of makeup. Try out a spot of makeup on your jawline or hand. If you can't test the makeup on your skin, hold the jar next to your hand to see if the shades match. You can buy mineral makeup in just about any pharmacy, grocery store, or high-end department store., Enhancer is mineral concealer. While you can conceal blemishes and discolorations with foundation and a concealing brush, stubborn zits or dark circles might require a dab of enhancer. Buy green enhancer to neutralize the reddening caused by acne, eczema, or rosacea. Purchase yellow enhancer to neutralize the purple appearance of dark under-eye circles., This is also known as finishing powder. In the Bare Minerals line, it's called Mineral Veil. After you've concealed your imperfections and applied your foundation, the setting powder will give your skin an even complexion and a bit of a shimmer., Mineral makeup won't look right if you apply it with a cloth or foam puff. For a successful application, you'll need three brushes. The wide-bristle Kabuki brush gets the foundation on your face in an even layer. You'll also need a thinner concealer brush to work the makeup into acne blemishes or discolorations. Finally, you'll need the buffer brush to apply the finishing powder and blend your makeup., Starter kits contain the makeup and the brushes you'll need to apply it. Some brands might still throw in an instructional DVD to help you get started. You might be able to find these kits in your local pharmacy, but you're more likely to find them at high-end department stores., Use a non-mineral, oil-based moisturizer that won't clog your pores. If your moisturizer doesn't absorb into your skin, neither will your mineral makeup. Wait 10 minutes after applying your moisturizer. This will allow your skin to properly absorb the lotion. Otherwise, you'll risk a damaged makeup job from too much moisture.


On the other hand, the powder might not blend correctly if your face is too dry. You should have just enough oils on your skin for the makeup to adhere to., This includes areas of your skin affected by acne. Press your concealer brush into the green powder. Blot your blemishes to cover them. If you have dark circles, use the yellow enhancer in the same way under your eyes. It'll refract light and make your dark under-eye circles disappear., This helps you to avoid using too much. If you don't get enough, you could always add a layer. A little bit of powder goes a long way, so don't use more than about a pinch. Because powder tends to sprinkle, use your Kabuki brush to pick up the fallen powder., Swirl the brush in the cap. After that, tap the brush into the cap to remove the excess powder. The brush is most important in covering large areas of your face. An inferior brush might make the makeup look artificial., Do this by rubbing the brush on your skin in a circular motion. Start lightly on your cheeks and move off to the side of your face. The brush isn't supposed to just dust your skin with powder. It should buff the powder to help it adhere to the oil in your skin. The more you buff, the heavier the coverage will be. It might take practice to find the technique that works for you.


The foundation will look a little powdery when you first apply it. However, it'll settle into your skin and look more natural in a few minutes., Setting powder prevents your makeup from melting off over the course of the day. If you have oily skin, finishing with a setting powder will give you extra protection and oil absorption. It will also help you obtain a matte finish. Apply the powder after you have the look you want with the foundation and enhancer. Apply it the same way you applied the foundation, using the Kabuki brush at first. When everything looks even, blend the makeup with your buffer brush. You can also use setting powder on your eyelids to set your eye shadow and eye liner, if you wear them.
 Bronzer gives you the appearance of a light suntan. If this look is for you, apply the bronzer only to the areas of your face that get the most sun. Usually, this will be your cheeks, chin, and forehead. Use light, circular strokes with the Kabuki brush., Blush also adds color to your cheeks and can be used as an alternative to bronzer. If you would like to add a bit of pink or light red to your face, apply some blush to the apples of your cheeks. Use the Kabuki brush, moving in circular strokes., Touch your concealer brush to the eye shadow and tap off any excess into the makeup container. Gently apply the makeup to your eyelids starting at the outer edge and moving inward. Use light, downward strokes.

Apply a layer of foundation or setting powder to your eyelids first, especially if you have oily skin. This will help to keep the eye shadow from dissolving over the course of the day.