 Before you go to sleep, take a shower. Shampoo and condition your hair according to your typical routine.


Shower at least half an hour before you intend to go to sleep in order to give your hair time to air dry.;
, Towel dry your hair immediately after you shower. Then wait for your hair to air dry partially. Keep in mind that thicker or longer hair will need more time to dry than shorter, finer hair.Your hair should be damp to the touch, but not dripping wet. See how it feels after a half an hour or so.
 Start by following your normal part and parting your hair in two from your forehead back to your neck. Then, divide both sides horizontally into sections.


For thicker hair, divide each side up into three sections. For thinner hair, divide each side into two sections.
 Braid each section and tie off each braid with a small hair tie or elastic. Start each braid as close to the scalp as possible, and continue down as close to the tips as possible.To get loose waves, keep your braid loose. Don’t pull hard as you braid and allow your braid some slack as you go.
For a tighter crimp, pull your braid sections tight toward your scalp as you go.
 This style only works when your hair dries completely while in the braids. Sleep on your braids and allow them to dry completely before you take them out.


If your hair is not dry by the time you wake up, consider using a blow dryer on a cool setting to finish the job.
 Once the braids are dry, remove the elastic and unbraid your hair. Shake the braids out and comb through with your fingers.Avoid using brush or comb if possible, as it may cause your hair to frizz.
If you need to use a hair tool to work out knots, try a wide-toothed comb.
 If you like the way your crimps look, you are all done. Otherwise, consider adding texturing paste or a curl enhancing spray to your look to get more definition. You may want to apply an anti-frizz serum to tame any flyaway hairs that got loose from the braids overnight.


Use a small amount of hairspray to help hold your style and make it last all day, and try a dry shampoo to keep your scalp looking fresh and stop oil from weighing down your crimp.

