 Some people snack on junk food too much. Snack foods can be high in unhealthy fats and carbohydrates. However, this problem can be solved by replacing junk foods with healthy snacks. Each time you start to crave a bag of chips, eat vegetables, low-fat yogurt or mixed nuts instead. This won’t solve the problem of over-snacking, but could really help your overall health by cutting out the unhealthy foods often associated with snacking.If your craving is for a healthy food, embrace it! Certain foods are both nutritious and satisfying.
 Your craving for snacks may be the result of not eating enough at meal times. Try eating meals with larger portions of vegetables and other high-fiber foods to keep you feeling full longer. Making sure you get enough of the recommended food groups at meal time just might make the snack cravings go away., When the craving for junky snack foods hits, try taking a really hot shower. Make sure the water is hot enough to be slightly uncomfortable, but not hot enough to burn your skin. Stand under the hot water for 5 to 10 minutes. When you get out of the shower, you should find yourself feeling a little hazy, but you may no longer be craving that junk food., If there is a particular time of day when your snack craving hits, you may be able to fix this by adjusting the time at which you eat your meals. If the craving hits in the mid-morning, try moving breakfast forward by an hour or lunch back by an hour. If it hits at night, eat dinner later in the evening. You want to eliminate any signals your body may be sending to your brain, telling it that it is hungry between meal times., Any time the snack craving hits you, try drinking a glass of water instead. It may suppress your appetite. Also, people rarely stay adequately hydrated, so you will be helping your overall health as well.
 Many of our cravings are purely psychological. With this being the case, simply take your mind off snacking for a while by engaging it in something else. Read a book, do a crossword puzzle, or tend to some overlooked work around the house., People have different metabolisms and their bodies need energy at different times throughout the day. Try setting a fixed snack schedule where you allow yourself one or two snacks a day, at strategically set times throughout the day. If you build snacking into your daily schedule, you may find that your appetite for snacks has been sufficiently fulfilled.

