 There are many brands on the internet offering artichoke leaf extract, but you should exercise caution when ordering from the internet. Look for brands that you recognize and trust. Order from their official website. These brands may be manufactured in registered facilities, such as an FDA registered facility. Some good brands include:


GNC Herbal Plus Artichoke Extract
Good n Natural Artichoke Extract Capsules
Superior Labs Artichoke Leaf Extract

, Supplements are not subject to the same FDA regulations as medications, meaning they are not tested for safety and efficacy. This means it is possible that supplements do not contain the advertised dose or even the advertised ingredients. Some companies choose to have their products verified by independent organizations, who will test for dangerous contaminants and make sure the product contains the amounts as advertised.Look for seals from the following organizations:


U.S. Pharmacopeia ("USP Verified")
NSF International
ConsumerLab.com
UL

, The FDA requires that all ingredients on an herbal supplement are listed on the label (though, keep in mind, it has been shown that not all companies comply with this).When taking artichoke leaf extract, you may not want other ingredients interfering with the dosage. Some extract companies may try to dilute the extracts with other ingredients. Make sure you always read the label before purchasing.


The artichoke may be listed under one of its scientific names. These include Cynara scolymus L. and C. cardunculus L.If you are shopping online and the store does not offer an ingredients list, do not buy the extract.
 Products manufactured and imported from abroad are not subject to FDA regulations, and therefore it is impossible to tell if you are actually receiving artichoke leaf extract or a cheaper substitute. Some foreign supplements may also contain toxic substances that are not included on the label. Always buy domestic products to make sure that you are receiving the highest quality supplement that you can., Your doctor can provide you guidance as to the proper amount you need a day. If you’re still uncertain about how much you need, look for pills that offer between 300 – 640 mg in each dose. This is the recommended amount for most healthy adults.