 If you're not sincere, your boss will spot it from a mile away. Before going to apologize, make sure you are properly remorseful.One way to show you're sincere is to not make light of the apology. Don't laugh or joke while making it.
 Your boss may not understand why you're apologizing out of the blue because she may not have noticed you coming in late. Therefore, be specific.For instance, you could say, "I would like to apologize for being 15 minutes late to work today."

, Give the true reason why you were late, unless it's not a work-appropriate reason. The more elaborate story you try to make up, the more likely your boss is to think you're lying. Plus, lies usually have a way of coming out.However, keep it short.


For instance, you might say, "I'm very sorry I was 15 minutes late. My kid got sick as I was walking out the door, and I had to make arrangements."However, skip the reason if it is too silly or not work-appropriate. For instance, if you were late because you were having a bad hair day, that's probably not something you want to share at work. It's better to not give an excuse than to lie., You should make sure that your boss knows that you know what your lateness can cost the company. At the least, you're not performing your job as promised. At the worst, you could lose clients for the company.For instance, you could continue your apology by saying, "I know that this company values punctuality for a good reason, and I will strive to be on time in the future."

, If your boss doesn't fire you on the spot (which can happen at some jobs), show that you are grateful by saying thank you. For instance, you could say, "I appreciate that you are giving me another chance.", If your boss tries to lay into you about being late, don't make an excuse. Let your boss have her say without interrupting and make sure she knows that you understand the consequences of being late., If you are going to a meeting first thing, it's best if you just go and join it, making as little noise as possible. Don't interrupt the meeting to make an apology. Wait until after the meeting., Of course, everyone is late once in a while. However, if you're chronically late, your boss will notice. No matter how sincerely you apologize, being chronically late means you're not actually sorry for what you've done because you keep repeating the same mistake.