 Trace the origin of your thoughts - What made you start to question the meaning in your life? Are you depressed or just going through a little slump?;
, Reach out to friends and family members for help, even if you feel like there is nothing they could possibly do.
 Focusing on the things you love will help you remember that there is indeed a point to existence. Play with your kids in the park, grab some ice cream, or read a story with them. Go out to dinner with your parents and/or siblings. Take the dog for a long walk or a run at least once a day.
 Start volunteering at a local charity, offer to babysit for struggling parents, or cook a meal for someone else who is depressed or going through a rough patch.
 It can be hard for people to watch their friends struggle through something as big as an existential crisis. Be receptive to their aid; while you may feel annoyed you should understand that they really are trying to help you. Unfortunately, it’s not uncommon for one to drift from one’s friends during an existentialist crisis if he or she is not receptive to the aid offered. If this has happened to you and you do not feel comfortable reaching out to your old friends, make an effort to meet new ones. Strike up conversations at a coffee shop, talk more to colleagues, or spend time with your neighbors.
 If you are beginning to think that you don’t have an impact on the world, you may be in a career slump. Find something you love to do and work to get there. Make sure that when you wake up in the morning, you feel like the work that you will do that day will make a positive difference in the world, no matter how small.
 Try to contradict the part of you that says that life has no point by letting yourself have fun. Remember that it’s okay to let go and allow yourself to be happy—even if that happiness is ultimately, in your mind, useless.


Keep in mind that your attitude and outlook on life affects those around you. Having a negative outlook on life can sour the mood around you, bringing down the emotions of your family, co-workers, and neighbors. Try to stay positive to allow others to feel happy around you.
 There is no right or wrong answer. Even if the meaning you thought to have existed before is gone, you can still find meaning in other things, even if they seem small to the rest of the world.
 Learn to cook better or go on a quest to find the best restaurant in town. Go wine tasting, or sample olive oil at a local manufacturer. Go on a hike in a state park, or take a picnic to a nearby lake.

