 Your farm can be as large or small as you want it to be. 26 by 24 is highly recommended for all players.


Remember, the larger the farm, the more supplies it will take.;
, This is where we will build the farm.


It is recommended that your land is flat, though this isn't mandatory.
There are infinite places to build your farm, but here are a few ideas.

Underground. Building your farm underground is the most versatile place to build your farm, though it is the most time consuming.
In a Field. This requires no special items, and is the easiest to build, though it isn't very safe from Mobs.
Inside. Usually this is a special building dedicated to a farm. It Should have a glass ceiling to let sunlight in. It requires that you build a building for the farm, but is safe from Mobs.


If you don't have the means to perform step 6, put your farm adjacent to a pond so you can dig the canals from there and let the pond fill them up. Keep in mind that if you do this, the number of blocks you can use in your canals will be limited, but this can work as a stop-gap solution until you can get the iron to make a bucket.
 This helps to keep monsters out.


Note: Make the perimeter two blocks high at least, or use fences, otherwise Mobs will jump over the built wall.
 This way, it prevents the Mobs from spawning in your farm.


You can use glowstone under the water canals and under the fence

, These will water the crops.


Keep in mind that the water will irrigate 4 blocks in each direction, so have 8 blocks between the canals

, Use the bucket to scoop up the water.

If you don't have the means to perform this step, put your farm adjacent to a pond so you can dig the canals from there and let the pond fill them up. Keep in mind that if you do this, the number of blocks you can use in your canals will be limited, but this can work as a stop-gap solution until you can get the iron to make a bucket.
 Crops will only grow on tilled land., Right click on the tilled land with seeds in your hand.
 Use Bone Meal to speed up the process.
,


Harvesting crops yields seeds.
