 It is very important to discipline your child immediately after the bad behavior has occurred. Sometimes, it is smart as a parent to pick your battles. If you wait too long to administer the punishment, your child may get confused about what they are getting punished for. If the time has passed where the child could not attribute the punishment to the specific behavior, it is better to let the matter go.If your child learns well through visual tactics, create a series of pictures that explains how their bad behavior leads to punishment and good behavior leads to rewards. Doing this will help your child understand the relationship between bad behavior and discipline.
Also explain the relationship between good behavior and its positive consequences, such as "If you put your toys in the box, you'll always know where to find them, and the family room will look nice and be easy to use." This helps the child envision alternatives to bad behaviour and understand why they are expected to do something.
 Do not rely on one single punishment or type of punishments. There must be a scale whereby the punishment is administered according to the severity of the behavior.


Give a verbal warning to give them a chance to correct themselves. "Jacob, no hitting."
Try natural consequences—if the child throws their toys, they must pick up the toys.
Consider loss of rewards or privileges, such as no TV time. (Make sure that this does not interfere with their special interests, as this may cause too much distress to be effective.)

, Your child needs to make the association that unwanted behaviour will lead to unwanted results and that these undesirable outcomes will be followed up no matter who administers the discipline., Once you have worked to understand what discipline would work best for your child, pick several and stick with them. For example:


Refuse to give in to bad behavior. This gives the child the message that their behaviour is not acceptable. Clearly explain that it is counterproductive (for example, "I can't understand you when you shout. Would you like to calm down for a while and then tell me what's wrong?").
Patiently remind the child of self-calming strategies to use, such as taking deep breaths and counting. Offer to use the strategies together.
Use the loss of rewards as a consequence. If a child is behaving inappropriately, the loss of a reward could be considered a form of punishment by that child.
 Responding to violence with more violence can reinforce in your child that it is okay to become violent when feeling upset. If you are very angry with your child, perform the same self-calming strategies that you would like your child to use. This encourages the child to mimic you when she feels angry or frustrated.
 Avoid labeling the child as “bad’ or “wrong”. Point out the incorrect behaviour to the child in an encouraging way to promote corrective action. For example, say to them:


“I can see you’re really upset about that, but yelling won't help. Would you like to do some deep breathing with me?"
“Why did you throw yourself on the ground? Were you upset about the grocery store?”
“Hitting other people is never okay. If you're angry, use your words, tell an adult, or take a break to cool off.”

