 Offer to walk your neighbors' dogs for a small fee. If you have lots of neighbors with animals, and like spending time with dogs, this can be a great way of getting some extra pocket money.Think about which of your neighbors work during the day, while you've got summer vacation. If you're around and can walk the dog while you're not doing anything, that's easy money.
 Talk to your parents about taking on more house responsibilities for money. If you can get paid for doing stuff that might be considered "chores," and not even have to leave your house, that's easy money. Your parents might even talk you up to neighbors. One day, do all of the following, and then tell your parents that you'll keep doing it if they pay you regularly:


Clean up the kitchen and do the dishes.
Take out the garbage.
Tidy the living rooms.
Tidy up the bathroom.
Tackle the garage and attic.
Keep your room extremely clean.
 If you're good with your computer, you can market those skills to people who don't understand tech as well as you do.


You can help people set up email accounts, Facebook pages, and other social networking. Help people load pictures and edit them. Help with printing and copying.
Find older people who need help figuring out their technology. Start with your grandparents, and see if they'll talk to their friends, or other acquaintances about hiring you to help with computer-related stuff.
 If you want money and you're a kid, some parents are willing to give it. Talk to them about what specific jobs you can do around the house, or specific things you can do at school to help you make money. If you can get money for good grades, then try harder at school. If you can get paid to take care of your pets, or do yard work, or some other task, then do it.


If you can't get an allowance from your parents, try a different tactic. Next time it's your birthday, don't ask for presents, ask for money.
 You don't have to be an adult to sell things from a little stand. If you want to make some extra coin, you can sell something and make a profit if you price it properly. Read the following articles for specific advice about selling things for money.



Sell baked goods.

Open a lemonade stand.

Play music or sing.

Sell food.

Sell home-made jewelry.

Sell your art.

