 There are certain bases -- common denominators -- for all companies that operate in your markets like: customers' needs, suppliers' accommodations and your being prepared for potential entrants. While you prepare to have a competitive advantage, each of these others try to demand and command attention in furtherance of their own causes. Anticipating these can work towards reducing the gap between the capital investment and returns they yield (profits/losses). It is prudent to manage these denominators in a way that reverses the trend of outflow (costs of start-up) toward desired returns, in a healthy multiple of capital investment.;
, Competitors status in not receiving such upgrades may depend on their past, credit, slow pay, being in arrears., Now these are scarce commodities and any strategic plan conceived to take advantage of such scarcity positions your organization along with the best of the competition, ahead of the rest, making success less based on chance and that much less complicated.
 Determine and discriminate between the markets while allocating funds. The strategy should reflect a clear understanding of markets and should result in intelligent defining of the segments that could result in refined resource allocation. This should of course be preceded by microscopic market research at granular level to see direction of trends in those markets.
 This is considered a way of playing safe, but how safe it is, is the question. The word “trend” itself denotes a temporary existence and ease of being replaced (imminence of change). The strategy should be to peep into the future and identify what could be tomorrow’s trend. Identify and formulate the strategy accordingly, or better still plan a strategy that could make you a trend setter.
 This will no doubt allow your team to sustain past commitments without losses -- but if growth is your objective and market leadership the ultimate aim, you'll need to have an insight into the future.
A glance into people’s pulse regarding what they have versus new things they would like to have -- gives a fairly accurate insight into the future. It pays to organize frequent market research (controlled advancements are not moved forward randomly). With the availability of so many social media platforms, it is now easier to gauge people’s aspirations by seeing and assessing interests and frustrations in your network.
 An all weather strategy often keeps you always afloat compared to one planned for normal (current) market behavior. Planning for the event of a failure (such as maintaining liquidity by renting or leasing versus owning capital assets) is always better than failing to plan.


Uncertainties of the future can be classified into four levels.


Level one gives a fairly clear view of the future, and an inkling of what to expect. Level two is a little more hypothetical about the action and outcomes, but rather concrete expectations. Level three works on the law of probability for likelihood of returns. Level four represents total ambiguity (on a hunch for example) about the outcome and delivers shockers.
A formulated strategy can reasonably be expected to provide for the first two levels. Strategy for the third and fourth levels depends upon various factors, and should be best left to the ingenuity of the entrepreneur and enterprise.
 It is all about trade-off between the two, and success depends on the timing and intuition. If it is a leap in the dark, how you land your market for your new product depends on your expertise and experience in creating a new markets -- or vice versa.
 This is possible, if you take into confidence the department heads during the planning stage, take their views, and where ever feasible implement them. Ownership at the planning stage naturally ensures ownership and informed support at the implementation stage.
 First, define clearly what you are moving from and where you are moving to with respect to your company’s business model, organization, and capabilities. Develop a detailed view of the shifts required to make the move, and ensure that processes and mechanisms, for which individual executives must be accountable, are in place to effect the changes. Quite simply, this is an action plan.
 Be sure that each major “from–to shift” is matched with the energy and assets to make it happen. Since the totality of a major change often represents a corresponding organizational transformation, make sure you and your senior team:


Draw on research and experience offering solid advice on successful change management revealed by the large body of information of actual, successful change.
