 Put two eggs into a small saucepan and cover them with cold water, plus an extra inch (2.5 cm) of water. Bring the water to a boil over high heat. When the water boils, remove the saucepan from the heat, cover it with a lid, and set it aside for 12 minutes to let the eggs cook.When the eggs are fully cooked, remove them from the pan and place them into a bowl of ice water to cool completely.
To use the eggs, crack the shells with the end of a knife and peel them off. Cut the eggs in half and remove the yolks from the center.;
, Add the egg yolks and the flours, baking powder, salt, and sugar to a food processor. Pulse the mixture a few times to combine all the ingredients and break up the egg yolks.


You can use finely ground cornmeal in place of the semolina flour.
If you don’t have a food processor, combine all the ingredients in a mixing bowl and use a pastry cutter or two knives to incorporate all the ingredients., Add the butter to the food processor a few cubes at a time and pulse. Once all the butter has been added, pulse a few more times until the mixture comes together as pea-sized crumbs. Slowly pour in the heavy cream.


Pulse the food processor a few more times after adding the cream to bring the ingredients together., Turn the dough out onto a flat surface and knead it gently a few times to finish bringing the ingredients together. Stop when everything has been incorporated.


Don’t over-knead the dough, as this can develop the gluten and make the cake tough and dense.
When the dough is ready, preheat your oven to 350 F (177 C) and line a baking sheet with parchment paper.
 Use an ice cream scoop or ¼ cup (60 ml) measuring cup to divide the dough into six separate balls. Place the balls of dough onto the parchment-lined baking sheet.


Cover the balls of dough with a sheet of plastic wrap and transfer them to the refrigerator to chill for 25 minutes.
 With a pastry brush, cover the tops of each dough ball with a thin layer of cream.Sprinkle each with a pinch of sugar before baking for about 30 minutes.


The shortcakes are ready when the sides turn golden brown and become firm. This could take between 28 and 32 minutes.
When cooked, remove the cakes from the oven, transfer them to a wire rack, and set them aside to cool as you prepare the topping and filling.
 In a mixing bowl, toss together the fruit, sugar, zest, and salt. Leave half the fruit mixture in the bowl to develop for at least 30 minutes, and transfer the other half to a small saucepan.Add the water to the saucepan and heat the fruit over medium–low heat until it comes to a gentle simmer. Continue cooking for about 15 minutes, then remove it from the heat and stir in 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of lemon juice to each batch of fruit.


There are a number of fruits you can use for this caramel shortcake recipe, including strawberries, blueberries, raspberries, and bananas.
 In another medium mixing bowl, combine the cream, sugar, and salt. Cut the vanilla bean in half lengthwise, and use the tip of a spoon to scrape the seeds into the mixture. With electric beaters or a stand mixer, beat the mixture on medium speed until soft peaks form in the cream, about two minutes.Instead of fresh vanilla seeds, you can use ½ to 1 teaspoon (2.5 to 5 ml) of vanilla extract.
 Combine all the ingredients in a small saucepan.Heat over medium–low heat to melt the butter and sugar. Whisk the mixture constantly and cook it for about six minutes. Whisk in the vanilla and cook for another minute. Remove the saucepan from the heat and set aside to cool.As you heat the ingredients, they will come together and thicken into a gooey caramel sauce.
 This recipe makes six individual-sized caramel shortcakes. Cut each cake in half, dividing the top and bottom of the cake so you can fill the center with fruit, cream, and caramel.Remove the tops from the cakes and set them aside, leaving the bottoms in place so that you can add the filling.
 Spread a layer of caramel sauce over the top of each shortcake bottom. Then spoon a layer of the warm and cold fruit fillings on top of the caramel. Top the fruit with another drizzle of caramel and a generous dollop of whipped cream.When you have filled the cakes, return the shortcake top to each bottom

, Divide the remaining warm fruit filling among the six cakes and spoon the fruit on top of the cake. Then drizzle more caramel over the fruit. Don’t worry if the caramel drips down the side of the cake. Cover the fruit with another dollop of whipped cream.


Finish each cake by sprinkling the remaining cold fruit over the whipped cream before serving.,