 In order to fix your problem, you first have to understand it. Compile a list that includes moments in which you felt ignored by other people. Include everything from the seemingly trivial (I said “Hi!” and received no reply) to the more obvious examples (I attended a party and no one spoke to me). Try to describe these incidents in as much detail as you can.This list can stay private and, therefore, does not need to appear polished. It is for your own personal reference, so be more concerned about the content than the format or appearance.
Marking down your emotional reaction at the time can also help you to understand the stages of emotion commonly associated with being ignored or ostracized. It is not uncommon for people who are isolated to feel confused at first (am I really experiencing this?), followed by anger and rage when no one seems willing to help improve the situation. Validate and recognize your feelings before they make compel you to commit anti-social acts simply to be noticed.;
, Are you having trouble getting people to pay attention to you at work or at home? In social settings or in private ones? Is there any particular person who appears repeatedly in your example list? Did others start to ignore you after a particular moment in time? For instance, it is documented that workplace whistleblowers can be ostracized by their peers.Don’t discount your behaviors. Watch for patterns in how you act as well. For example, are you comfortable speaking with people, but fail to leave a lasting impression? Or, do you experience anxiety when pressured to talk with others?
Make notations about your pattern observations and then set personal goals accordingly. If your home life is the concern, then tailor your efforts toward an improvement in that area. This will also allow you to see (and celebrate!) positive changes over time.
 To make a change you have to embrace the possibility of improvement, even if it comes at a slow pace. Recognize that your actions are within your control.Feeling invisible can be a self-fulfilling prophecy. If you believe that you are unworthy of notice, you will be.
 This should be a person who you trust and who you admire. Ask them to attend social functions with you in order to observe how you interact with others and to provide advice.

