 When you are first getting to know a girl, it is important to avoid sharing too much about yourself too soon. Sharing too much about yourself too soon can be overwhelming for a girl and also makes you seem less mysterious. Keep some of the mystery alive by withholding certain details until you get to know each other better.For example, you should avoid discussing topics like your ex, family conflicts, or your personal finances. Instead, focus on questions that help you get to know her better. Ask her about her likes and dislikes, her friends and family, her interests, etc.
 Research has shown that prolonged eye contact can increase feelings of attraction between two people.If you are trying to win her over, try looking into her eyes with a penetrating gaze. Just keep in mind that she may break the gaze if she is not interested. If she is interested, she will most likely give you some encouraging looks and smiles, even if she takes her eyes away from yours now and then.


If a long gaze does not seem appropriate yet or you are just too nervous to hold a long gaze, try giving her frequent, quick glances., Mirroring her body position can show a girl that you are interested and provide opportunities for her to do the same. You might already be doing this without noticing it. But if not, make a conscious effort to start mirroring her body position. For example, if a girl is leaning in towards you with one arm on the table, you can lean in with the opposite arm so that you look like a mirror image of her., Smiling is an easy way to show a girl that you are interested in her and give her a chance to give you a smile in return. Smiling may also make you seem more attractive to the girl, which may work in your favor as well.Try to keep your smile as natural and relaxed as possible. Don’t force it or smile in a way that is unusual for you.
 As you flirt and do other things to impress a girl, watch for signs that she is interested in you. If she is smiling, making eye contact, and mirroring your body position, then this might be a good sign. Other positive signs include touching her hair, adjusting her clothes, raising and lowering her eyebrows, or giving you a casual touch on the arm., Sometimes two people are just not meant to be together. If a girl does not show interest after you have done your best to get her attention, move on. She may never change her mind about you and, if you keep chasing her, you may miss your opportunity to meet someone else who really does like you.

