 Find a quiet and comfortable place to sit, and take a moment of silence before beginning your meditation and mantra. Find the guru bead on your mala once you have settled. The guru bead is meant to function as a place of reflection and acknowledgement that will help ground your meditation. Once you have found the guru bead spend time deciding on a mantra.Mantras are often given by spiritual teacher or advisors. However, you can try using a positive affirmation in place of a mantra if you have not been given one by a teacher. Try an affirmation like, “I love myself,” or repeat a word like “Calm.”You do not need to have a mantra in order to use a mala. Malas can also be used in silent meditation.
 Once you have chosen a mantra, and have collected yourself, begin by pulling one counting bead toward you. Use your thumb to pull the bead and let the mala slide over your third finger. Each counting bead you pull should correspond with one recitation of a mantra.If you are not meditating with a mantra, use your mala to count breaths instead.
Although all of the beads on the mala, other than the guru bead, are called counting beads, you will not be counting outloud or in your head. Rather, the beads will be doing the counting for you as you scroll through and “count” with each breath or mantra.
 Continue counting a bead with each breath or mantra you recite. Try to keep your counting as consistent as possible so that you can receive the full effects of your meditation. Part of the intention of the mala is to count your breaths or recitations so that you don’t have to.


Remember, using a mala should be a contemplative process and allow you to relax and concentrate on your meditation.
 The guru bead should not be counted with the other counting beads and it should not be passed over. Instead, take another moment of silence and inner collection once you have reached the guru bead. Then, decide whether you would like to continue counting beads or to end your meditation. If you would like to end your meditation, simply remove the mala and put it in a clean and safe place.Remember, each mantra recitation or meditation should continue until you reach the guru bead.Malas can come in a variety of sizes, from 108 beads to as little as 21. The length of your meditation will depend on the length of your mala.
 If you are reciting your mantra in repetitions, or want a longer meditation, flip the mala around once you reach the guru bead. Take the mala and turn it so the guru bead is just below your thumb. Once repositioned, continue counting each bead as you have done throughout your meditation or mantra recitation.Each mala should be used for only one mantra. If you would like to recite multiple mantras in one meditation, try to have one mala for each mantra., Make sure that your mala is kept somewhere where it will be kept clean and ready for meditation. Malas often have spiritual significance to those that use them, so try and find a sacred space to keep them in. This could be among grounding stones, healing herbs, or other spaces dedicated to meditation and spiritual practice.


Try keeping your mala in a box or jewelry case so that it will stay clean and only be used for meditation.

