 In the USA, no one, not even your parents, can force you to have an abortion against your will. The choice is up to you, so don't let anyone pressure you into making a decision that you are not comfortable with.Forcing a minor to have an abortion is considered child abuse, which is illegal.
If you are being threatened or coerced into having an abortion, call the police.
If you want to have an abortion, that is your right as well, although some states require that you inform your parents and/or get their consent if you are a minor.;
, With help and support, parenting can be an amazing and wonderful experience. For some women, parenting is just the right choice, even if the pregnancy was not planned.Talk with the baby's father and your family to find out who is willing to help you raise your baby. This will be a much easier choice if you have support from your loved ones.
Come up with a plan for how you will afford to take care of your baby. Think about whether you will need to get a job and make childcare arrangements while you are at work. Also consider whether you may be eligible for any financial assistance programs. The United States government offers several programs that provide benefits like food, healthcare, childcare, and job training for low-income mothers.Think about your goals for the future and whether you will be able to accomplish them while raising a child. You may be able to make childcare arrangements that would still allow you to attend school, for example.
 If you don't think raising your child is the right choice for you, but you don't want to have an abortion, consider placing your child for adoption. There are loving families who will be happy to raise your child and give her a wonderful life.Start working with an adoption agency as soon as you decide to place your child for adoption. They will help you find adoptive parents and work out all of the details.
The laws regarding adoption are different in every state. In some states, you may be able to arrange for an adoption without an agency. In some states, the baby may be placed in foster care for a short period of time before being adopted. The waiting period before the adoption becomes official also differs from state to state.
There are three different kinds of adoption. With a closed adoption, you will not know who the adoptive parents are and they will not know who you are. With an open adoption, you and the adoptive parents will have each other's contact information. With a semi-open adoption, you and the adoptive parents will not have each other's contact information, but you may communicate with each other through the adoption agency.
 No matter what decision you make, it is important that you not feel that you are all alone. This will be a very stressful time in your life, so reach out for the support you need to make the right decision for you.


Talk to your parents and the father of the child. Know what kind of support you will have. If these individuals are not offering you the support you need, turn to friends or other relatives for emotional support.
Consider calling a pregnancy hotline if you need unbiased counseling about your options. The counselors can explain your choices, offer guidance, and refer you to local organizations that can help you learn to parent, arrange an adoption, or get an abortion.
Female health centers and pregnancy support centers are also great resources for pregnant women. Some of these facilities offer abortions, but they often offer counseling and help with adoptions and parenting as well.
Some religiously affiliated pregnancy help centers may pressure you to not have abortion, but others believe in reproductive freedom, so research them before you call or visit. Pro-life organizations will typically not provide you with any information over the phone and may offer you biased information in an effort to convince you out of having an abortion.The National Abortion Federation and Backline.org both offer unbiased hotlines that pregnant women can call to discuss their options, including abortion. You may also be able to get a referral to a reputable, unbiased healthcare provider.Even if you're not a religious, most churches will be happy to help you find adoption resources or talk to you about parenting. Keep in mind that most churches are against abortion, so you may not want to visit a church if you are still considering abortion as an option.
 Regardless of what opinions your friends, family, or religious institution hold on abortion, it is still a legal option for you. If you decide that it is the right choice for you in your particular situation, that is your right.

