 Only men can officially become ordained within the Catholic Church. Additionally, you must be baptized. Baptism is the ritual cleansing performed on individuals welcomed into the Catholic Church.Finally, you must be at least 35 years old to become a deacon, the lowest level of ordination through which you must pass before becoming ordained as a priest or bishop.Marriages must be recognized by the Church. Divorces must be annulled. Widowers may not remarry and must remain celibate. If unmarried, you must remain unmarried and celibate.
Consult your family and ask God for guidance before deciding to become ordained. If married, you must receive the consent of your wife to become ordained.;
, Seminary is a kind of preparatory school for Catholic priests. You can only attend seminary after obtaining a four-year college degree. In seminary, you’ll begin your work on a Master of Divinity (MDiv) or Master of Arts (MA) in Theology. You might also choose to obtain a doctorate in philosophy, theology, or canon law.This education will ready you to serve within the Church.


Before joining seminary, you must be screened by representatives of your local diocese to ensure you are mature enough to handle the commitment ordination entails. Your family history, spiritual life and understanding, health, and debt will be evaluated.Engage in a variety of spiritual activities such as mass, morning and evening prayers, and spiritual retreats.
Receiving pastoral formation -- the process in which you learn how to listen to people, offer advice, work with marginalized groups like the sick and poor, and act as a mentor to others -- is a crucial part of seminary.These are the skills you will need if you are to become a priest, deacon, or bishop and serve a Catholic congregation. Spend as much time as possible in seminary developing these pastoral skills.
 If you wish to become ordained, you must submit an application to your local diocesan dioconate office. Be sure to indicate on your application whether you’re applying to become a deacon, priest, or bishop. Talk to your local priest about submitting an application to be ordained. While different states and diocese have different processes, you can expect your application to require most of the following items:Four letters of reference, including one from your priest
A recent photo of you
Academic transcripts, including high school and college transcripts
Certificates proving your baptisms, first communion, confirmation, and parents’ marriage
A physical exam
A background check that examined your employment history, criminal record, and any previous entrance in seminary or ordination programs

, After your application is accepted, you will be ordained in a special ceremony recognizing your spiritual journey. You will be called to the pulpit stage by a deacon, then presented to a bishop, who will perform several sacralizing rites:


You will be given a verbal examination testing your knowledge of scripture and God.
You will then make a pledge of chastity and obedience to the Church, and lie prostrate on the floor before the bishop. The audience will then kneel and sing a religious hymn.
The most important part of the ordination is when the bishop lays his hands on your head. The laying-on of hands is performed in order to invoke the Holy Spirit -- one of the three aspects of God -- to make the ordained individual more holy and reserve him for the ministry.
Your hands will be anointed with oil. This stems from an Old Testament tradition that indicates your hands are prepared to serve the Church and its adherents by, for instance, offering the Eucharist and working to heal the sick.
The ceremony will end with you being presented with gifts by any family, friends, and spiritual mentors in attendance.Only a bishop can ordain a priest.The ordained individual will go forward to have a career in the church and a deeper connection with their faith.

