 During the toddler years, it is important to continue involving children in situations where they can interact with other children. This is especially important if there are no siblings in the home. This can be done by enrolling the toddler in some type of childcare or joining a local play group.


At this stage in life, a child’s world expands greatly because they are mobile and they are learning to speak.
 In the toddler's mind, everything belongs to the toddler and the social act of sharing becomes an issue. There are many different ways that a parent can handle the development of sharing. However, always keep in mind that the child’s concept of ownership of the object is natural and they are acting selfish just to be mean to the other child.


In order to help the child pass the social development milestone of learning to share, the child should not be scolded or reprimanded for claiming the object.
Instead, the parent should use a calm voice and simple words to discuss the concept of sharing with the toddler and help the toddler separate themselves from the object more easily.
 During sharing instruction is where the parent can begin to teach simple negotiation techniques such as taking timed turns so that sharing is fair. If the concept is too difficult for the toddler to grasp at the time, then it is best to remove the contested object from the sight and reach of the children.


This should be done without placing blame on either of the children.
For example, many parents tell the children that the toy is having a “time out”.
After the children seem to have forgotten the object, it can be returned to the room, but should not be handed to either of the children.
 Sometimes toddlers act aggressively when another child tries to get a toy or object that they have. They might hit, bite, or in other ways harm the other child in order to retain possession of the object. Of course, this is not socially acceptable behavior, but the parent needs to bear in mind that the toddler is still learning how to behave socially and needs guidance through this stage.


The aggressive toddler will usually give physical or verbal warning signs before this negative interaction.
In protesting the approach of the other child, the toddler might continually take the object to an area away from the other child or they might simply turn their back toward the other child.
Some toddlers will vocalize their disapproval of the approaching child. Even if it is just a grunt or squeal, it is their way of issuing a warning.
By learning to recognize these warning signs, the parent can steer their toddler toward a more positive and socially acceptable response to the situation that will help them learn better ways to resolve the conflicts in their lives.

