 Make sure that you have the following:


A measuring tape, a ruler or a yardstick
A mirror
A pencil
A small box or thick book;
, Pick a location that meets these requirements:


Find a flat, open space of floor next to a wall.
Find a place where you can stand with your back to the wall.
Find a place where you can make a small pencil mark on the wall.Stand on a hard floor made of concrete, title or hardwood. Avoid floors covered by carpets or rugs.
Try to find a space next to a door or in a corner to help guide your measuring tape.
Try to find a location that faces a mirror to eliminate the need for a hand mirror.
 Make sure to do the following:


Take off your socks and shoes. Measure your height when you are barefoot because flip flops, slippers, and even socks will affect the measurement.
Remove anything from your head. Don’t wear a hat, a headband or a ponytail. Keep your hair flat.Stand with your back against the wall and your feet together. Stand up as straight as possible with your heels, back, shoulders, and head all touching the wall. Tuck in your chin and look straight ahead., Make sure that can easily reach anything that you might need while measuring yourself.


Hold the box in one hand, and the mirror and pencil in the other.
Raise the small box to the top of your head, and press it against the wall.
Use the mirror to make sure the box is horizontal to the floor and perpendicular to the wall, forming a right angle.Do not tilt the box as this will cause an inaccurate measurement.
 Make sure not to move the box or your finger as you do this.


Mark the place on the wall where the bottom of the box is resting. Hold the box in its position and slide out from under it, if possible.
Try putting your finger at the bottom of the box and hold it in position as you slide out of position.
You may be able to make the mark without sliding out of position at all.
 Keep the measuring tape flat against the wall.


If your measuring tape is too short to measure your full height, measure as high as you can and make a pencil mark on the wall.
Note the measurement.
Keep measuring this until you reach the pencil mark you made using the box.
Add the individual measurements together to get your height.

