 Because sarsaparilla bark was outlawed by the FDA a long time ago, commercial root beer is made with root beer extract. It's commonly available in homebrew stores for $3-$5, enough to make several batches of your own homemade root beer. The materials pay for themselves in the long run. Zatarain's is a common and cheap brand that's widely available, but experiment with different varieties to find one you like best.


Add two tablespoons of root beer extract after boiling the sweetener and water, before adding the yeast. Try using brown sugar instead of white for an added molasses kick to the finished product.
Try out other roots for unusual earthy-botanical sodas. Licorice root extract is also available that tastes delicious and surprising, especially when mixed with a little lemon rind.
 Orange, grape, lemon-lime, strawberry, even lemon-papaya: fruit sodas are where it's at. Adding a few tablespoons of any fruit extracts you can find will give you a great fruity summertime soda.


Instead of using extract, start your soda base with grape juice instead of water to make authentic grape soda. It's a far cry from that fake-tasting purple stuff you can get at the store.
If you want to make a citrus-based soda, steep the rinds of oranges, lemons, or limes in the sugar-water mixture for several hours before straining and adding the activated yeast. You'll get the most potent flavor from the rind.
Consider adding a few drops of food coloring if you want the flavor to match the look.
 The flavors that go into Coca-Cola are almost impossible to identify and replicate for a reason--you don't become the number one selling soda for nothing. With the right combinations of food-grade essential oils added to a basic soda mix, though, you can come close to approximating the classic flavor of the most famous cola. Experiment with different combos to get the flavor as close as possible, but start with a combination of equal amounts of the following surprising flavors to get in the neighborhood:


orange
lime
lemon
nutmeg
coriander
lavender

, It's a simple classic, cool, soothing, and refreshing. Making ginger ale from raw ginger and sweetened with honey will beat any commercial soda on the market, perfect for mixing into cocktails or drinking on ice. To make up your own ginger ale:


Mix up a gallon of water, a cup of honey, and the juice of two small lemons in a big pot and bring to a boil. Grate at least two thumb-sized (about 2 inches) pieces of peeled ginger into the pot and let it cool for at least an hour. When the temperature has subsided, you can add the yeast and strain the ginger pieces through a strainer before bottling. Let it sit for at least 48 hours before refrigerating, and let it refrigerate for a few days for the best results.