 Many people jump straight to drastic measures instead of simply talking to the neighbor about their concerns. Unless you're on bad terms with your neighbor, the best way to solve this problem is usually to just talk to him or her about it. You could casually approach your neighbor next time you see him or her outside, or write a note asking to set up a time to talk.Your tone at this point should be friendly and be respectful, yet firm. Don't make legal threats; you may have to do that later, but for now, try to keep things civil.
Assume your neighbor is unaware of the problem. Say something like, "I knew you'd want to know that Sadie's barking is audible to us at night, especially since our bedroom faces your yard."
Explain that the barking is having a negative effect on your sleep, concentration, and so on, and that you would like to work out a good solution.
Thank your neighbor for hearing you out and making a change. Most considerate neighbors will do their best to accommodate you right away.;
, It's possible your neighbor is well aware of the issue, but isn't sure how to get the dog to stop barking. If you're pretty sure you know what the problem is, there's nothing wrong with making suggestions. This is especially effective if you're a dog owner, too. You can commiserate over how tough it can be to get a dog to stop barking. Here are a few common problems you might consider bringing up:


Dogs kept outside commonly bark from boredom; this is especially true for energetic breeds like German Shepherds, terriers (including Pit Bulls), and guard dogs like Dobermans and Rottweilers. Suggest that the dog needs more exercise.Some dogs are very excitable and nervous, and they bark at everything that passes. Obedience training can be very helpful. You might want to provide the names of a few well-rated training schools in the area.
Dogs also bark when they're either too cold or too hot. Many people have the misconception that dogs' fur keeps them warm in subzero weather; it's not the case, unless the dog is a husky. If you've seen the dog shivering or looking miserable in the heat of the day, tell your neighbor the dog could be barking because its uncomfortable.
 Rather than expecting your neighbor to put a stop to all barking, it might be more feasible to agree on a practical solution that works for both of you. Here are a few solutions that might apply; you can adapt them to your situation as necessary:See if your neighbor will agree to take the dog inside during certain hours, such as between 10 pm and 7 am.
If barking during the day is a problem because the dog is left outside, see if the neighbor will agree to install a dog house where the dog can take shelter during the day. Discuss a certain date by which the dog house will be installed.
If the dog has a behavioral problem and the neighbor agrees it needs to be addressed, see if he or she will set a certain date by which the dog will start attending obedience classes.
 If your neighbor ignores your requests or doesn't make a change after you've asked politely, it can help to get neighbors involved. Talk to other people who live nearby to see if they're also being kept awake by the dog. You can then talk to your neighbor again as a group. This time your requests are likely to be taken seriously.


If you don't want to gang up on your neighbor, ask the other neighbors to contact the dog owner individually. That way he or she won't feel bullied.
Best case scenario, the neighbors will be able to put their heads together to come up with a good solution that doesn't leave anyone feeling ostracized. However, if the dog owner is unreceptive and the barking continues unchecked, you may have to change tacks and get authorities involved.