 The first line of defense against people attempting to view or steal your data is a strong and constantly changing passcode.

Make sure that you substantially change the passcode each time you change it--don't just change one number.
On most phones, you can set a "complex" or "advanced" password that includes letters and symbols in addition to the typical numerical characters.
 While you'll still need to have your passcode for your phone's lock screen, you should use Touch ID on any supported devices to pay for items and any other available services.

As a general rule, cutting down on the amount of times you have to enter your password on any platform is a good practice.
 It may be tempting to use third-party browsers like Tor or Dolphin, but synchronizing your Google Chrome account or Safari account between your phone and your computer will both prevent the need to re-enter saved passwords and protect your device from unsafe websites., As soon as an update becomes available for anything from your phone's Facebook app to its entire operating system, you should apply it if possible.


Many updates are patches to repair weaknesses and address security vulnerabilities. Failing to update your software will eventually result in an exploitable weakness appearing, which puts your device at risk.
If you have the option to download all updates automatically, make use of this feature. It will save you a lot of trouble.
 These include the ports on your computer and in your car (if applicable). Public USB ports, like the ones you may see in a coffee shop, can compromise your information.


For this reason, it's a good idea to bring an electrical outlet connector in addition to your USB cable if you're traveling.
 Both iPhones and Androids have security safeguards that can be bypassed by jailbreaking or rooting the respective devices, but doing so opens your phone up to attacks and infections that would have previously been impossible. Similarly, downloading apps from unverified sources ("side-loading" apps) greatly increases your risk of contracting malware.

Android phones have a built-in security suite that prevents you from downloading apps from unknown sources. If you do choose to disable this option (from the Security tab in Settings), you'll need to carefully verify websites from which you download apps before proceeding with the downloads.

