 Like any cat, the American Wirehair can become obese if you are not careful.An indoor cat should only have 20 calories per pound per day to maintain its weight. So if your cat weighs 8 pounds, it needs 160 calories per day to maintain that weight.If your cat needs to lose weight, feed it 40 fewer calories per day.
Don't forget to factor in treats, if you feed them to your cat. They make up part of your cat's caloric intake., Cats are obligate carnivores, meaning their main nutrition comes from meat. For that reason, choose a cat food that has fish, meat, or meat byproducts at the top of the ingredient list.As a rule of thumb, adults should have food that is at least 25 to 30 percent protein and 20 percent fat.When picking a food, look for the seal of approval from the Association of the American Food Control Officials (AAFCO), which certifies that the food is nutritionally complete for your cat.
"Meat byproducts" may sound nefarious, but they can actually be quite nutritious for a cat, as long as they're coming from a reputable company. That is, this ingredient usually includes things like organs and fatty tissue, which are perfectly fine for your animal to eat. It also can contain bone, but if your food is approved by AAFCO, it can't contain fur, hide, or feet.
Pick foods by ages. That is, a kitten should eat kitten food, while a senior adult cat should eat food for elderly cats.
 Heartworms and fleas can lead to further health problems if left unchecked. Preventing them altogether is the best option. While you can purchase many preventative heartworm and flea medications over the counter, it's still a good idea to consult with your vet about the best drug and dosage for your cat.Also, make sure you talk to your vet about regular vaccinations for your cat.
 The American Wirehair is a fairly healthy cat, though it can develop a few problems. One of the most common health problems with this breed is a type of heart disease called hypertrophic cardiomyopathy, which is a thickening of the heart wall.The most common symptoms of this disease include tiredness, fast breathing, and breathing with the mouth open. However, many cats do not present any symptoms at first. Therefore, it's a good idea to take your cat in for regular checkups at least once a year.
If you suspect your cat may have a problem, have the cat checked by a vet.

