 This may be a tedious chore if you are an everyday smoker, but one of the biggest odor traps in most household rooms is the walls.If your walls can be wet-washed, a good scrub can help remove a significant portion of lingering smoke odors. Be cautious about scrubbing walls that cannot get wet, such as wall-papered walls or walls with certain types of paint, as moisture may damage these walls and ruin the design.


Use a non-abrasive, all-purpose cleaner to scrub the walls of your room. If you have an all-purpose cleaner with a strong odor, like lemon or citrus, that may be even more effective in hiding the smell of smoke.Vinegar can also be used to clean the walls, though again, you may have to explain the vinegar aroma clinging to your room. Mix one cup white vinegar with two cups of warm water, then add a generous scoop of baking soda. Use a mop, brush, or sponge to wash the walls and window moldings, and wipe it all down with a dry paper towel., In addition to walls, carpeting and flooring tend to absorb a considerable amount of smoke odors in an indoor environment. One easy way to help conceal some of the cigarette smells that may linger is by giving the floors in your room a thorough cleaning.You can mop hardwood or tile floors with a scented cleaner like Murphy's Oil or Pine-Sol, or use a dry, granulated carpet cleaner/deodorizer on carpeted floors.Sprinkle the carpet cleaner/deodorizer generously across the carpet throughout the room, and let it sit for a while to absorb any lingering smells.When it seems like the smell is fairly well-masked, use a vacuum to clean your entire room's carpeting.In a pinch, you can mask odors trapped in the carpet by mixing baking soda and a few drops of essential oil, such as lavender. Mix the liquid and powder together as much as you can, then sprinkle the carpet. Let it sit for about four hours (or as long as time permits), then vacuum up the powder., Furniture, especially soft-surfaced furniture like couches and bedding, tend to soak up odors in the environment. Spray-on products like Febreze are designed to help mask odors, though by some reports the odor-masking properties are only temporary, and may require repeat applications.Spraying odor-masking products on furniture and/or carpeting may help reduce noticeable smoke odors, but will not completely eliminate most odors.Rubbing baking soda into a piece of furniture can also help neutralize odors. Let the baking soda sit for as long as possible (ideally overnight, though time constraints may not allow for this), then vacuum up all of the baking soda.This method could even be done in conjunction with a spray-on odor-masking product.
You can clean and remove cigarette smells from hard-surface furniture, such as wood, the same way you do flooring; wipe down the piece of furniture with a scented cleaner.
Also try eliminating cigarette smells by wiping down your furniture with a cloth that is lightly dampened by all-purpose cleaner with bleach.
 This may sound like an obvious step, but it's important to remove any cigarette butts from your room if you want to avoid smoke odors.Not only will stray cigarette butts provide solid evidence that you've been smoking, they will also leave a tell-tale odor behind.


Keep your ashtray empty as often as possible.
Stray cigarette butts can emit a powerful odor long after the flame has been extinguished.If you are trying to hide your smoking from others who live in the same house as you, remember to dispose of cigarette butts in a place they won't be found or smelled.

