 Keywords are the words on your website that people are most likely to search for. Brainstorm several options related to the theme of your website. Businesses may want to conduct market research or run a focus group to help this process along. If you're starting a website on a small budget, just have a brainstorm session by yourself or with a few friends.


If you'll be writing about products, search for similar products on online marketplaces. Look for common phrases in the product names and descriptions.
Search for online forums related to your website topic. Read through some of the post titles and popular discussions to find topics of interest.
Stick to keywords that accurately describe your website.If you only sell chairs, "furniture" is too broad and "bar stools" is irrelevant. There's no point attracting people who aren't interested in your website.;
, This tool is aimed at advertisers, but website creators frequently use it to find out how often people search for their keywords. Sign up for a Google AdWords account, then visit the Keyword Planner Tool. Use the tools provided to narrow down your search:


First, fill out the Search for new keyword... form with a few generic descriptions of your website. From the results, add popular keywords that describe your website to your brainstorm list.
Next, enter all the keywords from your brainstorm list into the Get search volume... form. Optionally, select a location for your target audience, but only if you're focusing on local content. Ignore the Negative Keywords option, which is only relevant for advertisers.
 In the Keyword Planner results, look at the "Average Monthly Volume" column (ignoring the other, advertiser-focused columns). Cross any phrases off your list that don't reach your target search volume. What this search volume is depends on how you're using the keyword:Keywords for your home page or overarching website theme should have thousands of searches each month.
A keyword for a single product page or blog post should have hundreds of searches.
A search volume under 100 means that your website can probably get into the top results for that term. Since very few people will see those results, this is only useful if building a niche community or running a business with a small number of high-profit transactions.
 You've narrowed your options down to the most popular searches, but you're not done yet. If large companies and well-established websites are targeting the same term, your website might be pushed out of the results. First, sign out of your Google account to make sure the results aren't tailored to you. Search for each phrase separately in a search engine, to get an idea of the current competition. These are all signs that the keyword will face heavy competition, and should probably not be your main focus:More than 10 million results.
The maximum number of ads (on Google, that's 3 on the top and 7 on the right)
Famous websites at the top of the results
The exact keyword phrase appears in the title of several top results.
 Stuffing as many keywords as possible into your site is no longer a good way to climb the rankings. Use the keywords a couple times near the start of the page, and wherever it seems relevant. Keywords are mostly useful for titles, headers, and URLS, as described in the next section.You won't be penalized for using keywords so common that they're ordinary phrases, such as "San Francisco" or "macaroni and cheese." Penalties show up much faster as you repeat hyper-specific keywords, such as "fast easy macaroni and cheese at home.", Every page on your website should have a unique title. Each search engine displays the title of the page when it displays results, and may use the title to figure out what the page is about. This is an excellent place to use keywords, but only if they accurately describe the content on the page. Keep the title short, since search engines will cut off the title after a certain length.If you're writing the HTML yourself, type in <title>Your Title Here</title> inside the <header> section.
If you are using website creation tools, the title is usually generated from the name of your blog post. You may be able to change it in the settings or the "header" document.
 These should be helpful and easy for real people to read. They don't have a major effect on ranking by themselves, but they're still one of your best tools for bringing the right people to your site.Use keywords if they accurately describe the page, but focus on the reader, not the bots.


To add a description in HTML, type <meta name="description" content="Write two to five sentences here describing what this page is about.">. This will not show up on the page, but some of it may show up in search engine results.
Think of headers as smaller titles for each section of a long page. These do show up on the page, so choose short headers that people can use to quickly find content. These come in several sizes, from <h1>The Most Important</h1> to <h6>the least important</h6>.
If you are using website or blog software instead of HTML, you may need to read the FAQ to find out how to add descriptions and headers.
 Your website probably has many pages. Both search engine bots and actual visitors should be able to easily find every page, figure out what each is for, and navigate between them. Here are some tips to accomplish this:Organize your site directory. Each folder in your site directory should have a clear purpose and name. You want a URL like wikihow.com/making-websites/seo, not vague or unclear URLs like wikihow.com/directory7/hi-guys.
Make sure you can reach any page by starting at the home page and clicking links. A page that can only be reached from another site or by manually typing the URL will not show up at all on search engine results.
Add "breadcrumb navigation" at the top or bottom of each page, so visitors can easily return to more general pages. For instance, a chocolate cupcake recipe might have breadcrumb links "Home → Baking → Cupcakes"

, There are many free sitemap generating websites that will create an organized list of pages on your website. Submit this XML Sitemap using Google WebMaster tools, and preferably to other search engines such as Yahoo and Bing as well.


If you are using blogging software, you may be able to download a plugin that does this for you.
 The steps above allow search engines to find each page on your site, and identify what it's about. Many site owners want to learn further "tricks" to get their page higher up the ranking. These appealing shortcuts have little to no effect. Search engines frequently update their algorithms to close these loopholes, often turning what was once a mild boost into a severe ranking penalty.Here are a few examples of SEO practices that will only harm your website:

Don't use keywords in anchors (text displayed as links), although brand names are fine.Don't add keywords as text invisible to the user. Search engine bots don't care what color your text is, they can still see it and penalize you for keyword stuffing.Don't use keywords unrelated to your topic. This may initially attract more visitors, but your rankings will soon plummet when search engines notice that all of them leave right away., Many people make the mistake of thinking that only search engine bots matter for SEO. Actually, you should think of the work you do for bots as basic preparation. You've invited people to your party, sent out invitations, and made sure everyone knows the place and time. If you want people to actually show up and enjoy themselves — and get your site higher in the rankings — you need to make content that real visitors enjoy. If you ever write a paragraph that doesn't help the user, delete it.

Check all content for grammar, spelling, and readability. Try not to wander off topic or pad the article with unnecessary content.
 Customers can tell when a business gets "pushy," and they don't like it. Many more people will return to your site and recommend it to friends if the content seems balanced and objective. It's all right to advertise a product, but don't go over the top with your claims.Use hard facts to sell your product. Explain how your product is different from your competitors', and why that makes it better. If possible, include data from unbiased sources, not just your own research.
If you're running a personal website, be honest about the products you endorse. Endorse products you actually use and enjoy, and be honest about their flaws.
User content is inherently more trustworthy. A basic comment system is a good start, but consider including forums for user discussion, or featuring especially good comments as their own blog post.
 Phones and tablets make up more of the internet browsing audience every year. Try viewing your website on a small screen and think about how you could improve the experience. Images and video content attract much more attention than a wall of text.Keep the in-depth content, but don't use it as your top-of-the-page hook., If you make contacts within your field, especially within a blogging community, you may be able to ask for links directly. More commonly, you'll need to build content that news organizations and respected blogs find worthwhile, and build enough presence that they discover the content and link to it. Try to think of content that no one else has, whether that's useful advice or an appealing personal story. More direct opportunities are harder to come by, but keep an eye out for the following:Look at news sites or blogs that frequently link out to your type of content. If you discover a dead link, contact the author of the page and suggest that they replace the article with something focused on your content instead.
Educational or government sources tend to have higher authority. If you can write a review of their programs or volunteer your services, you may earn a valuable backlink.
Never purchase backlinks. Once search engines detect this, you will receive a severe penalty to your rankings.
 Easier said than done, becoming an authority in your field will earn you a respected spot in the rankings. All of the steps above will help achieve this in the long term, but consider the following as well:Use content creators with name recognition or professional qualifications, even if it's just for a guest post.
Share your content on social media.