 Organic ingredients are more expensive than non-organic, so the start-up costs associated with starting an organic bakery will be higher than they would be if you were starting up a standard bakery.
 While bakeries do not need strict menus, you should plan out a few goods that you will sell on a consistent basis. Planning these goods out beforehand will allow you to know what ingredients you need to buy. Make sure to choose baked goods that you can prepare well and obtain ingredients for. Also keep in mind that many purchasers of organic foods are interested in healthy foods, so fill your menu with healthier treats instead of fattening ones.
 Research local organic suppliers and double-check their reputations. A dishonest supplier may falsely claim that they are selling you organic ingredients. An unreliable supplier may honestly provide you with the organic ingredients you need, but he may not get them to you on time.
 Flour is the most important ingredient at any bakery. Organic flour can be costly, even though there are more suppliers willing to provide it than ever before. You must also pay special attention to the consistency of the flour to make sure that the quality of your baked goods remains high.
 Once you are certain you have found a reputable, reliable supplier, ask about the possibility of securing a long-term contract. Contracts can allow you to lock in a price for your ingredients, protecting you against rising costs.
 Ample research into the organic food industry and its suppliers will usually give you all the information you need to know about where to buy your ingredients, but some relatively minor ingredients can be especially difficult to locate. An organic broker network will put you into contact with someone who knows where to find exactly what you need at a high, organic quality. These brokers can even help you find organic ingredients from exotic locations.
 Suppliers can occasionally lose their crops, or they may need to be recertified as organic from time to time. If you only have one supplier and something happens that cuts off that supply, you can no longer prepare any baked good that uses that ingredient. Depending on how significant an ingredient that is, your menu may end up getting slashed significantly. Having a "back up" supplier is a good idea to keep a steady supply of organic ingredients coming into your shop.
 If you have a small enough bakery, you can probably get away with doing the majority of your shopping locally. Buy ingredients like flour and nuts by the bulk at a local farmer's market, and purchase eggs "by the flat" from roadside produce stands if you can find them. Many small farmers and ranchers may produce organic goods, but you should always make sure to find out if these ingredients were produced organically instead of simply assuming so.

