 If you decide you want to file a lawsuit for monetary damages, it's worth sitting down with an attorney to evaluate the strengths and weaknesses of your case. Most attorneys offer a free initial consultation.If you've been assaulted by a retail worker, you potentially have a lawsuit against both the retail worker and their employer.
You typically can find an attorney who will take the case on contingency. That means you won't have to pay any legal fees unless you win your case or settle it out of court.
Try to interview at least three attorneys before you decide who you want to represent you in your case.
If you aren't familiar with an attorney you want to use, you may want to check the website of your state or local bar association. There you'll typically find a searchable directory of licensed attorneys in your area who take cases like yours.
 Even though the burden of proof is lower in civil cases than it is in criminal cases, you still must be able to prove the assault happened. You also must be able to prove you are entitled to the amount of damages you've claimed.Monetary damages not only include your actual damages such as any medical bills you incurred or time you lost from work, but also damages for pain and suffering.
These amounts are more difficult to prove. One way to do so is to take pictures of your injuries periodically as they heal.
You also can get treating medical professionals or friends and family to testify regarding the effects the assault had on you.
 The complaint is the court document you must use to initiate your lawsuit. If you've decided not to hire an attorney, you may be able to use official forms approved by the court to assist you.If you're representing yourself, look up the definition of assault in your state's law so you know what specific facts you have to allege.
You can find your state's law online by searching "civil assault" with the name of your state.
Your complaint must include a specific amount of damages. Keep in mind you will have to prove at trial that you are entitled to this amount.
A good place to start when estimating your damages is to total any medical bills and lost wages as a result of the assault.
You must sign the final complaint and make copies. If you're suing both the retail worker and their employer, you'll need three copies: one for your own records and one for each of the defendants.
 Once you've finished your complaint, take it along with several copies to the clerk of the court that you want to hear your lawsuit. You may want to call the clerk's office before you make the trip to find out what is required to start a lawsuit.When you file your complaint, you'll have to pay filing fees – typically a few hundred dollars. If you're suing in small claims court, the fees will be lower.
If you're unable to afford the filing fees, ask the court clerk if you can fill out an application for a fee waiver. You must provide information about your income and assets on the application.
You don't have to pay filing fees if your income and assets fall below a certain threshold established by your state, or if you're currently receiving public benefits.
Once filed, the clerk will keep the originals for the court's records and give the copies back to you.
 Soon after your complaint is filed, you must get copies of it to the people you're suing so they have legal notice of the lawsuit against them. If you're suing both the retail worker and the employer, you must have them served separately.Complaints typically are served by paying a small fee to the sheriff's department to have a sheriff's deputy hand-deliver the court documents to the defendants.
You also may have the option of mailing the documents using certified mail with return receipt requested.
You can serve somebody any place where they can be found, so you don't necessarily need to know the retail worker's home address.
To serve the employer, however, you'll need to find out their agent for service of process. If it's a corporation, you can find this information by looking up the name of the employer on the secretary of state's website. Otherwise, you may need to call the retail store and ask.
 The parties you sued must file a written response to your lawsuit within a few weeks of being served, or you may be eligible to win your lawsuit by default. This response typically will consist of denials of your allegations.If you sued the employer, expect them to file a motion to dismiss. Typically they will argue that they have no responsibility for their employee's actions because the employee was acting outside the scope of his or her job duties.
You may be able to defeat this motion. For example, if you were assaulted by a security guard at a store who thought you were shoplifting, you can argue that he was acting within his job duties. However, he got a little carried away in your case.
Expect defenses from the retail worker as well. These defenses are similar to those he or she would raise in a criminal case. However, they may carry less weight because your burden of proof is lower.
If you hired an attorney, he or she will analyze these responses with you. it's also likely that you'll get a settlement offer soon after filing your complaint.
Evaluate the offer carefully, taking into account the time and expense of going to trial.

