


Do not buy the cheapest plunger you find at the store. These plungers often have flimsy rubber that does not make an adequate seal to do the job. You will end up needing to buy another, better plunger soon enough.
Buy a plunger with a funnel cup. This rubber plunger has a flange, or smaller piece of rubber in the center, below the cup. This locks with the toilet, creating more suction. It can cost slightly more, but should last a long time.
Expect to spend at least $10 on a good plunger.;
, Your ability to address a clogged toilet properly requires you to understand where you shut off the water to the toilet.









Your toilet should have a small metal knob near the floor that allows you to manually shut off the water. Turn the metal knob to ensure it stops the water flow to avoid messy overflow.
Remove the lid on the back of the toilet, and shut the flapper. If you cannot find the water valve, then you can stop water flow by closing the flapper, a plastic or rubber piece that lifts to allow more water into the bowl. It is attached by a chain, so you can simply push it down manually.
 Do not use the toilet or leave it, even if you are at another person's house.


Leaving a clogged toilet will put the responsibility on someone else, but it is more likely to result in costly damage and an embarrassing situation.
 Run hot water from the tap.









Pour 1 liter (4 cups) of hot water into the toilet. Do not flush the toilet. The warm water will work to loosen the clog.
 It will also help to break up fats inside the clog. Use shampoo if you cannot reach dish washing detergent.
 Occasionally this will break up the clog before plunging.
 Let it sit under the hot water for 30 seconds to warm up the rubber.
 Attempt to seal it to the center of the toilet bowl on all sides.









The angle will depend upon the toilet bowl you have; however, most plunging needs to be done in a downward motion, so you will need to stand right above the toilet bowl.
 Lift up sharply to create suction. Do this 4 or 5 times.
 The suction should cause the clog to dislodge and the water to drain.
,,









If the level of water in your toilet did not go down after plunging, the clog is still there. Do not flush a toilet that has too much water in the bowl. It is likely to overflow.
 It is sometimes called a snake.
, You have reached the clog.
 The auger may also break up the clog when it hits.
, If the water level goes down in the toilet bowl, flush the toilet a final time.
