 Use a creative display to carry your cards. You can find a bold colour or design at your office supply store or online. Keep your cards within reach in case you have a surprise visit from a client., You may get neck pains if your computer screen is slightly too high or too low. Make sure you have your screen at the correct height. Use laptop lifters or create your own with books. Get creative if you need to lift the screen., Have thank you cards on hand to both inspire you and remind you to maintain professional and personal relationships. Choose from a number of designs and display the cards that have the most meaning to you.Place cards in frames, on a bulletin board, or together in a letter holder on your desk.
 Add a splash of life and colour to your desk with a plant. Make sure it is an adequate size and doesn’t require a lot of maintenance. Adding greenery can increase productivity, spark creativity, and reduce stress. A great option are succulents because they don’t take up much space, don’t have pollen, and require little care.


Succulents are a great choice because they won’t require care when you’re not at your desk during the holidays. And they don’t have pollen that can irritate people with allergies.
Find mini succulent magnets online or at your local plant store if you have a metal desk. Air plants require no work. If your work doesn’t allow plants, use fake plants, like a faux-plant pen holder, to bring some green onto your desk.
Use a colourful pot to bring some personality on your desk. Choose a plant that suits your personality and workspace., Line a wood box or purchase a creative organizer to keep hygiene products neatly organized and on hand. Keep them at the corner of your desk rather than hidden in your bag or pocket.Hygiene products may include things like tissue, chapstick, makeup, and face mist.
 Place your fridge under your desk or, if it’s small enough, use it to prop up books, files, or your printer atop your desk. It’s great for keeping snacks and beverages within arm’s reach. Purchase them online or at your local hardware store.