 Most papers are supposed to be double spaced, but it’s very difficult to tell the difference between 2.0 spacing and 2.2 spacing. Your teacher is not likely to measure the line spacing to make sure it’s exact, and using 2.1 or 2.2 spacing can go a long way towards making your paper a bit longer.To change the spacing in Microsoft word, go to the Format tab, then click on Paragraph.
Once in Paragraph, click on line spacing and change to “Multiple.” Then in the “At” tab write in 2.1 or 2.2.
 You can also change the font size just a bit to make words take up a bit more space on the page. Most teachers want papers written in size 12 font, but likely won’t notice if your font is instead 12.5., Adding two spaces instead of one after periods will make your paper longer, and it’s not a very obvious change.


Here is an example of a sentence with one space after the period: “The 20th century saw many changes. Not only were there two World Wars, but also the growth of industry and technology.”
This is the same sentence with two spaces after the period. The difference is barely noticeable: “The 20th century saw many changes. Not only were there two World Wars, but also the growth of industry and technology.”
You can also change the font size of the periods to 13 or 14. This goes for all forms of punctuation. Again, this trick is largely unnoticeable., Increasing the size of the margins to around 1.25 decreases the number of words per page. Having fewer words on a page makes your paper have more pages, and you don’t have to write anything extra.To increase the size of the margins, click on the Toolbox Icon and go to the section entitled “Document Margins.”
From there, set your margins to 1.25. This size is big enough to make a difference but small enough to not be too noticeable.
 If your teacher doesn’t require a specific font, there are some options outside of Times New Roman that will make your paper longer. A good choice is Bookman Old Style, which still appears formal but takes up more space. Don’t use something too obvious like Comic Sans.
 Your teacher will notice if the margins, font size, and spacing have all increased, plus the font is different and you’ve suddenly become a poet. When writing a paper, it’s best to put in the effort to make your paper meet the page requirement through thorough research and clear, effective writing. Only use one or two tricks to fluff up your paper if it becomes dire. Otherwise you risk getting caught by your teacher and having your grade lowered.

