 A trademark is a distinctive word, phrase, logo, graphic symbol, or other device that is used to identify the source of a product or service and to distinguish it from competitors.It can also include “trade dress”: other distinctive aspects of a product or service that tend to distinguish the product or service, such as shapes, letters, numbers, sounds, smells, or colors. Brainstorm ideas for a trademark for your product.


Some examples of trademarks are Honda (for cars), Doritos (for chips), and McDonalds (for fast food).
“Trade dress” includes distinctive colors on a FedEx envelope or the Olympic committee’s colored circles.;
, Offensive terms may not be trademarked.Words in a foreign language, if offensive, also cannot be trademarked.


For example, a Chinatown rock band named “The Slants” was denied a trademark for its name., Your trademark shouldn’t be generic.A generic term describes an entire group or class of goods or services. For example, “computer” is a generic term because the public associates a generic term with a type of goods or services, not a particular brand.


In some circumstances, a trademarked term will be so successful that it eventually becomes “generic”; that is, the general public believes that the trademarked term is actually the name of a class of goods. A classic example is “Kleenex” for tissue. However, this is a problem you won’t face until down the road, when your product is so successful that it dominates the market.
 Weak marks include descriptive marks, geographic marks, and marks that are last names. You cannot register a weak mark unless you can prove that consumers are aware of the mark and associate it with your product or service.


In other words, weak marks should already be in use.
 A “functional feature” is generally something that is essential to the product or service and therefore is present in all goods or services of that type. A functional feature may not be registered as a trademark.


For example, a product shape or product packaging can be seen as a functional feature. Although a product shape may be capable of being trademarked, it must not be utilitarian.An example is having wheels on a car.This feature cannot be trademarked, since it is essential to how the product works.
If there is a patent for the feature, then this is strong evidence that it is functional.Apple was awarded a trademark for the shape of the iPod.Apple was able to convince the USPTO that consumers associated the shape of the iPod with Apple., There are many other exclusions. For example, a trademark cannot be a person’s full name or likeness if the person is not associated with the product. Other exclusions include:


The mark is a geographical description of the origin of the goods or services, and you cannot prove that the location is associated specifically with your good or service.
The mark is a translation of a foreign word that is generic or descriptive.
The mark is already a book or movie title.
 An experienced trademark attorney can help you pick a successful mark. He or she will be well versed in what qualifies as a strong or weak mark and will be able to assist you in your search to find out whether the mark is already in use.


A trademark attorney can also help you navigate the complicated application process and give you the best shot at getting your mark registered.
If you decide to hire an attorney, be sure to find someone who has plenty of experience working with the USPTO. Trademark attorneys should list their experience on their website.
 Once you have a rough idea of what you want your trademark to be, you can do an online search for the mark you have chosen. Use the Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS) on the USPTO website.


Online searches of the Trademark Electronic Search System (TESS) database are free. You will need to consult the Design Code Search Manual for the right code to search for if the mark includes a design element.
The main Trademark Public Search Library is in Alexandria, VA, and it is open weekdays, 8:00 a.m. to 5:30 p.m. Members of the public may use the library for free.
Some information may be searched at a regional Patent and Trademark Depository Library. These libraries have CD-ROM databases of registered and pending marks, but these databases lack design mark images.
Additionally, keep in mind that not all trademarks are located on the TESS system. You should also do a search of state trademarks (in the states where you plan to sell your product) and even foreign trademarks (if you plan to sell your product overseas). To see if your state registers trademarks, visit the USPTO’s link by clicking here.
 If an existing trademark looks similar to the one you're considering, use the Trademark Status and Document Retrieval (TSDR) database to check its status. You'll need to know the mark's serial or registration number to search TSDR.
 If you find a mark that is similar to yours, you will need to revise yours to make it more distinctive. A “confusingly similar” mark will not be registered.A confusingly similar mark will create a likelihood of confusion among consumers. To determine whether your mark is confusingly similar, consider the similarity of the marks as well as the similarity of the goods or services offered.
Sound out the marks and check if they sound the same. Also show people the marks a couple of minutes apart and ask if the person if they think the marks are the same.
Also consider whether the marks are used on similar products which are likely to be sold in the same store. Decide if you are competing for the same customers as the holder of the registered trademark.
 If possible, make the mark “inherently distinctive.” An inherently distinctive mark is one unique enough that it's unlikely to be thought up independently by another business owner. Marks that are inherently distinctive have the best chance of gaining trademark protection.


The strongest marks are “fanciful and arbitrary.” These terms refer to marks that aren't real words, or that have an unexpected relationship to the product or business at hand, making it very unlikely that someone else would think up the same mark. For example, using the name "Vingra" for a clothing product or "Blueberry" for a chair company.
Suggestive marks are less strong. They suggest the essence of a product or company without overtly describing it, making them your second best bet. For example, having "Shiny Green" as the slogan for a company that sells ivy plants.
Descriptive marks are considered weak because they're intuitive and could easily be confused for someone else's trademark. For example, using a picture of an oatmeal cookie for a cookie company, or calling a video game company "Games Forever." Descriptive marks can become strong through use and advertising.
A generic mark cannot be trademarked. Generic words can be thought up and used by anyone to describe a product, so there's no way to enforce a protection. For example, using the name "Lip balm" for a lip balm company.
 If your mark is strong and has never been used, you can trademark it on your own simply by using it in commerce for several years. You may write TM after the word, phrase or design without getting it registered.


There are risks if you use it without registration. For example, without registration, you can’t bring a legal action in federal court or register your mark with the US Customs and Border Protection.You also may not be able to apply for a foreign trademark, should you need one.
However, if you have a mark that is currently too “weak” to be trademarked, you can use the mark and try to make it stronger through your advertising and marketing efforts.
 The preferred method of preparing the federal trademark application is to use the online Trademark Electronic Application System (TEAS) located on the USPTO’s website here. The TEAS system guides the person requesting the mark.


The TEAS system has a series of self-help videos to help people filing for trademarks.
The USPTO recommends that everyone filing for a trademark watch the videos to familiarize themselves with the process.
The self-help videos can be found here, here, and here.
 There are three versions of the trademark application process on the TEAS System. They differ according to cost and level of complexity. To determine which application is right for you, click here.


TEAS Plus: This version of the TEAS application is completely online, and has the strictest requirements for filing. In order to file on the TEAS Plus system, you must submit a completed initial application and must agree to conduct all correspondence with the USPTO electronically. The fee is $225 per class you register for.
TEAS RF (reduced fee): This process allows for a moderately reduced application fee and requires that all correspondence be handled online. However, you do not need to file a completed initial application. The fee for filing an application on the TEAS RF system is $275 per class registered for.
TEAS regular: This process does not require any electronic communication, and does not require compliance with the stringent requirements of the TEAS Plus (and TEAS RF) applications. The fee for a TEAS regular application is $325 per class.
 On the trademark application, you must state the “basis for your application.” There are four primary bases for first-time filers in the U.S.: (1) you have already used the mark in connection with the sale of goods in commerce, (2) you intend to use it in commerce, (3) you have applied for registration in a foreign market, or (4) you already own a foreign registration of the mark.Of the 4, the first 2 are most common.


If you have already used the mark in connection with the sale of goods, you should check “yes” under “use in commerce.” You will be prompted to enter the date that you began to use the mark. Your best guess is okay here.
You also need to provide the USPTO the date that you first sold your products outside of your state (for example, from a website).
If you have not yet used the mark but you plan to in the future, check “yes” under “intent to use.”

, You will need to identify the class of goods or services that you provide.


The USPTO uses the International Schedule of Classes of Goods and Services to group related goods.
To identify what class of goods you have within the schedule, search the schedule online by clicking here.
The class number is indicated after the letter “G” for goods or “S” for services.
 A description is not the same thing as the “class” of the goods. The description should be very precise. If it is too broad, the USPTO’s examining attorney will require you to go back and narrow it, delaying your application.
 Here, you must identify your proposed trademark. There are different ways to identify your trademark based on the type of mark.


Standard character mark: if the mark is a word or a group of words, simply list the words as you would like them to be trademarked. For example, a mark could be identified as “Becky’s Hair World.”
Stylized/Design format - special form mark: If the mark is some kind of symbol, a logo, or a design, the mark must be attached to the application as a JPEG file.
Sound Mark: Although very rare, a “sound mark” is a trademark of a particular sound. To “identify” a sound mark, attach an MP3 of the sound to your application.

Note: You cannot combine the two distinct written formats — standard or stylized format — in the same trademark. A distinctive spelling of a company name and a logo with a distinctive rendering of that company name are two separate trademarks.
 This would be the information of the person applying for the mark. For example, if you are applying for the mark yourself, you would be the applicant. For more information on what information you must provide, watch the video here.


You might also apply on behalf of your business (even if you are the only one involved with the business). If your business owns the mark, then you will list your official business name as the applicant.
Your citizenship is required, and you must also submit a mailing address.
Remember that the information submitted in your application is public, so if you do not want to use a personal mailing address for the application, you can use a post office box or the address for your business.
Additionally, if you are using either the TEAS Plus or the TEAS RF application, you must provide an email address where you can receive correspondence from the USPTO.
 You are required to provide a “declaration,” or a sworn statement, that the facts within the trademark application are true. You should sign the declaration.


The TEAS application provides a declaration if you would prefer to use one that is prewritten.
 Many trademarks contain words within the phrase that could not be trademarked alone. For example, a hair stylist could not trademark the words “hair salon” if that was all there was to the mark. If your mark contains any such words, you need to provide a “disclaimer” statement.


This statement acknowledges that you are not attempting to trademark these general words, only the entire phrase when used together.
 If your application is based on a mark already in use, you’ll need to include an example of how you actually use the mark. This is known as a “specimen.”


If you have not used your mark yet, you will provide a specimen at a later date when you have begun using it.
To provide the specimen online, you will need to attach a digital photograph of the mark being used.
 You will complete your application by paying the fees, signing the application electronically, and clicking “submit.”


You should receive an email confirmation after submitting.
Make sure that you save this confirmation for your records.
 After filing, do not expect to hear anything about your application for around 3 months. Usually, the USPTO comes to a decision regarding your application within 3 to 6 months.


Once your mark is approved, you will receive a notice.
 If the USPTO has any questions or needs any clarification regarding your application, they will contact you by sending an “action letter” explaining the problem or ambiguity in the application.


If you receive an action letter, simply call the examiner who is listed on the letter to discuss what the problem is.
If you disagree with the examiner about the application, call the examiner before making the change to discuss it.
You can also get instructions from the examiner on how to change the application.
 Once your mark has been approved, you will receive a “notice of publication” in the mail. Your mark will be published for 30 days online in the Official Gazette.During these 30 days, anyone can oppose your filing of the trademark.However, this happens very rarely.



However, because of the high volume that the USTPO deals with, it may take a year or more to process the application.Additionally, if you had not used your mark when you initially applied, your mark will not be placed on the trademark register until you file supporting documents (found on the USTPO website) stating when you began to use the mark and including a specimen.

