 While fresh herbs are generally preferable for their abundance of nutrients, dried herbs also make effective and sometimes more easily available poultices. As long as you've got the right herbs, a good poultice can be made from fresh or dried herbs.Grind dry herbs with a mortar and pestle, then place the powder in a bowl. Cover with hot water to form a paste. Make sure that there is enough to cover the area. Don't over-saturate the herbs, just slowly add enough water to wet the herbs and mix them into a paste.
Chop at least a cup of fresh herbs and combine them with one cup of water on the stove. Boil for approximately one to two minutes to start breaking the plant matter down gently and form a more integrated mixture. Retain the liquid, which is full of nutrients.
 All-natural fabric needs to be used to wrap the herbs for a poultice, and the most common are muslin or thin cotton bandaging. The fabric needs to be non-irritating and breathable, so that the herbs can heal the affected area.


Lay out the cloth flat on a clean plate, or another clean surface. Cut strips of cloth large enough to cover the affected area you want to treat. Make sure that the cloth is wide enough to hold all of the herbs as well.
Pour the herb mixture into the center of the cloth, spreading them into a large enough layer to cover the affected area with the poultice. Leave the cloth flat on the surface and try not to wrap it up or cover it yet.
 To keep your mixture moist, you may want to top the herbal mixture with a layer of plastic wrap. The layer of plastic wrap will also help to keep the poultice contents from getting onto your hands while you hold it in place. The plastic wrap will form the "back" of the poultice, the part that faces away from the skin and the wound.


Cut out a small square of plastic wrap and drape it over the pile of herbs, tamping down the edges around the pile. Don't push down too hard, or you'll squeeze all of the liquid out of the mixture.
 After covering the herbs with the cling wrap, wrap up the cloth and tape it tightly to form a secure little package. Use some medical tape to secure the edges and keep it in a tight bundle, as flat and as secure as possible.


If there's any seepage, that's fine, but you don't want your poultice to be too leaky. It should feel similar to a teabag that's been squeezed out after being steeped.

