 At their age, around 3 to 4 years, they are still very self-aware - and you, the parent, are seen as their source of everything - food, warmth, love, affection, authority, reassurance, safety; they see you going as you going for good! Therefore it is imperative that you realise that this is genuinely stressful for them, even though to you, there should be no issue.
 Explain in direct language what will happen. Do this several times, if possible, and be sure to do it just before heading out or the arrival of the sitter.

Emphasize the fun things he or she will do.
Use positive language. Don't say, "I will never leave you forever." Say, "I will be back soon."

, It's important that your child sees you're OK with the person he or she is with. A few calm minutes getting your child interested in a toy, game, or activity can really help separation. Don't, however, drag this out.
 You must be supportive through this time and reiterate to them that you are always there for them. Be loving and calm and you shouldn't go far wrong.
 You may do everything right, but it's still hard for your angel to say good-bye. Be calm, firm, and loving. Do not prolong separation, even though your child may very well seem inconsolable, throw a temper tantrum, and beg plaintively to come with you. You may have to have the caregiver restrain your child (gently and lovingly of course).

It's natural to be concerned that your child is miserable. Call in 10-20 minutes to check in if you need to. Chances are, your child has come about and doing fine.
 Vary the topics - how their day was, what they did, funny anecdotes - this all helps to keep their mind away from the separation anxiety.
 Set up some paints, colouring books, a kids' DVD/TV programme, something fun to keep them occupied. Again, this will help distract them from the fact that you're not there.
 Praise them for being so good while you were away, and then spend some quality time with them. All these, with repetition, will help them understand that you are always there for them and will always return to them.
