 Casino slot machines typically have the highest payouts at 95%. This means that for every dollar you put in, the machine is programmed to give back 95% of it at some point. Other gambling locations such as airports, bars, grocery stores, and service stations typically stock machines that have a 50% to 75% payout.


Las Vegas is famous for having looser slot machines than other gambling cities.
Many gamblers theorize that the older casinos in Las Vegas tend to have looser slot machines to compete with the flashier, newer casinos.
 Casino employees see thousands of people gambling every week. They probably have a good idea of where the “hot” machines are and may be willing to share this information for a good tip. Ask them if there have been any big slot winnings recently and if so where those machines are. Similarly, ask them which machines they prefer to play themselves.


Remember to tip them generously if they help you out, especially if they’re also serving you drinks.
If they refuse to help don’t press the matter. It may be against their company policy to pass that information along and doing so may cost them their job.
 Many people believe that casinos strategically place loose slots in high-traffic areas to encourage passerby to play. Therefore, choose machines that are in highly visible places such as near the change booths or on elevated platforms.Slots in the “crosswalk,” or areas that other players must cross through to reach other parts of the casino, are famously loose.


Keep in mind that this is just a theory. Don’t stick to a bad machine just because it’s in a high payout location.
If you’re having trouble finding a good machine ask another gambler if they know where the “hot” machines are.
 Many experienced gamblers avoid the main slot areas. This is the location that the highly visible slot machines are trying to draw you to, and these machines are notorious for having low payouts. Similarly, avoid the machines next to gaming table areas and ticket lines.These machines might distract the customers that are spending lots of money on other things; therefore, the payout will be low to avoid drawing attention.


Make a special effort to avoid the slot machines near the poker tables. These machines are notoriously tight.