 You can utilize your notebook as a notepad for drawing. The size of the paper and amount of used space will effect what you can draw. If your notebook is a pocket sized notebook, you can still draw detailed doodles. It helps if you have good pens to draw with.


If the notebook is filled words, but there is only a line or two, you can still draw on each page.
 Bring your notebook out in public and draw things around you. Find a nice park bench with a good view and look for something to draw. You could also go somewhere like a coffee shop and draw something in your sight.Be cautious if you choose to draw people in public. Some people may find it uncomfortable, so ask permission.
 You can find thousands of images from magazines and other books. Rather than trace over an image you like, try to draw it from studying the image. This will improve your drawing skills more than tracing an image.


Nature magazines will have plenty of scenes that are perfect for practicing.
 Instead of taking your drawings too seriously, try to jot down some doodles to fill a page. Even if you have notes on a page, you can doodle in the blank spaces. Fun things you can doodle are band logos, symbols, geometric shapes, cats/dogs, faces, and swords. You can doodle anything you think of.Experiment with ideas in your head, or just draw for the fun of it.
 If you are an aspiring artist or illustrator, you can practice drawing an image you want to improve. It is good for artists to draw multiple versions of the same object. This will give you variations to choose from. Once you draw an iteration you’re especially pleased with, you can transfer that image to canvas or another medium.


Repetition is a great way to improve your drawing skills. By repeating the same image, the process becomes ingrained into your brain.
 Cut out images from magazines or books and create collages in your notebook. Collages are an easy way to create an artistic image. You need scissors and some glue. Cut out multiple images from a magazine like a golfer, a mountain range, or a bulldog. Then arrange them in your notebook.


Once you find an interesting composition out of your cutouts, glue them into your notebook.
Old National Geographic magazines are great for making collages.

