 Many couples find that, after living together for a few months, they still have strong feelings for each other and want to stay together as a couple, but struggle to actually live with one another. It is possible to keep a relationship together—the relationship may even become stronger!You should still be clear about what you want; try saying:


“I still want this to be a serious relationship; I care deeply about you.”
“I still want to see you regularly (or ‘a few times a week,’ etc.), but I would like more space than I have now.”
“I want you to still feel welcome here, and I want to feel welcome at your new apartment."

, Asking someone to move out is usually thought of as a negative act, and associated with breakups and unhappy feelings. If you’re planning to stay together as a couple, it will be important to the health of your relationship to focus on the good things about your relationship. For example, explain to your boyfriend the ways that living separately will strengthen your relationship. Try saying:


“I think that us living in separate places will allow us to have more feeling of romance and affection in our relationship.”
“I feel like you and I will have less conflict and fewer arguments if we don’t live together.”
“I think you and I will grow closer to each other if don’t spend all of our time together.”

, This is a sensitive and emotional issue, and should be treated as such. Your boyfriend may be hurt that you are asking him to move out, or confused about how this new phase of your relationship is going to work. Remember that relationships involve compromise—if he moves out at your request, you may need to make other compromises in the future. Talk to him and let him know that he’s still important to you; make your reasoning clear, then ask if he has any concerns about how moving out will affect your relationship.


Let him know that you see this as a step forward in the relationship; things are improving between you and him, not getting worse.
Shortly after your boyfriend has moved out, spend extra time with him or buy him a gift to show that you care about how he feels.
Try to keep most other aspects of your relationships stable.
 If you’re staying together after asking your boyfriend to move out, you and he will need to establish some boundaries.Many couples feel that they lose important parts of their personal identity and social lives while living with a partner; talk with your boyfriend about how you and he can each maintain a distinct personal and social life.
 Now that you don’t live together anymore, how will the relationship work? What will it look like on a day-to-day basis? How often will you see one another? This should not only be a conversation that you have inside your head—sit down with your boyfriend and discuss specific activities that you and him can routinely do together that will help your relationship feel fun and normal, and allow you both to get used to the new living situation. For example, try saying:


“I think it would be fun if we had weekly date nights.”
“We should spend time together meeting new people outside of our usual social circle.”

