 Note that HomePatrol hasn't made Sentinel work for Macs yet, so Macintosh functionality is not available at this time. You can find HomePatrol on your Start menu or Start screen (depending on the version of Windows that you are currently using).;
, Use the "Read from HomePatrol" and "Write to HomePatrol" buttons under the "HomePatrol" menu. If you want to keep the device and your list in sync, make sure your PC reads your device's information before performing any actions, and make sure to then routinely write any and all changes to your PC.
 You don't need to plug it in to use the software to grab the information, unless you are trying to update the device itself (one runs off the other's information).
 You can find the frequencies and talk group numbers to trunking frequency information in the database. Other than to make channels as Favorites, there should be no reason to worry about reading the remainder of the columns (unless you are a police scanner addict who wants to know everything about each station they monitor including modulation and broadcast signal strength). (Each level will change the columns as you expand down the list, and so different columns will be provided above the lowest level block.)


Look at the list on the left's tree view. Click the plus sign, in order to expand the group to show the state or provinces in your country.
Expand the state into its appropriate county.
Expand the county list into its appropriate sub-grouping, which at this time won't differ. You'll have three choices: "Nationwide", "Statewide" and "County Systems".
Expand the choice, or, for additional information in your county on which things Sentinel serves, open up County Systems. Nationwide and Statewide rarely change.
Find and expand the type of system you think the item might be listed under. Think in terms of genre of the business. Is it some type of police force, firefighting force, or some type of non-emergency-based business place? Is it anything having to do with supermarket chains or something else? All the database information will be found here.
Look at the list on the right hand side of the page. Look under the "Frequency" column for the frequency by which you can use to program a non-HomePatrol scanner of. This information is critical to listening to all the action.
 Click the Edit menu at the top of the software screen and click "Edit Profile". You'll see just what preferences you can set.
, Manage the list of Favorites. Find these 2-3 options in the Edit menu on the top.
 This dialog box will be listed under the Edit menu as "Add Channels on Range". Select and deselect the corresponding entries for your device.
 However, very little action is seen in terms of new firmware versions for most HomePatrol devices.

