 If you do not have a leash, buy one while buying a gentle leader. The control ring is the metal ring that is located at the end of the strap extending out from the neck strap and nose loop. Clip your leash in so that once you get your dog into the gentle leader, he won’t run away., When you do this, your leash and the nose loop should hang down directly in the center so that the whole gentle leader forms the shape of a ‘T’. Place the neck strap around your dog’s neck. The center bar ring (which connects the neck strap, nose loop, and strap with leash) should be under your dog’s chin, above the Adam's apple, while the back of the neck strap should rest at the base of his skull behind his ears., Putting it on before unclipping it ensures that it fits properly (it is harder to adjust when the nose loop is on your dog). control ring. Once you have the neck strap adjusted to the right size (See Part Two), unclip it. It is easier to clip the neck strap back into place after you put the nose loop on your dog.
 Make sure your dog is either between your legs or at your side so that you can hold him in place while putting the gentle leader on for the first time. Slip the nose loop onto the base of your dog’s muzzle by reaching under your dog’s head. Once you have the nose loop on, give your pup a treat to tell him he’s doing great, and to distract him a bit., Once your pup is snapped in, make sure all of the parts of the gentle leader are in place (see Part Two).
 The gentle leader’s neck strap must be long enough so that it as high up on your dog’s neck as possible. This means the front of the neck strap should be above your dog’s Adam's apple, while the back should reach around to touch the base of the skull directly behind your pup’s ears.You can adjust the tightness of the neck strap by sliding the adjustable snap clamp down towards the control ring (the ring where you clip your leash to the gentle leader).
 It should be tightened enough so that you can barely fit one finger underneath the strap. This is like the ‘collar’ of the gentle leader--it wraps around your dog’s neck and helps you to guide the dog. Keep in mind that it does not cause your dog any discomfort--resist the urge to keep the neck strap loose as doing so will reduce the effectiveness of the gentle leader., It is important that the neck strap is tight enough that it doesn’t rotate because the point of the neck strap is to dictate the direction your dog heads in. If your dog can turn around in his neck strap, the strap is too large and will be not effective.
 The nose loop, unlike the neck strap, should be loose enough that your dog can open his mouth as wide as he likes--even wide enough to catch a tennis ball. However, you should check to make sure that it is not so loose that it can be pulled over and off the nose., As stated above, you don’t want the nose loop to be able to come off the nose, but it should be able to move from just above where the wet (or fleshy) part of your pup’s nose begins to right in front of his eyes. This movement will allow your dog to be comfortable, as well as help you to guide him.
 This means that the gentle leader should fit behind the corners of your dog’s mouth. If it doesn’t, you have probably chosen a leader that is too small for your pup.

