 To begin potting your plants, take the ziplock bag of seeds and peat moss from the fridge. After three months in the fridge, the seeds are ready to plant. The best time to do this is in early spring.It’s possible to start the growth of apple trees in indoor pots rather than outside. Keep in mind that apple trees are healthier when they are initially planted outdoors instead of in pots.
 Purchase several small 6 inch (15.2 cm) degradable plant pots, depending on how many seeds you want to sow. Fill the plant pots with potting soil, leaving about an inch (2.54 cm) at the top. Make sure that the plant pots have drainage holes at the bottom.Degradable pots, like peat pots, make transplanting easier and less shocking for the seedlings.
 After filling the pots with loam soil, poke two one-inch (2.54 cm) holes in the soil of each pot about three inches (7.6 cm) apart, then place a seed in each hole. Because not every seed is guaranteed to grow, plant five to ten times as many seeds as you want apple trees., After you place all the seedlings in the holes, water the soil in each pot. This should shift the soil so that it covers the seedlings. If the seedlings are still exposed, gently brush soil over them so that they are just covered., Move the pots of seedlings to direct sunlight, preferably in a greenhouse, but anywhere in your home that is warm and has plentiful windows.Apple trees ultimately will have to be transplanted outdoors, where conditions are better for growth., Because the apple tree seedlings are growing indoors, they will need to be hand-watered twice a week. Water until the soil is moist and dark, but be sure not to overwater and flood the soil., You don’t want to keep your apple tree seedlings indoors indefinitely. Apple trees thrive outdoors, where they have space to grow, as well as improved sunlight and soil nutrients. In the fall, when the seeds are dormant, clear an area of garden of weeds and large rocks.Choose an area of your garden with well-draining soil, meaning that when you pour a large amount of water into the soil, it quickly drains into the ground.
Also choose an area of your garden that is in direct sunlight.
Add a one inch (2.54 cm) layer of compost to the soil to enrich it.
 Use a small shovel to dig into the soil. Make holes that are the same depth but twice the width of your pots. Then gently place a degradable pot with the seedlings inside each hole.


The biodegradable pots will eventually decompose, so that the apple tree seedling will be entirely surrounded by earth.
After burying the pot, you should just be able to see the rim poking up out of the soil.
Some biodegradable pots come with bottoms that easily pop out. You can also cut out the bottom of the pot to speed up the process of integrating the plant into the soil.
 Pat any displaced soil around the rim of the pot until there is no space between the pot and surrounding earth. Then water the plants and soil generously.Consider adding an inch-thick (2.54 cm) layer of sand over the soil if you live in a cold climate. Sand helps prevent the ground from crusting over in colder weather.

