 If the two of you have already become physically intimate, this is less of a concern. But if you are on a first date or taking things slowly, respect her personal space and body. Don’t spoil the mood by rushing or forcing physical contact. Wait until the two of you have both grown comfortable with small touches before suggesting something as involved as braiding her hair.How long this takes will depend on the woman in question. She may welcome physical signs of affection right away, or she may need several dates before she feels like she can trust you.
However long it takes, don’t force the issue. Rushing physical intimacy before she’s ready is self-defeating.
 Asking her if she’d like you to braid her hair will probably come across as a weird idea if the two of you haven’t made any sort of physical contact, so set some precedent. When you’re with her, touch her “by chance” or with polite, innocent gestures. Use these moments to judge how comfortable she feels with you. For example, you could:Share an armrest with her in a movie theater so your arms rest against each other.
Tap her arm to direct her attention to something you’re pointing out.
Lightly touch her shoulder to announce your presence if she doesn’t see you coming.
 When you start off making small incidental touches, aim for parts of her body that aren’t too personal, like her hand, arm, or back. Of course, you’re not entitled to touch any part of her unless she’s okay with it, but consider these areas as an innocent place to start trying. As long as she’s fine with it, continue finding excuses to make contact there so she grows accustomed to it without feeling threatened, like:Emphasizing a point you’re making in your conversation by touching her hand.
Guiding her through doors with your hand in the small of her back.
Cupping her elbow to let her know you’re about to turn left or right as you walk together.
 Make physicality a part of your date right from the get-go. Don’t put if off, because this will only build it up into something “big” that will feel more awkward once you do start trying. Start testing the waters at the very start of your first date so touching each other feels perfectly natural.Briefly take her hand between yours as part of your greeting.
Guide her by the elbow for a moment once you start walking.
Offer your hand to help her out of the car.

