 Falsehood is the foundational element of defamation—the basis for employee-employer reference lawsuits. For a statement to be defamatory, it must be false.An opinion can never be defamatory. Everyone has a right to their opinions, so saying “Susan is shifty” is not a defamatory statement. However, saying that “Susan defrauded her employer” is a statement of fact, and if found to be untrue, is the beginning of a defamation claim.
Most employers won’t falsely state that an employee committed a specific act at a specific time.The problem with employee references is that many of the statements contained therein are in a gray area. For example, if you say that “Susan is a thief,” is that a statement of fact or opinion? It’s questionable, and it might depend on follow-up statements. This is why it’s so important to stick to objective facts.
 If you repeat a statement you know to be false, or that you recklessly or negligently fail to verify, you are well on your way to defaming someone.The law at least attempts to be reasonable, so honest mistakes aren’t defamation.


For example, if you conducted a background check on Susan, and it said she was convicted of larceny, you have a reasonable justification for believing that Susan is a thief, even if it turns out the background check was in error. However, if you just heard that she was a thief, it would be negligent for you to spread that information without making a good-faith attempt to verify it.
Although this usually wouldn’t apply to an employee reference, it bears stating. A public figure cannot be negligently defamed. For a public figure to be defamed, a person would have to intentionally or recklessly spread an untruth., The final element of defamation is publication. Publication isn’t used in the conventional sense of the word. In the context of defamation, it only means spreading the untruth to a third party.You don’t have to print the untruth in a newspaper or post it on a blog. Simply giving a reference to a prospective employer, whether written or spoken, will count as publication.

