 Creating a list of fun activities to do alone can make you feel less crappy about turning down a social invite or staying in on weekends. Not to mention, there are times when alone time is actually reinvigorating and much-needed. Spend half a day snuggled onto your couch with the remote and some yummy snacks.


Catch up on your favorite Netflix or Hulu show. Rewatch some of your favorite childhood movies.
If you’re feeling up to minimal interaction, you can invite over a close friend or ask a family member to join you. Or, reap the benefits of snuggling up to your dog or cat., Music and dancing is a great way to release tension caused by anxiety and give your body an enjoyable workout. Create a fun playlist with various upbeat tunes. Turn the music up, grab a hairbrush, and pretend you’re giving a concert.


Dance offers a range of benefits like improving muscle strength and endurance, building stronger bones, and boosting your self-confidence., If you feel okay venturing out of the house on your own, act like a tourist in your hometown or a nearby city. These are fun activities to enjoy alone because there’s no pressure to talk to anyone. You can simply wander around for as long as you like, admiring art pieces or learning about local history.Make a list of cool galleries or museums in your area that you haven’t visited, or haven’t gone to in a long time. Then, pick a date on your calendar to play tourist. Treat yourself to a coffee or ice cream while you’re out.
 Reading is an all-time favorite solo activity. Have fun by losing yourself within an exciting story. Go to your local library or bookstore and browse your favorite genre. Make a selection, find a place to sit, and start reading.


When you read in public, you open yourself up to the possibility of connecting with others through shared interests. There’s a chance someone will spot what you’re reading and strike up a conversation with you. Because you’ll have the book to talk about, you won’t feel so much anxiety about contributing to the conversation.
On the other hand, if you’re not interested in making conversation, the book offers the perfect excuse to disengage. If someone tries to spark up a conversation, smile or nod accordingly and then redirect your attention to the page., If you want to get out of the house, you can go to a coffee shop. Bring a book, journal, or laptop to entertain yourself while you are there. There will not be much pressure to talk to other people, but you can still enjoy being out of your home., Joining a gym provides many health benefits, and you do not have to socialize there unless you want to. Bring your headphones to listen to music as you workout.

It's up to you if you prefer to workout solo or participate in group exercise classes.
You can invite a close friend to motivate you or spot you. This can count as a social activity.
If you don't like exercising in public, you might buy your own equipment, such as a stationary exercise bike or weights, to exercise at home.
 There's a long list of fun activities you can do on your own. However, if you ever want to improve your social anxiety, there are some things you shouldn't do.


For example, try not to use solitude as an opportunity to completely avoid others. Some social activity is beneficial for all humans. Plus, avoidance will only worsen your anxiety in the end.In addition, avoid using your alone time to engage in other unhealthy behaviors like using drugs, alcohol, gambling, and overeating. If you have problems with compulsive behaviors such as these, you should see a mental health counselor.

