 These are some ideas.


Atlantiles- complete level 8.
Booger Gets An A- get six check marks; it will be awarded randomly (so try to get all the check marks for every level to increase your chances).
Bounce N Burst- complete all 20 levels.
Candy Bash 2- complete a 4-of-a-kind candy sequence before Gato Loco comes by. It will be awarded randomly.
Candy Bash- complete all 30 levels.
Crafty Critters- have a craft published on Webkinz World's website.
Dead End Dangers- complete Dead End Dangers Hamster Mazes.
Director's Chair- Win a movie design contest.
Eager Beaver Adventure Park- complete all 15 levels.
Fantastic First Flags- complete Fantastic First Flags Hamster Mazes.
Flag Order Forage- complete Flag Order Forage Hamster Mazes.
Floor Flag Follies- complete Floor Flag Follies Hamster Mazes.
Flutterbugged- Reach 5000 points in Flutterbugged.
Foreman Award- complete all 10 levels in Crafty Canaries.
Go Go Googles- Spell out "Googles" with Goo-Goo berries. It will be randomly awarded, so try to do as many times as possible. The chances of getting this trophy are very low.
Gold Zingoz Pop- complete all 30 levels.
Golden Tennis Trophy- Enter the feature code from the Center Court Collie Figure.
Golden Trumpet Trophy- Enter the feature code from the Trumpet Playing Googles Figure.
Goober's Lab- pop a five-atom bonus atom. This will be awarded randomly.
Hedge Haze Mania- complete Hedge Haze Mania Hamster Mazes.
Large Gem Finder and/or Medium Gem Finder and/or Small Gem Finder- Awarded by Doug from the Collector's Room (in Clubhouse).
Leap of Faith Flags- Complete Leap of Faith Flags Hamster Mazes.
Lily Pads 2- Complete all 10 levels.
Llama League Cup- Earned after reaching 1,500 meters (4,921.3 ft), and awarded after losing the game.
Looping Laps- complete the Looping Laps Hamster Mazes.
Master Chef- Win a recipe design contest.
Member of the Day- be the member of the day.
Mermonkey Artifact- Complete the map at Vacation Island.
Operation Gumball- Complete any level and this will be awarded randomly.
Pennant Plunge- Complete Pennant Plunge Hamster Mazes.
Petal Pursuit- Complete Petal Pursuit Hamster Mazes.
Polar Plunge- Complete any course and this will be awarded randomly.
Polarberry Jam- complete all 15 levels in Polarberry Jam.
Rockerz Backstage Dash- Earn a score of 4000 points.
Room Rummage Flags- Complete Room Rummage Flags Hamster Mazes.
Secret Chef- Be the first to solve a recipe in Webkinz World.
Shrewd Searchers- Complete Shrewd Searchers Hamster Mazes.
Skater Kat Skateboard- Complete all 16 levels.
Speedy Scurry- Complete Speedy Scurry Hamster Mazes.
Speedy Slalom Slopes- Complete Speedy Slalom Slopes Hamster Mazes.
Stardrops- Complete Level 12 in Stardrops.
Token Collector- Unlock a Super Token and this will be awarded randomly.
Tour de Flags- Complete Tour de Flags Hamster Mazes.
Treasures of the Crystal Sea- Complete the game.
Tunneling Twigzy- Complete the game.
Vexed Veggies Search- Complete Vexed Veggies Search Hamster Mazes.
WackyER Zingoz- Complete all 10 levels.
Webkinz Rally- Complete all 10 levels.
Whimsy Skies- Complete the game.
Zacky's Quest Statue- Complete all 20 levels.
Zingoz Dunk- Play Zingoz Dunk and this will be awarded randomly.
Zum Trophy- Photograph all 8 Peeking Zums.;
, There will be tips and scoring details that may be crucial.
 The concept of this game is to click on matching groups of colored bottles. Once the truck fills up all the way with money, you can go to the next level.
 It's easier to get this trophy on levels 1-3

,,,