 This will create the top end of the shawl (the wide end). Start with a slipknot (a yarn loop shaped similar to a pretzel) and slip this onto the shaft of your crochet hook. Wrap the yarn around the hook, holding it taut. Pull the hook carrying the wrapped strand of yarn through the loop on your hook.With your first chain stitch you now have one loop remaining on your hook.
Make sure that your stitches are the same size. If they're too tight, try relaxing your hands. If they're too loose, shorten the distance between the hand containing the yarn and the hand containing the hook.
You need to make the chain long enough to wrap around yourself, because this will determine how big the top end of the shawl is.;
, For a single crochet stitch you insert your hook beneath the front and the back loops of the second chain from the hook. Wrap the yarn over the hook from back to front, catching it with the hook. Draw the hook through the two chain stitch loops. Wrap the yarn over hook back to front and then draw your yarn over both loops on back.


If you want to use the half double stitch: start at the fourth chain stitch from the hook. Yarn over, as usual, back to front. Slip your hook under both front and back loops of your third chain stitch from the hook. Yarn over the front of the hook, and catch the yarn with your hook. Draw your hook through the two chain stitch loops (leaving you with three loops on the hook). Yarn over the hook, back to front, of course, and draw your hook through all three of the loops.
If you want to use a double stitch: start at the fifth stitch of the foundation chain. Do the yarn over the hook from back to front. Slip the hook under the front and back loops of the fourth chain stitch. Yarn over the front of your hook and catch your yarn. Draw the hook through the two chain stitch loops, leaving you with three loops on the hook. Yarn over again, back to front. Slip your hook through the first two loops on the hook, leaving you with two loops on the hook. Yarn over the hook back to front and draw your hook through both loops.
For the treble stitch: yarn over the hook twice. Insert your hook under the front and back loops of the fifth chain stitch from your hook. Yarn over and draw the hook through, giving you for loops on the hook. Yarn over the hook, again, and draw through the first two loops, giving you three loops on the hook. Yarn over and draw the hook through the next two loops on the hook, giving you two loops on the hook. Yarn over, again, drawing through both loops on your hook.
 You have to make a chain stitch when you proceed to the next row. It's called chain and turn. Make your chain stitch while turn the piece from the right to the left.


Continue with the regular stitches until you reach the end the next row.
 You have to decrease the stitches on either side, so that your shawl tapers into a triangular shape. This means two stitch decreases per row, one on either side.When you decrease you need to skip the final step of your stitch, so that you leave the worked loops still on the hook. Work your next stitch as you would normally, with your previous stitch's loops on the hook. At the end of the second stitch you draw your yarn through all the loops of both the first and the second stitch to combine them.
 There should only be one last single crochet stitch. This is what you'll use to fasten off and secure the shawl.
 You need to secure your last stitch so that the rest don't come unraveled. Cut your yarn about 12 inches (30.5 centimeters) from the loop on the hook. Bring the yarn over the hook, drawing the yarn end all the way through the loop. Pull the tail (the yarn end) to tighten and secure your last stitch.