 Instead of feeling sorry about yourself on your birthday, take action. Don't necessarily wait for someone else to make you happy. You don't have to do something big or elaborate. Consider trying something different that your usual routine. Get outdoors. Go for a walk or run. Take a hike. Enjoy nature.
Get a massage. Go to a spa. Take a hot bath.
Do something creative. Read. Write. Draw. Build something.
Go to a movie. Watch some favorite shows. See a play.
Listen to music. Go to a concert. Find a low-key lounge.;
, While you may not want to make your birthday a big deal, it will feel less depressing when you have a friend or two to spend time with on your birthday. The people who care about you are there to support you.Tell a few friends or family, and make a plan to do something even for an hour.
Consider going out to dinner or for a drink with a friend.
 While you may want to avoid thinking about your birthday, instead think of this day as a day for yourself. If you are busy with work, life, school, or kids, make sure to take time on this day to do something that makes you feel good. Consider these:Take longer breaks (or a longer lunch) from work, school, or family on your birthday.
Do something outside your normal routine that's just for you.
Get active. Do yoga or go for a walk to reduce stress.
Use relaxation exercises such as deep breathing or visualization techniques to center yourself.
 Be kind to yourself. Love who you are. You are worthwhile and have good things to offer others. Let go of expectations, and focus on loving yourself. Care for yourself on your birthday and always.


Write a letter to yourself from the perspective of a friend who has unlimited compassion for you. Imagine what this person might say to help you feel better. How might the friend express understanding and acceptance for the way that you feel?When you are feeling sad, you might also say to yourself something like, “This is painful, but other people struggle with these feelings too. How can I show compassion and love to myself today?”