 You may need to change your veterinarian simply because they cannot treat your pet's specific needs. Figure out what type of treatment you are looking for and then assess whether or not your current veterinarian can fulfill those needs. In many cases, it will be your general practice veterinarian that suggests that you need a specialist or a different veterinarian because they cannot treat your pet successfully.For example, you may need to switch veterinarians because the one you have is not trained to treat your specific type of pet.
 If your pet comes down with a specific condition that is rare or difficult to treat, such as a rare cancer, you may need to seek out a new veterinarian that has experience and expertise treating that condition. Have a conversation with your current veterinarian about their experience with the specific condition your pet has. If they are unsure about treatment or inexperienced, consider looking for another veterinarian.Being able to find a veterinarian that can treat rare diseases will depend on where you are located. For instance, small towns may only have one veterinarian. If your veterinarian is the only one in your area, then you may need to trust that they will do research on conditions they have no experience treating, that their preexisting knowledge of your pet will help them with planning treatment, and that they will give your pet the best care they possibly can.
 With many illnesses that happen to pets, there are a variety of treatment options that could eliminate the illness and get your pet well. While it makes sense that your veterinarian would have a treatment that they would recommend, it's also important that they give you all your options so that you are fully informed when making care decisions. If your veterinarian doesn't give you all treatment options, then you might want to find one that does.Although it is not a pleasant reality, in many cases you need to base your treatment decisions on cost. If your veterinarian only tells you about treatment options that are very expensive, and not about less effective but much cheaper options, then you may be put into a situation of financial difficulty that could have been avoided.

