 Share words of encouragement with your teacher by telling her how much you appreciate her hard work and dedication. You can stand up in front of the class and compliment your teacher on a specific action she did that you appreciated or go up to her after class to let her know how much you appreciate her attitude and energy in the classroom.


Try to be specific when you compliment your teacher so it feels like you are not just throwing around empty words. For example, if your teacher gave you more time to complete an assignment due to an illness, you may compliment her by saying: “I appreciate that you were willing to be flexible about the due date and I feel like you have a positive attitude toward teaching that benefits me as a student.”
You may also compliment your teacher in a more general way by commenting on her teaching style and her approach to teaching in the classroom. For example, you may say: “Thank you for coming into class every day with enthusiasm and excitement. You are great at breaking down difficult concepts so I can understand them clearly. I really appreciate your teaching style and I feel like I am learning important, useful things in your classroom.”;
, You can also tell your teacher how much you appreciate her by creating a PPT presentation or a presentation on the board that describes how great your teacher is and why. You may want to collaborate with your classmates to create this presentation, as it will likely be even more impressive if there are several of you up there, telling your teacher how great she is.


In your presentation, list the ways in which your teacher inspires you as a student and the ways in which she brings learning and fun into the classroom. Have your classmates each contribute at least one to two reasons why your teacher is great so that you can present a long list that will surely brighten your teacher’s day.
 Tattle on your teacher in a positive way by letting her superiors know how highly you think of her. You could speak to the principal about how awesome you think your teacher is or to another person in charge.


It may be helpful to describe a specific situation where you felt your teacher went above and beyond. For example, may be your teacher worked with you after class to learn a difficult math concept that you struggled with so that you could pass the upcoming exam. You could tell the superior that you feel like this shows how dedicated the teacher is to her students and how the teacher sets her students up for success.
 Sit down and take the time to put all your positive feelings towards your teacher into a thoughtful letter. You can start the letter with a “Dear Mrs.X” or “To Mr.Y” and describe why you appreciate your teacher so much.Think about a specific time when your teacher has impacted you in a positive and thoughtful way. This could be something small, like asking how you’re doing, or something more significant, like giving you an extension on your deadline for an assignment. You can ask your parents to help you write the letter or try to do it on your own.

