 Those who believe in astrology feel Libra men are drawn to independent romantic partners. Libra men tend to prefer someone who knows their own mind and does not rely on others for happiness. If you want to attract a Libra, have a sense of independence.Express your opinions freely. Let a Libra man know how you feel about things like politics, art, music, and so on.
Avoid being too clingy or reliant on a Libra man. Make plans without him on occasion and do not bombard him with phone calls and text messages.;
, People who adhere to astrology believe libra men enjoy partners who like to have fun. Libras tend to be more social, so they'll look for partners who enjoy getting out and seeing the world. If you're trying to attract a Libra, loosen up and enjoy yourself more.Show him you like having a good time. Attend social events and make conversation with others. Learn to laugh and make jokes to bring fun into a situation.
Try new things. Be willing to push yourself out your comfort zone to find new ways to have fun. For example, go hiking if you've never been before. This will show a Libra you're always looking for new ways to enjoy yourself.
 Some believe Libra men are attracted to confidence. A Libra wants someone that's comfortable with the person they are and does not define themselves through others. If you're looking to make a Libra love you, work on your own confidence level.Appear confident around a Libra man. Speak your mind and use confident body language, such as standing up straight and maintaining eye contact.
If you have issues with self-esteem, find ways to work on them. It can help to work on improving yourself in some way. Start reading more, for example, or take up an exercise regimen.
 Astrologers believe Libras like spontaneous people. If you want to attract a Libra man, work on loosening up a little. Learn to embrace random adventures and make plans at the spur of the moment.For example, if you're hanging out at your house, propose you do something fun like take a trip to a neighboring town to try a new restaurant or go to the beach.
 Many people think Libras enjoy being in relationships. They tend to like being committed to one person at a time. Therefore, if you notice a single Libra man, do not waste your time. Pursue him quickly or he'll end up with someone else., When initially trying to attract a Libra, make eye contact. You can, for example, hold his gaze from across the room. Libra men are traditional romantics, and a long romantic gaze can help attract them.Try holding his gaze for a few seconds and looking away. This may spark his curiosity, causing him to come over and talk to you.
 Astrologists think Libra men are attracted to flattery. Do not be shy about complimenting a Libra man. This will make him drawn to you and more likely to love you.Let him know what you admire about him. Compliment things like his outfit, looks, or personality.
Work compliments into a conversation. When discussing a film, for example, say something like, "Wow, I never would have thought of the movie like that. You're smart!"

, Many believe Libra men are attracted to classic elegance. Play into this when trying to attract a Libra man. Wear clothing that is stylish and classic. For example, wear a long dress or a nice suit. Libra men prefer fancier, pricier clothes in their mates., Some think Libra men enjoy the chase. While you do not want to push him away, do not seem too eager too soon. After getting his attention via things like eye contact and flattery, play it cool for awhile. This will encourage a Libra man to work harder on pursuing you.For example, wait a few hours to return texts instead of replying right away. See him somewhat infrequently at first.
Also, let him know you have your own stuff going on. Never change plans with friends to appease him.
 Astrologists think Libra men enjoy the occasional surprise. As they are traditional romantics, they love to feel a little pampered. To make a Libra man love you, throw a surprise into a relationship here and there.For example, surprise him by cooking his favorite meal after he's had a hard day at work.
 Some think Libra men respond best to traditional romantic dates. When planning a date night, go for something that's traditionally romantic. Opt for a candlelit restaurant followed by a walk in the park, for example., As Libra men may be attracted to confidence, they're always up for a little debate. While they do not like arguing, feel free to throw in your two cents regarding things like politics, music, and other matters of personal opinion.However, remember to flatter your Libra man even while arguing with him. For example, say something like, "While I disagree, you really know a lot about this issue. I'm impressed."

, Libra men love having a large social circle. If you can't be open to seeing friends regularly, a Libra man is unlikely to fall for you. When dating a Libra man, agree to go out as often as possible. You can expect to attend a lot of events with big groups.


Do not be clingy in group settings. Allow your Libra man to socialize with his friends without you. He will appreciate you letting him be himself and pursue his own interests.

