 When you are hypochondriac, you may try to diagnose every symptom that you have. The internet may provide endless websites listing symptoms and diagnosing severe illnesses. Most symptoms occur in multiple conditions, and many symptoms can be connected to severe diseases.You may also start seeing symptoms that aren’t there if you think you have an illness that you don’t.
 If you have health anxiety, you may check yourself for symptoms over 20 times a day. Try reducing the number of times you do this. Start by keeping a log of how many times you check yourself for symptoms.After you have an average total of how many times you check yourself, then try to reduce it every day. For example, if you start checking yourself 30 times a day, try going down to 25 or 27 times the next day. Take off two to five times each day until you are no longer checking yourself.
 Many people with hypochondria believe they are physically unable to do activities. You may stop exercising, going out with friends, leaving the house, or being physically intimate. This may interfere with your life so that you stop doing things or put strain on relationships. Make a point to start doing your normal activities again.Try doing your activities slowly instead of all at once. During the first week, walk faster and leave your house to go to the store. During the second week, go out to dinner with friends and go to the park on the weekend.
For example, go out to dinner with friends even though you are afraid you may get hurt walking or may be afraid you will get ill from someone else. Start getting regular exercise, like walking or joining a gym, even though you might be afraid your heart will stop if it pounds too much or you may have an illness if your breathing gets too fast.
Add different things each week until you are doing all of your regular activities.
 If you have hypochondria, make regularly scheduled check ups and stick to them. Don’t skip them because you’re avoiding a diagnosis. You also shouldn’t make more appointments or go to the doctor for emergency tests when you believe you have an illness. Instead, keep your normal appointments to help reduce the need for your doctor’s assurance.If you have health anxiety, you may want to run to the doctor every time you think you have symptoms. This feeds into your need for assurance, which can feed the cycle. Instead, trust that nothing has happened since your last appointment.
 Many hypochondriacs will go to different doctors looking for one who will tell them they are sick. If one doctor says everything is okay, they’ll go to the next. This can lead to too many tests you don’t need and incorrect diagnosis. Instead, choose one doctor you trust.If you find a doctor you trust and like, you can develop a relationship with them so that you will believe them when they say you are fine.
Be honest with your doctor. The more honest you are and the less you make up symptoms, the better diagnosis you will get.

