 A common condition that can cause chronic coughing is post-nasal drip. This is when there is increased mucus in your nose or sinuses due to allergies or infections. This mucus drips down the back of your throat and irritates your throat, which causes you to cough reflex.


If you think this may be the cause of your cough, talk to your doctor to get treatment for the allergies or the infection., GERD, also known as acid reflux or hyperacidity, is a chronic case of heartburn where stomach acid flows back into your esophagus. This causes irritation to this area, which can make you have a chronic dry cough.Look for symptoms of GERD, such as a burning sensation in your chest that can spread along your throat, along with your cough.If you notice these symptoms along with your cough, see your doctor about treating the GERD. This will help reduce your cough as well.
Coughing can make your GERD worse, so treat your GERD as soon as you can to help make you feel better., There are a few other conditions that may cause a chronic cough. These conditions have coughing a major symptoms, but typically occur because of other medical conditions. If you fall into any of these categories, call your doctor if you have a persistent cough.These conditions include:


Chronic bronchitis, an inflammation of the bronchi which are the airways of the lungs, caused by irritants, smoke, cold air, pollution, and fumes.
Congestive heart failure (CHF) caused by underlying heart problems that produces a dry, deep, persistent cough due to fluid in the lungs. People with this condition also frequently cough up mucous or sputum.
The inhalation of a foreign object or chemical.Asthma causes a chronic cough indicating that you need use an inhaler or nebulizer treatment.
There are some infections that cause chronic coughing including Tuberculosis, pneumonia, whooping cough, and bronchitis. Please see your physician as soon as possible if you suspect any of these.
 If you are a smoker, then you may develop a cough as a result of smoking. This is a chronic condition that would need to be evaluated by your physician if the character of the cough changes. Try to quit smoking if you are a smoker., If you experience a less severe cough or have less severe cough symptoms than those described, you may be able to treat your cough at home before you call your doctor. These home remedies help treat underlying causes of coughs, such as colds or common respiratory disorders, as long as you don't have any serious symptoms. However, if these home remedies do not work after five to seven days, you should see your doctor immediately. Common home remedies include:


Rest
Drinking lots of fluids, preferably water
Over-the-counter (OTC) medications, such as pain relievers, cough suppressants, decongestants, expectorants, and antihistamines

