 Most people do not realize that they have limited privacy rights at work. However, an employee does have certain legally protected privacy rights even when they are at work. In order for an employee to protect his or her privacy rights, a person must first understand what expectations of privacy they have and do not have while at work. Generally, an employer can do the following:


Search an employee’s workspace including a desk, locker and office.
Search an employee’s work computer and internet history.
Search a company car being used by an employee.
Review an employee’s work email account.
Monitor work-related calls for quality assurance. An employer is not supposed to monitor personal calls.
Review an employee’s work phone, including text messages.
Under some circumstances, an employer can search an employee if the employer suspects that the employee stole something or works with highly sensitive materials., Under the Employee Polygraph Protection Act (EPPA) most private employers are prohibited from requiring polygraph tests for pre-employment job screening or during the course of employment. Under limited circumstances, such as when an employer suspects an employee of theft from the company, the employer can ask an employee to submit to a polygraph test. In most instances however, an employer would not be justified in requesting a polygraph test and an employee can refuse the test., While individuals may consider the requirement of a drug test to be an invasion of their privacy, employers can require their employees to submit to a drug test. A prospective or current employee must decide whether they find the requirement to be too invasive. If a current or prospective employee chooses to refuse the drug test, the employee may lose his or her job or not be hired in the first place., If you feel that you have been subjected to an unreasonable invasion of privacy, you can file a lawsuit against your employer. Depending on whether you work for a public or private employer, you may rely on state or federal laws to bring your claim. It is important to speak with an experienced employment lawyer to better understand your legal rights and your options for legal recourse.