 Don’t insist that you go see the movie that you want to see, or spend the time at a place you like. Ask her the things she prefers to do and try to make sure you spend a lot of time doing those activities too. Don’t be afraid to show her something you like, but always keep track of how much fun she is having. Be fair. , Compliment her looks, her personality, her sense of humor, and everything else. Don’t overdo it, just be sure that you actually say it out loud when you feel one of those things. This will make her feel special and she’ll probably like you more.


For example, "you're way better at math than I am. It's really nice dating someone so smart."
Another example - "I really like hearing your opinions about other people. You're always super perceptive."

, If you have trouble starting a conversation with her, ask her how her day went or what she wants to do. Don’t be afraid to talk about whatever you have been thinking about that day, or interesting things that you saw. She’ll probably think it’s cool that you are sharing your life with her.
 Planning your dates ahead of time is a great idea. This way you'll have a chance to be more creative without the pressure of the moment. Try to avoid doing the same thing over and over again. For example, if you went to see a movie last weekend try going on a hike this weekend.
 It’s a cliché that girls need presents all the time, but it’s always nice to get a gift. Flowers are always appreciated, but you can also surprise her with a more personalized gift. If she really likes running, buy her a new running backpack or watch. You don’t have to do it on her anniversary or anything – gifts that come out of the blue are sometimes the nicest ones. , It’s important that the people who are close to your girlfriend think that you are a good person too. She’ll appreciate you taking the time trying to get to know the important people in her life and they might even end up putting in a good word for you. , It’s also important that she knows you are serious about the relationship. Introducing her to your family and acting proud of her will show her that you want this to work out long term. 