 Scan the room for some guy who you find attractive. Look for guys who are one or two years younger or older than you. If guys from other schools are there, then check for guys who are out of your community. If you've already chosen your guy, then spot him and continue on to the next step.;
, Let him catch you looking at him. When he sees you, flash him your winning smile, and try to hold his eye contact for over a second. If he does hold eye contact with you for over a second, then there is a greater chance that he's interested in you. If he doesn't, don't worry as he may be shy, or simply uncomfortable with holding eye contact for too long. Whether your attempt at holding his eye contact was successful or not, try to catch his eye again. When you do, smile again, and then try throwing in a cute wink, blushing and looking down, or simply waving a little.
 Keep calm when you do and try to look confident. Make sure that you make this move long before a slow song so that you have plenty of time to do the next few steps.
 Greet him by saying, "Hey." or "What's up?" to add a bit of flirty flare to your conversation. After you've greeted him, simply say, "I'm (your name here). Who are you?" So, all together, your introduction might be, "Hey. I'm Janet. Who are you?" or, "What's up? I'm Madison. What is your name?"

, Ask him about how he likes the dance and ask him a few open-ended questions. Be friendly and try to get to know him. If still you have trouble keeping conversations going, read How To Have a Great Conversation.
 If he is responding to your questions without being curt, facing you and interested only in you, and seeming relaxed, then continue on to the next step.
 This is a crucial step. Smile at him, play with your hair, giggle when he tells a funny joke, and make eye contact with him while talking. If you want to, give him a wink after you tease him, blush randomly during the conversation or when he says something cute, and try to break the touch barrier by lightly touching his hand, shoulder, or upper arm. Also, if you're walking next to him, pretend to trip into him. Then blush, get of him, and apologize sweetly. If you're feeling daring, you could even try to hold his hand or leaning in slightly and whispering when you say something.
 Keep flirting with him until a slow song plays.
 If he accepts then put your hands on his shoulders and wait for him to put his hands on your hips. If you want to be extra flirty/romantic, then wrap your arms around his neck and look into his eyes for a second or two.

