 After fulfilling your education requirements, you’ll have to pass the FTCE. The FTCE verifies that you are qualified to teach in Florida. Without passing it, you won’t be eligible for certification.


You can choose to take the FTCE at any point during the year at a testing center near you. Visit http://www.fl.nesinc.com/FL_TestDates.asp for more information.
The first section is the FTCE General Knowledge Test. It has four subtests: English language skills, reading, mathematics and essay. The first three are multiple-choice examinations requiring 73, 65 and 60 correct answers for a passing score (respectively), as of May 2011. The essay section requires a score of 6 from a possible 12.
The next section is the FTCE Professional Education Test. Comprised of multiple-choice questions, this pedagogy exam requires 73 correct answers to pass.
The final section is the FTCE Subject Area Examinations. Most of the 42 available tests are multiple-choice assessments, although some also include writing, reading or speaking subtests, as well. The required tests are determined upon evaluation of the application for certification, and they are reported on the Official Statement of Status of Eligibility.
 The CG-10 is the basic certification application. When completing the CG-10, you’ll enter all relevant information including your education background, experience, and personal information. You’ll need to complete and submit this form before gaining certification.


You can choose to complete the CG-10 on your computer or you can print it and fill it in.
Access the application: https://www.flrules.org/gateway/readRefFile.asp?refId=4772&filename=CG-10.pdf

Make sure to use blue or black ink when completing the form.
If you have a criminal record, you’ll need to check the “yes” box and provide specific information about your offense.
Submit your form to the Florida Department of Education, Bureau of Educator Certification, Room 201, Turlington Building, 325 West Gaines Street, Tallahassee, FL, 32399-0400., When submitting your application, you’ll have to include fees. These fees pay the cost of processing your information and other costs the state incurs in certifying you. You’ll need to pay the application fee before the state will process your paperwork.


The fee for the CG-10 application is usually $75. However, there may be added costs if you want to add a subject, delete one, or make any changes to your certification.
Fees are nonrefundable.
You can pay with check or money order., Along with your application, you’ll need to include official transcripts. These transcripts verify you’ve fulfilled your education requirements. Without them, you won’t receive your certification.


Unofficial transcripts will not be accepted.
If you have a degree from a college or university outside the U.S., you’ll have to have a credential evaluation agency determine equivalency., If you are employed by a Florida school district, you will be able to do this through the district's personnel office.


If you are not yet employed, request a fingerprint packet from the Bureau of Education Certification.
 Florida holds teaching certificate reciprocity agreements with many other states. If you are licensed/certified to teach in one of these states, Florida will offer you a stream-lined process toward certification.


Florida must have an agreement with the state.
The license or certification must be for the same subject you will teach in Florida.
The license or certification must be valid.
Florida also accepts certificates granted by the National Board for Professional Teaching Standards (NBPTS).
For a complete list of states that have reciprocity agreements, visit: http://www.fldoe.org/teaching/certification/pathways-routes/certified-teacher-or-administrator.stml, There are several ways you can convert your temporary certification to a professional one. If you plan to teach for more than three years, you’ll have to complete those requirements. The pathways to do this include:


Gain a certificate from the American Board for Certification of Teacher Excellence and show that you have taught for three years.
Complete a Florida Professional Development Certification Program through an accredited college or university and pass the Florida certification exams.
Demonstrate substantial teaching experience and pass the Florida certification exams. The Department of Education staff will determine if your experience qualifies as “substantial.”
Complete the required number of college teaching courses, have teaching experience, and pass the Florida certification exams.
Hold a degree in a STEM field, be teaching STEM at the High School level, hold a 6-12 STEM certification, have high student performance ratings, and pass the Florida certification exam.