 Larger cats tend to need more activity and space than smaller cats, and the characteristics of your cat also determine a lot. If you have a larger number of cats that you're building the enclosure for, it's recommended to build it so that every cat has an individual space; mix shady and secure places with large branches, or even small trees for watching birds.


If you have large cats like Maine Coons, Norwegian Forest Cats, Savannahs, etc. or energetic cats like Ocicat, many levels to jump on and branches to climb isn't a bad idea. In that case you probably have already thought about building a larger enclosure than you would for a not-so-energetic cat. You can add levels and branches to an enclosure for calmer cats as well, but you won't need to set up as many.
Do remember that a cat with a thick coat won't probably be that active in hot summer days and probably prefers to lay down under a shadow. You might also want to place a litter box inside of your enclosure to make the cleaning easier.
Remember to provide a clean water source for your cats! If there's a lot of insects and bugs going around, check the water often. Cool, clean water is extra-important if the cats are outside during a hot day and have thick fur.
You could put furniture, or shelves in the area for your cat to climb on. If it's something as fancy as a couch, make sure it's old and you don't mind the cat(s) using it as a scratching post.
 Choose a plot that will give plenty of space for your cat. Choose an area outside that is preferably already closed off by the building, with no shrubs/trees in the way. Decide whether you want cats to have access through a window. Ensure that there is a mixture of soil, grass, concrete etc for the enclosure. This way, if it's hot, they can lie in the grass for example, the soil they can use as a litter box.


The amount of the cats affects the space needed, and if you have cats that don't get along that well but will be spending time in the same enclosure, it's always a good idea to add some extra room.
Cats like to be up high and perch so they can have a view. A polycarbonate roof is useful for an enclosed run as it gives in light and lets cats observe birds flying (with a wire mesh ceiling to stop them escaping out.)

, In this case, you'll have to remove some of the wall panels to let the air flow in and out so that your cats won't be boiled inside on hot summer days. You can replace the walls easily with some chicken wire. You can also bend little bit of the chicken wire inwards and attach it to the ground so that digging-addicted cats won't get through. (Or small, cat-eating carnivores like foxes etc. won't get to your cats, if you live a little closer to the wild.)


You can also build the frame yourself. This requires some craftsmanship but it's not overly hard either. Building the frame yourself also lets you to customize the enclosure to fit the surroundings and to be exactly what you want. Wood is a good material for the frame.
You can use any material you wish, but keep in mind that they have to have what it takes to keep the cats inside and the enclosure standing even in bad weather. You can use chicken wire in this type of enclosure as well, but you'll have to buy a larger amount, depending on the size of your new enclosure.
 Chicken wire, plastic panels, something, because cats know how to jump--and with small cats or kittens, you never know what's lurking in the sky looking for an easy meal.


If you cover the roof with chicken wire, remember to create some place where the cats will be able to stay dry in case of rain or other bad weather, if they're going to be spending a lot of time in enclosure.
If you cover it with something that the rain can't get through, make sure that the surface is not completely horizontal so that water etc. can fall off of it so that it doesn't destroy the material. You might also want to consider the amount of wind in the region where you live in: it wouldn't be nice to wake up and see that your nice see-through plastic-panel roof is all over the yard due to some windy storm.

