 Cisgender women and men have slight differences, including...


Studies suggest that women have a slightly sharper sense of smell and vision than men do.This is a possible explanation for why women are considered to be more "detail-oriented."
Women are more likely to recall memories that have emotional significance. Be careful what you say to her in the middle of a fight, because she may never forget it.
Women menstruate once a month for four days, on average. Menstrual cycles affect each woman differently, and can cause mood changes, hormone fluctuations, physical pain, lethargy, nausea, increased appetite, and heightened emotional sensitivity. While some women experience little to no pain at all, others become close to bed-ridden during this time of the month. Don't underestimate the physical strain of a menstrual cycle.
Women are more likely to lose interest in sex due to emotional factors than men are.These may include problems in the relationship, coping with loss or death, and so on.;
, A woman experiences sexism, including pressure to be feminine, and roadblocks to success that men don't experience. However, men are subject to similar issues, where they are forced to conform to the height requirement needed to be satisfactory to the female. She may be stereotyped, under-appreciated, and pushed away from fields that are considered masculine.


Girls are socialized to be obedient, well-behaved, quiet, submissive, "good girls." While a woman might rebel against some of those pressures, they probably continue today, and rebelling too hard may have social consequences (e.g. being branded as a "disgusting feminist" or passed over for a promotion because she is too aggressive).
Women may experience additional pressure and hardship for being a person of color, LGBT+, disabled, heavy, lower income, and more.
 In your life, you will know sporty women, geeky women, fun-loving women, artistic women, ambitious women, and more. Each woman has her own personality and goals. Overgeneralizing can be dangerous.


Don't mistake one woman's behavior as a universal female characteristic. Just because your sister doesn't like sports doesn't mean that your new girlfriend doesn't.
 The best way to understand somebody, male or female, is to spend time with them and observe their patterns of behavior. Doing so will teach you things like what upsets her, what excites her, what annoys her, and so on.


Pay close attention to her, and be patient. While one woman might show you exactly who she is immediately, another woman might only show you certain sides of herself as you get to know each other.
 This is key, especially if you are trying to get to know a woman you have just met, a woman who is shy, and/or one who is generally on the quieter side.


Get to know her passions, interests, hobbies, and goals for the future.
Ask her how what she has been up to lately, how she's feeling, what she's excited about, what she's worried about, what she's afraid of, etc.
 Ask her about her family, and what her childhood was like. Everybody is influenced to some degree by the way they were brought up. Learning these things will teach you a great deal about any woman.


Don't press her about these topics, as they can be touchy. Let her decide how much she feels comfortable sharing with you.
 Sometimes women feel uncomfortable voicing disagreement or emotional pain. If you get the sense that something is off, but she isn't saying a word about it, give her an opportunity. Take her aside in a quiet time and ask what is wrong.


"You seem upset, and I'm worried. Did I do something that hurt you?"
"You seem distant today. Is something wrong?"

, Listening is important to understanding anyone, including women. Give her your full attention, and ask questions to better understand what she is saying. People love to be heard.
 No, it's the 21st century, but in general, men are still expected to approach women first. Of course, some women are more bold and proactive than others, so she might surprise you by asking you out first.
 Women appreciate these qualities, especially when it comes to finding a boyfriend or spouse. This doesn't mean you should try to be somebody you are not, but make an effort to highlight these characteristics when trying to impress a woman.
 Women tend to compare themselves to other women too often, and usually at their own expense. Many women feel dissatisfied with their appearances as a result. They may wear makeup when going for a walk or shopping at the supermarket, just because they need it in order to feel presentable.


If she's down about herself, it may help to remind her of her intrinsic worth, or about the way you see her.
 Does she like hugs, or verbal compliments? What makes her feel loved? This can help you display your affection in ways you know she'll appreciate most.
 Even a die-hard feminist will appreciate it if you hold the door open for her or offer to pay for dinner. Though she might not let you pay, the gesture will still be appreciated.


The line between politeness and benevolent sexism is whether you treat her like she can't do it herself. For example, it isn't condescending if you open a car door because you want her to feel like a princess, not because you think she can't do it herself.
 Every woman likes to be reminded of how beautiful, smart, and sweet she is every once in a while. This is especially true for a romantic partner, who needs evidence that you are interested in her. Remind her what you love about her.

