 If the person is actively delusional, this can increase the risk of suicide. The person may think people are plotting troubles or trying to kill him or her. Any risks of suicide should be taken seriously. If the individual has a personal history of suicidal thoughts or a past suicide attempt, the risk of suicide should be taken seriously. Ask if there’s a family history of suicide.If someone is threatening his or her life, seek immediate care. Take the person to the emergency department or call emergency services.
For more information, check out How to Help Someone Who Is Thinking About Committing Suicide.;
, If the individual is overly distrustful of others, there can be a higher risk of violence. People with paranoid personality symptoms are more likely to have violent personal histories and engage in harmful behaviors.If there is a risk of violence, remove any items that can be used as weapons. These include guns, knives, or other dangerous objects from the house.
If safety is a major concern and other people feel unsafe, bring the individual to the emergency department.
 If symptoms are severe, psychiatric hospitalization may be necessary. Hospitalization may be needed if the individual cannot care for himself or herself (such as not taking care of basic hygiene, paying bills, or showing up for work). Hospitalization may also be necessary if the person is a threat to the self or others, such as threatening suicide or homicide.Once major symptoms are treated, the person may be moved to a day treatment program, residential program, or outpatient treatment.
 It’s important to find a treatment team with individuals who all have familiarity with personality disorders. Because personality disorders are ongoing, it’s important to work with several professionals as part of the treatment team. The treatment team can include a primary medical doctor, a therapist/psychologist, psychiatrist, pharmacist, social worker, and family members.Having a treatment team means that all of people work together to provide treatment.
Someone with paranoid personality disorder may become suspicious of working with several professionals. Communicate each person’s role and why it’s important to have a team.
 Psychotherapy is an important part of treating personality disorders.Treatment for paranoid personality disorder can be difficult because the person may be distrustful of others, which can extend to a therapist. However, ongoing treatment can be effective.It’s important that the individual feels comfortable in therapy and does not feel suspicious of the therapist.


Find a therapist who is supportive and that the individual feels he or she can trust. Seek a therapist with a reputation in treating personality disorders.
 People with paranoid personality disorder often quit therapy too early. The person may begin to have suspicions of the therapist and end sessions abruptly.If the person does begin to distrust the therapist, the therapist must be careful in his or her response and not challenge the beliefs harshly. When therapy is abruptly stopped, symptoms can pop up again or may be ongoing.


Create trust and openness in the beginning stages of therapy. A collaborative relationship is important for therapy to be effective., Generally, medications are not recommended as they can encourage suspicions of being poisoned or mind-controlled. If medications are used, they should be brief to manage severe symptoms.It’s important to discuss medication use with the treatment team and to monitor thoughts and feelings around medications.


Sometimes people may be prescribed an antianxiety medication if the paranoia causes severe anxiety and/or agitation. Antipsychotic medications may also be prescribed for treating delusional thoughts that may cause harm to the self or others., A paranoid person is always on guard against perceived danger. This kind of alertness and suspicion can cause extreme distress. While it may be difficult to convince the individual that no danger exists, it’s possible to reduce the distress from the beliefs. Symptoms of distress can include increased irritability, agitation, emotional guardedness, and sometimes hostility.One way to lower stress is to practice relaxation techniques. Relaxation can include progressive muscle relaxation, yoga, and deep breathing.
Other ways to reduce stress include exercising and challenging negative thoughts.The person can learn to talk about his or her distress instead of acting out in unhelpful strategies such as shunning others., People with paranoid personality disorder may socially isolate themselves due to their beliefs, inappropriate social interactions, and poor social skills.Isolation can increase symptoms, which is why it’s important for the person to be connected with others. Encourage the person to find a social hobby (such as playing board games or joining a group exercise class) or spend time with family.


If adult interactions are difficult, the person can spend time with nieces and nephews or other family members. Activities can be supervised if necessary.
Adopting a pet is another option, as long as the person can be responsible to care for an animal. Dogs in particular provide companionship, aid in physical health, and help to reduce anxiety., People with paranoid personality disorder may lack social skills and act awkwardly in social situations.They may be so involved in their paranoia that they miss opportunities to converse normally with others. Surround the person with other people who are willing to have normal conversations and approach the person nonjudgmentally.


Therapy can help focus social discussions away from talking about paranoia and into more normal topics of conversation.
 It’s important for the individual to learn to accept and understand his or her own feelings of vulnerability. Provide opportunities for the person to recognize and expand his or her perception of self-worth.These self-awareness techniques can help the person identify his or her own feelings and react to emotional experience differently. If you are a good friend or family member, gently bring the person’s awareness to thoughts and feelings.


Emotional labeling can be helpful. Say, “It seems like you’re feeling sad today” or, “I’m noticing you seem more upset today.”
Therapy can be helpful in raising self-awareness. A therapist can help to build skills in awareness and help the person to practice these skills.
 If you are the caregiver for someone who has PPD, then it is important for you to get the support and care that you need. Caring for a loved one with PPD can be incredibly stressful and time consuming, which may result in you neglecting your own needs. Make your self-care a priority and reach out to other people for help and support.

Talk to friends and family members about your situation and ask for help. This might be in the form of giving you a day off or simply coming over for an hour so you can do self-care activities like taking a bath, styling your hair, or taking a nap.
Look into caregiver support groups. Ask your doctor about support groups for caregivers in your area, or check online to connect with people who are in similar situations.
Find a therapist for yourself. If you are struggling to cope with your emotions or if you just need someone to talk to, then it might be a good idea for you to find a therapist for yourself.

