 Get yourself a good magnifying glass for the finer details, or at least good eyesight for spotting the footprints.;
, The size of a person’s shoe usually gives the height of the person to a given range. This ratio is rather accurate; however there is a certain percentage of the population, around 10-20%, which this deduction would not apply. Therefore take note of this when deducing a person’s height merely from the length of the shoe. However, when combined with the length of the persons stride, i.e. the length from one heel to the next or one toe to the next, the two calculations give a much better estimate as to the person’s height.
 Now on to imprinted footprints in a medium. The most natural thing that can be gathered from these is the type of shoe that the person is wearing, be it sport, dress or anything else. Heels are especially clear in this aspect, but platform shoes may be hard to distinguish from men’s dress shoes. But of course, knowing the print of the shoe means that with the aid of a database, the brand and exact model of the shoe can be determined. But do keep in mind, the brand and model of the shoe may not be useful in investigations as the person may have thrown away the incriminating pair of shoes. Nonetheless, it is still a useful thing in the case of a careless criminal.
 The depth of the footprints can also be very useful, indicating the persons weight quite accurately, given that the weight was distributed evenly throughout the shoe. A change in depth indicates that the person’s weight has changed, evidently due to carrying some heavy object and then putting it down.
 Now we move on to cases where the weight is not distributed evenly throughout the footprint, i.e. the depth of the footprint is not even. If one side’s footprint is deeper than the other, with no noticeable difference in the ground medium, then either the person is carrying something especially heavy on one side, which would be rather practically flawed, or the person limps; the injured foot is the one with the lighter print. Undoubtedly the explanation of a limp seems much more plausible in most cases, but use discretion always.


If the footprint is heavier on the toes, two explanations are likely. The first is in the case of the footprints being rather far apart for a person of that size. This can be easily determined once the range of the person’s normal height is found using the above described methods. If this is the case, the person is most likely running, or at least moving at a speed that is faster than a brisk walk, as his/her feet lift off the ground at a certain point.
In the second case, the footprints are still regularly placed apart, with regards to the person’s height, once again determined by the above described methods. In this case, the person is probably walking on tiptoe to avoid being detected. There are also marks to be seen besides those of the footprints. The presence of scuff marks will also indicate the person is shuffling, probably indicating a slow walker, possibly somewhat aged.
 Now with regards to tracking footprints in the form of residue left behind from the shoe/foot, the situations involving uneven heaviness of the footprint within the foot or between the feet cannot be used as accurately as in the above mentioned cases, but still may be useful. For example, if you find footprints that only have toe markings in paint, normally spaced, the person could be either tip-toeing or walking normally, since it is possible that the paint was only spread over the tip of his shoe. However, footprints made with residue rubbed off the shoe have one large advantage over the previously described form of footprints, in the sense that the footprints are much easier to find and isolate in the mind’s eye.
 There is also the case of scuff marks left on a wall beside a window due to a person going through the window in a variety of methods. The scuff marks tend not to give much information as to the direction of travel, but when combined with other factors, the situations become much more defined.


If there is a full footprint on the floor, you can use that to determine the direction that the person was facing when he/she entered the room, but usually the person is facing the wall if the footprints on the ground are full.
If there are only toe prints, the person was probably facing the room as he entered; i.e. his/her back was facing the window.
 Of course, if the toe prints point towards the window, there should be another set of full, or at least toe footprints behind them. If the toe/footprints point towards the wall, then the person was going out at that point of time, scuffing the wall with his toes. If they point away from the wall, then the person was just getting down from the window. If there are no toe scuff marks on the wall whatsoever, but there are full footprints near to the window on the ground facing away from the wall then the person jumped from the window into the room.

