 Poultry, fish and meat products contain high levels of purine, a chemical compound that gets broken down into uric acid in the body. High levels of uric acid can aggravate gout.


Therefore, if you been diagnosed with gout, you need to limit your meat intake to only 4 to 6 ounces or 113 to 170 grams per day.
Meat products that are particularly high in purine are organ meats (such as liver, brains, kidneys), anchovies, mackerel, herring, beef, lamb, pork, lobster, scallops and tuna. ;
, Some vegetables also have a high level of purine, such as oats, wheat germ, bran, asparagus, cauliflower, green peas, mushrooms and spinach. Do not eat more than ½ cup of these vegetables per day., It may be helpful for you to make a list of some low-purine foods, as these are the foods that you can safely eat when suffering from gout.


Some of the foods low in purine are eggs, peanut butter, low fat cheese, milk and yogurt, meat-free soup, fruits, bread, rice, cake, pasta, popcorn and more., There are a lot of fruits which contain natural compounds that may help to treat and relieve gout. These include the following:



Bananas: This fruit contains very low amounts of purine and has a lot of B vitamins, vitamin C, and potassium. This can prevent gout attacks. 2 to 4 serving daily is recommended.

Apples: Apples contain malic acid which helps to neutralize uric acid in the body. Apples are best eaten after every meal.

Cherries: Cherries contain minerals and phytochemicals that help to treating gout by lowering uric acid levels in the body. A daily serving of 10 to 15 cherries is recommended.
 Uric acid is solute substance and water can act as a solvent. Therefore, increasing your water intake will help to dilute the uric acid in your blood and make it easier for the kidney to eliminate excess uric acid.


It is recommended for you to drink 8 to 16 glasses of water per day. This is equivalent to 4–6 liters (1.1–1.6 US gal) per day. , Alcoholic beverages, such as beer, contain a high amount of purine. Thus, it is recommended that you limit yourself to one glass per day or better yet, avoid alcohol as a whole to prevent aggravation of gout.