 It'll give you a good distraction to what you are actually doing and get you pumped up and ready to go!;
, Just do fifteen minutes of work at a time, then take a break and look at what you've accomplished. Take a few minutes off if you have to (but a few minutes doesn't have to mean the rest of the day). Breaking things into short chunks of time will keep you from getting burnt out.
 If you do not have a big box, use another laundry basket. One basket is for dirty clothes or stuff that needs washing. The other is for stuff in your room that belongs in another place in the house. The box is for things to give away, and the trash bag, obviously, is for the trash.
 A good place to start might be the bed. Just make the bed and arrange the pillows. There, a part of your room is tidy already, and it probably only took a minute or two!

, Don't panic if there is a lot of stuff, just take one thing at a time and sort it. If it belongs in your room, put it near where it should end up. If not, put it in one of the baskets or the trash bag.
 Then, keep going at the next corner.
 Yes, it is tempting to ignore that bulging black hole that's stolen your clothes and shoes and who knows what else, but you must resist the temptation. If you neglect the closet, chaos will creep back in to your space and your effort will have been wasted.
, It was probably covered up by all of the things on your floor, and now is a good time to vacuum up all of the stains, spots, and whatnot.
, Clean out all the papers you don't need and either file them for studying for exams or recycle them. (this is easiest at the end of a quarter/semester, but can be done anytime).
, Label the tab in front of it "paper".
 Label the very first tab of each class with the name of that class.
, That will keep chaos and stress from messing up your life. To do that, we are going to make a Sanity Saver Journal.
 It should be pretty and something you will like using. It should have plastic sleeves in it for pictures. Make sure it can hold at least 20 pictures. That is ten sleeves with 2 in each sleeve.
 You may also need a pair of scissors.
 Make it size 4X6. Find a pretty clip-art background and drag it to fit the rectangle. Now add text. This will be a title for your book. Call it whatever makes sense to you, it is your private book.
 Label it morning routine. The first thing on there, after you wake up, will be make your bed. The rest will just be all of the things you have to do to get ready in the morning. Put things in the order you want them, and don't leave anything out. Add pictures if you want.
 Call it Afternoon Routine. You should list everything you need to do when you get home from school. Don't forget your homework.
 It should say Evening Routine, or Before Bed Routine. List everything you need to do. One of the items should be spend a quick five minutes tidying your room. This way your room will be neat each morning when you wake up. The first thing you see will be a neat and calm space. What a way to start your day!

, Cut them out, and put them in the photo album.



On one note card, write "To Do List". You will write all the random stuff you have to remember to do on here. Put it in the next available sleeve behind your Evening Routine in the photo album.






On the next 5 note cards, write "Homework for blank". Make one for each weekday. Put these in order in the photo album. Take a few minutes each weekend to make new ones for the next week. Now, when a teacher assigns homework you just whip out the card and list it.
 If your school has paper hall passes, like in a student planner, you could cut them out and put them in here. That is what I did so I don't lose them anymore.
 Your sanity saver book is complete. Now all you have to do is look at each day until you remember your routines. Don't forget to put it in your backpack.


Now you are nicely organized. Congratulations!







