 Cougars work the best, usually.If you are a nonmember, use a wolf. You can use lynxes to be kits (kittens) and foxes as apprentices, If you are a nonmember, You may use a bunny as a kit. If you are nonmember, you could use wolves as an apprentice.;
, Realistic cat colors work well. Like brown, black, gray, etc. For the bottom color white, peach, or light brown work good.


Always have forest colors. Avoid colors like pink, purple, or teal unless these are for your character's eyes.
 The lightning marks, swirls, or moon pattern work great! Make sure the pattern color complements your fur color, too.
 If you're a nonmember, bow and arrows work well. If you're a member, swords and bows also work well. For headwear if you are NM, fox hats and raccoon hats work well. Leaf necklaces are a good choice too. If a member, use the same things. But if you like to be realistic, don't put any items on at all.


Note: Things like flower crowns, head flowers, or DJ headsets shouldn't really be used.
 Just like your clothing, cats have claws too. Instead of using things like swords and bows in battle, use claws and teeth. Remember, cats don't use weapons.
 When you roleplay, try to act like a cat. Say things like: "Grooms paws" or, "Pounces on squirrel". Don't catch things like deer or wolves, it's impossible! And say it like you are narrating a book, such as, "She climbed up the tree and settled down onto a branch" or "She hissed at the intruder, ready for battle".
 It's best if you learn or read the Warrior Code from the books first. It's best because if you do something wrong, bullies could tease you.
 (If you want to be a loner/rogue, ignore this step.) To be a clan cat, you must have a clan. To have a clan make sure it has: A warrior's den, a nursery, an elder's den, medicine cat's den, and a leader's den. Create a fresh-kill pile––this is where all the prey is put. Make sure the clan is well and healthy, help your clan mates!

, Reading the books is helpful. If you don't like animal books, try to read the first one. It'll help you understand more about clan life.

