 If you think you may have been infected with norovirus, it is helpful to know what symptoms to look for. If you do have the virus, the following steps will help you to deal with the illness while it lasts. Symptoms include:


Fever. Just like in any other infection, the norovirus infection will cause fever. Fever is a way in which the body fights infection. The body temperature will rise, making the virus more vulnerable to the immune system. Your body temperature will most likely rise above 100.4 degrees Fahrenheit (38 degrees Celsius) when suffering from a Norovirus infection.
Headaches. High body temperatures will cause blood vessels to dilate in your entire body, including your head. The high amount of blood inside your head will cause pressure to build up, and the protective membranes covering your brain will suffer inflammation and become painful.
Stomach cramps. Norovirus infections usually settle in the stomach. Your stomach may become inflamed, causing pain.
Diarrhea. Diarrhea is a common symptom of Norovirus contamination. It occurs as a defense mechanism, through which the body is trying to flush out the virus.
Vomiting. Vomiting is another common symptom of an infection with Norovirus. Like in the case of diarrhea, the body is trying to eliminate the virus from the system by vomiting.
 Unfortunately, there is no specific drug that acts against the virus. However, you can combat the symptoms that the norovirus causes. Remember that the virus is self-limiting, which means that it generally goes away on its own.


The virus generally lasts for a few days to a week.
 Consuming a lot of water and other fluids will help to keep you hydrated. This can help to keep your fever low and your headaches to a minimum. It is also important to drink water if you have been vomiting or have had diarrhea. When these too symptoms occur, it is very likely that you will become dehydrated.


If you get bored with water, you can drink ginger tea, which may help to manage your stomach pains while also hydrating you.
 Anti-emetic (vomit-preventing) drugs such as ondansetron and domperidone can be given to provide symptomatic relief if you are vomiting frequently.However, keep in mind that these drugs can only be obtained with a prescription from your doctor.
 As mentioned above, most infections subside after a few days. If the virus persists for longer than a week, you should consider seeking medical help. This is particularly important if the person who is sick is a child or elderly person, or a person with lowered immunity.

