 Many essential oils are thought to have anti-inflammatory and antimicrobial properties and may help treat sinus infection and reduce swelling. If you reduce the swelling in your nose, you will be able to breath easier at night, which will help you sleep better with a stuffy nose. You can mix and match the oils to find the best blend for you but make sure you are not allergic to the oil by testing it on your skin first. Also, keep in mind that some essential oils are toxic if misused.Choose an aroma you like, making sure any essential oil you buy comes from a reputable company with some guarantee of purity. Use equal numbers of drops of each oil when combining. Some essential oils used commonly for stuffy noses are:Eucalyptus
Peppermint
Lavender
Tea tree
Clove
Chamomile
Menthol

, To amp up your Neti pot solutions, you may want to use essential oils. Make sure the oil you use is pure grade and that you aren't allergic or have an adverse reaction to it. Mix in one drop each of frankincense, rosemary and eucalyptus oil to the Neti pot solution., Choose an oil from the list that is thought to aid stuffy noses. Add three to five drops of essential oils to the water in the diffuser. About an hour before you try to sleep, sit as close as possible to the diffuser.


The humid air and the essential oil with help relieve the stuffiness in your nose, which will help you sleep.If the issue persists, try sniffing the air from the diffuser as often as you can throughout the day to help your sinuses more.
 You can make your own chest rub with essential oils that helps with stuffy noses. Mix three drops of eucalyptus oil, two drops of peppermint oil, and two drops of thyme oil in a tablespoon of carrier oil, such as almond oil.You can also replace any of those oils with additional oils from the list that help stuffy noses.
The rub will open up your sinuses, which will help you sleep better.
 Add about 12 to 15 drops of your essential oils into a full bath. The bath should be warm and comfortable. Soak for about 20 minutes and breathe in the oils to help clear your sinuses. Try this close to bedtime. The relaxation mixed with the easing of your stuffy nose will help you sleep better.


The steam from the hot bath should help loosen your sinuses. 