 Get skin care products, including a lotion which makes your skin moist, a primer base (pore cover), a liquid foundation like BB cream, and face powder. You will also need black or brown eyeliner, eye shadows, eyebrow liner, teardrop liner which is kind of a glitter popular among Korean girls, and lip tint.


To get a more authentic Korean look, shop at Korean stores or online, or get product recommendations from your Korean friends. South Korea produces a lot of innovative new beauty products like the cushion compact case, so pay attention to trends and buy Korean products.;
, Koreans value clear, dewy skin, so set up an extensive skin care routine to make sure your skin is hydrated, clear, and free from oils, pimples, or any other blemishes.


Start by removing all makeup. Use an oil cleanser to clean your face thoroughly, then exfoliate with a natural scrub. Use a toner or refresher, an ampoule or essence to brighten your skin, and a sheet mask to hydrate your skin. Pat rather than rub eye cream around your eyes, apply a layer of moisturizer, and then add a night cream to help your skin refresh overnight., Many Korean girls wear their eyebrows straight and thick, so waxing your eyebrows will help achieve the look. In addition, shaping your eyebrows differently can affect the perception of your overall face, so it's important to choose a style that will enhance your face shape.Use your eyebrows as an easy way to make your face structure look more Korean.
 Use lotion and a primer base, which will help reduce the look of pores. Apply a foundation with SPF, such as a BB cream. Then add face powder to finish your base. Consider using an anti-sebum powder, which reduces oil on your face. This is a very commonly-used product in South Korea.
 Use any color you want, but a medium shade of brown will often look best. Use a darker shade near the eye and on the outside edge of your eyelash to create a 3D appearance.
 Add wings by extending it past the end of the eye on the outside and turning it slightly up, to give you almost a catlike look. Then extend your eyeliner on the inside of the eye no more than 3 mm, just below your tear duct. This will widen and flatten your eyes, which is one of the defining features of Korean makeup.


Apply teardrop eyeliner underneath your eyes to give them a sparkling look that is very Korean. Popular colors include: gold, white, and cream.
 Remember, this is just your basic makeup. Focus on different aspects of your makeup to achieve different effects. Pick aspects of your face that look most Korean to emphasize with your makeup, or focus on using your makeup to hide or change other areas.

