 When you are first diagnosed with typhoid fever, your doctor will figure out how far along the disease has progressed. If the disease is diagnosed in its early stages, the common treatment is with antibiotics. He will prescribe your antibiotics, which you will take for one to two weeks. Some strains of the bacteria that cause typhoid fever have become very resistant to some antibiotics. This means that your doctor will do thorough laboratory tests to come up with the best treatment plan for the particular strain you have.The type of antibiotic you are prescribed will vary depending on where you contracted the strain and if you have had it before. The most common antibiotics prescribed include Ciprofloxacin, Ampicillin, Amoxicillin or azithromycin.
You may also be prescribed Cefotaxime or Ceftriaxone. These medications are typically prescribes for 10 to 14 days.;
, While symptoms may clear up within a matter of days, it is of the utmost importance that you finish your antibiotic treatment. If you do not take your antibiotics for the prescribed amount of time, you run a serious risk of having the disease return or passing it to others.


Once you have finished your antibiotics, see your doctor again for a follow up test to make sure that you have gotten rid of the infection., In severe cases, you will need immediate hospital admission. The aggressive symptoms you should look for that point to a severe cases of typhoid fever are swollen stomach, severe diarrhea, a fever of 104 degrees or higher, or persistent vomiting. When in the hospital, you will likely be given the same or similar antibiotic treatment, but it will be administered in injectable form while you are in the hospital.


You should see a doctor immediately if you experience any of these intense symptoms.
Fluids and nutrients will also be administered to you through an intravenous drip.
Most people greatly improve 3-5 days after being admitted to the hospital. However, you may have to stay in the hospital for a few weeks to recover if your case of severe enough or if there were other complications to your health., If complications arise while you are in the hospital, you may be diagnosed with a severe case of typhoid fever. This means that you have severe complications like internal bleeding or the splitting of your digestive track. If this happens, your doctor will likely recommend that you have surgery.


This is very rare unless you are not being treated with antibiotics.