 Yellow fever is present in some tropical and subtropical parts of Central and South America and Africa. If you live in or have travelled to any of the countries listed below, be wary of symptoms of yellow fever and alert your doctor:Countries in the Americas: Argentina, Bolivia, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, French Guiana, Guyana, Panama, Paraguay, Peru, Suriname, Trinidad and Tobago, and Venezuela

Countries in Africa: Angola, Benin, Burkina Faso, Burundi, Cameroon, Central African Republic, Chad, Republic of the Congo, Cote d’Ivoire, Democratic Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Ethiopia, Gabon, the Gambia, Ghana, Guinea, Guinea-Bissau, Kenya, Liberia, Mali, Mauritania, Niger, Nigeria, Senegal, Sierra Leone, South Sudan, Sudan, Togo, and Uganda

, You can only get yellow fever from mosquito bites, not from being around other people who have it. Think about your exposure to mosquitoes while in an endemic area. If you’re not sure whether you were bitten, check your body for itchy red bug bites.


Illness usually occurs 3-6 days after you’re bitten by an infected mosquito., Many people never get symptoms from yellow fever. Those who do, however, experience symptoms similar to a bad flu. Symptoms can include sudden fever, chills, severe headache, body aches, back pain, nausea and vomiting, loss of appetite, fatigue, dizziness, and weakness.Other less common symptoms of yellow fever include sensitivity to lightor red eyes, tongue, or face.
High fever, jaundice, and bleeding are severe symptoms, and they might cause shock and multiple organ failure, which can be deadly. If you develop severe symptoms, get immediate medical attention.
 Diagnosis of yellow fever is based on your symptoms, travel history, a physical exam, and a blood test.See your doctor if you’ve travelled somewhere with yellow fever and have any symptoms of yellow fever. Accurate diagnosis is important so you know you have yellow fever and not something else, and so you can seek supportive care.
 About 15% of people infected with yellow fever will progress to more serious symptoms, including possible heart, liver, and kidney failure. This toxic stage usually occurs after your initial symptoms improve for several hours to a day. If you experience any of the following, go to the hospital to be monitored and prevent serious complications:High fever (over 103°F/39.4°C)Jaundice (yellowing of your skin and the whites of your eyes)
Bleeding (hemorrhaging) – you may have abdominal pain and vomit blood, or you may bleed from your nose, mouth or eyesUrinating less than usual
Slow heart rate
Seizures, delirium, or coma

