 You need to shower and wash yourself regularly to smell good. How often that is will depend on your body because everyone is different. However, you will probably need to wash at least every two or three days. Washing yourself will help combat a buildup of bacteria on the skin, which causes odor just like it does anywhere else on the body.;
, Your vagina is very sensitive. Using the wrong types of soap can cause irritation and bad odor. Avoid soaps which are heavily perfumed, contain too many unnatural ingredients, or have antibacterial properties. These upset the natural balance of your body. Instead, use natural soaps which are labeled as being fragrance-free.
 The only time you should douche (wash out your vagina) is if your doctor tells you to. Douching creates a terrible imbalance of your body’s natural bacteria and will almost guarantee that you end up with some kind of infection. The only cleaning that you will need to do will be with basic soap and water on the outside of your body. , Incorrect wiping after using the toilet can lead to infections. Wipe in the correct direction (front to back) and be sure that you are thorough. It is easy to miss the vaginal area and this can leave residue which leads to infections or overgrowth of bacteria., Be careful about the products that you use around your vagina. Using lubricants that are not water or silicone based can cause infections, and you should always clean lube off once you’re done using it. Anything with heavy fragrance can cause infections easily, so avoid feminine products which aim to make your vagina smell like flowers. This includes lotions.
 This is a very important part of keeping your vagina clean and healthy. Wearing the same set of underwear for more than 24 hours may quickly create an imbalance of bacteria. You will also want to wear the right type of underwear. Your underwear needs to breathe, since an overly moist environment will cause bacterial buildup. Cotton is best. Make sure you do laundry, it can get messy!

