 If you're looking to take your hair weave out, you're first going to want to make sure it's as untangled as possible. Otherwise, taking it out could pull at your natural hair and cause pain. With a brush or a comb, gently brush through, smoothing out all the kinks. Start from the top, and gently brush downward in a slow, fluid motion., With your hands or a shower faucet, wash your head, letting the water pour down the middle. This way, the wefts will become easier to distinguish from the rest of your hair., Now that your hair is detangled, it's time to meticulously remove the weave from your scalp. Pick them apart from your head, checking for damage as you set them aside., Knowing where each weft goes on your head beforehand can take a lot of the guesswork out after the fact. Make a basic system, giving a number (1, 2, 3 etc.) to a corresponding part of your head where it's supposed to go (leftmost weft, centre-left weft etc.). That way, once you've gotten it all nice and clean, you'll be able to put it all back perfectly. , Clean your weave in the sink or in a steel pot. Use warm water and a dab of shampoo the size of your finger. Next, clean it gently, moving your fingers from the root to the stem of the piece. Much like cleaning a leave-in weave, try to refrain from rubbing in the traditional circular motion, as it's just going to increase the risk of getting tangles., Once you've got the wefts nice and clean, it's time to add some oil and shine to them. Put them in a bag with some conditioner, and apply the same way you did the shampoo. Next, put the wet weave in the microwave and put it on for 30 seconds. That will speed up the drying process far more than letting it dry naturally. If you're against the idea of putting your hair in the microwave, you can dry them manually if a hooded dryer. Avoid towel-drying, as this runs the risk of matting.
 If you've marked down each piece to its corresponding part of your head, replacing them on your head should be an easy thing. If you haven't, you may have to do some guesswork. Try to remember where each weft was placed. It may take some trial-and-error, but you'll soon find a placement that suits you.

If you're feeling particularly daring, you might try to try new combinations and placements, just to see how they compliment your face and the rest of your hair!
Give your hair an anti-bacterial spritz for good measure. While the drying process should have made your weave relatively dry and safe from the build-up of smells, it's nonetheless a smart idea to give your hair a quick spray. That way, you won't end up with the dreaded mold smell, and have to repeat the process all over again!

, Weaves will lose some of their lustre over time, so it's generally good form to replace them around every three months. Even natural hair weaves are fairly inexpensive, so making purchasing a new set part of your routine is a great way to maximize your look!