 Locate the SIM card slot on your phone and insert a working SIM card. Most Android devices have their SIM card slots at the back, which can be seen when the battery is removed. Some, though, have the slot on the side of the device.


You will need a cellular data connection or Wi-Fi connection in order to connect to the Google servers.
When you’ve entered a SIM card, press the power button and enter the correct pin of the SIM card if prompted.;
, The first screen you should see is one for choosing your language. Tap the drop-down arrow at the center of the screen to see a list of languages. Scroll through the list and tap the language you want to use.
 Tap the name of the Wi-Fi network in the field, and enter the security key (if the network is password-protected) on the text field that appears. Tap the “Connect” button to connect your device to the network.


If you would prefer to use data instead, swipe down from the top of the screen to open the notification panel, and tap the data icon (arrows going up and down).
 This account will help you backup your data to the Google cloud and also enables you to download apps from Google Play. Tap “Existing” if you already have a Google account; otherwise, press “New.”


When you opt to sign into an existing account, you will be presented with the sign-in screen. Enter your Google email address on the first field and password on the second field. Then press the blue “Sign in” button to log into your account. Wait for a few minutes for your device to connect to Google cloud. This can take up to five minutes. Be patient for the process to complete.
If you tapped “New” to create a new Google account, you’ll be asked to enter your first name in the first text field on the screen that appears. Then type your last name on the second field and a username in the third text field. The Username is address of your email, such as xyz@gmail.com. In the fourth box, enter your preferred password for this new account. This is the password you will be using to access your account. Make sure that it is strong but memorable. Use a mixture of characters and numbers. Tap “Next” to go to the screen containing the Terms of Service. It is recommended to read through the Terms of Service before tapping “OK” to proceed.
If you encounter errors in creating a Google account using your new smartphone, you can use a nearby PC and then come back and log in instead. #Set the date and time. On the Set Date and Time screen, you will see the section for “Set date,” “Set time,” and “Select timezone.”
To set the date, just tap the default date shown and use the calendar to pick the current date.
Go to the “Set time” section and select the correct time of the day. Start by setting hours. Use the arrows pointing up and down to set the right hour of the day. Do the same on minutes side to set the right minute of the hour.
Tap the drop-down menu to see a list of different timezones in the “Timezone” section. Scroll through the list and tap on your timezone.
When this is done, press “Next” at the bottom right of the screen. The initial steps of setting up an Android smartphone ends at this point. However, there is more you can do to make your device a little entertaining. You can personalize your device or download those nice apps you have been hearing about.
 Tap the Google Play icon on the apps drawer to go to Google Play. Android smartphones come with this app already installed.
 Use the search box at the top of the screen to search for applications. Type the name of the app and tap on the search button right in front of the search box. Google Play will load for a few moments before returning the app you searched for.
 Tap the application name, and choose to “Install” it. Now wait for a few moments as the app is being installed. When it is done, a message will pop up telling you the app was successfully installed.


If the app is paid, you will first need to provide the credit card or payment method details and billing information in the Google Wallet pop-up that will appear.
 To view and experience the app, go back to the apps menu of your phone then search for the icon representing the app. Tap it to launch the application.
 Your phone has pre-installed widgets that you can use to personalize your Android home screen. Also, some of the apps you installed might have widgets too. To add a widget, go to the home screen by pressing the Back button of your device. Once on the home screen, long-press on a vacant area until the Screen menu pops up.


From the menu, select “Widgets.” A list of available widgets will appear. Select the widget that you would like to add to the home screen.
Once the widget has been added to the home screen, you can now adjust its size and placement. To adjust its size, tap and hold until white borders appear around the widget. Now, drag the borders to the size you want the widget to be. To change its placement, tap and hold the widget, and then drag it to the location you want it to be.
 The wallpaper, or the image displayed on the home screen, is one of the things you can change to customize your Android device. To change it, long-press on a blank area of the home screen to open the Screen menu.


From the menu, select “Wallpaper.” This will open a list of where you can get wallpapers from, usually from the Gallery (if you want to choose an image), from the Wallpapers folder, or from the Live Wallpapers folder. Tap the option you want.
After selecting either Gallery, Wallpapers, or Live Wallpapers, a thumbnail list of all available wallpapers under the folder will open. Tap the wallpaper you want to use, and it will be displayed on the homescreen.
 Tap the gear icon on the home screen or app drawer to open the Settings menu of the device, then scroll down and select the “Ringtone” option. A list of available ringtones will appear.


Tap a ringtone to set it as your current ringtone. Then hit the “OK” button to have the changes saved. When callers give you a call, the ringtone you set will be played. If you do not like any of the ringtones there, you can add your own and use it.
 While on Ringtone screen, go to the bottom-most part and tap the “Add” button. This will open up a screen containing storage locations from where you can pick your ringtone. A ringtone can be the music you like or any sound that means a lot to you.


Choose the location of where the preferred ringtone is saved. When you get there, tap the name of the file then tap “OK” to have the song added to the list of ringtones.
Once done, you will be redirected to the Ringtone Settings page. Here, now tap the ringtone you added and tap “OK” to set it as the new ringtone.

