 Confidence, or a lack of it, is conveyed in the tone of one’s voice. If you mumble, hesitate, or whine when speaking, you may come across as non-assertive.However, if you speak in a clear, even tone, and at a moderate to loud volume, you will exude self-assurance and seem positively intimidating.If you have trouble speaking clearly or evenly, take a moment to think before you speak. This will give you time to prepare what you want to say. It may also convey that you are confident enough not to be bothered by a little silence, which can itself make you seem more intimidating.
 You can showcase your confidence in the way you communicate, thereby increasing your intimidation level. This means doing things like:Not always agreeing with others.
Voicing your opinion.
Not shying away from conflict.
Using “I” statements, such as “I disagree” rather than “You’re wrong.” This emphasizes your authority.
Agreeing in principle, but not necessarily in detail, by saying things like “That makes sense, but...”
Not becoming defensive when others criticize you, and not offering counter criticisms. Instead, focus on making direct statements about your opinions.
Being persistent. State your point over and over again if necessary, but don’t waver from it.
Being willing to say “no” (or "I'm too busy," etc.) to some requests.
 “Trash” talk, or slightly criticizing others, is common in sports as a way of conveying confidence and unsettling opponents.It can be used in other contexts, however (like political ads or in the workplace), to appear intimidating.


Trash talk in other situations can be direct, such as telling a coworker “I’ve got thirteen new accounts listed in my report this month, Jim, and how many do you have? Zero.” It can also include sarcasm, like “Nice job on that report, Jim. Maybe next time you’ll actually win an account to include in it.”
Avoid sexist, racist, and otherwise offensive language. Keep your trash talk focused on a person’s abilities rather than his or her identity.
 Walking into a new place with a group of people at your back will make you look like you are powerful and important. The stronger and more confident the other people look, the less likely you are to be bothered. Having an entourage suggests that you are a leader, and can be intimidating in a positive way.


In some locations, you can even rent an entourage for a short period of time.Ideally, your entourage will be composed of good friends who support you and even idolize you.
Your entourage can even act as your "wingman" by talking up your achievements and impressive qualities to others.
Be kind to your entourage and treat them with respect. Make sure to listen to them and support their interests.
 If you have an impressive academic pedigree or honors and awards to show off, and are trying to appear intimidating at work, don’t be shy about decorating your office area with diplomas and certificates.Having your achievements on public display will make you seem intimidating to anyone who stops by to talk.


In order raise your intimidation level, you can also briefly mention your achievements in conversations as often as possible.
 Sometimes silence speaks louder than words. Try keeping a little distance from others, not being too talkative, and seeming somewhat aloof. If you can cultivate a little mystery about yourself, others might be intimidated and curious about what you are really like.Don't always speak up. Observe others and appear to listen carefully, but maintain an air of mystery.
Always appear to be busy or occupied with something (such as reading a book or working on a notebook or tablet), but don't let others know what you are doing unless they ask.
Whenever people ask about what you are doing, give short, vague answers that suggest mysterious importance. For instance, if a coworker sees you busy with a tablet and asks what you are doing, just say "Oh, it's this new work project. They probably haven't told you about it yet."

