 A front door should be an impressive and strong object. It should also be in mint condition. After all, buyers will come nose to nose with it. Jobs to consider if needed:


Repaint in a conservative colour (black, blue, white, red or green).
Polish all knobs and knockers or replace if dated.
Make sure your doorbell works and doesn’t look like it could give an electric shock.;
, Jobs to consider if needed:


Sand back and make good any peeled paintwork around window & door frames.
Wash down windows to remove pollution grime.
Repaint the exterior (especially if it’s white).
Replace any broken roof tiles.
Scrub away any build-up of moss around drains (a sure sign to surveyors that there is a drainage problem to tell the buyer’s mortgage lender about).
Finally, make sure you can clearly see your house number from the street.
 Basic maintenance is all that’s needed:


Mow the lawn.
Clip back and neaten any hedges.
Keep the flowerbeds, driveways & paths weed free.
Remove any plants that have died.
Keep the front garden clear of any dead leaves.
 If you have a driveway, the only thing on show should be a clean car. Remove from sight:


Children’s toys & bikes.
Dustbins & other rubbish.
Hose, tools, lawnmower etc.
Any projects you may be working on.
 All fences, gates, railings & outside walls should be in good repair. Jobs to consider:


Re-stain, paint or replace any that are in a poor condition.
 Because they get the most sun, having a south or southwest facing garden is a selling point. When buyers ask, make sure you can tell them which way your garden faces - buy a compass if you need to.
 Whether it’s a roof terrace, patio or full-blown garden, make the most of what you’ve got.Creating a simple seating area is usually all it takes to show the potential for entertaining or relaxing outdoors. Consider:


Buying table and chairs from the garden center to demonstrate “alfresco” dining potential.
Leave out sun loungers if you’re selling in the summer.
Install bamboo screens, trellising or planting if the space lacks privacy from neighbors.
Potted plants, window boxes and hanging baskets make bare outdoor spaces more colorful and interesting.
Gravel or small stones make easy to maintain, good-looking ground cover.

