 If your adhesive is firmly bonded to the wood, solvents can be used to dissolve it into a liquid. This can soak the liquid into the pores of the wood, or even strip the old floor finish. After using this method, you may find it difficult to get a new stain or finish to bond to the hardwood floor. It is also important to wear gloves and work in a well-ventilated room, using fans if necessary, as most solvents give off toxic fumes.


Any solvent can potentially discolor or damage a hardwood floor, especially if there is no protective finish. Before using any product for the first time, you may wish to test it on a portion of the floor normally under furniture, to see if it has any negative effect before using it on visible portions.
Renting a wet/dry vacuum is highly recommended to make cleanup easier.
 Carpets are usually adhered using either tar-based glue or general carpet adhesive. Tar-based products will have a color from tan to dark brown, while general carpet adhesive has a yellow appearance. The process for removing each type of glue is similar, but the product used will differ.
 Mineral spirits can be purchased at a hardware store or online. They are best for removing tan, light brown, or dark brown tar-base adhesives. Apply it according to packaging instructions, or rub on using an old sponge, paintbrush, cotton pad, or even an old white cotton T-shirt.


It can take considerable time to remove the adhesive, even with a solvent. Consider applying the solvent to a portion of the floor at a time, if the room is large, as you will need to apply it again anyway if the solvent dries before you can get to it.
 Start with an adhesive remover based on orange oil, as this has the lowest risk of causing damage to your floor. Purchase a product such as Dissolve It, D'gel, or Goo Gone from a hardware store or online, and apply according to instructions. Typically, the product is wiped on with a soft cloth or an old, white cotton T-shirt.


If you do not wish to use a commercial product, other options are listed at the end of this section.
 Different products and adhesives take different amounts of time to set, so follow the advice on the solvent label if present. The solvent should become tacky or partially liquid, but this can take anywhere from a few minutes to an hour.
 Once the mineral spirits or adhesive remover has had a chance to soak into the glue, you can begin chipping away the glue with a plastic putty knife. Do not use a metal putty knife, as it can create deep scratches in the hardwood floor.
 Once you have removed the bulk of the glue with the putty knife, soak a rag or towel in the adhesive remover. Use the rag to scrub away the stubborn bits of glue that remain. Extremely stubborn areas can be scraped away with a utility knife or metal putty knife, but exercise extreme caution to avoid damaging the floors or injuring yourself.
 Use a wet/dry vacuum if possible to remove the solvent quickly and safely. If you do not have access to this tool, follow the instructions on the product you are using. Once collected, material should be disposed of according to your local area's toxic waste collection legislation, never in an ordinary trash bin or by flushing down a drain.
 If your adhesive is especially difficult to remove, or you do not have access to the solvents listed above, you may try another material, or reapply the same material in the spots where adhesive remains. Testing for possible floor damage in an unobtrusive corner is a recommended first step. Here are some common solvents used for this purpose:


Yellow carpet glues can be removed by applying vegetable oil with a soft cloth, but this can stain floors without a protective finish.
Try a little WD40 worked in using a cotton rag, and left to soak for 15-30 minutes. Overuse carries a high risk of causing discoloration or damage.
Denatured alcohol has a high risk of damage, but may be worth trying in small quantities for patches of stubborn adhesives.
Commercial paint remover is usually effective, but can easily damage hardwood floors.
 If you have pets or young children in your house, this step is recommended to remove traces of the solvent from your floor. Simply rub the floor with mild detergent, using a wet cloth. If there is a lingering smell on your floor, apply a mix of apple cider vinegar and water to remove it.


Keep in mind that water will probably cause damage to your hardwood floor if a protective finish is not present, or has been stripped away by the solvent.
 After all the glue has been removed, allow the floor to dry for at least 24 hours. Leave the windows open in the room to ensure good ventilation. The floor is now ready to be used, or to have a protective finish applied over it.


Sandpaper may be helpful if there are a few small pieces of adhesive, or if the solvent has partially dissolved the floor finish and the rest needs to be removed before the new finish is applied.

