 Cuban's personal email addresses are kept fairly private, so it can be difficult to track these down unless you have an inside source. Thankfully, he does have a couple of email addresses that are known publicly, and you can still use one of these to contact him with your ideas and questions.


The first email address you should try is: mcuban@outlook.com (note 1/11/2015 - this email no longer exists)
Cuban is also the chairman, CEO, and president of AXS TV. You can use his company email address to get in touch with him: mcuban@axs.tvAs owner of the Dallas Mavericks, Cuban has an email address associated with the team, as well: mark.cuban@dallasmavs.comSupposedly, Cuban's investment email address is an open secret within the tech community, but that email address is difficult to find for those outside of the community. If you have a tech product and contacts within that community, though, you might be able to ask around and eventually stumble across it.;
, Before you get to work on the body of the email, you need to make sure that your message has an informative subject line that will let Mark Cuban know what your email is about before he even opens it.


Try to keep your subject to 20 characters or less. This character count makes it easy to see the full subject if the email is checked via a smart phone.
An option worth considering would be to quickly summarize the type of business you are trying to promote. For example, "Social App Start-Up."

, The tone and structure of your email should be polite, respectful, and professional.


Address him as “Mr. Cuban.”
Use proper English. Stay away from Internet abbreviations: “u” instead of “you,” “r” instead of “are,” and so on.
Your email should have a greeting, followed by a well-structured body, a business-appropriate closing, and your name and contact information.



Your company should have a name and a product. Having nothing more than an idea probably won't get you very far. Instead, you should wait until you have made as much progress as you can with it on your own before sending an email to Cuban.



Describe products that you have already put out, promotions you have already engaged in, awards you may have won, prominent people in the industry you have hired or contracted, and other similar information. The more impressive you can make your current progress sound, the more promising your odds of success will seem to him.
 The idea is to show Cuban what value your business could bring to him, as well as what value you, as an entrepreneur, also have to offer.


Explain how your business or product fits the profile of the type of company Cuban usually invests in. Also describe what your company can offer that others are unable to offer.
 As you pitch your business, you need to be creative enough to catch Cuban's attention and confident enough to make him believe in you. If you show a lack of confidence in yourself, he will likely lack confidence in you, as well.
 Cuban is a busy individual who receives a large quantity of emails per day. If you send him a long email right from the start, he might skip over it. Giving him a short email packed with only vital information is far better option.


If he likes your idea, he will reply asking for additional detail. Provide that detail after he asks for it, not before.
 People who have successfully heard back from Cuban typically say that the investor replies within 24 hours, so if he will respond to your email, you will probably get that response within a day or two.

