


Posts are the vertical support beams that are embedded in the ground.
Rails are the horizontal supports that are attached to the posts.
Boards or slats are the main material of the fence and can be either horizontal or vertical: they are attached to both the posts and rails.;
,


If it is to provide privacy to a backyard garden, tall wooden boards may be the most appropriate choice.
If it is meant to contain a pet, a simple stretch of pickets may provide the best combination of fresh air and ample protection.
 Privacy fences should be a minimum of six feet to keep out prying eyes, while barriers meant to contain most pets or livestock can usually stay around four.
 Set end posts at the corners and use them to run a line in the exact area the fence is to be constructed. , This should generally be around six to eight feet apart, depending on the type of fence and the terrain it will be installed upon. , Take the time to carefully evaluate their position, as failing to align posts properly will impact the solidity of the overall structure.
 To ensure a stable fence, plan to set your posts at a depth of 1/3 of their length. This is the depth you'll need to dig your holes.
 Allow to stand overnight so the wood can become saturated. , Rock gently to help settle it. , Corner posts should get extra support in both directions. , Leave the braces where they are for at least two weeks to allow the post to settle into place. ,, Measure a set distance from the top of each post to determine where the place the bottom rail in order to keep it straight. , Depending on the fence style, there may be just one or several.
 These can be all on one side of the rails or alternated in a pattern. , Most gates are at least 40 inches (101.6 cm) in length. , Use the gravel/rocking/tamping process mentioned earlier to make them as sturdy as possible.
,,, If everything looks ship-shape, brace the hanging post with extra brackets to make sure it can bear the weight.



Whether you want the gate to open in or out determines which side you hang it on.
Once the hinges are solidly placed, install the handle and latch on opposite side.
,