 There are a lot of different organizations in the music industry today: aside from the opera and musical theaters like Broadway, there are record labels. Record labels, or record companies, are responsible for marketing, coordinating the production, manufacturing, and distributing music. There are three major labels (Universal, Sony, and Warner) as well as many sublabels,vanity labels, and independent labels.You will need to find out who produces the kind of music you want to make and find out who the executives and producers for that company are, as well as whether or not they accept demos and what their guidelines are.
 Many aspiring artists use platforms such as Youtube and Facebook to post videos of themselves singing to get their name and face out to the world. Hundreds to millions of people can be aware of you with just a click of the button; ask your friends and family to help you get a start by liking and sharing your work on Facebook, YouTube, and Twitter. Other places where you can distribute or advertise your music include Reddit music, Last.FM, and Spotify., A lot of people use popular blogs like Pitchfork, Stereogum, DatPiff, and the A.V. Club to find new artists to follow. These bloggers usually have a listed contact email. Send them your music or a link to your social media.Once you've figured out which labels you want to join, find and add them on FaceBook and Twitter; if you found the names of their employees, add them too. Try talking with them daily to make them notice you.If any of the labels or their employees or bloggers happen to be local, try calling them, scheduling a meeting with them, and building a more personable relationship with them.
 Take the next step to look professional and invest in a .com name with your band or artist name. Be sure to be certain that all of the graphics, logos, and pictures of yourself are professional quality. To keep it affordable, try posting yourself to websites like 99designs.com and Crowdspring.com, where aspiring designers can submit potential designs to you for a price you've already set.Your parents may be initially reluctant to invest in a website and professional designing. Search for "cheap web hosting" or "cheap web domains" to try to find options they might be less reserved about. Explain to them why it's important that you have a professional image, and maybe even frame it in a way they can relate to, like, "When you look for someone to come do a job for you, don't you feel better when you see that they have a nice looking website with information that's neatly maintained," or "When you buy products, do nice colors and good packaging appeal to you? Would you want to buy something ugly? What I'm doing is a service, and I want people to buy my music someday. I want record companies to buy my image."
If your parents are still concerned about the costs involved, you can try making a GoFundMe, a Kickstarter, or a Patreon for you to have some more sustainable income to reach your goals.
 A talent scout is a person whose job it is to find untapped talent in the world and help them get work. They can help you find auditions, jobs, and get your name to a record label.You can find searchable directories for talent agents at both Backstage.com and Laauditions.com. You may also find their profiles on Facebook and LinkedIn.


When contacting a talent scout, send a packet with your headshot, resume, and a cover letter. You will likely need your parents' help.
Make sure the resume is as short and well-summarized as possible, but include details like special talents, teachers, and specific training you've received.
Make sure if you include personal references they will speak well about you.
Follow up with an agency after sending in a submission.
If you get into a showcase seeking representation, ask around to find out who present is already represented and by whom.Be careful to only work with reputable people and to avoid scams. Watch out for people who make big promises, rush casting calls and immediate auditions, promise extremely high pay or say there's no experience needed, casting calls on Craigslist supposedly made by large agencies, those not looking for specific types or ages, or anyone hiding their identity.Beware of agencies that ask you to pay up front for representation, shopping mall auditions, highway billboards, or TV or print ads--instead, you'll find specific information on their individual websites detailing how to submit yourself for consideration.