 Another easy way to avoid artificial sweeteners is to use their non-artificial (nutritive) counterparts. Nutritive sweeteners like sucrose, dextrose, honey, corn sugar, maltose, and fructose are among the most common nutritive sweeteners.Keep your sugar intake below 100 calories or 6 teaspoons per day if you are a woman, or under 150 calories or 9 teaspoons if you are a man.Nutritive sweeteners should only be consumed in small amounts. The USDA recommends people of all ages to meet no more than 10% of their daily caloric needs with added sugars.For instance, if your soda provides 300 calories but you only eat 1,500 calories per day, you’ve consumed twice your recommended sugar limit.
 Sugar alcohols (aka polyols) are not ethanol alcohol and come from plants, but are less sweet. Common sugar alcohols are Xylitol, Sorbitol, Mannitol, Maltitol, Isomalt, Lactitol, and Erythritol.


Too many sugar alcohols can cause a laxative effect.
Many people are able to tolerate more Xylitol than other sugar alcohols. Xylitol also decreases your risk for cavities.
 The choice to consume artificial sweeteners is often posed as a choice between sugar (which has lots of empty calories and can lead to increased weight) and artificial sweeteners. However, there is a third option, which is to avoid consuming sweetened jams (or opt for low sugar jams), candies, and other sweet products altogether.Alternately, you could be more judicious in your use of sweeteners – both real and artificial – by cutting back on the amount of sweetened foods you eat. For instance, don’t eat dessert after dinner, but have your coffee with a cube of added sugar in the morning.
Instead of having desserts with added sugar, try having some sliced fruit like bananas, blueberries, and strawberries.
Instead of drinking sweetened drinks, try water infused with cucumber or orange. Just slice a whole cucumber or orange up, then drop the pieces into your water pitcher. Refrigerate for about three hours.
 One of the primary reasons people consume artificial sweeteners is because they are trying to lose weight. Artificial sweeteners have no calories, and are therefore a useful alternative for people who have a sweet tooth but still want to reduce their weight. The best way to avoid this situation is to maintain a healthy weight.Eat a balanced diet of whole grains, fruits, and vegetables. A small amount of your calories (roughly 20% of your daily caloric intake) should come from lean protein like nuts, tofu, or beans.
Exercise regularly. Adults should get at least 2.5 hours each week of moderate-intensity exercise. Find everyday ways to stay active. For instance, ride your bike or walk to work, school, and shopping centers. Walk up the stairs instead of taking an escalator.

