 There's a guide on how to look like a guy generally, but this guide will concentrate on the other details that are included there.;
, Stuff you could try would be the half-half style (an entire half of your head as blonde, the other as black or pink, etc) or just bleaching the top layers of your hair, just so you can see the shape.
 The bangs should always be pin straight, no matter what the rest of your hair looks like. They should cover a good portion of your face, this usually draws attention away from more feminine features. Keep sides of your hair short, and bring hair from the back of your head to the front if you want to keep your length. Keeping it thinned is recommended.
 Have white eyeliner to line the inner corner of your eye to make it pop, this is a popular technique with Visual Kei bands. Sheer lip glosses are preferred over lipstick. Basically keep the color on your face to a minimum. Don't use tinted moisturizer as a base for your foundation, your face will look shiny when you need to cam-whore (hog the camera) with your fellow friends.
 A large space in between the eyebrows and eyes makes one look more feminine. Pluck them into a straight, thin line with no arch, but just going upwards. This is the more trendy way to do the eyebrows now than the tadpole eyebrows, but you can do those too if you want to emulate Shou. An alternative would be shaving your brows off and then drawing them in with powder or pencil, but make sure to keep them groomed regularly, and never use a liquid eyebrow color. The key is to keep them matte, not shiny.
 If your lips are thicker than you'd like them, you can use stick foundation to cover them up as much as you need to. Nude, uncolored lips help make you look less feminine.
 Accessorize with wrist cuffs, arm warmers, studded belts, or a necklace with a large pendant. Alice-inspired motifs, crosses, the Vivienne Westwood orbs are examples of what might work. For jackets, a fitted, slouchy cardigan that's also long, a biker-style jacket from Sexy Dynamite London. It's always endearing when the sleeves cover until almost of all your hand.
 But if you must, get a haversack, or a tote bag with a solid shape, and make sure the design is not too girly. You can also get those big bags that are shaped like bunnies or Jack Skellington, then dress that up with fake blood, bandages, and bandannas.
 Wearing brands like h.Naoto, Sex Pot Revenge, Putumayo or Sexy Dynamite London will always get you attention. Real Vivienne Westwood will make you super popular, but be modest about it.
 If you want to be in a band don't be a vocalist unless you're extremely good at it.

