 Download and print out maps of the park so you can plot out your route and choose which rides to go on. Planning beforehand will save you loads of time and lessen the amount of time standing around in the path of others.

Several parks, such as Disney, offers special admission opportunities, such as having the ability to enter the park an hour earlier than the general public. These can be received if you decide to purchase a specialty pass or stay at their exclusive hotel.
Install queue apps on your mobile device. There's many apps available that updates you on how long a queue is at that specific time and can be very useful for popular rides.;
, Most theme parks have a dress codes and standards, including wearing footwear at all times and ensuring clothing has non-offensive messages. If a theme park has water rides, be sure to carry or have an extra shirt around if you don't want to walk around in wet clothes. If you are drenched, ensure that you are dry before getting on a non-water ride to avoid getting seats wet. There's nothing worse than waiting in line and sitting on a moist seat, because the person before you was wet., Most theme parks have developed over the years to aim to accommodate families and people of all ages. Know what you will enjoy and be considerate of those enjoying anything that you might be too mature for.


Control your language around others. While having fun with friends, your mind might "lock into" laid-back and every day conversations. Limit or avoid the usage of profanity in queue lines, as kids can pick up words easily.
Research if the park has exclusive smoking areas. Just being in the open air doesn't mean you are allowed to light a cigarette whenever you want to. Secondhand smoke exposure not only creates potentially serious health issues to others, but it is a top park annoyance.
 Theme parks can be super exciting place for young ones, but it is not their personal playground.

Teach your child to wait patiently in lines or give them something little to kill time. Play hand games with them, play "I Spy", or have them check out any decorations you find in the queue line. Never allow your child to swing from the posts, kick thrust their feet (which might trip other people in the next lane), or to run around others.
Hold their hand at all times. While walking from ride to ride, children may want to walk on their own. Safety precautions must be taken into account to avoid bumping into the elderly, strollers, adults, as well as avoid getting lost and going too far away from their parents.
 Paying attention is crucial and can make or break someone's enjoyment, especially in large crowds.

Veer to the extreme side if you need to stop in a pathway. Abruptly stopping to look at a map, take a picture, or to look behind you to find family members or friends is another top annoyance.
Avoid using the entire pathway for your family. It's very common and recommended to hold each other's hands, but if you are in a large group, prepare to break up into small groups so others can get through properly.
Avoid looking at your phone while walking. Not knowing where you are walking is guaranteed to make you bump into others.
Don't make mad rushes or dashes to your favorite ride. Accidentally swinging arms or trampling over someone because you want to make it into a queue line before others is disrespectful.
 Flashes are not only a huge annoyance to other visitors, but to employees or workers whom are performing in an event. There are lots of rides that prohibit flash photography, and people will be advised of the rules before getting on. When using flash photography in dark rides, one might expose machinery or other hidden items. Sporadic flashes also takes the fun out of rides., In hot conditions, body odors in a crowd come out and it can be nauseous to many. If you are planning to stay at a nearby hotel, plan on going back in the middle of the day to take a shower and change clothes so you feel and smell refreshed later on. Avoid using excessive perfumes or body sprays, as this also makes people nauseous., Parks tend to have high prices for items, such as souvenirs, food, and drinks. Many parks allow you to bring your own water bottle. Think about dining at outside food establishments or restaurants before entering the park. Don't be enticed to purchase items at kiosks or gift shops just because something catches your eye; you might find that item or something better while shopping online or at another store., Line cutting or line saving gives a negative impact on people behind whom have waiting in line themselves. There's a huge difference between "saving" a space for someone whom physically can't stand on their feet for a long duration and "saving" a space for people who naturally want to join their friends and family.