 Mixing boric acid powder or borax with maple syrup is the most common bait; some popular commercial ant poisons essential monetize this mix. Boric acid affects ants both externally (when in powder form; similar to diatomaceous earth) and internally (when ingested). The ants bring the poison (borax or boric acid) with them to the colony and spread it around. If you get the quantity and timing just right, you can wipe out a large colony, but it might take anywhere from several weeks to a few months., A bait that's too strong will kill the ants before they make it home, and a bait that's too weak will only weaken the colony temporarily. Be intentional about your increments. The idea is for the poison to spread all throughout the colony before it begins to kill the unwitting ants.The boric acid kills the ants; the water dilutes the boric acid; and the sugar attracts the ants. Try the following recipes:


Mix 1 cup water, 2 cups sugar, and 2 tablespoons boric acid.
Mix 3 cups of water, 1 cup of sugar, and 4 teaspoons of boric acid.
 Try letting the mixture sit in an upturned lid or a low dish for easy access. If you have pets or small children, leave the bait in a container that will allow ants to enter, but isn't wide enough for larger creatures to get at the poison. Carefully shake the poison into the bottom of a metal can. Crush one side of the can, but leave a gap that is just thin enough for ants to get inside. , Remove any deterrents, if you used them; the idea of baiting is to attract the ants so that they'll defeat themselves. Don't lure new ants with the bait, or else you might attract new colonies.
 Once there's a line of busy and scavengers, place the bait next to the trail. The mass of ants will shift to swirl around the bait. Keep moving it further from your kitchen and closer to where the ants are entering your home.


Be careful not to place the bait directly on top of the ant trail. You'll confuse them and interrupt their march home, making your baiting strategy less effective.

