 If your cat is drinking from odd places, it might not be getting enough water on a daily basis. Your cat should be drinking at least one cup or 250 milliliters of fresh water each day., If your cat is drinking from a problematic water source like a fish tank, bathtub, or shower, you can stop this behavior by closing the cat off from these sources. If your cat is drinking from the toilet, for example, make sure the toilet lid is always closed. If your cat is drinking from the fish aquarium, keep the door to that room closed., One way to discourage your cat from drinking out of odd places is to provide them with a pet fountain. A pet fountain will give your cat the running water it enjoys. It will also encourage the cat to drink more water. You can purchase a pet fountain at any pet supply store.Try placing the pet fountain in the room where you feed your cat.
Placing the pet fountain on a hard floor surface like tile or linoleum will make cleanup easier if your cat splashes in the fountain.
 Sometimes cats drink from places like sinks and toilets because they find the water in their bowl unappealing. If you leave your cat’s water sitting out for days, debris can accumulate in the bowl and the water will turn to an unappealing room temperature. Give your cat a bowl of cold fresh water every morning and every evening., Each time you refill your cat’s water bowl, you should make an effort to remove any food debris, dirt, or cat hair that has accumulated. Wash the bowl out before you fill it with fresh, cold water. A clean bowl will make the water more appealing to your cat, and may prevent them from seeking out other sources of water.Stainless steel bowls are easy to clean and disinfect.
The bowl should be just large enough for your cat's nose to reach the bottom.
 Sometimes your cat will be more likely to drink from their water bowl if there are several options. Try leaving two or three different water bowls in several places around the house. Make sure you wash and refill these bowls twice a day., Your cat could be drinking from odd places because of extreme thirst. Underlying medical conditions, low protein diets, and certain medications can cause your cat to become abnormally thirsty. Make an appointment with your vet to make sure your cat's thirst is not related to another issue.