 Practice patience and try to be as non-confrontational with your loved one as possible as they are detoxing. Consider that his body is going through a lot, and he probably is not thinking very clearly at this time. Don your best nurse attitude and try to focus more on what he is going through than whatever might have happened to make you upset.


Even if something happens that would normally provoke an argument, keep your cool and tell yourself that you absolutely must let your loved one take it easy now.
Try not to take anything your loved one says too personally. Don’t assume that he is trying to hurt you just because you got caught up in a moment of his moodiness.
 While your loved one is feeling vulnerable and ill, he may still want to discuss much of what's going on. Listen closely and give words of encouragement whenever possible. Congratulate him on getting to this point, and tell him how proud you are. If he says something disturbing about his current state or past drug use, don't react with shock or demand an explanation. Understand that you do not fully understand, and choose instead to simply let him speak from the heart.


It can also be encouraging to discuss and remind him to look at his reasons for stopping. This way he'll stay grounded in the purpose behind the taxing mission of detox.
 However, detox is not the stage of recovery to try and talk out issues that may be looming from the past or plans for how to carry forward. For now, just show lots of support and be very present; after all, your loved one is in a very vulnerable, physically painful place.
 Because cravings provide a major hurdle through detoxing, do whatever you can to distract your loved one. Cravings pass when they are not indulged. Reassurance about how well he is handling everything will also serve as a reminder that going back to the drug is not the only way to make negative feelings go away.


Try activities that are engaging, but not too physically taxing. Watch a movie that you know by heart, play cards, crossword puzzles, and listen to music.
If your loved one decides it's too hard to go through with the detox, make a deal with him to wait an hour and then confirm it instead of just acting immediately.
 If your loved one is interested in talking through the detox, try to direct the conversation in a way that will motivate him to stay clean. Rehash all of the important reasons why he is detoxing in the first place. Remind him of all of the things he is excited to do and explore now that drugs are not going to be a part of his life. Assure him that you and others in his life are also thrilled to be able to connect in a new way that is not hampered by his addiction.
 In order to be more certain that you are doing everything you can to keep your loved one clean, to see through the whole detox process, ask him what triggers him to use. For example, he may be angered by the mention of his mother in a way that makes it especially difficult to resist the temptation to quell his craving. Without ever asking, you may not have known that you are mentioning something that hurts his ability to cope.


The same goes for things that may be lying around the house (besides the obvious, drugs) Specific movies, music, or TV shows might also be triggering.
Try to have the conversation early on so that you're not left wondering what might be needlessly creating a difficult environment for him to detox in or asking him to name his triggers at inopportune times.
 Remember not to get so excited about your loved one’s detox that you take it as a failure if he has a relapse and begins using again.Relapses can provide important information about what triggers drug use and where extra coping strategies may be needed. If you assume that a relapse means the whole detox was a failure, you could end up hurting your loved one’s morale at a crucial time where confidence and support are most important.
 Helping someone through a detox can be very taxing, and may require you to completely rearrange your own schedule in order to provide continuous company and support. It is hard work to be kind, positive, and understanding throughout the process. Make sure that you have others around to share the responsibility with you, and try to give yourself as many opportunities to recharge as possible.


When asking for the presence of others, be careful with your choices. Discourage any other users or people who might trigger cravings or anger in your loved one.

