 This is the yellow icon with a white ghost on your Home Screen, or in a folder on your Home Screen. Tapping on it will open Snapchat’s camera interface.



If you have not yet installed Snapchat and created your account, do so before continuing.
;
, Tap the Capture button to snap a photo, or hold it down to record video. This button looks like a large white circle at the bottom of your screen, and it will disappear when you take a snap.
 Once your photo or video is captured, you can customize your snaps with text, drawings, and stickers.


Tap on the pencil icon in the upper-right corner to draw on your snap. You can change the color by tapping on the color spectrum below the pencil icon. The color spectrum will appear when you tap the pencil icon, and the pencil will display your current color.
Tap on the T icon in the upper-right corner next to the pencil. This will let you add a caption. Your keyboard will appear in the bottom half of your screen, and you will begin typing. Tap again on the T icon to make your text bigger, or to pick a different color.
Tap on the square icon at the top of your screen next to the T icon. This will bring up the Stickers menu. Select a sticker to add to your snap. You can also add a Bitmoji from the stickers menu.
Tap on the scissors icon to create your own sticker. This will let you copy and paste anything in your snap.
See How to Use Snapchat for further tips on creating great Snaps., This is the downward-pointing arrow icon next to the snap timer in the lower-left corner of your screen., This will take you back to the camera screen.



Your snap will be saved in your phone's image gallery.
 If you haven’t yet installed or set up Instagram, do so before continuing.



If you open up to a page other than your Instagram Home screen, tap the Home button. The Home button looks like a tiny house in the lower-left corner of your screen.
 This will take you to Instagram's camera mode.If you don't currently have anything in your story, you can also tap the Your Story button in your Stories bar. This button is your Instagram profile picture with a blue "+" sign on it, and it will be the first one in your Stories bar at the top of your Instagram home screen.
 This will expand a new bottom row labeled “Last 24 Hours,” containing all photos and videos you’ve saved in that timeframe., The image or video will open to its full size.
 If you desire, you can tap the Edit icon (the pencil) to add drawings to your photo, or the Text icon (the “Aa”) to add text.See How to Use Instagram Stories for tips on using the Instagram editing tools.
If you’d like to download the editing changes you made to your photo or video, tap the downward-facing arrow in the lower-left corner to download and save it to your phone.,, A checkmark will appear next to it on the right-hand side of your screen.
 Your story will appear in the Stories bar at the top of your followers’ Instagram feed.

