 Look for the game app on your device. Its name is Spider-Man with the classic Spider-Man on the logo. Tap on it to launch it.;
, On the main screen, you will see a comics-style interface, with all the game types clearly separated.



Play a Mission. On the upper right corner, tap the red “Issue” button for the missions. Select a mission to play from the mission map.

Play an Event. On the upper left corner, tap the red “Events” button to see the active and running Events. Select an Event to play from the list.

Play in the Unlimited Mode. On the bottom right corner, tap the red “Play” button for the Unlimited Mode.
 You should have multiple Spider-men in your team in order to use more than one in a game. On the pre-game screen, there’s a panel on the right with four empty boxes. Tap on the first box, and your team of Spider-men will be displayed with their character cards on the right.


Swipe up and down, and tap on the one you’d like to use as your primary Spider-Man. The selected character will fill up the first box.
 For every continue that you can have, you need to staff another Spider-Man. There are four boxes available, which gives you a maximum of three continues.


Tap on the second box, and select your secondary Spider-Man from the roster. The selected character will fill up the second box.
 Tap on the third box and select your tertiary Spider-Man from the roster. Staffing a third Spider-Man will assure you a second continue.


The selected character will fill up the third box.
 Tap on the fourth box and select your last Spider-Man from the roster. Staffing a fourth Spider-Man will assure you a third continue.


The selected character will fill up the last box.
 Back on the pre-game screen, tap on the “Start” button on the lower right corner. The game will load and begin.
 Run, collect the vials, hit the enemies, avoid the obstacles, and defeat the bosses. Apply the different techniques to get higher combos and bigger scores. Focus on the objectives and aim for the best score you can get.
 When you hit an obstacle or an enemy, the game stops. You will see your main Spider-Man on the ground where it got hit. A countdown from 3 will start to give you time to think if you’d like to continue where you left off. Once the countdown finishes and you did not opt to continue, the game will permanently end and your score will be final.
 If you’ve decide to continue where you left off before the countdown finishes, the secondary Spider-Man will come in and begin running. Tap on the green “Continue” button with the cost in ISO-8. The first continue costs 1 ISO-8.



Continue a second time. If you get hit again, Step 3 will repeat. If you choose to continue again, tap on the green “Continue” button with the cost in ISO-8. The second continue costs 2 ISO-8. Your tertiary Spider-Man will come in and begin running.

Continue for the last time. If you get hit again, Step 3 will repeat. If you choose to continue one last time, tap on the green “Continue” button with the cost in ISO-8. The third and last continue costs 4 ISO-8. Before you do, consider if it’s worth it as 4 ISO-8 can be quite expensive. Your last Spider-Man will come in and begin running. This is your last chance to continue adding to your score and complete your objectives.

