 By far the most common type of nosebleeds are anterior nosebleeds, when the bleeding comes from the lower septum, the wall between the two channels of your nose. This area has a lot of sensitive blood vessels that can bleed profusely when irritated. Picking your nose is one of the prime irritations that can cause these kinds of nosebleeds.


You should generally avoid picking your nose if you want to lower your chance of nosebleeds.
Ensure you trim your nails regularly, so if you do happen to pick your nose, you are less likely to irritate it.;
, You can irritate your nose by picking it, but blowing your nose hard can also lead to nosebleeds. Blow your nose sparingly, and when you do blow it, be gentle and avoid using a lot of force.If you are suffering from a cold or allergies, and are blowing your nose more frequently than usual, this might provoke a nosebleed.Vigorously rubbing your nose, or any other kind of physical irritation, or trauma, can also lead to nosebleeds., Antihistamines, decongestants, and other medical but non-prescribed nasal sprays can be a cause of nosebleeds. Excessive use of these products can dry out the inside of your nose, leading to cracking and bleeding.In addition, many oral antihistamines and decongestants can lead to dryness of your nasal passages and may increase nosebleeds. If these medicines help you deal with allergies, try to moderate your use if they are contributing to nosebleeds, or talk to your doctor about other options.
 If you are regularly taking aspirin, and begin to suffer nosebleeds there could be a connection. Medicines, such as aspirin and anticoagulants, cause you to bleed more easily, and this can heighten the risk of a nosebleed occurring.If you have been prescribed something and think it may be causing nosebleeds, talk to your doctor.
Do not stop taking prescribed medication unless your doctor tells you to. Stopping these medications could lead to serious health complications. If you can't avoid taking aspirin or anticoagulants, talk to your doctor about the best ways to prevent and treat nosebleeds.

