 No-one likes a silly-head. Don't mess around in class; the teachers will love you and you'll get a whole lot more work done.;
, It makes life a whole lot easier in the long run; you'll know where everything is and what you've done to it. Don't leave your homework to the morning before; you'll be rushed and get the answers wrong. Always spend an hour on your homework, even if you finish it in ten minutes. It will be complete and beautiful, and even if you get some of the answers wrong the teacher won't mind because it contains lots of effort.
 Nobody likes a meanie-pants. You don't have to smile and simper at everybody, just the occasional 'hello' or a nice smile can brighten up your day and someone else's.
 Every teacher will love you if you really try your best. Practice or study before exams or even normal lessons, if you've had to skip out on a lesson because you had a music lesson or you were sick, always find the teacher before the next lesson to ask for the work that you missed; its saves them a whole lot of time chasing you up about that essay or sum that you didn't complete, and it will make their life easier as well as yours.
 Get plenty of protein and fruit and vegetables, these can really boost your mood in the right quantities. Also, exercise helps with your mood control, so get plenty of it and you'll be fresh and awake for ages!

, Sleep is golden when you are growing, it helps to stimulate your brain and helps you to grow. Drink a glass of milk before you brush your teeth in the evenings, it'll really help you drift off.
 It's okay to get frustrated sometimes. Beezus is a drama queen, so it's fine to feel like a volcano occasionally. But just don't explode like one. It's better to just walk away from that mean girl at school, or it's better to do what your mom says instead of throwing a tantrum.
 Beezus Quimby is polite and well behaved. She isn't rude or sulky in public, so try to be the same. If you feel really annoyed with someone, just straighten your back and smile, and excuse yourself before you make a rude comment.
 You have a million things to think about; so when you feel like you're about to faint, take a deep breath and plaster a smile on your face, you'll feel so much more pleased with yourself, and you'll be in a better mood!

