 An important part of managing diabetes is keeping your cat's diet healthy and consistent. Feed your cat the same amount of food at the same times each day to control its blood sugar. If necessary, set alarms on your smartphone to make sure you remember when to feed your cat.Opt for high protein, low carb cat food (e.g. canned food instead of dry cat food).The amount that you feed your cat should be determined based on its size and energy output (e.g., a cat with reduced mobility will require less food than a playful, active cat).;
, Keep track of your cat's blood sugar at home by using a blood glucose meter. These meters use blood procured from a tiny prick to your cat's ear to assess glucose levels. Brace your cat gently but firmly with one arm before taking blood, and praise and pet it for its cooperation.Another way to measure your cat's blood glucose is to test its urine with urine dipsticks (available from your veterinarian)., If you have to give your cat insulin shots as part of its diabetes treatment, make sure to administer them at the same time each day. To make this easy, give your cat the injections around already-scheduled mealtimes. Your cat might be more amenable to receiving the shot if it knows that its meal will be following right after.To avoid giving your cat too much insulin or "double-dosing," designate one family member to be in charge of administering the daily injections.
 To make managing your cat's diabetes simpler, download a pet diabetes app for your phone. Such an app can help you develop a regular schedule around meals and injections, monitor your pet's glucose levels, track its food and water consumption, set alerts, and record and relay information to your veterinarian. Pet Diabetes Tracker, for instance, is a free app available for iPhone, iPad, and Android.
 Make sure that your cat maintains a regular amount of exercise by engaging it in short periods of play every day. Set aside at least 10-15 for small intervals of activity (e.g., chasing or hunting games). If your cat does not show interest in playing, look online or in pet stores for new toys to get its attention., Be vigilant about treating any illnesses or medical issues that your cat may experience to keep it at peak health. Health issues outside of your cat's diabetes may reduce the effectiveness of its diabetic treatments and should be dealt with promptly. Follow your veterinarian's advice on how to manage any ailments your cat may face and be proactive about monitoring its health.