 Emma Stone doesn’t stick with one hairstyle. So, if you do, you won’t quite capture her vibe. However, her signature style is a bold strawberry red.


Emma plays around with different shades of red. She is often seen with bright red/orange hair that she wears with long bangs swept to the right side. Her hair color pops. The one thing you can guarantee about Emma, is that she has eye-catching color that doesn’t ever look mousy.
Emma has also had platinum blonde hair, although not as often as red. She’s worn her hair a darker red, too, almost chocolate brown with deep red highlights. If you go red, make sure to dye your eyebrows to match. She does. Emma says she is a natural blonde, but she relates mostly to red hair.;
, Emma typically favors long bangs, which accentuate her bright blue eyes. However, she plays around with different ways to wear her bangs, and she sometimes doesn’t wear them at all.


Sometimes Emma wears her bangs long and wept over to the left side, skimming her left eyebrow. This is one of her most common looks.
Sometimes, especially when she wears her hair platinum blonde, she’s played around with wearing straight bangs that cover her entire forehead.
 You’re most likely to see Emma wearing her hair in medium length, with the ends falling a few inches past her shoulders.


However, she’s also tried both longer and shorter looks. She’s worn platinum blonde hair straight and to her breast bone.
Emma’s even tried shorter hair, even though it’s not her most common look. She was seen in a shaggy red bob that fell just below her chin, for example. Again, though, medium-long is her most common look.
 Emma usually wears her hair down, and, usually, it’s almost straight, with only a touch of natural looking very loose waves.


To get this look, use a large-barreled curling iron to place a few large curls in the bottom portion of your hair. Don’t use too much hairspray. Emma’s hair never looks too hard or stiff. She never seems overly done. Put a few large curls in, and then run your fingers through them.
Occasionally, Emma will put her hair up, and she usually chooses a romantic and natural look when she does this. For example, she sometimes pulls her hair into a large side braid or in an up do with some wisps flowing down. She sometimes wears her hair in a ponytail.

