 Whatever the dish you’re making, tempering eggs for it is a lot easier than you might think. As long as you work quickly and by adding only a small amount of hot liquid to your eggs, your eggs will be tempered in no time. To do it right, you’ll need:


Heat resistant bowl. It’s important to beat your eggs in a tempered glass (like Pyrex) bowl, or a ceramic bowl, so it won’t heat up and cook the eggs from underneath. You want the liquid to do the cooking, not the surface, which will cause the eggs to curdle.
Whisk. The technique requires that you aggressively whisk the eggs while adding hot liquid, making a whisk useful. In a pinch, a fork is a fine alternative.
Ladle. You’ll need something to spoon the hot liquid from the pot, preferably a large ladle with a spout, so you can control how much you add.;
, Depending on your recipe, you might have anywhere between 1 and 6 eggs that you’re preparing to temper, but the process will be the same regardless of the amounts. Crack all your eggs into your heat resistant bowl, then beat them until thoroughly integrated.Continue whipping the eggs until they just become frothy. Beaten eggs, as you’d make for scrambled eggs, will be more likely to curdle, since the consistency will be thicker. You want more of an omelet consistency. When you start to see a foam appear on the top of the eggs, you’re in good shape.
Let the eggs sit and come up to room temperature while you make the rest of the recipe. It’s more difficult to temper very cold eggs, so it’s important to let them come up to room temp gently before tempering.
 Whether you’re making a savory dish or a custard, the next step is basically the same. You want to add a small amount of the hot liquid you’re using to temper, while whisking the eggs vigorously at the same time. When you’re sure the eggs haven’t curdled, add a little more. Continue in this way until the eggs are tempered.


Start with a tablespoon or two and wait until you’re sure it isn’t curdling to add more. Some recipes will play fast and loose with the instructions, telling you to add a whole ladle full of boiling milk to eggs. It’s safer to start with smaller amounts and gradually bring the heat up. Continue adding until you’ve increased the volume of the eggs by at least half.
 Eggs are tempered when the mixture is steaming, and you can feel the heat in your hand holding the bowl. At this point, the eggs are essentially cooked without having scrambled. You can pour it all in at once, give it a few stirs, and the tempering is done. You don’t have to worry about the eggs curdling at this point.


The mixture helps to thicken broths and custards, creating a rich sauce. When you pour it back in, you should notice the broth or the milk thicken somewhat, and take on a cloudier, yellowy tint.
 If you rush the process by trying to add too much heat at once, you might notice a few curds start to form. Don’t panic, but stop adding the hot liquid and stirring the eggs. Get a spoon and fish out the curds, or run the egg mixture through a strainer if necessary and restart the process. If the whole thing as curdled, throw it out and start over.


Alternatively, you can just ignore some curds if you don’t mind the texture. Keep whisking vigorously and you’ll hardly even notice the texture.

