 Sometimes, you can use visualization during a moment of anxiety to calm down. This usually means going on a mental vacation. You think of a calming place or scenario, close your eyes, and imagine being there. To start, brainstorm some places you find calming.


Think about your past and present. What memories do you find the most calming? Is there a special place or moment that brings you feelings of happiness?
Make a list of your most calming places. These will vary from person to person and can be vague or specific. For example, you can picture yourself by an unnamed body of water. However, you may also remember a specific room in your grandmother's house where you used to nap as a child.
 Before you can visualize in moments of stress, you need to practice at home. This will help you get the hang of the visualization process.


Find a comfortable place in your home that's free of outside distractions. Lie down or sit in a position that's comfortable for you. If it helps, play soft music or light candles. Anything that makes the experience more relaxing.Close your eyes. This makes it easier to focus on the mental image over your physical surroundings.
If you're having trouble relaxing and getting started, try taking a few deep breaths. Breathe in through your nose and then out through your mouth, channeling the air towards your lower abdomen. This can help quiet your mind and allow you to focus on your imagination.
 Visualization is most powerful when you engage with all your senses. When you go on your mental vacation, pay attention to sight, smell, touch, sound, and taste.


Say a relaxing spot for you would be a spring day near a lake watching a group of ducks swimming. First, what does this image look like? What color is the water? What colors are the ducks? What kind of foliage surrounds you? Where are you in this scenario? Are you sitting on a nearby bench? Standing over a bridge running across the creek?Engage with your other senses. What does it sound like? Imagine hearing the gentle flow of running water. Think about the quacking noises the ducks would make. What might this area smell like? Are there lilac trees blooming nearby, for example? Can you smell the wet dirt near the lake?Can you taste the air in your mouth? Do you taste a small hint of dirt and water with each breath? How do you feel physically in this moment? Are you pleasantly warm with only a light spring jacket? Is there a gently breeze blowing on your face?, When you find yourself in a stressful situation, close your eyes and take a mental vacation. If you can successfully imagine yourself somewhere calm and relaxing, this can help initiate the body's calming response.By doing this regularly, you can train yourself to respond calmly to stressful or frightening situations.When you experience fear, your body enters fight-or-flight mode, which means it's pumping you full of hormones like adrenaline and cortisol (known as the "stress hormone") and your blood pressure and heart rate become elevated.
Relaxing your body and mind through visualization will help activate the relaxation response, which will trigger your brain to release signals and hormones that calm your body and mind.Many people find visualization very effective for combating fear in the moment. If you're scared of flying, try visualization during take off. If you're unable to sleep due to stressful thoughts, try visualizing before bed each night.