 You will be tested on the information provided in the manual during the written test for your learner's permit.


Visit the MVA website featured in the Sources section of this article, then click on the "Forms" link toward the top of the web page.
Click on the link for "Commercial Driver's License Manual Form DL-151" within the Commercial Driver Licensing Forms section. You will have the option to read or print the manual from your computer.
Obtain the manual from a full-service MVA office if you do not have Internet access. To locate the nearest MVA office, call the MVA customer service line at 1-800-950-1682 Monday through Friday between the hours of 8:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m.;
, To receive a learner's permit or to transfer your out-of-state license, the MVA will need to see original documents that prove your identity, legal status, and Maryland residency.


Bring 1 document that proves your age and identity; such as your United States birth certificate or a valid United States passport.
Bring 1 document that verifies your Social Security Number (SSN); such as your Social Security Card, a W-2 or 1099 tax form aged less than 18 months, or a paystub that displays your name and SSN.
Bring 2 documents that prove that you are a Maryland resident; such as your vehicle registration card or title, utility or cable bill, bank statement, or residential rental contract.
To view a complete list of documents accepted by the MVA, visit the MVA website provided in the Sources section of this article and click on the link for "sources of proof for required documentation."

, The DOT card is required of all drivers who operate commercial vehicles.


Visit your health care provider or physician to obtain the DOT card. You will be required to undergo a physical examination during your visit. If you need a blank DOT form, visit the MVA website listed in the Sources section of this article and click on "Medical Examination Report" to print the DOT form from your Internet browser.



Bring 90 dollars (65 euros) for a learner's permit, or 65 dollars (47 euros) if you are converting your out-of-state commercial drivers license to the state of Maryland.
 During your visit, you will be required to complete the commercial drivers application and take the vision screening and written tests if you are applying for a learner's permit.
 After you have practiced driving a commercial vehicle with your learner's permit, you can take the skills test to receive your commercial drivers license.


Visit the MVA website listed in the Sources section of this article, then click on "Scheduling Appointments" on the left below the Online Transactions section. You will then be taken to the MVA scheduling website.
Click on "Driver Skills Test" on the left, then follow the on-screen prompts to make your appointment for the skills test.
If you cannot make an appointment on the Internet, call the MVA's main customer service department at 1-800-950-1682 to schedule an appointment over the phone.
 The vehicle inspection part of the test will take up to 45 minutes, the road test will take up to 40 minutes, and the skills maneuvering test will take up to 10 minutes for each maneuvering task you are assigned.


Bring your learner's permit, and a commercial vehicle that has been registered and insured with the state of Maryland. After you have passed the skills test, the MVA will issue you the commercial drivers license.

