 It is important to start with a clean slate. Wash your face with a gentle cleanser and then follow with a lightweight moisturizer. If you will be spending time out in the sun, then use a moisturizer that contains sunscreen.You can also try a primer. Primers can help to even out your skin and make your foundation look better after you put it on. Try using a matte primer if you want a shine-free look. Just apply the primer to your whole face before you apply your foundation.
Using a special serum, such as an eye cream or fine line serum, can also be helpful.Try choosing a special serum that targets an area that tends to give you trouble.;
, If you have dark circles under your eyes, then apply a few vertical steaks of concealer over them and then blend them well.Your concealer should be a shade or two lighter than your foundation and using one that has a yellow tone to it will also help to cover dark circles better.








You can use a concealer brush or use a concealer that comes in stick form.
Don’t worry if it looks really bright. You can blend and even out the color when you apply your foundation.
 Next, apply foundation to your entire face to give yourself even coverage. Make sure that you blend you foundation evenly, especially around your hairline and in the creases around your nose and chin.








You can also use special tools to make blending your foundation easier, such as a blending sponge, a foundation brush, or a buffing brush.Make sure that you choose a foundation that suits your needs. Foundation is available in light coverage formulas and full coverage formulas. You can also get foundation that is moisturizing, matte finish, or oil-free., After you have finished applying your foundation, you might notice a few pimples that are still visible through the makeup. In this case, you can apply a little extra concealer to cover these pimples.








Pat on the concealer with a small makeup brush and then use one of your blending tools to blend the makeup in.
If you want, you can also blend a few different concealer or foundation colors to create a custom color.
 If you want some bronze highlights, then you can apply a few strategic streaks of a darker color foundation. Choose a foundation that is a few shades darker than your foundation and apply streaks down the sides of your nose, the hollow areas of your cheeks, and just above your eyebrows.








Use one of your blending tools to blend in the darker color foundation until your skin looks sun-kissed.
 To ensure that your makeup will stay flawless all day long, apply a dusting of translucent powder over your makeup. This will also help to soak up any extra oil and provide a matte look.








Use a large fluffy brush to apply your powder.
Apply the powder all over your face.

