 Everyone's spiritual journey, whether in response to difficult challenges or uplifting opportunities, is unique. Despite this, many spiritual journeys will use similar tools or go down similar paths.Remember that, though advice from others can be helpful, nobody can tell you how your journey should be going, or what direction it should be going in.


You are ultimately responsible for the direction of your journey. If one of the steps in this guide produce stress or harm for you, skip it for the time being and find an alternative that helps you contemplate your life.
No religion has a monopoly on truth. If a religion or its followers begin to control or scare you, consider backing up and consulting a different source.;
, Though this may seem like pre-planning, your journey begins now. Take inventory of your thoughts, feelings, fears, and expectations. Record your thoughts about daily life and your long-term thoughts. Every week, read over your entries and contemplate your accomplishments and challenges for the week. Use this as a grounding exercise to understand your worries, hopes, and ambitions in context.


Such practice is often referred to as keeping a "mindfulness journal."Its purpose is to reveal to you the thought patterns that govern your life, possibly negatively, so that you may focus on transforming them.
 The mindfulness journal can help in organizing your thoughts in regards to goal-setting. Spiritual journeys can help those who want to be calmer and less angry, who are anxious about death, who want to enlarge their sense of wonder about the world, or who are struggling to leave behind an old belief system. As this is your journey, it will help you heal or change whatever it is you decide to focus on.


Prioritize what interests you intellectually as well as emotionally; think about what you are curious about, as well as what you might change to live a healthier life. Spiritual journeys can incorporate both intellectual and emotional aspects of your life.
Remember that spiritual goals may take a lifetime to accomplish, and often change along the way. Avoid setting deadlines for your goals, or allowing them to stress you out.
 Do you have a single challenge you need assistance with? Or are you looking for long-lasting personal transformation? Are you simply looking for a meditative practice to add to your routine, or are you having a heavy crisis of faith? Understand beforehand how sweeping your journey may be; like therapy, a spiritual journey may require all your focus in changing your relationship to the world, or it may only need a small amount of your time and attention.


Many spiritual journeys are lifelong affairs that constantly build upon themselves. Spirituality is a crucial part of life, and is hardly ever separate from it.Allow your scope to change as is necessary.

