 There are many approaches to decluttering your space. Depending on your schedule (if you have one), take an hour or two or maybe even a whole day to declutter (depending how much stuff you do have to declutter). No matter how little time you have, you'll be able to find a decluttering schedule that works for you.Start small. Focus on one room at a time and work your way to the next one until you have decluttered every room you planned on decluttering. When you begin to declutter, you may be tempted to turn your entire house outside down and to gut every single piece of furniture right from the start. This may seem like a good idea, but it will actually make your space seem so messy that your goals become unmanageable.This may seem like it will take forever, but if you're methodical, you'll be able to make the most of your time. You can even declutter your things if you commit just five minutes a day to the process.Set reasonable goals. You should only empty out a room or a piece of furniture if you have the time to sort through everything in it and to put everything back in its place.;
, Decluttering will be much more fun and manageable if you enlist the help of others, whether you have roommates or just helpful friends who want to spend time with you. Working with others to declutter your space will make the time pass by much faster, and will make the entire process more enjoyable. You do not have to do this, though. For some, decluttering may be a personal project.


Play some music and order pizza. Make the whole process feel more like a party than a cleaning session. Don't let the leftovers and package lay around, though.
Having other people help you is also valuable because they may have better insight into the things you really need. A trusted friend or family member can give you the courage to throw out an item that you're attached to for no good reason.
 Once you've found a schedule that works for you, as well as the help of some trusted friends, you can start the process by getting rid of some easy superficial targets. Before you get serious and take it one room at a time, you'll feel better if you're instantly able to get rid of a few items that are crowding your life. Here are some quick and easy targets that can give you a jump start on decluttering your space:


Just get a big black trash bag and fill it with old papers, old shoes you haven't worn in years, empty shampoo bottles, old mail, and anything else that's in plain sight.
Go through your fridge and medicine cabinets and toss any old and expired items.
Get rid of any garish pieces of furniture that are crowding your space. If you just can't stand that big, ugly chair in the corner of your living room, you may feel better if you set it to the curb right away.

