 After you have mounted your horse, move him to an enclosed area that has an even surface.Turning on the forehand involves a number of leg movements, so your horse will need to be sure of his footing while turning sideways.


After you moved him to the work area, it may be helpful to warm him up for about 20 minutes (e.g., trotting, walking) before starting your training session.;
, Turning on the forehand can be easier to practice when your horse is at a complete stop. To stop his forward movement, apply steady pressure on his reins.His strides will shorten until he stops walking.As you bring your horse to a halt, make sure that you are sitting up straight. This will prevent you from shifting your weight and possibly causing your horse to either keep moving forward or move backward.It can sometimes be helpful to practice turning on the forehand when your horse is parallel to a fence or rail.This would give you a frame of reference to make sure that you are not bending your horse’s neck too much with the reins.If you practice parallel to a fence or rail, your horse’s hind end will turn away from, and his head will turn towards, the fence or rail., This pressure should be placed three to four inches behind your horse’s girth.The leg that applies this pressure is called the ‘inside leg’ and is used to encourage your horse’s sideways movement.Your horse will turn in the direction of your inside leg.The pressure you use should be firm, but not forceful. Turning on the forehand requires your horse to move away from your pressure, but he may instinctually push back against the pressure if it is too forceful.When you apply the pressure, one of your horse’s hind legs will move in front of and across the other hind leg. For example, if you apply pressure with your right leg, your horse’s right hind leg will move in front of and across the left hind leg.Applying pressure with your inside leg will also cause one of your horse’s front legs to move around the other. If you use your right leg as the inside leg, your horse’s left front leg will move around the right front leg, with the right front leg staying still.The leg that is not applying pressure (the ‘outside leg’) should be kept steady so that you can keep your balance on your horse.This leg will also keep your horse from trying to turn too quickly., Having good control of the reins will help you prevent your horse from moving forward. With one hand, you will lift one of the reins up and back to flex your horse’s neck slightly in the direction of the turn.The rein used to flex your horse’s neck is called the ‘inside rein.’For example, if your horse is turning to right, your right rein will flex your horse’s neck to the right.


Flex your horse’s neck with your inside rein until you can see the inside corner of his eye.You will use the rein in your other hand (the ‘outside rein’) for support and to keep your horse from moving forward.Keep the outside rein close to your horse’s neck.Do not use your reins to pull your horse’s head in the direction of the turn.This will cause his turn to be somewhat awkward.
The use of your reins should be coordinated with the use of your legs to facilitate a proper turn on the forehand., To complete the turn on the forehand, you will need to repeatedly apply pressure with your inside leg and flex your horse’s neck in the direction of the turn with your inside rein. Your horse will respond by moving one hind leg across the other and one front leg around the other (depending on the direction of the turn). With each step that he takes, he will move around in a circle a little more.Halt after each step until your horse completes the turn.The turn will be complete when your horse has turned 180 degrees.Give your horse some positive reinforcement (e.g., verbal praise, small treat) when he has completed the turn., If your hands and legs do not work together, your horse will not be able to perform a proper turn on the forehand. For example, if you use your inside rein to flex your horse’s neck too far, your horse will turn in response to that flexion rather than responding to your inside leg’s pressure. He will also not be able to cross one hind leg in front of the other.Using the reins more than your legs may also cause your horse to back up and out of the turn.Using your legs more than your hands may cause your horse to walk in a circle (rather than doing a turn on the forehand), or simply leave the turn., You may think that applying more and more pressure with your inside leg will encourage your horse to turn on the forehand. However, the more pressure you use, the more your horse will want to push back towards the pressure, rather than move away from it.If he is preoccupied with pushing back, then he will not make the proper turn.


Even though a spur may be useful in applying enough pressure, digging in with your spur will likely cause your horse to push back.If you sense that your horse is pushing back, ease up on the pressure that you are applying with your inside leg.
Another option is to work on ground training that will teach him to move away from your pressure., If you are sitting unevenly on your horse’s back, he may move in response to where your body weight is, rather than responding to your leg pressure or use of the reins. In addition, if you are unbalanced, then your horse will have to work harder to maintain his own balance.If he has to make an extra effort to stay balanced, then he will not be able to turn on the forehand properly.


Sitting up straight and staying centered on your horse’s back will evenly distribute your weight, keeping both you and your horse balanced.