 Conflict is normal within any relationship. Conflicts can even be a way to bring you closer together by encouraging you to collaborate on your relationship and get at something better in the end. It’s all in how you handle conflicts when they arise. Developing habits to help you manage conflict in a healthy, helpful way will definitely improve your marriage.Don’t talk when you’re angry. Despite the conventional wisdom that says you should never “go to bed angry,” trying to discuss something when one or both of you is upset can just make the situation worse. This is because when you’re upset, your body triggers a “fight or flight” response by flooding your body with adrenaline. This really puts the damper on your ability to think and speak calmly and rationally. Be aware of your body. If you notice that your heart rate is elevated, you’re having trouble breathing, or you’re “seeing red,” take a time-out.Take a break yourself, and respect your spouse’s needs. Either one of you can call for a break if you’re feeling too upset. It’s important to do this in a respectful way. Instead of saying something like “I can’t even talk to you when you’re like this,” talk about your own feelings and acknowledge that this issue is important and you will talk about it later. For example: “I am feeling very upset right now and I need a little time to collect my thoughts. I agree this is an important thing to discuss. Let’s talk in an hour when I’ve cooled off a little.” This way, your spouse knows you’re not trying to ignore the conversation. Similarly, if your spouse calls for a break, respect it. Don’t try to chase him or her down or talk over your partner.
 It’s important not to sweep your concerns under the rug -- they’ll trip you up eventually. Bring up what is bothering you or what you need in an open, kind way. Don’t expect your spouse to “just know” what you need. S/he isn’t a mind-reader, and neither are you!


Don’t use sarcasm or guilt when you share your needs. Make a simple statement of the problem using “I”-statements when possible. For example, “Lately I have been feeling lonely because we’re not spending much time together. When we don’t have that connection, I feel like I’m not as important to you, and that makes me sad.”Once you’ve shared your need, invite your spouse to do the same. Don’t let this become a one-sided thing. Instead, ask your partner for his or her opinion. “What do you think?” or “How do you feel about this?” are excellent questions to get you started. #* Look for “common concerns” that you may share with your partner. It’s possible that you actually share a need that you didn’t even know about. Or, you may each have a need that isn’t being fulfilled.
Don't “keep score.” Don't hold whatever your spouse did last summer against them right now or keep a running catalogue of all the minor annoyances. Keeping score instantly turns your partner into your opponent. You're on the same team! Never forget that.
A weekly “conflict processing” conversation can be very helpful. It can be a place where you feel safe to present your concerns and you know you will be heard with respect and kindness. You can use this space as a place for both of you to collaborate to address these issues.
Find the right time and place. You won’t always be able to find the ideal time and place to have a serious conversation, but try to avoid distractions as much as possible. Don’t try to have a deep conversation about a concern when one of you is exhausted or distracted by something else. Find a time when both of you can focus on listening and sharing.
 If your partner brings up something that s/he has a problem with, don't try to turn it around with a "Well, I might ____ but yesterday you ______ed...". If you have a problem with your spouse, you can bring that problem up at another time. Unless one is directly related to the other, more than one problem should not be brought into an argument.


Similarly, if you want to share a concern, don’t overwhelm your spouse with a whole litany of complaints. Focus on one thing that’s got you concerned. This will help both of you feel like you can actually tackle the issue.
 Blaming language puts your spouse on the defensive, and s/he’s not likely to hear even valid suggestions when s/he thinks s/he’s being attacked. When you bring up concerns, make sure you don’t resort to “guilting” or blaming your spouse.


For example, instead of saying “Why don’t you ever snuggle with me anymore?” say something like “I really enjoy snuggling with you. I’d like to do it more often. What do you think?” The first way blames your spouse and feels like an attack. The second way says that you enjoy something about your spouse so much that you want even more of it.
 It’s crucial that you be mindful of how your interactions evolve, especially when you’re discussing a sensitive or upsetting issue. If you notice that one or both of you is getting “flooded” by emotions, take a step back. Paying attention to your conflicts will help keep you from unproductive or hurtful fighting or avoidance.Pay attention to what works for you. Every couple is different, and what works to repair conflicts will also be different.
Using humor is a common way to deflect anger. Be careful not to use sarcastic humor, though, which will generally make things worse.Validation is acknowledging that something about what your partner is saying makes sense. You don’t have to completely understand or agree with your spouse to let him or her know that you “get” why s/he feels a certain way.For example, you could say something like “It makes sense to me that when I didn’t kiss you goodnight because you felt unimportant to me.” Remember: you don’t have to agree that your spouse is “right” or that you meant to hurt him or her. You’re just acknowledging that s/he did feel a certain way. This simple gesture can help your spouse feel cared for even during conflict.
Ask for a “redo.” If your spouse says something hurtful, ask him or her to rephrase it. Don’t get angry, just communicate your feelings: “That really hurt my feelings. Can you please say what you’re meaning in a different way?”
Take responsibility. Problems and issues are almost never one-sided. Taking responsibility for even a small part of the problem you’re facing can go a long way toward helping your spouse feel acknowledged.
 If you and your spouse keep experiencing the same conflict, it could be due to things about your personalities that simply aren’t likely to change. For example, if you’re an extrovert who loves to go out with friends and your spouse is a deep introvert, you could end up having the same conflict about what to do every weekend.Some of these things are just the way things are, and you will both have to develop an accepting, flexible attitude to keep them from becoming sources of conflict.


Depersonalize. One reason our spouse’s actions can cause conflict is because we make them personal when they really aren’t. For example, if your spouse really doesn’t care about vacations and doesn’t seem to enjoy himself or herself when traveling, a personalization approach would make it about you: “If s/he really loved me s/he would have a better time on vacation.” This type of approach isn’t fair to either of you: it can lead to you feeling hurt by things that aren’t intended to hurt, and can encourage you to blame yourself for things that aren’t your fault., Don’t assume that you “know” what your spouse is thinking or feeling. It can be very tempting to “mind read,” where we read into a situation our own interpretations and biases. This is extremely damaging to the relationship.Rather than attempting to be “right” or “defend” your position, be curious about your spouse’s thoughts and feelings. Recognize that almost all situations are subjective and you and your spouse may have very different interpretations. Neither of you is probably “right” or “wrong.” It’s important to listen to each other to avoid gridlock.
Questions are also very useful as a form of active listening. When your spouse is sharing feelings or thoughts with you, take some time to reflect what you just heard back to him or her. Ask for clarification. For example, “I heard you say that you feel angry because I didn’t remember our date last night. Is that what you meant?”, Too often, people view compromise as a “they win, I lose” situation. In reality, compromise is a crucial element of a solid, happy marriage. Compromise is the search for common ground between the two of you, and it’s necessary to address problems.Compromising doesn’t mean you give up on things that are truly important to you -- that would result in resentment and regret. It means finding out what you can live with and what are the “dealbreakers.”


Dr. John Gottman recommends that each spouse draw two circles, one inside the other. In the smaller inside circle, write the things that you absolutely need. These are the things that your core values demand, that you just can’t live without. In the bigger circle, write things that you could live with.Share your circles with your spouse. Look for points where the big circles overlap. Those are places where you can probably find ground to compromise.
Talk with your spouse about your negotiables and non-negotiables. Sharing with your partner may inspire you to grow your negotiable areas bigger, or may help your spouse understand why something is so crucial to you., As a way to illustrate these communication techniques, consider the following example. You want to focus your free time on developing a nonprofit project that’s very important to you. Your spouse wants to spend free time going on vacation. This divergence in desires could cause conflict, but handled in a healthy way, it can help you work together to understand each other and find a solution.Begin by telling your partner that you’d like to have a conversation so that you can both understand where the other is coming from. Don’t make accusations or use blaming language. Instead, say something like, “It sounds like we have a difference of opinion here. Let’s talk about why we feel so strongly about these things.”
Invite your partner to ask you questions about your views. For example, your partner could ask open-ended questions about why you want to work on this project, such as what it will accomplish for you, what it means to you, what worries you may have about it, etc. Your partner can practice active listening skills and describe to you what s/he heard, checking to make sure it was heard right. S/he can summarize what s/he took as the significance of this project to you, and you can offer your opinions on that.
Next, ask your spouse about his/her views. Explore the position of wanting to take a vacation. Use questions and active listening skills to listen to his/her opinions, just as s/he listened to you.
Once you have a good grasp of the other’s position and what it means, try to figure out a way for both of your needs to be met. This may mean you reach a compromise, or it may mean that one or the other of you decides to put your plans on hold for the other person. What matters is that you work together to discuss what you’ll do, and that your spouse knows you are always there to support him/her.

