 If you're having an uncontrollably good time, your audience will too. You must keep the mood up, and both the band and the crowd will follow your lead. If you're smiling and having fun, they will be too. Even for tough shows, or when you're not feeling 100%, a "fake it until you make it" approach will help everyone have more fun.


Even serious acts and hardcore bands are having fun on stage while they play, so don't be afraid to let loose.
 Watch some of the classic lead singers, like Mick Jagger of the Rolling Stones, and note how he almost never stands still. For beginners, a good way to think about this is to try to sing individually to every person in the room at least once. So you might walk to the left and spend some time singing to them, then move right and sing a few bars to someone on the other side of the room.


If you have background singers, join them on the microphone for a few bars to show a sense of community.
If you're using a corded microphone, test out its length during mic checks to avoid accidentally pulling out of the amp.
 If you're playing a sadder ballad, you might not move at all. In fact, you might consider pulling up a stool or chair for the song, keeping you in place and providing a much more dramatic feel. Alternatively, don't just sit in the center of the stage for a barn-burning rock tune -- move, jump, dance, and sing your heart out as if possessed.


How can you change your facial expressions to match the songs? At what point are the lyrics suitably emotional? For a good lesson, watch Geoff Tate sing.
For a truly captivating performance, you can blend the two effects. For example, in a song that gains power slowly, like "You Can't Always Get What Your Want," you may start sitting before you burst out of your seat with uncontrolled energy.
 As the front person of the band, you want to be big and in charge, pulling the audience into the moment and getting them engaged in the music. How easy this is will depend on the crowd and their enthusiasm, but you have a few tricks up your sleeve:


Clapping or keeping time is easy and works with any crowd. To do so, have the band keep playing for an extra 2-4 bars for a section, clapping high above your head to signal the audience to do the same.
Teaching an easy sing-along right before the song starts. For example, your chorus could have a section that counts "1, 2, 3, 4, 5." Before the song starts, tell the audience this and ask "if they'd be willing to join the band for a song."
Using a well-placed cover song. Playing a song everyone knows allows them to sing along, even if you're not a big time band yet. Once they start singing, they're much more likely to stay engaged throughout the show.
 This is a good way to fill time while tuning up, or to fill some time before or after taking the stage. Remember that, while you are the face of the band, you are not the only member in it. Take the time to introduce the people behind you to make everyone happier.


"On guitar, we have the incredible...."
"Holding down the rhythm is our very own..."
Don't be afraid to customize these introductions. You could say where they are from, an interesting fact, or pay your bandmates a complement on their skills.
Some lead singers introduce the band individually. So you might introduce the guitarist after a song-ending solo, the drummer after a big climactic drum beat, etc.
 One of the best examples is the classic reggae and ska line "pick it up, pick it up, pick it up!" which is used to help stir the band and dancers into a frenzy out on the floor. Countless lead singers, caught in the moment of music, have used "yeah," "let's go," and "come on" to keep the energy of the song going.


Don't be afraid to get swept up in the music -- it's the best way to get the audience swept up as well., You should not be holding the spotlight on yourself the entire time. Whenever your bandmates take over a section of the song, drop back and let the audience focus on them for a moment. At the most, you can very quickly introduce or set them up before they play:


"Take it away, ________" is a great way to pass the baton to your guitarist right before he starts shredding a solo., This can even change depending on the song, as it's a little strange during slower songs to be bouncing around with full energy. The classic option is a tambourine, as you can beat it against your hip in time with the song. Some singers will even pull out wood blocks, cowbells, and triangles as the song requires.


Ask your bandmates if their are any songs that you can easily learn on an acoustic guitar, playing it occasionally mix up your performance. In some cases you don't have to turn this guitar up loudly, just using it as a quiet prop, which helps hide any mistakes.
While it seems obvious, don't play an instrument on stage if you struggle to keep time while singing. Your voice is the first priority.
 If you've ever seen the same band twice during the same tour, you'll see how popular this is. When you tell a story about your day that gets a huge laugh in between songs, try the story again the next show and see if goes over just as well. Furthermore, you can even start designing movements and acting ideas that bring your band and audience together.


Is there any back and forth joke or dialogue between you and other bandmates that people enjoy?
If you like to dance, are their moves or routines that you keep coming back to?
For hard-rocking bands, are their any big, climactic moments where you might stick a stage dive or dramatic dance move?