 You might feel that your birthmark is all people look at when they see you, or find that people tend to stare, or even make comments, about your birthmark. Instead of quietly ignoring the attention your birthmark might be getting, address it. Not only will it help you move on from focusing on your birthmark, but it will also help you build confidence.If you find people are staring at your birthmark, simply make eye-contact with them and smile.
Try making a joke about your birthmark to lighten the mood and show others that your birthmark is not what defines you.;
, Staying positive will help you develop beneficial perspectives about your birthmark, and will allow you to be in public without anxiety or worry. The more positive you are about your birthmark, the more comfortable you will be responding to others’ reactions and being in public.Try and tell yourself things like “My birthmark does not define who I am!” or “My birthmark is a part of me and makes me unique!”

, Some people might make comments about your birthmark no matter what age or context. Instead of dwelling on their comments, address them and ignore them. Having a birthmark does not warrant comments that make you uncomfortable, so be sure to speak up and let others know. Finding ways to address others’ comments will also help you move on and not dwell on their negativity.


Try addressing negative comments with statements like, “Excuse me, but those comments make me uncomfortable” “I don’t appreciate you speaking to me that way” or “Please stop making negative comments about my birthmark.”

, Children may be particularly curious and affected by birthmarks. Be sure to explain that birthmarks are a natural process that does not mean that another person if different from someone else. Positively reinforcing your child’s birthmarks will help them develop a healthy relationship with their own body and image.Help your child prepare statements at home to use when confronted by bullies or others who stare, like “My birthmark doesn’t make me any different than you” or “I like my birthmark, it makes me, me.”

, Be proud of your birthmark and how it makes you unique. Nobody is completely blemish-free or devoid of any imperfections. Think of your birthmark as a unique mark that identifies who you are.


Try embracing your birthmark by bringing it up in conversation, giving it a name, or pretending it has extra qualities. You could say something like, “This is my birthmark Fred and he has superpowers.”

, Finding a support group will allow you to learn from others’ experiences, ask questions, and find a community of people who share similar concerns. There are many ways to find a support group, from local in-person meetings to online forums and blogs. Research support groups online to see if there are local or online communities you can join.One advantage of finding an online support group is the ability to share large amounts of information with each other, like articles on self improvement or the effectiveness of treatment options.

