 If your friend experiences a difficult time, a tragedy, a loss, or a crisis, they will need a friend like you who cares. Notice if your friend is going through something and communicate your concern to them.It may be difficult to know what to say and it may depend on the situation or what they are going through. Try the following.


”I don't know what to say, but I'm here for you.”
”I'm so sorry you have to go through this. I'm worried about you.”
”I'm a little concerned about you because...”

, Communicating your concern shows your friend you are present in your friendship and notice when something is wrong. Take it one step further and ask how you can help or what you can do for them.Recognize that they are going through something challenging and the best way you can show you care is to be present for them in whatever might be helpful.Try asking the following.


”I've noticed some changes lately. Can you tell me what's been going on?”
”I want to help. What can I do?” or something more specific such as "Can I pick up groceries for you?"
”This has to be so hard. What do you need right now?”
”Do you want to talk about it?”

, Depending on the type of crisis or event, and your friend's support system, you may be able to show you care by looking for resources for them.If your friend is suffering with grief from a lost loved one, find local support groups or counseling services. If your friend had a fire in their apartment offer for them to stay with you. Depending on the situation, it may help your friend to have someone to help them navigate afterwards.


It may additionally be helpful to offer assistance with any responsibilities and duties they may have following a crisis. If your friend is resistant, suggest you do it together., Whether it's medical problems, failures, work issues, or relationship difficulties, you can always show devotion by showing perseverance. Offer your support now and make sure they know you will be by their side in the future.Not being there for your friend, during a crisis or a time when they need you the most, communicates a lack of devotion to the friendship.


Show your devotion by visiting them, sending a card, or leaving a note.
If others are coming down on them for whatever reason, stand by them.
Even if you don't know what to say or do, just be there. If they need you, you won't be far away.

