 You can whip up icing (or use a store bought variety) to make edible finger paint; simply add a few drops of food coloring to each bowl of icing so that your child has several colors to work with. Once you have several colorful icings to work with, have your child decorate cookies, or use the icing on paper. Give her an assignment, such as using only two specific colors to draw a specific thing.


For instance, you could ask your child to make a picture of the ocean and sun, using the correct colors (blue and yellow respectively).
 You can also make homemade colorful edible play doughs. Try mixing a cup of flour with half a cup of water. Add a pinch of salt and a teaspoon of baking powder. Knead into a dough.


If the dough is still too soft, just add a bit more flour to it until you get your desired consistency. Wrap the dough in a plastic wrap and keep it in the fridge for half an hour. Afterwards, separate the dough into as many colors as you want to use, and add a few drops of food coloring to each ball of dough. Knead the dough to incorporate the color.






Once your dough is ready, have your child work with the colorful dough to create shapes. Ask your child to make a purple triangle, or a blue circle.
 Let your toddler scribble and doodle on the sidewalk with sidewalk chalk. Guide her drawings to help her learn her shapes and colors. Ask her to draw a scene with a pink balloon, or a yellow flower.


You can also ask your child to draw certain shapes in different colors.
 Place an assortment of colored jelly beans in a bowl. Give your child five or more empty cups. Ask your child to sort the jelly beans into groups of colors.


When she does this correctly, let her reward be that she can eat one cup of the jelly beans, or one of each kind of jelly bean, depending on what she likes.
 You can purchase these flashcards from bookstores or learning stores. Give your child the cut out shapes, and ask her to match them to the cards that have the same shapes on them. Ask her, “look at the shape you are holding; which card has the same shape on it?”.
 Give your child a collection of items that are distinctly shaped like the shapes that you are trying to teach your child. Have your child sort these items into groups that are all the same shape.


For example, give your child three balls (all in different sizes), a round plastic plate, square boxes in different sizes, a piece of paper cut into the shape of a square, and several different rectangular shoe boxes. Ask your child to sort these items into circles, squares, and rectangles.






You can also make a batch of cookies and cut them so that there are five circles, five triangles, and five squares. Mix the cookies up and ask your child to sort them into circles, triangles and squares. As a reward, she can eat one of the cookies.
 Get your child a stuffed animal, or use one that she already has. Draw images of food that have distinct shapes, such as a circular apple, or a triangle pear, and cut them out (the shapes should be exaggerated so that your child can tell the difference; the foods don’t need to look like they normally do).


Have your child feed the stuffed animal different shaped foods each day. Tell your child that today, the stuffed cat can only eat oval shaped foods.







