


Make sure you are practicing regularly with a solid goal in mind. Playing scales and arpeggios are quite helpful; because if you listen, you'll sooner or later notice that scales and arpeggios form basic building blocks for any melody.
One of the best ways to find your sound is to play along with, and learn, different styles of music that you enjoy listening to.
The transposition of melodies and chord progressions can give you insight into a professional musician's perspective as well as open up your repertoire on your instrument.;
,


Now that you've explored some of your favorite kinds of music you can try writing parts.
Don't limit yourself to just writing blazing solos, rather try writing chord progressions, lyrics or melodies. Gaining insight into all aspects of songwriting will help you develop an ear for the subtleties of music.



You may benefit from recording yourself as you begin to grow and develop a coherent sound and voice on your instrument. Acquire a simple 4-track or handheld recorder and record your ideas.
Melodies or other sounds that pop into your head that you might want to remember.
Having access to a recording device to capture these moments will greatly improve your ability to develop ideas into a solid piece of music.
Practice your instrument as much as possible, but it is important that you practice with your mind and not with your fingers.
8 hours of running scales is far less beneficial than 2 hours of concentrated technique and melodic articulation.



Once you have found out what kind of music you're influenced by, it is time to find a good teacher.
It would be best not to settle on the first 1 you meet. Try multiple teachers out until you find 1 you can communicate with verbally as well as musically.
It is necessary for the teacher to push you and stretch your limits. Without a dedicated teacher you have to rely on self-motivation and self-discipline, which can be challenging.



Once you've developed your voice, you might want to start sharing the music you're playing with other people.
It is very important to be in touch with what is happening in the music industry.
Take note of how other performers behave on stage and read biographies.



Excess consumption of alcohol and drugs can lead to countless problems and, in particular, reduce your focus and motivation. You should stay away from the partying lifestyle if you really want to develop as a musician.



Being in a band of musicians that has a common goal is very beneficial for your musical development.
You may not be in the right group if you find yourself around people that are not goal-oriented and focused.
Let go of attachments to friends who may be on an entirely different path. It may be hard at first, but, if your goal is to develop as a musician, you should surround yourself with musicians.



Up-and-coming musicians and professionals will play as much as possible.
Do not worry about getting paid. Remember, you didn't start playing music for the financial benefits. You may not get paid for a long time, but playing before an audience will help you develop your stage presence and sound.



Focus on what needs to be improved.
Write your mistakes down after the show and practice until you eliminate them.

