 People are not going to know what you need unless you tell them. Assuming that people know things can lead to problems. Being assertive means that you let people know what you want in a clear way so that your needs are met and there are no problems or feelings of resentment.For example, if you are working on a project, you may want to say, “I want to have this project done three days before it is due. Will you meet with me this weekend so we can work on most of it?”

, When talking to another person, use “I” statements instead of “you” statements. This helps you express what you want without blaming the other person. This also helps you be responsible for your feelings. The word “you” may cause the other person to be defensive, which doesn’t lead to a constructive conversation.For example, you may say, “I feel upset when my clothes are returned dirty. I know we like to borrow each other’s clothes, so can we talk about this?” instead of "You always borrow my clothes and don't wash them before giving them back."

, Part of being assertive is learning to say no. Saying no doesn’t mean that you are rejecting a person or being mean. It means that you are just expressing your unwillingness to do this particular thing. Recognizing your boundaries helps you know the right time to say no so you are not being taken advantage of.Remember that you don’t have to please everyone and it is, in fact, impossible to do so. You do not have to do everything everyone wants you to. Do what is right for you.
Suggest a compromise.
For example, you may say, “No, I do not want to go to the party Friday night; however, I would be interested in going to the movies or hanging out in your dorm room.”

, If you have never been assertive, you will not learn how to be assertive overnight. That is okay. It may take awhile for you to learn how not to be passive or aggressive, or to get the skills of being assertive just right.Keep practicing. The more you practice the skills of assertiveness, the more comfortable you will become.

