 This is a free program that can open PDF files so that you can read them. Adobe Reader can be downloaded from get.adobe.com/reader/. You cannot use it to edit or create PDF files.


To learn how to edit PDF files, click here.
There are a variety of other free PDF reader programs if you don't want to install Adobe Reader.
Windows 8 comes with a PDF reader installed if you don't want to use Adobe Reader.;
, When installing Adobe Reader, a box will be automatically checked to add McAfee to your computer. Most users likely will not want this, so make sure to uncheck the box.
 For most users, Reader should open automatically, displaying your PDF file.
 PDF files can be password-protected by the creator, so you'll need the correct password if one is required.
 If you have Adobe Reader installed but PDF files won't open, you may need to associate Reader with PDF files.


Right-click on the PDF file and select "Open With".
Select "Adobe Reader" from the list of programs.
If Adobe Reader is not listed, you will need to browse for it on your computer. It is usually installed at C:\Program Files (x86)\Adobe\Reader


, If the PDF file requires a password and you don't have it, the only way to open it will be to ask the creator for the password or to use a password cracking program. If the password is strong, a cracking program could take hours or even days to recover the password.


One of the highest-rated PDF cracking programs is Advanced PDF Password Recovery by Elcomsoft. You'll need the Pro edition to access all the password recovery tools, and it will set you back $99.
 Adobe may refuse to open a PDF for not complying with PDF standards. This is most often the case for PDFs created with non-Adobe software, or if you are opening a really old PDF with a newer version of Reader.Try installing a third-party PDF reader. There are a variety of PDF readers, with Foxit Reader being one of the more popular options.

Upload the PDF to Google Drive. You may lose some of the formatting, but there's a better chance that you will be able to open it.

