 Sentence fragments happen when a dependent clause is made to stand on its own. They can also happen if a sentence lacks a subject or a verb.Here are some examples of sentence fragments:


"Although I was late to the party." The "although" here is what's known as a subordinating conjunction, and it creates a subordinate clause, which cannot stand on its own.This is a fragment because it does not provide a complete thought; there's meaning here that isn't explained (Although...what?).
"Hit something with my car." While you might use type of language in everyday speech, it's technically a fragment because it lacks a subject (who did the hitting). You could correct it as "I hit something with my car."

, Run-on, or fused, sentences happen when you include more than one independent clause (a clause with a subject and verb that expresses a complete idea) in your sentence.


For example, this is a run-on sentence: "I went to the store I got bread and milk." Each of the parts, I went to the store and I got bread and milk have a subject and verb, and each expresses a clear, complete idea.
You can fix run-ons in a few ways. You can separate the clauses with a semicolon, or you can use a comma and a conjunction, or you can break the clauses up into separate sentences:


I went to the store; I got bread and milk. The semi-colon shows the close relationship between clauses here.

I went to the store, and I got bread and milk. This conjunction shows less of a close relationship than the semi-colon, but it communicates that they're connected ideas.

I went to the store. I got bread and milk. This full break indicates that the ideas aren't all that related.
 Comma splices are related to run-on sentences because they both improperly connect independent clauses. Comma splices are very common errors, but are often considered major errors by teachers.For example, this is a comma splice: "I texted my friend, she didn't reply."

Both of these are independent clauses, because they have subjects and verbs and express a complete thought.


You can fix comma splices the same ways you fix run-on sentences:

With a semi-colon: "I texted my friend; she didn't reply."
With a comma and coordinating conjunction: "I texted my friend, but she didn't reply."
By splitting into two sentences: "I texted my friend. She didn't reply."



, If you have a fairly complex sentence, it can be easy to lose track of the nouns or verbs in it. However, if you don't maintain parallel structure, your sentences become difficult to read and lose a lot of their impact.For example, this sentence lacks parallel structure: "I enjoy fishing, swimming, and hike."

Instead, keep all the verbs in the same form: "I enjoy fishing, swimming, and hiking."


This can be a particular problem if you have a lot of clauses in your sentence. For example: "My teacher told me that I should submit my essay on time, that I should proofread it carefully before turning it in, and to not email her the night before."

Instead, keep all the clauses in the same structure: "My teacher told me that I should submit my essay on time, that I should proofread it carefully before turning it in, and that I should not email her the night before."



, A common mistake, especially with beginning writers or writers in a language they are still learning, is to write all your sentences in the same basic structure. Varying your sentences makes your writing read more smoothly and is more pleasant for the reader.For example, consider how repetitive this is: "I saw a zombie. I started to run. I tripped over a rock. I got up again. I kept running." All of the sentences have the same word order (subject-verb-direct object) and begin with the same subject.
Now look at a spiced-up version: "I saw a zombie and started to run, but I tripped over a rock. Panicked, I picked up myself up and kept running."

