 Diapering tools cannot be done without, so make this a priority. Diapering necessities include a one-week stash of diapers (for disposable diapers), or 15-20 cloth diapers, wipes, rash cream, and a diaper pail.


While some stores will have various gadgets such as diaper warmers, these are not necessary, and will clutter up a small space.
Be sure not to skip a diaper pail. A small space can be overwhelmed by the scent of soiled diapers quickly.
 Babies do not need wardrobes packed full of clothing items. Have enough clothing to last your baby one week, in addition to special items such as warm hats, sun hats, coats, swimsuits, and mittens. While the baby aisles lining most stores would suggest otherwise, a week’s worth of clothing will last your baby at least long enough to get another load in the washer.


Having fewer items will mean more frequent laundering. However, more frequent laundering will likely save a lot of stress when it comes to saving space.
 Sales can be extremely tempting, but avoid purchasing things out of season, instead purchasing only what you need at any given time. Having tons of clothes for each stage of your baby’s life will place a large spatial burden on your home, while buying as you need to ensures you have plenty of room for your growing family.Forego newborn shoes. They are unnecessary, and take up a lot of space. Instead, purchase thick, warm socks.
 Avoid purchasing single-use items, and opt for multi-use ones. This could be as simple as using a crib with drawers built in, to purchasing baby bottles that can be used as cups a few months down the road.Many baby strollers come equipped with the ability to carry car seats, then change into regular strollers as your child grows. These will cut down on space.
 Larger baby gear can take up a lot of room, and take over a home quickly. Whenever possible, opt for collapsible items, including strollers, high chairs, and swings. If possible, enlist a simple (small) umbrella stroller, high chairs designed to sit on already-existing chairs, and travel swings.Although umbrella strollers are not safe for use with newborns, you can have an umbrella stroller for 6 months and older, while using a baby carrier for the first six months.
Pack’N Plays can be used in the place of cribs, and some models even have a bassinet and changing table attachment included to further cut down on space.
 To cut down on space, you can borrow gently used items from family and friends. Prepping baby tools this way allows you to take items into your home only when they are needed, and free up space the moment they are no longer necessary.When using secondhand items, make sure all screws, pins, and joints are tight and secure. Over time, screws and nails can work themselves loose and create a safety hazard.

