 Metabolic reactions refer to biochemical reactions that take place inside the body of living systems. This includes mammalians and microorganisms in addition to plants. This type of chemical reactions is characteristic of living tissues only. It is not observed in the chemistry laboratory for example. This type of chemical reactions differs than chemical reactions that take place in the chemical laboratory in several aspects.;
, A principal metabolic reaction is the regulation of a constant temperature in the human body, a temperature at which all biochemical reactions inside the body take place. This is in contrast to chemical reactions that take place in the chemical laboratory and which can have variable thermal conditions that depend on the type of reaction. Besides the thermal control of the reaction conditions also other factors can be different between the two types of reactions.
 Enzymes are rarely used in chemistry laboratory. Instead, chemical reactions which occur in the laboratory usually proceed using catalysts that can be organo-metallic reagents or they can be heterogeneous catalysts that are present in the solid state. This type of catalyst is very different from the enzymes used to catalyze biochemical reactions inside the body.
 One basic difference is the lack of selectivity that is observed in the usual chemical laboratory. In contrast, biochemical reactions inside the body are highly selective and very specific. This is so due to the chiral nature of the enzyme molecule. Enzyme catalysis of biochemical reactions is a very efficient process that proceeds to completion with 100% yield. This process is usually not observed with normal chemical catalysts such as those used in homogeneous catalysis of organic reactions. This type of reactions usually is not selective nor is it specific. A mixture of products is usually obtained in this type of reactions. Also, another difference between the two types of chemical reactions is the unusual type of biochemical reactions that can occur inside the body. This type of reactions is completely specific for metabolic reactions in the body.
 This usage can allow for unusual reactions to occur which otherwise do not proceed without the enzyme catalysis. The types of chemical reactions that take place in the chemistry laboratory are very simple reactions that are based on simple rules of chemical reactivity.


The study of chemical reactions inside the body is completely dependent on the enzyme catalysis. Therefore, usually the kinetics of enzyme catalysis of a given biochemical reaction is extensively studied in order to elucidate the mechanism of reaction and the mechanism of catalysis. The study of chemical reactions in the chemistry laboratory usually is based on spectroscopic and kinetic techniques that can give information about the mechanism of the specific reaction. Also, the experimental techniques that are used in these two types of reactions are very different. This is so due to the difference of molecules which are involved in the chemical reactions. Biochemical reactions are usually done in aqueous media at room temperature. This is in contrast to chemical reactions which occur in the laboratory. In this case organic solvents are usually used instead of water medium. This difference in solvent leads to differences in the separation techniques that are used with each type of reactions. Also, biochemical reactions in aqueous media are environmentally more favorable than reactions in the laboratory that involve organic solvents.

