 A mosquito bite is essentially a pocket of acute inflammation. Not unlike a swollen knee, this inflammation can be treated by applying ice. The application of ice to a mosquito bite will also cause numbing, further reducing your desire to scratch. Apply ice for up to 20 minutes at a time.Fill a plastic bag with ice, use a reusable ice pack, or use a bag of frozen berries or peas.
Whatever you choose, wrap it with a towel. Don't expose your bare skin to the frozen material.
 Mix a tablespoon of baking soda with a tablespoon of water to make a paste. Apply this paste to any mosquito bite. The baking soda will sooth your skin, calming the itch, and soon you won’t even want to scratch.If you do not have baking soda, a similar paste can be made from crushed antacid (like Tums) and water.
Apply this paste as often as is needed.
 Another approach is to apply honey to a mosquito bite. Honey (especially honey local to your area) works like a natural antihistamine. Simply rub a small (dime-sized) dollop of the sweet stuff into any mosquito bites on your body. The best honey to use will be local to your area and raw.Be sparing with your application of honey! It is sticky and can pick up unwanted dirt.
 The antiseptic properties of tea tree oil (or melaleuca oil) are great for treating a variety of skin conditions, including mosquito bites. Place a little tea tree essential oil onto a cotton swab and apply it to the affected area. Lavender and peppermint oils are excellent choices as well.If you have very sensitive skin, you can mix a few drop of essential oil with coconut oil, and then apply.
This will dilute the oil just enough to make it gentle to your skin.
 Make yourself a nice cup of tea and retain your tea bag. Then press the warm tea bag into your mosquito bite. The natural tannins in tea have an astringent property, which can draw toxins out of the skin and lessen your discomfort.The best choice is pure black tea.
You can reuse the same tea bag a few times before it loses its potency.

