 Getting enough shut eye each night is not easy, especially if you’re someone who doesn’t have a regular, daily schedule. However, making sure you’re well rested also ensures you don’t overeat and indulge in that extra bowl of ice cream.


Research shows that people who get enough sleep are less likely to overeat, especially "emotional eating" which is the body's way of coping with extreme exhaustion. This is because in extreme exhaustion, your body is desperate for quick energy, which it can find in a high amount of calories, sugar, and carbohydrates.
A lack of sleep may also be responsible for a lack of specific hormones that help control appetite.More sleep means we get the proper level of hormones and therefore the proper appetite stimulation, helping us regulate how much food we eat.
 Have you ever used the excuse that you can have ice cream tonight because you skipped breakfast? While it might result in the same amount of calories on that day, it robs your body of needed nutrients and can cause you to overeat the next day to make up for it.


Instead of skipping meals, have either a meal or a snack every 3-4 hours while you’re awake. This will result in approximately 5 meals per day on an average day.Spreading out your eating will help stop cravings by keeping your body's hunger cues at bay, and also stop the awful energy crash when your blood sugar drops suddenly.
 Many people indulge in ice cream at the end of the day because they are actually hungry again, having eaten a less-than-satisfying dinner. Protein is known to make you feel fuller, longer, keeping some of those cravings at bay.


Eating protein with every meal will stop the hunger from reappearing in-between meals, which should stop you from suddenly feelings like you need an ice cream cone to get you by till dinner or as a late night snack., Thirst is often confused for hunger because they both have the same basic symptoms.Instead of having that ice cream snack, have a large glass of water first. Chances are you’ll feel full with the water and won’t feel like the ice cream after all.
In addition, start drinking water on a regular basis every day to help control your overall appetite. This can prevent the cravings from happening in the first place.

