 The care tag may indicate that you can clean the microfiber using water. If there is no tag, it is always best to use rubbing alcohol because water can stain microfiber., Remove any dirt particles, food crumbs, or dust from your microfiber before you begin cleaning with alcohol. This will ensure that you do not rub crumbs into the fabric. For the best results, use a brush attachment or hand-held vacuum when cleaning fabric.
 Rubbing alcohol should not leave a mark on microfiber; however, it is always a good idea to test the fabric before applying rubbing alcohol to the entire item. For example, if you are cleaning a microfiber couch, test a small piece of material on the back of the couch that is not visible., Pour approximately half a cup (118 ml) of rubbing alcohol into a spray bottle. The amount of alcohol you need will vary depending on the size of the item you are cleaning and the number of stains present on the material.Alternatively, you can try screwing a spray nozzle directly onto a large bottle of rubbing alcohol., In order to clean microfiber, spray the stain or the entire surface with rubbing alcohol. Touch the fabric to make sure that it is moist from the rubbing alcohol.Alternatively, if you are cleaning a small stain, you can spray the rubbing alcohol directly onto a sponge prior to scrubbing.
 Using a white or natural sponge, rub the area that was sprayed with alcohol. Depending on the severity of the stain, you may have to scrub pretty hard to lift the stain. If the stain doesn't lift, you can try repeating this step.It is important that you only use white or natural coloured sponges. Colourful sponges may actually stain the microfiber fabric.
 To save time while cleaning, you could try using alcohol wipes when cleaning microfiber. This way you don’t have to spray the surface with alcohol and then scrub with a sponge. Instead, you can just rub the surface directly with the alcohol wipes.


Make sure to test the alcohol wipes on a small surface before cleaning the entire item. You want to make sure that they don’t stain the fabric.
 Once you have rubbed the fabric with a sponge or alcohol wipes, let the surface dry. Alcohol dries very quickly and should not take more than 20 or 30 minutes to fully air-dry., Alternatively, you could speed up the drying process by using a blow dryer. Aim the blow dryer at the area you are cleaning. Continue to blow dry until the fabric is dry to the touch.
 After you have cleaned the microfiber, you may find that the alcohol left the material feeling stiff. You can remove this stiffness by rubbing the fabric with a scrub brush. The bristles will help to fluff the fabric, leaving it soft to the touch.