 Not all people react well to something unexpected so before planning a surprise party consider how your guest of honor will react. If you are unsure, talk to their close friends or family members to feel out the idea before proceeding. Also consider whether they enjoy parties or like being the center of attention. Lastly, avoid planning a surprise party for someone who likes to be in charge of hosting their own event.Rule out finicky or meticulous people who prefer to know details about an event before attending.
Avoid throwing surprise parties for people who get really excited about birthdays. In your attempt to surprise them, they may think you have forgotten to plan anything and become upset.Consider whether the guest has health issues that may result in a negative physical reaction to the shock.;
, A trusted confidant is one who will assist you in planning the party and ensuring the element of surprise. They can help to make sure the honoree arrives at the right place at the right time. Additionally, if you live with the guest of honor your co-conspirator can help with RSVPs and their house can be used for planning purposes so you don’t get caught with evidence.Choose someone close to the guest of honor and someone that you can trust to keep a secret.
 The most important thing to consider when picking a day and time is the guest of honor’s availability. You will secretly have to find out if they are available on the day and time that you have chosen. You can also choose a date before or after the honoree’s actual birthday to avoid arousing suspicion.Make sure your honoree is kept busy for a few hours to ensure the element of surprise. A short errand might not give you enough time and will cause you to have to speed up or rush the process.To ensure a seamless surprise, make sure to organize the party around the honoree's routine. You will be able to retain the element of surprise by organizing the party around the guest’s usual schedule., When planning where to hold the surprise party, consider your honoree’s favorite places. Is their favorite restaurant available, would they prefer an indoor or outdoor event, or will you be hosting the party in a private home? It’s easier to coordinate details in a private home setting, but public venues are also great options.Choosing a public venue usually means you have less time to easily attend to details because space is often rented.
When choosing a location, make sure it is easily accessible to your guests.
 Consider the number of people you would like to invite and then consider with whom the guest of honor would really enjoy celebrating their special day. When contacting guests, phone calls or private Facebook invites work best. This way, information can’t be forwarded to friends who haven’t been invited, and it can’t be accidentally read by the guest of honor., It’s important that guests arrive much earlier than the guest of honor, so if someone is 20 minutes late it won’t ruin the surprise. Plan for guests to arrive at least 30 minute before the surprisee’s scheduled time of arrival. If someone is running late, advise them to remain in their car until the guest of honor has arrived to avoid spoiling the surprise., This goes for both before the party, and the day of the party. Store pre-purchased decorative items in a place where the honoree won’t accidentally come across them. If you live together, try storing them at a friend’s house. On the day of the party, avoid highly visible decorations like lights or flashing signs that can easily be seen. Also, avoid decorating the outside of the location with balloons or signs., Whether the venue is public or private, tell guests to park cars out of sight to avoid being recognized by the honoree. This is especially important if people have unique or easily recognizable cars or license plates. Encourage carpooling to cut down on the number of cars present., For those who have a difficult time keeping secrets, encourage them to not be in too much contact with the honoree. Avoid telling children until the day of the event to ensure they don’t accidentally spill the beans.


Talk about their birthday as easily and calmly as possible. This will keep them from becoming suspicious or thinking that everyone has forgotten about their birthday.
 When your honoree arrives, you can jump out and yell surprise but you can also add to the surprise by making a lot of noise. Give your guests instruments like whistles or shakers, or instruct them to sing or clap when the honoree arrives., Instead of the traditional surprise approach, have guests walk in on the guest of honor, instead of the guest of honor walking into the surprise. Choose a day that appears "typical" to the guest of honor, and instruct your guests to casually file in one by one. Watch your honoree glow with shock as they see the number of their loved ones growing. , If you are planning an outdoor event, surprise the honoree by showering them with items like silly string, or water from water guns or water balloons. If you are choosing the water option, make sure the party is water-themed so that the guest will either have on a swimsuit or have a change of clothes handy.Consider your honoree's reaction before taking this route. Some people won't be happy about getting their clothes wet or having their hair covered with silly string.
 Begin serving food and drinks ahead of time. This will help detract from some of the spotlight and ease the honoree into the party more easily.

