 When your enamel breaks down there are many ways in which your teeth physically change. From the color to the shape, the loss of enamel can cause your teeth to look drastically different.


Dentin is the yellowish layer of your tooth located under your enamel. As the enamel wears down and the dentin gets thinner and a thinner layer of enamel covers the dentin, it becomes more transparent and your teeth will appear more yellow.How yellow your teeth are is a good indication of how thin your enamel is; the less enamel you have, the more yellow your teeth will be.If you're uncertain as to whether your teeth are yellow from stains or due to enamel loss, try having them whitened. Artificial stains will come off.;
, Another way in which your teeth physically change when enamel loss occurs is a change in shape. Your teeth may appear to be rounded and short.


When you lose enamel your teeth may take on a rounded shape and can also cause your teeth to look shorter than normal.If you have a tooth filling, you may notice that your tooth seems to have shrunk around the filling. This shrinkage is caused by the loss of tooth enamel.
 Teeth that have lost a good deal of enamel may develop fractures or chips.Even if your teeth haven’t developed fractures yet, you should see a doctor as soon as you notice that your teeth are looking brittle and thin. This is a sign that they might fracture soon.
 When enamel wears down the dentin layer underneath is revealed. Not only does this make your teeth yellow, it also makes them very sensitive to pain.


This sensitivity may arise when you eat hot or cold foods and occasionally sweet foods, or when you inhale cool air.
In severe enamel and dentin decay, the pulp, which is the innermost part of the tooth, could also become damaged, leading to a lesion called pulpitis. If this is the case, you will experience severe pain when you eat., When enamel and dentin begin to thin your teeth may appear shorter and you may find it more difficult to chew.


The chewing surfaces of your teeth become flattened, which causes you to bite and chew your food with difficulty.
Aside from it being more difficult to chew, you might also experience pain when you take a bite of food.
 Enamel loss makes your teeth brittle and prone to cavities. This is because enamel protects your teeth from plaque and debris buildup. When the enamel isn’t there, plaque and debris buildup can result in cavities.The cavities on the surface of the tooth can enter into the deeper parts of the tooth through the opening that missing enamel has left unprotected. This can cause extreme pain and in some cases, infection due to bacteria that has an easier access through the porous structure of dentin.

