 When you stomach is full of water, it stops sending signals to your brain that it wants food. You'll feel fuller on absolutely zero calories. To top it off: Your metabolism gets a boost too.


Although water passes through the digestive system quite quickly, it can still help decrease your appetite. Often we mistake thirst for hunger, especially when the mid-afternoon cravings hit.10 minutes after drinking 17 ounces of water, subjects of a study in Germany saw a 30% increase in their metabolic rates.And in other studies, it's been shown that water drinkers lose more weight and keep it off.;
, Losing weight while you sleep sounds like a miracle, doesn't it? But recent research says there are definite connections. Two hormones, leptin and ghrelin, are controlled by sleep; those hormones help control appetite. So don't feel guilty about squeezing in that nap -- you're just curbing your hunger!


These two guys work together symbiotically. Ghrelin stimulates the appetite while leptin tells your brain you're full. And leptin, believe it or not, is produced in your fat cells., Suppressing your appetite is all about tricking your brain -- and using your nose is the ultimate way to do this. In a recent study, people who inhaled peppermint at regular intervals ate 2,700 calories per week less than normal -- which is almost a one-pound loss.


In addition to popping that after-dinner mint, banana, green apple, and vanilla show similar miracle-working. And in this one case alone -- more is better: the more you sniff, the fewer calories you'll intake. Put some scented candles in your snack drawer; it'll probably mask the chocolate-y aroma to boot. And if you know you're a stress-eater, try sniffing through your right nostril and your right nostril only; this goes to the side of your brain where your emotions are processed. Reducing your anxiety could reduce your desire to eat., When you eat, you should be eating, not multi-tasking. You'll be able to concentrate on your food and actually taste the flavors. And eating slowly gives time for the digestive and hormonal processes to take place and your brain time to process the chemicals sent from your stomach saying you are, indeed, satisfied .


Take half an hour to finish your meal. To prolong it, chew slowly, put your fork down between bites, use chopsticks or your non-dominant hand, and simply take smaller forkfuls., Not only is it good to control your appetite, it's good for your mind. It improves your memory, focuses you, and studies have shown that it improves grades!Recent research has found that morning gum chewers consumed 67 fewer calories at lunch and surprisingly didn't make up for it at dinner. Some believe that chewing tricks the brain into thinking we've been eating for a while. On top of this phenomenon, you'll burn an extra 11 calories an hour. Huzzah!, So you probably already know that exercising burns calories -- but did you also know that it helps you consume fewer of them throughout the day? The American Journal of Physiology says that one hour of high-intensity cardio may keep you away from the kitchen for a couple hours afterward.


The hormones that tell your body you're hungry are suppressed by aerobic exercise. To pile on the benefits, get into interval training -- do short bursts of intense workouts with short bursts of rest in between.