 You must be of the Catholic faith to take Communion. Baptized children go through the process in Sunday school, but if you are an adult you will take group classes, called RCIA (Rite of Christian Initiation for Adults), and go through the process of Reconciliation, first Communion, and Confirmation to convert to Catholicism., Each church has its own welcoming ritual. Speak to the priest or another church leader to learn about the welcoming process. You must be formally received by the church before you can take Communion.If you are a practicing Catholic who simply changed churches, the priest may wish to speak with you to see if you have been baptized, go to Confession, and have received your first Communion and Confirmation. If you haven’t taken these steps, you may be asked to do so., The Eucharist may not be received while a person has mortal sin in their soul. If you have committed a mortal sin, such as theft, adultery, or sodomy, you must go to Reconciliation and repent before receiving Communion., You must believe in transubstantiation, which means that the bread and wine are actually transformed into the body, blood, soul, and divinity of Christ. The offerings only appear as bread and wine, but are believed to actually be parts of Christ himself., This means you cannot eat or drink anything for at least one hour before taking Communion. Water and medicine are excluded from the fast. Those who are elderly or ill can be excused from fasting, with the priest’s permission., Those who are under ecclesiastic censure, meaning they have been excommunicated from the church or continually commit grave sins, cannot receive Communion., You will take Communion during Mass. Prepare yourself mentally during the Consecration of the Eucharist (when the host is changed into the body and blood of Christ) to participate in Communion. You can do this by giving your thanks, appreciation, and reverence to Jesus Christ through prayer., The priests and altar servers will prepare to give Communion by taking their customary places. Wait for the usher to guide your row to walk up. When leaving the pew there is no need to genuflect (to kneel and cross oneself). Wait in line and do not skip people.
 Depending on the church and your personal preference, you can either have the host fed to you or handed to you. In the Traditional Rite, the host is fed to you. Open your mouth and extend your tongue so that the host does not fall. The host will be placed on your tongue. Close your mouth and allow the host to dissolve on your tongue while thinking of the sacrifice made.If you wish to have the host handed to you, hold out your hands, left on top of right. Do not take the host from the priest, but rather allow them to place it in your hand.
When you receive the host, the priest will say "the Body of Christ," and you should respond "Amen."

, After receiving the host, you will receive the blood. Allow the host to dissolve while you are waiting your turn. Take a small drink from the chalice that is offered to you. The person offering the cup will say “the Blood of Christ,” and you should respond "Amen."The lip of the chalice is wiped off after each member receives the blood, so do not worry about the transmission of germs.
 This is a time to reflect and thank Jesus for coming to you in the Holy Eucharist. Return to your pew and pray, until the priest is finished offering the Blessed Sacrament. Follow the lead of more established church members if you are unsure what to do.