 If there's potential to rock out, think like a Boy Scout. You may not be able to rock out as hard in flannel and suspenders ("braces" for you British folks with your eyebrows all a-flutter). Think ahead. How much rocking are you capable of?


Jeans and a t-shirt is always classic for either sex.
Is this a party where you can gallivant discalced? Or will you be keeping your shoes on? Consider this when choosing your footwear.
Ladies, get ready to move. The last thing you want is to interrupt your metal horns to adjust your hemline. Wear something comfortable.
 If they're not already being cranked. But let's face it, you shouldn't be the one to have to get the party started. What kind of party are you even at? Your own? Ah, alright. Proceed.


Find music that gets everybody going. In this circumstance, rocking out is a community bonding session. You'll feed off their energy and they will feed off yours. As a result, a beautiful thing will become nascent. Take time to feel the vibes and let it brew.
Don't crank the jams too loudly. The police hate that.

Sting loves it, however.
 By this time, the party-goers should be in a distinctive yet morphing shape. Get in there! Show them your stuff.


Use your body. Don't be afraid to get on your knees or pop a handstand (you've been practicing after all, right?). Just make sure the area is clear before you risk popping someone's eye out. Then the fun and games just stop.
Jump up and down. And then up and down again. And possibly a few times after that. If no one else is jumping, start it. They'll wonder why they aren't jumping with you. And hey, calf workout!

, Rocking out can be a great release and is sometimes necessary, but it also can be incredibly dangerous or, at worst, fatal. Drinking and driving, smoking, and other illicit drugs get all the hype--think of rocking out like the Korean War (when was that again?). Just because it doesn't receive the appropriate anti-marketing campaign doesn't mean you should rock out carelessly.


Watch your elbows. Those things can be weapons of destruction if flailed about angrily.
Stay sober. Drunken rocking out is a recipe for disaster and a recipe for a trip to the temple of the porcelain gods. Besides, you'll want to remember this cathartic experience when it's over.
Don't judge other rockers. They may not have the skills you do and that's fine. They may be rocking out to One Direction...also...fine...mostly. Either way, these people are made up of the same stuff you are: stuff that's looking to rock out. Embrace them.

