 There are many designs for tapestry crochet available online but you can also just draw your own.Using graph or grid paper, create a simple two color design that uses only one color per square. It is best to start with a design that is not too intricate, perhaps using your second color sparingly.


If using a traditional crochet pattern, you will need to be able to read it. Look online for a key to abbreviations, such as the one on the craft yarn council website or see How to Read Crochet Patterns.
You can also use cross-stitch patterns as inspiration for your tapestry crochet pattern.;
, While any yarn will work for tapestry crochet, consider how you want the finished project to turn out when picking out your yarn. If you want a tight and thin final outcome, then you will want to use a smaller gauge yarn that does not have a lot of loft (fluffiness), for instance a fine or light worsted yarn. If you want a larger and looser finished product, use a thicker and fluffier yarn. The choice is all yours!


You will also need to acquire a crochet hook that complements your yarn size and the desired look of your finished project. For example, thin yarn should usually be crocheted with a relatively thin hook and thicker yarn should be crocheted with a thicker hook. However, if you are a skilled crocheter and you are going for a unique style on your project, pick whatever combination of yarn and hook you want.
 Follow the first line of your pattern.


If using a pattern drawn in a grid, each square on your pattern you should make one stitch, so make sure the number of stitches match the number of boxes.
If you need to refresh your knowledge of the basic crochet stitch, feel free to visit How to Crochet or How to Single Crochet and take some time to practice your stitches.
 Use a single crochet stitch into the space under both top loops of the foundation stitch you are attaching to. Crochet by inserting the hook, from front to back, into the space underneath the top loops instead of inserting the crochet hook into only one of the top loops. This removes the yarn line that is created when the hook is inserted into only one of the top loops. It also produces a tight, woven look.
 You will need to work in your second color of yarn at least a few inches before you wish to begin your tapestry crochet design.


Lay the end of Color 2 flat along the top edge of your piece, holding it in place with the hand you do not have the needle in.
Crochet the next several stitches as usual, with Color 2 remaining flat against the top of the row, inside your stitches.You should not be able to see Color 2 in your work at this point. This is considered hiding or carrying the unused color and has great benefits to your finished piece, including making it stronger and avoiding unsightly and bothersome pieces sticking out the backside of your work.
Some people work in the second color from the second row of their project. This makes sure that the thickness of your whole project is the same and that the second color will be sure to be there when you need it.
 Interrupt a single crochet stitch of Color 1. Do not complete the final single crochet stitch. With two loops of the single crochet remaining on your hook, drop Color 1 and carry it along, picking up Color 2 with your hook and pulling it through both prepared loops., As you make these stitches, Color 1 will be pulled along, concealed inside the stitches as you did for Color 2 previously.
 The process to revert back to Color 1 is the same as you used to switch to Color 2.


Drop and carry the yarn color you do not need for now if you want. Two loops of the single crochet should still be on your hook. The carried yarn will be laying flat across the rim of your work.
Pick up Color 1 with your hook, pulling the loop through the two that are on your hook.
 Make sure that the stitches you make match the boxes on your pattern.


It may be helpful to cross off rows as you complete them, in order to not lose track of where you are.
 You can just tie off the yarn at the end of your last row but there are a variety of stitches you could use to end your piece but a simple blanket stitch will do just fine.If you just want to tie off your project, cut your yarn off a few inches after your last stitch while your hook is still in the last loops. Pull the end through the loops and tie it into a knot. Then weave the end of the yarn into the last line of stitches with a yarn needle, hiding the end of the yarn from view.
 Stitch together any separate pieces, if your project has multiple parts and trim any stray ends of yarn. Remember that your tapestry crochet project may need special care if laundered, as each yarn requires specific handling.

