 Difficulty coordinating movements, such as walking, is a common sign of botulism. Muscle tone is lost when the body is affected by botulism.


Usually, muscle tone loss spreads from your shoulders to your arms and down to the legs. The toxin acts on the nervous system impacting both voluntary and involuntary nervous system functions. It causes a descending paralysis, meaning it acts from head to toe, in that order.
The paralysis is symmetric, meaning it affects both sides of the body the same, in contrast to the neurologic symptoms one may see in a stroke, which affect only one side of the body.
Muscle weakness is one of the first symptoms and can manifest as difficulties with speech, vision, and breathing.
These symptoms are all caused by the toxin affecting the nerves and their receptors that control organs and muscles.;
, Speech is affected because the neurotoxin produced by C. botulinum can affect the speech centers in your brain. When these cranial nerves are affected, it causes problems with speech and mouth movement.


The neurotoxin affects the cranial nerves 11 and 12, the nerves responsible for speech.
 Ptosis (drooping of eyelids) happens because of the neurotoxin affecting cranial nerve 3, which is responsible for the eye’s movement, pupil size and eyelid motion. An affected person's pupils will be dilated and vision will be blurry, too.


Eyelid drooping can occur in one eye or both eyes at the same time.
 Problems with breathing can occur due to the effect of botulism on your respiratory system. The botulism neurotoxin can cause reduced respiratory muscle activity and impaired gas exchange.


This damage can cause respiratory failure and breathing problems.
 Blurry and double vision can occur when botulism damages cranial nerve number 2. This nerve is responsible for your sense of sight, carrying images to the brain.
 In infants progressive decreased muscle tone can present as a “floppy” infant that feels similar to a “rag doll.” Symptoms can also present as decreased or poor feeding due to decreased muscular ability to nurse or take the bottle.Other symptoms in infants include: a weak cry, dehydration, and decreased tear production.
The immature immune system is unable to mount an immune response to this spore, which then germinates in the digestive tract and excretes its toxin.