 Set your oven to bake or convection and let it start warming up. Sunchokes are somewhat tough and fibrous, so the heat needs to be pretty high to cook them all the way through. Get out a large pan or roasting dish that you can use to cook the sunchokes.Start prepping the sunchokes while the oven is preheating.
You can also roast sunchokes and similar vegetables under a broiler, or wrapped in foil on a grill.;
, Place the sunchokes in a strainer and rinse them with lukewarm water to clean them. Try to remove any obvious clumps of dirt or sticky root residue. Using a sharp knife, cut the sunchokes into ½” slices. You can also chop them into small squares or wedges, if you prefer.Since these vegetables grow in the ground, it’s important to clean them thoroughly before you eat them.
The size and shape of the sunchokes is largely up to you. Just keep in mind that they will need more time in the oven to soften if they’re left in bigger pieces.
 Transfer the sunchokes to the roasting dish and drizzle them with olive oil. Use enough oil to form a nice even layer over each one, but don’t completely drown them. Toss the sunchokes by hand to help coat them better. Add a pinch of kosher salt, a couple crushed cloves of garlic and a minced sprig of parsley or rosemary.For a sweeter touch, go with herbs like ginger, cloves and mint.
Pour on your oil slowly so that you don’t overdo it. You can always add more later, but you can’t take it back.
 Once the oven has reached the desired temperature, it’s time to put the sunchokes in. Set a timer for 15 minutes and keep an eye on them while they roast. After the 15 minutes is up, poke one or two with a fork to see if they’re sufficiently soft. The sunchokes will be done when the edges just begin to brown.There will be some variation in cook times for dense, temperamental veggies like sunchokes, so rely on your own senses to determine when they’re done in addition to the timer you set.
Try roasting sunchokes along with new potatoes, purple carrots, parsnips and squash for a mild, autumn-inspired root vegetable medley.