 If you both like the same singers or bands, listen to them together and make each other playlists to discover more music. Go to shows together, even if you don’t like the same music. Go to a show of your sibling’s choice one month, and to one you choose the next month.
 Going to the mall or out shopping can be especially fun if you’re around the same age or if one of you needs the fashion advice of the other. Try going to the mall with mutual friends if you’re around the same age.


Maybe you have great taste in clothes and your sibling has a date or special occasion. Without implying that they’re unfashionable, offer to help them pick out an outfit.
 If there’s a movie coming out you’re both interested in, go see it in theaters together. Plan out a weekend for a movie marathon where you watch your favorite film or television series from beginning to end.


You definitely each need your own space and own social groups, but if you’re around the same age, try to go to movies or other places with mutual friends.
 The time might come when you or your sibling move away to college or across the country for a job. It can take a little more effort to keep your relationship up. However, with so many forms of communication at your disposal, you can still stay involved in each other's lives no matter the distance.Try to text each other at least every few days. Share something funny about your day with them, send them a meme you saw on social media, or just say "Hey, thinking of you, hope you're having a great day!"
Do your best to have a phone chat regularly. Try to schedule a date every week or two, or at least once a month. Ask your sibling about their schedule and try to find an hour or so that you're both free.
Consider using Skype or another video chat service to talk face to face when you can.
 Over the years, you and your sibling will develop different ideas of fun, interests, social groups, and priorities. You might become independent or mature at different rates, especially if there’s an age difference. Accept that you might be really close at some points in life and might drift away during others.If you feel like your older sibling is growing distant from you, try to understand that they have to be there own person. Have a little faith that the situation is temporary in the long run. Focus on the positives, and ask your older sibling for advice as you get older.If you feel like your little sibling is becoming a shadow, try to take the time to remember that you care for them and that they look up to you. Set aside time to spend with them, even if you’re not into the same things anymore. Share advice with them and try to include them in your life as much as you can.As you become teenagers and young adults, try not to hold grudges about things you and your sibling did that annoyed each other you were younger.