 Begin with a diamond shape that has rounded edges.It needs to be it about 9 inches (22.86 centimeters) high and 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) wide. Cut the template out when you are done.Make the top and bottom corners a little wider. They should be about 2½ inches (6.35 centimeters) wide.;
, This will be the exterior of your cloth pad, so choose something that you like. You can use patterned fabric or a solid color. You can even use a pattern for one side, and a solid color for the other.You can also use cotton fabric instead of flannel. Check out the quilting and calico section of your local fabric store for lots of colorful options!, Pin the two pieces together first, with the right sides facing in. Sew around the piece using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. You do not need to leave a gap for turning because you will be cutting a slit into it., Make sure that you are only cutting through one layer of fabric, not both. Position the slit right in the middle. It only needs to be a few inches/centimeters tall.Consider cutting notches into the curved corners of the pad. This will help reduce bulk.
 Use your fingers to push the corners of the pad through the slit that you cut. If the edges/corners didn't turn out all, push them out with a pencil or knitting needle.

Press the pad base with a hot iron using the cotton setting.
 You can use a matching thread color or a contrasting one. You can even use a zigzag stitch to make it look more interesting. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing, then trim the excess threads of as close to the fabric as you can., Begin with a vertical rectangle that has a rounded top and bottom. Make the rectangle about 8 inches (20.32 centimeters) high, and 2½ inches (cc.35 centimeters) wide. Cut the template out when you are done., You will need 3 to 4 pieces of soft toweling. Use the template to trace to more pieces out of flannel; this time, add a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. The toweling will make the liner. The flannel will make the liner cover.Match the flannel to the base pad.
 Use a ⅛ to ¼-inch (0.32 to 0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Go around the edge of the piece using a zigzag stitch. Set the stack aside when you are done.Do not include the two flannel pieces in this stack.
The color of the thread does not matter. You will be putting this inside the liner cover.
 Pin the flannel pieces together with the right sides facing in. Sew around them using a ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Do not leave a gap for turning. You will be cutting a slit into the piece instead., Use the same technique as you did for the pad base. This time, make the slit about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters) tall. This will give you enough space to tuck the towel lining instead.

Cut notches into curved edges of the pad. This will help reduce bulk.
 Simply slip the towel liner through the slit, and into the flannel cover. Smooth out any bumps or buckles., Turn the pad base so that the longer axis is vertical, and the side with the slit is facing up. Place the pad liner on top, with the slit facing down. Make sure that it is centered and oriented vertically.Pin everything together when you are done., Sew around the pad liner, using a ⅛ to ¼-inch (0.32 to 0.64-centimeter) seam allowance. Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing, then snip the thread as close to the material as you can. Remove the pins as you sew.You can use a matching or contrasting thread color for this.
 Make sure that you are sewing ½ inch (1.27 centimeters) away from the topstitch and not the edge of the liner. Use the same thread color as you did before. This will help secure the liner further to the base and prevent buckling., You can use sew-on snaps or the kind that you have to set with a tool. You can also use Velcro instead. Avoid using self-adhesive Velcro, however. While it is convenient to apply, it does not last very long, and it will eventually come off.


The wings will close on the outside of your underwear, so plan accordingly.
 Place the pad base flannel-side-down onto the seat of your underwear; make sure that the liner pad is facing up. Fold the wings under the seat of your underwear, then close the snaps. Depending on your flow, the liner should last 2 to 4 hours., Store the pad in a dry bag until you get home. Rinse it promptly with cold water, then wash it with hot water and detergent. Finish off with a final cold rinse, then dry them in the dryer.