 Moving is one of the main reasons that people have to leave someone they love. If you are in a situation where you have to move away from close friends or family, it can be really difficult. Try to spend a lot of time with your loved ones before you go.Make your relationships a priority. Schedule plenty of quality time with your friends before the move.
Have fun together. You're likely feeling sad, and that's ok. But try to participate in the activities that you enjoy.
If you and your best friend have always enjoyed going dancing together, don't stop. Keep your dance dates up until the time you have to leave.
Have an honest conversation. Tell your loved one that you are going to miss them.
Try saying, "Mom, I'm really going to miss you when I leave for college. I just wanted to let you know that."

, Let your loved ones know that it is important for you to stay connected. Try brainstorming different ways that you can keep in touch. You can even write some actual letters.Get on a friends and family cell phone plan. You'll be able to text and call as much as you want without worrying about your minutes.
Schedule video chat dates. Are you worried you're going to miss impromptu dance parties with your best friend? Just Facetime her whenever your favorite song comes on.
Use technology. Stay connected with social media. This is the perfect time to finally convince your grandmother to get a Facebook account.
 Leaving someone you love can feel scary. This is especially true if you don't know when you will see them again. To avoid this sinking feeling, schedule a visit before you even leave.Sit down together with your calendars. If you have a group of friends that you are going to miss, invite everyone over for a planning party.
Select a couple of dates that work for everyone. You can have fun deciding when you will visit, and when your friends will come check out your new home.
If you are leaving for college, check out the campus calendar. Let your parents know when parents weekend is, and invite them to come.
 Care packages are a great way to feel connected with your loved ones. Set up a system where you send a package one month and your loved one returns the favor the next month. These packages will give you both something to look forward to.Include items that remind you of fun times you had together. For example, if you loved going to yoga together, send your friend a gift card to your favorite studio.
You can also include items that are homemade. Make a batch of your dad's favorite cookies to send to him.
Be creative. If you're thinking of fun times you had at the beach, send a little plastic baggy of sand from the shore.

