 There are several places to look for used sets; begin your search by browsing online classifieds sites like Craigslist. These sites have the advantage of being hosted locally, which allows you to inspect the drum set in person before buying. Auction sites like eBay are also a good option, but if you are having the kit shipped make sure to request detailed photos so you can inspect it. Pawn shops and local music supply stores may also sell used drum sets.;
, When buying a used set, you can't guarantee that the set has been well taken care of. The first area to inspect is the shell of each drum - the cylindrical wood body. Shells should be completely free from cracks, and should present with minimal to no scratches or scuffs. They should be almost perfectly circular, which can be observed via the gap between the shell and the rim. This gap should be consistent all the way around the shell.


Damaged shells cannot be replaced for less than the cost of buying a new drum, so do not purchase a kit with cracked or warped shells.






Shells can sustain damage through improper handling (such as being dropped or banged against things) or subjection to extreme temperatures or humidity.
 A drum's hardware consists of 2 rims that hold the heads on, tension rods that secure the rims, and lugs that accept the tension rods. Make sure none of these parts are missing or bent. Use a drum key to tighten each tension rod, making sure that the threads are not stripped. Note that small parts like tension rods and washers can be replaced easily and economically if necessary.
 If the drum set is being sold with cymbals, check their condition as well. Look for cracks along each cymbal's edge, and check for chipping (called "key-holing") around the center hole. Dull, discolored cymbals can be cleaned easily, but cracked cymbals cannot be repaired. Note that inexpensive starter cymbal packs are not meant to last very long, and you can always elect to purchase new cymbals.
 Necessary drum hardware includes the throne (seat), the bass drum pedal, and the cymbal stands. These parts, if included in the sale, should be free from dents. All moving parts should operate smoothly, and threaded assemblies should be checked for stripping.
 Playing the drum set will tell you what a close inspection cannot - whether or not the drums sound good. If you are new to drums, consider bringing an experienced drummer along to the purchase to play the drums for you.
 Once you find a set that is in good condition, you still need to avoid overpaying for it. Look up the model online and see what it sells for new. If the exact model is no longer produced, look at other sets produced by the manufacturer. Ideally, you want to purchase the used set at a significantly lower price than a new one, with additional deductions made if the kit is damaged.

