 Read your Bible, pray, and worship. Reading your Bible doesn't mean you have to read it all the way through; skip around. One thing the Bible should not be is boring. Take time to meditate on the Word, look for understanding and try to apply it to your life.


Praying does not mean you have to spend 30 minutes talking to God. You don't have to be wordy. You don't have to kneel, fold your hands, or even close your eyes. You can pray standing up or on your knees with your eyes and hands lifted to heaven. That prayer might be only a few words repeated several times, "Fill me". "Fill me, Lord." It's simple, but God understands that it means, "Fill me with your spirit, your strength, your joy. Help me show your love for others."
Worship doesn't have to be only at church. You can sing and worship anywhere, even in the car on the way to school. Get a group of good Christian friends together, if you can, and take the time to sing worship songs. Remember, worship should occasionally be only between you and God, with no one else around.;
, Get along with your parents; take time with each of them to have fun. Working on a project together can be fun. Having a healthy relationship with your parents is always a good thing. Also talk to your parents about God; they can help your faith, if they are Christian too. If they're not, it's as important as ever to have a good relationship with them.


Don't forget being close with your siblings and grand parents (if you are lucky enough to have them).
 Choose anywhere between 1 and 15 good friends. They don't have to be the same age or gender, but in your closest group, try to stick with Christians who are a good influence. Have some Christian friends who are older than you, if possible, so you can look up to them, and they might help your faith grow by discussing the word of God.


With older friends you look up to, make sure they are good influences.
Feel free to have other friends besides the close group; include others, and maybe you will get a chance to be the good influence.
Make sure the friends you choose are true friends. They should build you up, not bring you down.
 This can mean a lot of things, but treat you body like a temple. Here are a few things you can do:


Eat healthy food. This doesn't mean no junk food; just all things in moderation. Gluttony is a sin, but don't starve yourself for any reason.
Keep away from drugs and cigarettes, and wait till you're 21 for the alcohol, if then. Be moderate in everything, especially things that may possibly have negative sides to them. Enough said?
Be happy with your body; it's beautiful. After all, God made you. Keep in good shape even if you have to walk, jog, swim and hike.
Be modest. Cover your body. Dress appropriately and attractively. Even if you are trying to get a date, immodesty is not the way to go about things. You will get attention, but it most likely won't be the right kind, or attract the right people.
 Build yourself up, and take care of your mind, and grades if you're in school. Don't criticize or cut yourself or others down., That hot shirt you love that's in the back of your closet because it's not "cool"—wear it! No one will stop you, and you may have a good laugh in it.


One of the best ways to feel happy is to make someone else happy. You get to share in their happiness. You might be surprised how uplifting even a simple pat on the back can be to both giver and receiver.

