 Companies that hire full-time photographers usually have a specific type of photographic need for their business. For example, an online auction business may need photographs of products to post on it's website. Other full-time photographer positions include school yearbook photography, photographic portrait studios in malls, and roving theme park photographers.;
, Look at images in your target field and try to develop strengths that would make you an appealing candidate. Look at companies who may have photographer positions available and study the types of pictures they need taken.
 If you are applying to be a product photographer at an advertising firm, fill your portfolio with shots of inanimate objects.


Pick your best work and try to make the subjects look exciting. Include pictures of automobiles, cola cans, electronic devices, and put them in interesting and dramatic lighting. Set them in unusual places, such as a cell-phone in the grass on a riverbank. This will show that you are creative, and even though the subject and context may not make sense, it is the composition and quality that employers will be looking for.
Look at objects and think "If I wanted to advertise this, how would I get people to notice it with a single image?"

, Make sure you have some color, some black and white, as well as some sepia tone and other popular portrait filters.


Take pictures of friends, family, whoever will pose for you. Try to pick the photos that really show the subject's personality. It is also a good idea to have pictures of many different ethnicities, as the lighting requirements and color adjustment vary with differing complexions.
The main theme an employer will be looking for in a portrait portfolio is; does the subject look good. A picture of a woman with a warm smile who's skin looks perfect and eyes are sparkling due to your perfect lighting will be a great choice, even if the bokeh effect you were going for didn't turn out quite perfect.
 portraits? close-up or macro photography? product shots? - and try to create a portfolio based around that.
 Remember to go to as many interviews as possible, there are tons of other photographers to compete with so don't expect to get a job right away. Be professional, act courteously and politely, show creativity, and be willing to hear criticism.
 Ask them how they became successful.
 Ask them what it is they look for. As long as you are upfront, earnest, and friendly, most people would be glad to take a few minutes and give you some pointers.
 Just keep snapping photos, working freelance, and building that portfolio. Let your passion motivate you and persevere.

