 Never leave your baby, even for a few seconds, when water is nearby. The risk of the baby crawling in and slipping under is too great.


Turning your back to the baby, or reading a book while he or she plays, even if you're sitting just a few feet away, can also lead to dangerous consequences. Keep a close eye on your baby at all times.
When water is involved, whether it's a pool, lake, or puddle, it's better not to let your baby wander too far off, even when you're watching. Keep him or her nearby.
Always make sure certified lifeguard is present in swimming areas, but don't rely on the lifeguard to watch your baby. Lifeguards have too many people to watch out for; your baby needs constant supervision from you.;
, When you go swimming, outfit your baby with a flotation device that will keep his or her head above the surface of the water at all times. Be sure to use one that's the right size for your child; they're made for babies 8 pounds and up. Never use an adult life jacket, an inflatable raft or tire, or water toys to keep your baby afloat; these are too large, and a baby could easily slip out of them. , If you have a backyard pool, pond, or any other type of open water source, make sure it's covered up. Pools should be fenced with a gate that locks. Even buckets of water can pose a tremendous risk to your infant or toddler, so be thorough.
 When water drains from a pool or hot tub, it creates suction. Yours should be fitted with an anti-entrapment cover or some other type of safety system to prevent your baby from getting sucked under the water. Have a pool technician come to your home to make sure it's properly installed.Make sure other pools you may be using with your baby, such as a friend or family member's pool, have these safety precautions in place.
 Swim lessons are available for babies 1 year old and up. Never assume, however, that because your infant can swim that he or she can't drown. Constant and close supervision is absolutely critical for all ages and swimming abilities.
 Everyone on board should wear flotation devices, including adults, to set a good example. A baby taken on a boat must be supervised at all times and not allowed to climb up on the sides of a boat. As an adult, it is always your responsibility to assess dangers from water. It is up to you to ascertain the following:


Whether it is too stormy to go out boating
Whether the water is too cold, choppy, risky for swimming
Whether there is adequate life safety equipment on board a boat or with you at the beach (e.g., presence of life guards)
Whether other children are being too boisterous around a baby, infant, or toddler

, In the case that your child swallows water and begins to drown, you need to know how to save him or her. Learn first aid for a drowning baby so you'll be able to come to your child's aid in an emergency.