 This will give your hamster the space needed to get comfortable with its new habitat. The space allowed will teach your hamster that you won't push it into doing something it doesn't want to do.


Make sure that your hamster's food dish has food when you put it in the cage.
Make sure the hamster's cage is at least 360 square inches (2232.6 square centimeters). If it is any smaller, it can induce aggression and a lot of bar chewing caused by boredom. (Remember: bigger is always better!)
Do not leave your hamster in his ball (if you have one) for too long since the balls have a bad air circulation and also the hamster might go to the bathroom in the ball. The urine will leak through the cracks, making a mess, and it will soak into your hamster's fur (which could cause illness or health problems).;
, You may be able to do this by reading a book or quietly singing a song to it. This will make it feel more comfortable and secure when it hears your voice.


Make a sound such as a clucking with your tongue, whenever you interact. Always make this sound when giving food so it will know it's you!
Pet your hamster and spend time once or twice a day for 5 minutes or longer with it so your hamster can get used to you, a good idea is to increase the time you spend with them from small amounts to get them used to you and then longer when they get more comfortable with your presence.
Let your hamster crawl on you and your clothing so it can start to get used to your scent. A tip is to rub their bedding on you too, as they then will associate your smell with safety.
To get it used to your scent, cut an old pair of your cotton underwear -- unlaundered so it has your scent -- into 2" squares. Add a square with their bedding for it to take to its nest.
 Get a box a little bigger than the size of a sticky note then fill it with sand. Have the hamster's bedding level with the box so it will be able to climb onto it. Then, the hamster will be able to dig. This isn't a trick but it's a nice way of letting your hamster enrich its own play.
 Lay it flat in the cage. Wait patiently for your hamster to climb on your hand and take the treat. When the hamster climbs on your palm, slowly lift it out of the cage and stroke its fur. This teaches it that you love the hamster and it can trust you. Eventually it will climb on your hand and will be waiting for you to pick it up.

Be prepared to do this for about an hour.
Your hamster might grab your finger instead and bite it. Be prepared for this possibility and do not scold the hamster; learn to move your fingers quickly out of the way. A way to avoid it biting you is by taking your hamster to the bathtub and let it crawl around on you so it will get used to your scent. After a while it will be used to you and your scent.
 This will not only help you both to bond, but it will make your hamster respond to you better.


Start simply with "stand". Hold a treat over its head and wait for it to stand on two legs. Say "stand" over and over. It will get on two feet and take the treat. After a while when you say "stand," it will do this standing trick on it's own. Don't forget to reward your hamster!







, Instead, put the treat in front, so it will put a paw forward to get the treat.
 He will turn around to get it. Then do the same thing as "stand". Say it and repeat it. Don't use treats until after the trick has been performed and now you have a trained hamster.
 If it chews on something it's not supposed to, respond with a firm "No". Whenever your hamster does what you ask, give it a reward! Try not to make the reward a treat all the time because too many treats are a bad thing.


If your hamster is always angry, trying to bite you or not cooperating, then use a hamster ball or something interesting that it will be attracted to. Let it play until it is happy or excited, then let it on your hand.
Never stroke or try to hold your hamster when it is eating, washing itself, sleeping, etc. because sometimes it will get annoyed by the interruption and bite.
 Put a treat up above the hamster and go up with the treat. When it is standing, say "jump" again and again. Continue until the hamster associates the word with the jumping action.
 Place it on your shoulder to get comfortable. Do that for a few days. Then, place a treat under your shirt and hold your arm out to it. The hamster will go up to your shoulder looking for treats. Eventually you will not have to put treats under your shirt and it will go up voluntarily.


Don't put your hamster on your shoulder if it is uncomfortable!

, Make a maze, out of anything. Ensure that it has no cracks. Put a treat anywhere in the maze (randomly placed). Put your hamster in the maze and say "find". Do this for one hour every day. Fairly soon, the hamster will look when you say "find" without you putting a treat. Reward the hamster after 3 minutes in the maze.


Make sure your hamster sees you put the treat in the maze!

, Most hamsters like carrots. Do not give carrots to your hamster often, but only once in a while. Your hamster will appreciate a new treat. Hamsters also like plain Cheerios, but do not feed your hamster Honey Nut Cheerios. It contains enough sugar that makes your hamster sick.


Hamsters love it when you give them sunflower seeds, fresh fruits and vegetables as treats for being good.
Vary the treats you give your hamster and how much - to keep it interested!

