 This can be done by interacting with the child in ways he or she feels comfortable. You can read small & simple poems and stories to him with actions and gesticulations. Encourage your child to use his or her imagination to repeat the same to you in his or her own way. Give your child open-ended toys like building sets, clay mud, dough etc, with which he or she can build shapes and learn to use his or her imagination. As he grows, try playing challenging games such as word building and puzzles. As the child reaches the school-going age, he should be encouraged to write creatively by showing him a picture and allowing him to use his imagination to describe it. Another way to encourage the child is to provide him art and craft material including pencils, crayons, markers, paper, scissors, and so on. This will encourage the child to create something out of the ordinary. Encourage his creativity by appreciating his work and hanging his work on a wall. This will give the child a sense of achievement and make him more innovative.;
, However they do not know how to go about it. Here are some methods.
 It has been known that music can increase a person’s mental ability because it can stimulate the brain’s nerve endings. Children who are exposed to music and rhythm most likely have the inclination for such as they grow up.
 Sports apart from building a good physique also teach them to strategies and come out of the problem situations when they grow up.
, As your child experiences many things through varied activities, he or she will gain knowledge which will increase his or her IQ. In all of these, the key to improving your kid’s IQ is to create an environment that will quicken your child’s brain potentials.
 Allow your child to play and mingle with kids of his or her age in the neighborhood or in school. It is through these interactions with others that she can develop her interpersonal intelligence. When they mingle with others, they learn how to get along with others.
 Having a good night’s sleep can improve brain functions to keep your child mentally alert. While the child is asleep, his mind is restoring whatever is not functioning well within its system.
 They are more comfortable with less nutritious but tasty junk food. It is not advisable to force the children to eat the food they do not like to eat. The parents have to travel halfway to find a solution by making them the food of their choice available at home and then slowly initiating them to nutritious food.
 The best way to deal with the homework problem is to not deal with it. Instead set a regular study schedule for the child before or after dinner as per his convenience, set a separate place for him. A separate study corner will give him ownership & encourage him to be more responsible. It is best to avoid distractions like TV or any other noise when the children are studying. It is advisable for the parents to work on their spreadsheets, projects or quietly browsing the internet to create a studious, or serious environment. Teach the child to plan his work in that scheduled time as per requirement. Guide him if necessary, but do not do his homework for him.
 This tends to make the child overconfident and lazy. Parents should instead concentrate on making the child work hard and regularly. Less intelligent students can also achieve extraordinary results with hard work.
 Wealthy parents often feel that their capacity to spend more will help their child excel in studies. They are unable to consider the natural constraints faced by the child and often pressurize the child, which is going far beyond what he can handle. Even parents who were less than average in their student days expect their child to excel. How can a child do extraordinarily when the pedigree is ordinary? Parents should be satisfied with the results if they are coming out of honest hard work. Unnecessary comparison should be avoided.
 Show respect for your child by accepting both his/her strengths and weaknesses. Strive to build a close relationship with your child by acknowledging his/her feelings and interests.
 Do not force your child to be in a social situation that he or she doesn’t want to be in. Cajoling your child into social interaction will only make things worse. Just wait for him/her to warm up to a situation.
 Make sure that you yourself have a healthy image of yourself. If you exhibit shyness yourself, then it would be hard for your child to overcome inhibition.
 Many working parents especially in India leave the child to the servants care, there is nothing wrong in it, so long as nurturing & molding of the child is done by the parents. Whatever their occupation, parents should have enough time for their children daily.Servants can be of assistance in the up bringing of the child.However they should not be allowed guardianship or to be foster parents.

