 Even if you are unhappy about your weight, you can still be happy about how you look in other ways. Try wearing different clothes, being more confident, or not worrying about what others are thinking and saying.


Realize that your weight is not the only thing that matters. It is not the most important part of who you are or how you present yourself to others.;
, Buy clothes that fit you and make you feel powerful. Being comfortable with yourself is also dressing comfortably.It's also important to dress your body-- as it is now-- in clothes that fit it well now. Even if you plan to lose weight, wearing too-small clothes is not a way to feel confident in your current size.
 Act confident in your appearance. Feel good about how you look.


If other people do not notice your appeal, act like they should and they will notice you.
Fake confidence until you have it. Act like you feel good about yourself and you probably will start to feel so. Be decisive. Take charge of situations and be assertive Choose your spots. Don't exhaust yourself by acting confident all the time.
 Being overweight does not mean you are not healthy.


Staying healthy can make sure you feel better about yourself and your appearance, so maintain healthy eating and drinking habits.
Don't worry if you are overweight. You can still be healthy even if you are rather chubby.
 Healthy foods make your body feel better, which makes you feel better mentally.


If you are one of those people who love to eat, try incorporating fruits and vegetables in your diet. If you prefer junk and/or fast food, do not order such a big meal. Try the small sized fries. , Working out can help you stay healthy.


Try to do a little exercise everyday. Do different workouts. Try walking one day and jogging the next. Do some weightlifting. Don't hurt yourself, but see what you can do.
 Keep a positive but realistic attitude about how much you weigh.


Miracle diets or diet pills are unhealthy. If it’s not tested/approved by the Food and Drug Administration, it could be a scam or lead to other costly health complications. Be cautious of developing body issues. If you find yourself engaging in unhealthy eating behavior, make sure you realize it and get help.
Disorders like anorexia or bulimia are serious and do not make you healthier or skinnier. If you struggle with them, make sure to talk to someone. , People respond to those relaxed and at ease. Don’t be worried about your weight and others will not either.


Share yourself and your experiences. Others will find you fun and interesting.
Have good self esteem. Feeling confident makes more confident.
Think of your favorite role models and imagine yourself being like them. People you admire likely have something that you recognize in yourself. Let your role models bring out the best in you. 