 Foot fungus is caused by a fungal infection. This infection is common in people whose feet are often damp, warm, and sweaty or in people who wear tight fitting or confining shoes. This kind of fungal infection is also spread in public gyms, pools, and showers and can be caught anywhere people walk barefoot. , The symptoms of athlete’s foot start between your toes. In this area, a red rash starts to arise. This can spread to cover your entire foot, is often very itchy, and causes dry, scaly skin. It also causes burning sensations on your feet.


Athlete’s foot can spread to your hands, especially if you scratch the rash.Toenail fungus, another side of foot fungus, causes yellowish or brownish nails that thicken and crumble easily. As time goes on, the nail may separate from the nail bed and come completely off. Toenail fungus is usually not painful, but it can be., Athlete’s foot can be treated using over-the-counter antifungal products. These come as ointments, lotions, powder, or sprays. Pick which one you think is best for you. Fungal nail infections can be treated by taking over-the-counter antifungal drugs, using an antifungal medication in the form of nail polish, or applying medicated creams.


If the infection is more severe, you may need to see your doctor for a prescription for an antifungal medicine to apply to your feet. In severe or painful cases of toenail fungus, the toenail may be surgically removed in order for a healthy, new nail to slowly grow in its place., If your nail fungus or athlete's foot lasts for more than a few weeks after you start home treatments, see your doctor. There may be something else going on or the infection may be more severe. If your feet are cracked and bleeding, call your doctor. You should also seek assistance if you notice excessive swelling, itching, fever, or drainage due to athlete's foot.


If you have diabetes, see a doctor immediately if you even suspect you are getting either kind of foot fungus. It can be more severe or cause complications if you have diabetes.