 For example, white wines, which are typically made in warmer climes, tend to pair well with foods that grew in a similar climate. Try to look for wines from a similar climate as the food that you are serving for Thanksgiving.However, there is no right or wrong wine for any occasion. The best wine is one that you know that your guests will enjoy.;
, Because people’s tastes differ, you should consider offering your guests multiple types of wine. At the minimum, have a red and white wine option. You might want to offer a pinot noir and a white zinfandel since they pair well with many traditional Thanksgiving foods. You should also consider serving a dessert wine, such as a sweet riesling.


Depending on how many guests you are hosting, you should have a few bottles in reserve.
 A low-acid, high-tannin pinot with hints of berry may be a good complement to your turkey. This is especially true considering how often people pair turkey with cranberries. For a great pairing, look for a pinot that comes from the Pacific Northwest or the Great Lakes area.Be sure to serve pinot noir slightly chilled (50°F/10°C to 55°F/13°C)
Pinot noir can accompany most of your meat dishes.
 If you are serving ham for Thanksgiving, try to find a wine with some fruity tones that also has a hint of sweetness. A sweet riesling, a white zinfandel, or a merlot pair well with honey glazed hams. If you are serving smoked ham, you might want to consider a pinot noir or a zinfandel.Serve your riesling chilled (48°F/8°C) and your merlot slightly under room temperature (55°F/13°C to 60°F/15°C)

, Because lamb has a less pronounced flavor than other meats, it can be overwhelmed if paired with a full-flavored wine. Try to serve a wine that has a delicate flavor, such as a malbec or a syrah. You should also consider the sauce that you serve with your lamb and pair your wine accordingly.For a traditional Thanksgiving brown gravy, consider serving a bordeaux or a barbera.
Serve your stronger red wines between 60°F/15°C and 65°F/18°C

, Most chardonnays are too dry to pair well with the variety of flavors that your taste buds will experience on Thanksgiving. However, a white wine with a little sweetness, like a riesling or a gewurztraminer, can go with the main meal and any desserts. If you serve a white wine, try to find something that is sweet, high-acid or both.