 It is important to note that these alternative remedies are not backed by scientific evidence — evidence that they work is anecdotal, or based on personal experience and word of mouth. Without scientific studies to prove they are effective, there is no way to know if alternative treatments are helpful at all in treating pinworm.

If you want to try an alternative method, talk to your doctor first. These alternative methods should still be undertaken in combination with medication from your doctor, and should not considered to be medical therapies by themselves.
 Garlic is thought to be a good home remedy to help get rid of pinworms.First, eat lots of fresh garlic. The garlic may help reduce and kill the pinworms when you have a bowel movement. You can also make a garlic paste to apply around the anal area. The garlic may kill the eggs and the oil will help soothe the itching.


To make the paste, crush two to three cloves of fresh garlic. Add a few teaspoons of castor oil or mineral oil. Make sure you add enough to get a paste-like consistency. You can also make a paste by adding garlic to petroleum jelly.
Make sure to discuss home remedies with your doctor before using them.
 Turmeric has been shown in lab studies to kill parasites, though researchers are unsure if it kills parasites in humans; however, spicy foods, such as turmeric, are thought to be an effective cure against pinworms. Take 300 mg of turmeric in the form of a capsule three times a day.You may also consider making a tea with turmeric. Steep one teaspoon of turmeric in one cup of hot water for five to 10 minutes. Drink two to four cups.
Don't take turmeric if you use blood thinners because it increases the risk of bleeding.
 The wormwood herb has been traditionally used to help expel worms from the digestive tract. Add a three to four drops of wormwood tincture to a cup of warm water. Have your child drink one cup a day. Adults can drink two cups a day.


Talk to your doctor before using wormwood.
Don't take wormwood if you take anti-seizure medication. If you are allergic to ragweed, you may also be allergic to wormwood.