 You will need at least 1½ yards (1.4 meters) of fabric. Something cozy, like wool felt, fleece, or flannel, would work best. Keep the fabric folded as it came on the bolt.

If you want a longer cape, buy more fabric, but be sure to subtract 24 inches (60.96 centimeters) for the hood and seam allowances.
 Measure 22 inches (55.88 centimeters) from one of the narrow ends. Cut off the 22-inch (55.88-centimeter) wide rectangle. This will eventually become your hood. Save the big piece for later., Take the 22-inch (55.88-centimeter) rectangle you just cut off from your main piece. Turn it so that the folded edge is facing you. Cut it down so that it is 17 inches (43.18 centimeters) tall and 22 inches (55.88 centimeters) wide. Make sure that the 22-inch (55.88-centimeter) edge is along the fold. Discard the little scrap from the top., The big rectangle that's left over will make the main part of your cape. Measure the fabric along the folded edge. If it is too long for your liking, cut it down so that it's the right length. Remember to add 2 inches (5.08 centimeters) for seam allowances., Unfold the cape and turn it so that the wrong sides are facing you. Fold one of the long edges down by ½-inch (1.27-centimeter), and press it flat with an iron. Fold it by another ½-inch (1.27-centimeter), and press it flat again. Topstitch the hem down, ⅛-inch (0.32-centimeter) from the inside fold. Repeat this step for the two side edges.Backstitch at the start and end of your sewing to make your stitches stronger.
 Unfold your hood first, and turn it so that the wrong side is facing you. Hem one of the 34-inch (86.36-centimeter) edges the same way you did the cape body. Leave the other three edges alone.The 34-inch (86.36-centimeter) edge is the side that was 17 inches (43.18 centimeters) when folded.
Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing.
 Fold the hood back in half again, with the wrong side facing out. The 22-inch (55.88-centimeter) edge should be back along the fold, and one of the 17-inch (43.18-centimeter) edges should be hemmed. Sew the other 17-inch (43.18-centimeter) edge using a ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) seam allowance.Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing.
If your fabric is fraying a lot, you will need to go over the seams using a serger or zigzag stitch.
 Sew straight or basting stitches along the top, raw edge of your cape. The first one needs to be ¼-inch (0.64-centimeter) from the raw edge, and the second one needs to be ½-inch (1.27-centimeter) from the raw edge., Find the bobbin threads on one side of your cape. Grab both of them, then start tugging on them. Keep gathering the fabric until it is the same width as your hood base, about 20 inches (50.8 centimeters). Tie off the threads, then snip the excess off.You can gather the fabric from both sides of your cape, but make sure that you are only pulling the bobbin threads.
When you are done, take the time to adjust the gathers so that they are even.
 Pin the hood and the cape together, right sides touching. Make sure that the raw edge of the hood is aligned with the gathered edge of the cape. Sew the two together using a 1-inch (2.54-centimeter) seam allowance. Make sure that the gathered edges don't fold or bunch up while you sew.Remember to backstitch at the start and end of your sewing.
If your fabric frays a lot, you can go over the raw edge with a serger or zigzag stitch. You can also bind the seam with bias tape or hem tape instead.
 Here is where you can get creative. You can hand-stitch a simple frog closure to the front of your cape. You can also sew on two pieces of ribbons instead, if you prefer to tie the cape shut. Another option would be to add a looped cord on one side of the opening, and a large button on the other., You can consider your cape finished at this point, or you can add some embellishments to make it fancier.Here are some ideas to get you started:

Add a beaded fringe along the bottom for a gypsy cape.
Iron appliques to added design.
Sew on a fake fur trim to the hood fo a cozy cape.
Add some embroidery to the edges of your cape to make it fancier.

