 Since the computer will need to be on in order to print, you should install the printer on the computer that is powered on the most.


Note that it is easier for a Mac to connect to a shared Windows computer than vice versa . if you have a mix of computer types, consider installing the printer on your Windows computer and use the previous method.
 In order for other Mac computers to connect to the printer, you'll need to enable printer sharing.Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences".
Select the "Sharing" option.
Check the "Printer Sharing" box.
 Once you've enabled Printer Sharing, you can select which printers you want to share. From the "Sharing" window, check the box next to the printer you want to share. If you have multiple printers installed, check all the ones you want to make available.
 After sharing a printer, you can select who has access to it. By default, everyone connected to your network can print to the printer. You can limit access based on usernames if you prefer.
 Now that the printer is shared, you can connect to it from your other Mac computers. If you are connecting a Windows computer to the shared printer, skip down to the next step.


Click the Apple menu and select "System Preferences".
Click the "Print & Scan" option.
Click and hold the "+" button at the bottom of the printer list.
Select the printer you want to add from the menu that appears.
 If you're trying to connect to a printer shared from a Mac on a Windows computer, you'll need to download some special software from Apple on the Windows computer.


Download the Bonjour Print Services software. You can download this directly from Apple here.Run the installer to install the Bonjour software.
Run the "Bonjour Printer Wizard". This will appear after you finish installing the Bonjour software.
Select the printer that you want to connect to. Make sure that the Mac is connected to the same network as the Windows PC for the printer to appear.
Install the printer software if prompted. You may be prompted to select the software for your new printer. If the printer you want isn't on the list, you'll need to download the correct drivers from the printer manufacturer's support page.
 Once you've installed the printer on your operating system (either Windows or Mac), you can print to it just as if it was connected directly to the computer. Just select it in the Print dialog box in any program.


If the printer is not appearing, make sure that it is turned on, and that the computer it is connected to is turned on and logged in.
 This problem may be caused by your firewall blocking a necessary port. Open your software firewall (either Windows Firewall or your antivirus firewall settings) and open UDP port 5353.

