 One of the most recognizable symptoms of avoidant personality disorder is an intense feeling of discomfort in social situations, beyond what might be considered "normal" shyness. People with this disorder may appear scared or extremely tense whenever they are in a situation that requires them to interact with other people., People with avoidant personality disorder often do not have any close friends or romantic relationships. This may be due to the fact that they often consider themselves socially inept.When they do get involved in romantic relationships, people with avoidant personality disorder are likely to still display extreme restraint due to an intense fear of rejection.
Although they have a difficult time forging close relationships with others, most people with avoidant personality disorder want close relationships and may have detailed fantasies about what it would be like to have them., People who have avoidant personality disorder tend to avoid situations that would involve interactions with other people. This may involve school, work, or recreational activities.


Many people with avoidant personality disorder also avoid any activities that are new or unfamiliar, for fear of embarrassing themselves., People with avoidant personality disorder tend to be extremely sensitive to criticism, or even to perceived criticism. They may constantly feel that others are judging them, even when they are reassured to the contrary.Some people with avoidant personality disorder will avoid activities that they believe they will do poorly at in order to avoid being criticized for their poor performance.
They may expect to be criticized in situations that other people would not take seriously, such as a game.
 People with avoidant personality disorder tend to overestimate the negative aspects of situations. You may notice that they fixate on potential problems and make them seem much more serious than they are., Both avoidant personality disorder and schizoid personality disorder can cause people to avoid social interactions with others, but there is a very important difference between the two. People with avoidant personality disorder are typically very troubled by their isolation and want to get involved with others, while people with schizoid personality disorder usually are not distressed by their lack of interaction.
 Social anxiety disorder and avoidant personality disorder are extremely similar, so it may be impossible for someone who is not trained in psychology to distinguish one from the other. Typically, individuals with avoidant personality disorder display more symptoms than those with social anxiety disorder, and their symptoms tend to be more inhibiting.Individuals who display only a few of the symptoms of avoidant personality disorder may in fact have social anxiety disorder, but it is important that a trained mental health professional make this diagnosis.
Some people may be diagnosed with both avoidant personality disorder and social anxiety disorder, which further complicates the distinction between the two conditions.
 Avoidant personality disorder is not the only psychiatric condition that can cause individuals to lack self-confidence and feel inadequate. Before assuming that an individual has avoidant personality disorder, consider other, similar personality disorders.Like people with avoidant personality disorder, people with histrionic personality disorder tend to lack self-esteem.The major difference is that people with histrionic personality disorder tend to go out of their way to seek the approval and validation of others, often in an unhealthy or destructive way, while people with avoidant personality disorder instead avoid contact with others.
Dependent personality disorder is also characterized by a lack of self-worth and fear of abandonment. However, people with dependent personality tend to latch on to a specific individual instead of avoiding all social interactions. People with dependent personality disorder also tend to have a difficult time making decisions on their own, which is not characteristic of avoidant personality disorder.
 If you think that you or someone you know may have avoidant personality disorder, the first step in getting a diagnosis is to see a doctor for an exam. The doctor will want to rule out any physical conditions that may be causing the symptoms.This appointment will consist of a physical exam, as well as a detailed examination of the patient's personal and family history.
 If no physical conditions are identified, the doctor will most likely refer the patient to a mental health professional, such as a psychiatrist or psychologist. Mental health professionals are specially trained to diagnose personality disorders, including avoidant personality disorder.


This appointment will consist of a detailed interview. The psychiatrist or psychologist will want to know all about the symptoms the patient is experiencing, when they started, and how they have progressed over time.
There is not medical test that can be performed to diagnose avoidant personality disorder. A diagnosis is made based on the observations of the patient's behavior and reported symptoms.
Once a patient is diagnosed, he or she will be encouraged to enter psychotherapy to help overcome the symptoms of avoidant personality disorder.
 Some people with avoidant personality disorder also suffer from other mental health issues, such as anxiety and depression. A thorough psychiatric evaluation should reveal whether any other conditions are complicating the symptoms of avoidant personality disorder.For patients who also suffer from anxiety or depression, medications may be helpful in reducing symptoms. Medications are typically not helpful for patients whose only diagnosis is avoidant personality disorder, however.

