 Meatballs need the egg and breadcrumbs in order to hold their shape, and the egg will provide moisture as they cook. By adding the seasonings to this liquid mixture, you'll ensure that they distribute evenly throughout the meatballs. Try out the following seasoning combos, or feel free to make your own. The only essential is the one teaspoon salt:


1/2 teaspoon each oregano, garlic powder, cracked red pepper, thyme
1-2 tablespoon Italian seasoning blend (if it contains salt, do not add the teaspoon of plain salt)
1 packet powdered onion soup mixture.
Adobo chili mixture or spice packet;
, Remember that you can use anything here to form your meatballs, though hamburger tends to be the classic choice. That said, mixing things up and combining meats, like the Italian classic of burger, lamb, and veal, can lead to some truly stellar meatballs with no extra work.
 You should use your hands, if you're comfortable, to blend and mix the crumbs together, as this will ensure everything is well coated. Pinch the meat between your fingers to blend instead of kneading or smashing the meat. If not using your hands, a sturdy wooden spatula or spoon will do.


Mix as little as possible for the best texture-- just until everything is well mixed. The more you mix the meat, the tougher it gets., Simply pinch off some of the meat mixture and roll it up into a ball. You can make bigger or smaller meatballs, of course, but know that you must adjust cooking times accordingly.


Larger meatballs will take longer to cook, and you must be careful not to let the outsides burn while the insides finish.
Smaller meatballs may dry out if you're not careful -- they must hit the heat and come off quicker., You can simply cook the meatballs in hot olive oil, flipping every 2-3 minutes until well browned on all sides. But the best way to cook meatballs is in the sauce they were served. Hit up an 3/4-inch of sauce to a simmer and then just dump the meatballs in, turning occasionally for 30 minutes. This will bring out a richness in the sauce and cook the meatballs in a nice, tenderizing liquid, preventing drying out.


A slow-cooker filled with sauce and meatballs can accomplish the same thing for beautifully rich, slow-cooked meatballs.
 Make sure you rotate them every 10 minutes or so, ensuring even cooking. Roasting tends to bring out a slightly deeper flavor, as the edges brown and crisp, so choose the method that you think is the best -- neither skillet nor oven is the "right" way.


Finish the meatballs with 2-3 minutes in the broiler to get a wonderfully browned, crisp edge if desired., You can also freeze these meatballs for several weeks if you're not ready to eat them. Enjoy!

