 The most critical part of home treatment for traveler’s diarrhea is to replace fluids. Drink lots and lots of water, at least two to three quarts a day. This is the best fluid to put into your body when you have traveler’s diarrhea. You can also drink diluted fruit juices,green, black, or herbal tea, or clear chicken, vegetable, or beef broths.You should be drinking fluids even if you are vomiting.
Buy bottled water if you are unsure about the quality of the tap water.
Replace fluids over the course of 48 hours and continue to monitor symptoms. Care should be taken if you develop a fever or have blood in your stool.;
, If you think you are at risk for dehydration, an emergency rehydrating solution can be useful. You can drink these drinks in small amounts throughout the day. These formulas are safe for children and infants in small amounts.Mix 1/2 teaspoon sea salt (or table salt if that’s all you have), 1/2 teaspoon baking soda, four tablespoons sugar or two tablespoons of honey, and one liter safe drinking water.
Another rehydrating drink can be made by mixing ½ cup of fresh orange juice, ¼ cup of lemon juice, two cups of filtered or purified water, two tablespoons of organic honey or maple syrup, and ⅛ teaspoon of sea salt. You can use two cups of coconut water instead., If you are vomiting or nauseous, you should avoid solid foods for the first 24 hours. After this time, or when you can hold food down, stick with a bland diet. One such diet is the BRAT diet, which is a diet of bananas, rice, applesauce, and toast.You may also wish to eat soups, crackers, eggs, cereal, stews with soft meats and vegetables, and custards.
 Make sure you get enough rest. This can help your body heal and fight off whatever is causing the traveler’s diarrhea. Likely you are already exhausted from your travels. The diarrhea is likely to make the fatigue worse. Get all the rest you can.


If you are still traveling, try to take it easy for a day or two. Rest in your hotel and make sure you catch up on sleep and rehydrate.
If are home, take a day off from work or school if you need to. This might also help you have the freedom to go to the toilet when you need to.
If you can’t get out of work, just take it easy and slow. Don’t overdo it.

