
In 1991, the United States government enacted the Americans with Disabilities Act (ADA). The law requires the owners of publicly accessible areas to properly accommodate disabled persons. ADA is not specific to lighting, but it does impact fixture design by creating standards for wall sconce projection space and hanging light clearance.
Section 4.4 of the ADA states that "objects projecting from walls with their leading edges between 27" and 80" above the finished floor shall protrude no more than 4" into walks, halls, corridors, passageways or aisles."
Lighting manufacturers responded to this law by creating less intrusive fixtures.;
,
Have you looked up at the night sky lately? If it looks different than when you were a kid or you think the stars have lost their intensity, the problem is most likely urban sky glow or "light pollution."
Poor or ineffective lighting sources are the source of urban sky glow and the problem is no longer relegated to areas in and around major cities. It is the cumulative result of over-lighting at malls, gas stations, parks and residential neighborhoods around the country.
Also known as Cut Off Lighting, Friendly Lighting or Good Neighbor Lighting, Dark Sky Regulated. Dark Sky Regulated refers to lighting fixtures that cut glare, prevent light trespass, reduce sky glow to eliminate wasted energy. Communities are now passing legislation to enforce environmentally sound outdoor lighting practices.

Glare: Glare is often felt by motorists at night when your pupils adjust to the darkness. A passing car with high beams will cause momentary blindness because of your eyes nighttime state. Home and business lighting can have the same effect on motorist's eyes. By aiming lights downward or using a visor, glare can be prevented.


Light Trespass: A neighbor's spotlight or floodlight shining through your window can be an annoyance. Dark Sky Regulated lights reduce light trespass by aiming lights down, choosing fixtures with hoods or visors and using motion sensors to turn off lights when they are not needed. These lights can also prevent excess light shining onto a street and blinding passing motorists. Artificial light has been shown to affect many species and the ecological community.


Sky Glow: Urban residents often forget what the night sky looks like because of the city's sky glow. This can also happen in suburban and rural areas when exterior lighting is installed incorrectly. To prevent sky glow, properly installed exterior lighting will light areas for security and accent purposes.

By causing glare, light trespass or sky glow, energy is being wasted that could be used for families enjoyment and security. The simple steps of properly mounting spot and flood lights or purchasing Dark Sky Regulated fixtures will prevent a neighbor's annoyance and allow the night sky to shine.
There is no safety, aesthetic or visible benefit in lighting up the sky. There is a way to get back a star filled night with lighting designed to contain the wasted light that goes up and out well beyond the need.
 The Energy Star label identifies products that are designed to meet the highest standards of energy efficiency.Save Money: Products with this label meet strict standards of low energy consumption set by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE).Protect the Environment: Besides saving energy, when you choose Energy Star qualified products, you help protect the environment from the air pollution associated with power generation. If just one room in every U.S. home had Energy Star labeled lighting, the change would keep one trillion pounds of greenhouse gases out of the air.Quality of Light: Advances in efficient lighting technology have made the quality of light provided by Energy Star labeled fixtures equal to or better than the light cast by traditional lighting.Color Temperature: The color temperature of a light source indicates the color of the light emitted measured in degrees Kelvin. The color temperature chart below shows a range of Energy Star labeled bulbs, from warm to cool.Safety and Reliability: All Energy Star qualified fixtures follow National Fire Protection Association guidelines for fire safety. Compact fluorescents are much cooler to the touch that incandescent and halogen bulbs. Compared to incandescent lighting, Energy Star qualified fixtures.Lighting Your Home: The way we light our homes can make a real difference in our utility bills and to the planet. Energy Star labeled fixtures meet high standards for energy efficiency and quality, so they use less energy without sacrificing performance or design. They are also safe, reliable and provide just the right light and color.
Today's kitchen is much more than a place to cook. The kitchen is not only used for preparing and eating food but also for gathering and many family activities. This makes good lighting an even more crucial design element in the kitchen.

By casting light from the ceiling level with recessed lighting, it has the power to do a wide variety of jobs. Located above the sink, it provides task lighting. Placed throughout a ceiling, it offers clean, unobtrusive general lighting.

The role of the bath has changed in modern years. It is no longer just functional, it is also high fashion. Energy Star labeled bathroom fixtures will accurately show the colors of skin, clothes and cosmetics.

Providing sufficient illumination for to hallways and stairways is crucial for safety. Look for Close-to-Ceiling, Recessed and Wall Sconces that are Energy Star compliant.

