 Sadness is part of a larger experience of grief. It is a painful emotion that is usually temporary and generally stems from external factors, such as a breakup, fight or disagreement with a close friend, moving away from family, or loss of a loved one. Sadness is a normal emotion that most people feel at various points in their lives.The sadness stemming from a grief reaction can affect your concentration, appetite, and sleep., It is important to know how sadness differs from depression because the treatments for each are themselves different. Unlike sadness, depression does not usually have an identifiable external cause; it is just something people feel. In comparison to sadness, depression is a more serious problem that causes low mood, too little or too much sleep, weight loss or gain, increased or decreased appetite, low energy, disinterest in the world around you, avoidance of social situations, poor concentration, and feelings of worthlessness.One of the key differences between depression and sadness is the ability to experience pleasure, love, and hope. When people are sad, they can usually still experience moments of happiness or pleasure. However, in cases of depression, many sufferers feel themselves unable to experience pleasure, hope or anything at all and become emotionally flat. Moreover, for depressed people, their sadness is like a cloud hanging over them from which there is no escape; they have a tendency to ruminate and dwell and feel unable to simply "get happy."Depression is also long-lasting and can be something that an individual struggles with for months, years or his entire life, whereas sadness is usually transient and temporary. If you find yourself unable to cope effectively with your sadness such that your daily functioning is negatively impacted and suspect that you may in fact be suffering from depression, you should consult a mental health professional. Treatment for depression can involve psychotherapy and medication, so it's important that you assess whether what you are feeling is more chronic than occasional sadness in order to receive the proper treatment.
 Has something happened recently in your life that helps explain what you've been feeling? For example, did you just experience a breakup or a loss in your family? Identifying the cause of your sadness will better help you understand and move past it. Reflecting on the external factors will also confirm that you are experiencing a normal reaction of sadness to something that happened, and not chronic depression.


In addition, knowing what is making you sad will also help you determine the appropriate methods to alleviate your sadness. The sadness you feel after you've broken up with your boyfriend of 3 months, for instance, will be quite different than the sadness you feel if your husband of 10 years has recently passed away.
If you have a suffered a major loss or trauma, it may be useful to consult a mental health professional who can work with you to develop coping strategies for your sadness and grief. According to the Holmes-Rahe Life Stress inventory, the most stressful events that affect individuals' mental and physical well-being include the death of a spouse, divorce, marital separation, and the death of a close family member. In such cases where sadness is likely to be more extreme, the techniques described below may be useful in conjunction with therapy.

