 Change is a natural process which can be noticed as a cycle of life. For instance, a child changes into an adolescent during puberty. His or her physiology is bound to change, as well as his or her mentality. It is important to realize that development is an ongoing process that continues all throughout life. As you enter adulthood, navigate middle age and face the onset of old age, having a greater understanding of how people continue to grow and change as they get older can help you appreciate and manage all the stages of your life. Hence, change is an important process that helps you grow into mature persons. If you embrace change and accept change without trying to prevent it, you can be ready to react to whatever the world throws at you. Be proactive!;
, Seasons change, people change, a lot of changes can occur in our daily lives at work, at home, at school, etc., so obviously the only thing that remains constant is change. So you can either sit and nag about it while waiting for the storm to pass, or you can embrace it and learn to dance in the rain. Seasons change from winter to spring so that nature could blossom all over again. When the caterpillar is caught by change, it leaves its cocoon which represents one stage of life in order to become a butterfly so it can spread its wings and fly away. No matter how bad the change might appear to be, always stay positive about it.
 Think about the bright side of the circumstances. For instance, if you’re about to move to a new school, you’ll make plenty of new friends that could sometimes be better than the ones from your old school.
 If you want to grow wisely, then learn to see things from a different perspective, because when things are bound to happen in a certain way, all you can do is treat the situation from that perspective. For instance, if you had a fight with your loved one and broke up, it might be a good sign after all. In fact, you would have learned so many things that you could apply in your next relationship in order to be more successful!

, While it may seem daunting at first, you will be able to see the positive aspects of being somewhere new or doing new things. In order to aim for the best, you should let go of the chains that keep you hanging on to a routine, or the fear of trying something new. After all, how would you develop and grow wiser if you keep living in the old familiar, constantly doing the same things? Always remember that change is good once in a while.

