 Look out for these issues which are often seen in children who are overparented.


Meltdowns in response to minor challenges.
An inability to entertain themselves for even a short time.
Asking for help immediately without even trying to solve a problem.
Expecting rewards or bribes in order to do anything.
Constantly having to repeat yourself to your child.
Feeling pressure to shield your child from failure or disappointment.;
, One mistake parents make is overpraising their children for the most basic accomplishment or task. This can cause your child to develop self-centered tendencies as they may come to believe that every single thing they do is major. While you should certainly recognize your child when they do well, taking care of basic responsibilities should rarely be praised.Don’t brag about your child’s accomplishments to your friends or others. Share in a way that is non-showy.
 Just as you should not overpraise your child, avoid overly criticizing them as well. This will also cause your child to magnify the importance of their actions if you are constantly reminding them of what they are doing wrong. Learn to pick your battles with your child and choose to correct them on the important things. Let the small things go.


For instance, if your child talks back to an adult, this should always be corrected. However, if you are constantly telling them to tuck their shirt in, consider letting that battle go at least temporarily.
 The proverb goes that you can give a man a fish and he will eat for a day, but if you teach a man to fish, he will eat for a lifetime. Adopt this doctrine with your children. Impart wisdom to them daily by talking your way through what you are doing while they are around. After a few times, see if they can do some of these things on their own. Children learn with involved practice, not just through instruction and lectures.For instance, perhaps you might show your child how to make a basic meal like a sandwich if they are age eight or older. This can serve as a gateway to them understanding how to feed themselves and perhaps even learning how to cook a basic meal.
You might also teach them other things like how to do their own hair, how to clean up, or any other task that is useful and age appropriate.
 If your child does mess up, which children tend to do, hold them responsible for their actions. This will prepare your child for the real world where mistakes naturally lead to sometimes serious consequences. Set punishments that are fair, age appropriate, and meaningful.It's also important to be calm and show some empathy when giving a punishment so your anger itself doesn't become the primary thing your kids are trying to avoid.


For instance, if your child has been picking on other kids at school because of their clothing, consider making them volunteer at a homeless shelter or soup kitchen if they are old enough.
 One way you can begin helping your child develop independence is to allow them to dress themselves. This gives your child the space to express themselves and can also relieve you of the burden of having to choose their outfit each day. If your child is too young to choose their own clothing, give them the option of two or three different outfits, and then allow them to choose.Set certain boundaries in regards to the length and tightness of the clothing. You might not allow shorts that you deem too short or clothing that is see-through.
 Give your child some flexibility in their daily schedule, particularly if they are older. Eventually they should have the responsibility to get themselves up in the morning, and by the time they are older you should make sure you are not still waking them up, especially not multiple times. Avoid signing them up for too many after school activities. Allow them to have free time so that they can develop as individuals and determine their own interests.For instance, you might require that your children begin their homework within thirty minutes of arriving home but that any time after than can be used as they deem fit.
Give your child some flexibility with other things like bedtime as well. Consider giving them a general thirty minute period in which they must be in bed.
 Allow your child to begin learning the importance of pitching in and doing their part by assigning them weekly chores to complete. Assign them chores based on their age level.It's also important to decide what happens when they don't do their chores. Generally, privileges should be earned by completing chores rather than giving a punishment when they don't get done.


Do not clean up your children’s messes for them, especially if they are age five or over.
Task them with keeping their room clean in addition to helping with general household chores like the dishes or the trash.
 In addition to their clothing and free time, allow your child to make certain choices for themselves. Perhaps you are hoping that your child does soccer but they prefer to play softball. Allow them to play the sport of their choice. Allow your child flexibility in other areas as well including their diet, choice of toys, or part time job.Protect your kids from dire consequences, but allowing your kids to make less serious mistakes that they should be able to handle can improve their decision making in the future.
 Spoiling your child is a surefire way to overparent them. Though you should always take care of your child and tend to their needs, you do not have to give in to all of their wants. Allow them to earn the things that you give to them. This does not mean that you make your child work for gifts, but that you reward them when they are keeping up with their responsibilities and chores.Do not continuously give gifts to your children if they are not doing well in school or if they are not taking care of the things that you do give them.
 If you drop something, wait to see if your child offers to pick it up for you. Similarly, when you are carrying the groceries into your home, don’t refuse help if your child offers, even if you can carry everything alone. Allow your child to take some burdens off of you, even if they are slight., Though your child may have connected with a friend or two who you do not approve of, do not try to micromanage these friendships. Allow your child to make the choice of who they want to be friends with and who they don’t. Don’t try to force friends on them or take friends away.You can still set parameters, however. Set a curfew for your child. Disallow them from engaging in certain behaviors, even if their friends are doing it.
You can also encourage your child to talk to you about their friends. Offer some advice based on your own experience, but don't try to tell them what to do.
 Your child may be struggling with something, but don’t just solve the problem for them. Help them begin to think of ways that they can solve the problem on their own, even if you already know a solution. For instance, if you are helping them with their homework, and they got the wrong answer, don’t point out their mistake. Encourage them to review the problem instead.If your child is learning to ride a bike without training wheels, help and teach them, but allow them to fall a few times under your supervision. It is often the mistakes that children make that are the greatest teachers and motivators to success.
 You may notice that your child often tries to quit things once they become uncomfortable, but it is often in times of discomfort that growth occurs. Avoid coming to your child’s rescue all of the time and allow them to figure out a way to cope on their own. For instance, if your child wants to switch out of a class because they don’t have any friends, encourage them to make friends instead and avoid helping them to get out of the class., If your child consistently breaks their phone or toys, avoid fixing or replacing them. This will teach your child that you will not save them each time they are careless. Encourage them to fix or replace the things that they break, particularly if this is a regular occurrence.Children tend to care more for things that they had to work hard for. Consider allowing them to complete additional chores for money so that they can eventually replace their item.
 Avoid intervening in arguments that your children might be having or in fights that your child might have with their friends. As long as these disagreements are not physical, your child is not in danger but is instead learning valuable conflict resolution skills.Lead them by your own example. Allow your child to see you resolve conflicts with your partner, family and friends.
Know when to step in. If your child is being bullied by someone, you should intervene.
 Though you love your child very much, avoid making them the entire focus of your life. A child who grows up believing everything centers around themselves will have a lot of difficulty navigating real relationships and dealing with conflicts of any kind. Learn to care about your own life as well. Dedicate yourself to your career, hang out with friends, spend time with your spouse, and explore your other interests., Perhaps much of your worry or anxiety in parenting your children arises from not having a plan if something should go awry. Perhaps one of your worries is leaving your teenagers at home alone while you are at work. In this instance, to assuage your worry, you can install a home alarm system so you know they will be protected while you are away.If you are worried about your child falling while riding their bike, get them a helmet and knee pads.
 Getting in touch with your spirituality is a great way to calm down any internal anxieties that you might be facing. Take some time each day to pray or meditate. Go to a local place of worship. Connect with friends who are connected to their spiritual side., One way to calm your fears is to talk to other parents who can help you keep your worries in check. Often times when we verbalize things to others, we might realize how unrealistic and unfounded our worries really are. Friends will be able to give you advice on how to let up on your children a bit and give them more independence., Seek out some fact-based articles specifically about your particular problem. If you still feel like you are in over your head after trying various approaches to an issue, talk to a mental health professional for guidance. Don't feel like you need to figure everything out all on your own.
 The types of programs that you watch on television may be directly impacting your parenting style. Perhaps you watch the nightly news each day or view other violent programming on the regular. Research shows that the more violence you see on TV, the more violently you will interpret the world. Switch up your worldview by viewing more positive and tranquil programming., In taking care of your child, don’t forget to care for yourself. Eat healthy foods. Exercise regularly. Plan one thing, no matter how small, per day that you can look forward to. Read a book, watch a film, or have a spa day.