 There are two critical areas of a human which contain major organs and vital systems which, if shot, can stop a man in his tracks or kill him.
 This area contains the heart, major veins and arteries, the trachea, bronchi and lungs, the esophagus, and structures of the nervous system including the paired vagus nerves. To imagine the area that this encompasses, it starts above the diaphragm (just below the sternum) and makes (from a frontal view) a dome shape up to the first lateral rib. This is a pretty large target area. A shot in one area of the thoracic cavity is little different from any other, unless you hit the heart.


The problem with shots in the thoracic cavity is that a determined fighter or a man on drugs will be less than impressed with anything you throw at him in this area. Even if you destroy a person's heart they still have 20 to 30 seconds of full cognitive and physical ability with which they could severely hurt or even kill you. Additionally, the heart is a very small target and completely destroying the heart with one bullet is nearly impossible, which means that they will likely have even more time before their eventual fate is achieved. For all these reasons, many have adopted the self-defense rule: "shoot until the threat ends." (Or as stated in The Rules of Combat: "When in doubt, empty the magazine.") But you must determine for yourself what your protocol will be.
Body armor is also a factor. Just hitting a man in the chest (unless you hit him in the exact same place every time) is just going to deplete your magazine. (Your chest delivered bullet thump MAY induce a fibrillation, resulting in death, but it has to be timed perfectly with your target's heart beat. Not an advisable procedure. Nor is it reliable.)

Bullet penetration is very much a key factor in bullet selection. This penetration does a few things for you. At less than optimal angles, the bullet will still reach vitals, and it will give your bullet a chance to possibly hit the spine, which (depending on where it lands) can either incapacitate completely, or at least paralyze enough of the body, so you may be able to get away. An important factor to note is that while bullet penetration can be to your advantage, rounds with a high degree of penetration (e.g., the FN 5.7x28 round) can exit the target. When firing with rounds like these, beware of accidentally hitting people or objects behind your assailant. Position yourself to your advantage, and wait for a clear shot. Once it leaves the barrel, the bullet will hit something, and you can't call it back!

, This area is much simpler; it contains the brain and upper spine.


While the brain is an obvious target, there are still some considerations in shot placement. The front of the cranium (above the eyebrows) is one of the hardest bones in the body, it is also not a flat target (angled toward the top of the head, and toward the sides). There have been instances where bullets have ricocheted off a person's forehead.
Incidentally, just below this bone (below the eyebrows), down to the top of the upper-jaw is a very soft area with nose cartilage, sinus cavities, and eye holes, which leads directly to the lower brain, the medulla oblongata, and the upper spine. The brain is the largest target, and a bullet in there will mean "lights out," but flinching and minor movements are also possible when the brain is shot. The medulla oblongata and the upper spine initiate those flinching signals that are sent to the body. A bullet through either one of those, should ensure that there is no way the body might accidentally pull a trigger or move in some other potentially detrimental way.
In a situation which requires the immediate and unquestioned incapacitation of a person, a shot through an approximately 3-inch (above the upper-jaw to eyebrows) by 5-inch (the outside edges of the eyes) window in the head is essential. This 3x5-inch area is about the same no matter what angle the person is facing you (from the rear and the sides it is about the same size and about the same level on the head).
 When scoring (to compare your improvements), or competing, a shot breaking the line of either cavity is good. The size of the grouping should matter less than getting the hits in quickly; and when shooting at the cranial cavity, only a guaranteed shot should be taken (you should always take more time for a cranial shot than a thoracic shot). But keep in mind, "Remember your worst day at the range; you will be twice as bad when you are in a gun fight." So, a hand-sized grouping in the thoracic region is optimal, as a general rule.

