 Brining your pork chops will help your meat retain moisture after being cooked. This is especially important for lean chops that don't have much fat marbling the meat, as these will dry out more easily during cooking.


Marbling is a butcher's term that refers to the visible presence of fat, which often appears as white veins in the meat.
Even meat with good marbling can be made juicier by brining. If you like your meat to be juicy, you might want to consider brining your chops from now on., In a small or medium sized saucepan, mix together 2 cups of water, 1/3 cup of kosher salt, and 1/3 cup brown/granulated sugar over medium heat. Add to the mixture 1 teaspoon of black peppercorns, 2 sprigs of thyme, and 4 cloves of garlic. Stir the mixture with a spoon until the salt and sugar have dissolved.


You'll have to let your brine cool first before using it. You can speed up with process by adding some ice cubes to your cooling brine.
This recipe makes enough brine for 2 pork chops. You can adjust the ingredients proportions if you're making fewer or more than 2 pork chops., You'll want your plastic baggie to be large enough to accommodate your pork chop, but not so large that the brine settles to the bottom of the baggie and does not completely submerge the chop. You may find it easiest to split your brine equally between 2 medium sized baggies, one for each chop.


You should prioritize plastic baggies with a heavy duty seal. Some cheaper baggies may spring a leak and get brine all over your refrigerator., Put your chop into the baggie with your brine and seal it closed. For best results, you'll want your chop to sit in the brine at least 8 hours, so you may want to leave it in your refrigerator overnight.


Even if you don't have a full 8 hours to brine your chops, as few as 2 hours of brining can improve the juiciness of your meat.
Generally, you should not brine meat for more than 12 hours. Doing so will have no noticeable impact on the meat., You may want to remove the meat from its baggie with a tool, like a pair of tongs, but you should be able to guide your chop out by holding the corners opposite the mouth of the baggie and letting gravity pull the chop free. Excess brine that remains on the chop can be patted dry with clean paper towel.


Generally, before cooking your pork chops but after you remove excess brine, you should allow your chops to return to room temperature. This will help preserve the quality of the meat., Now that your pork chops are well brined and at room temperature, they're ready to be cooked in whatever fashion you desire. Some options you might consider for cooking your prepared pork chop include pan frying a breaded cutlet, grilling it, or braising it.

