 When you brand yourself, you're choosing how you want to been seen by others in the work world. Your brand incorporates what you do best and who you are.


Brainstorm a list of words that describe you--your persona, your outlook, your expertise. Use these to form the basis of your marketing and advertising programs.
Establish an online presence. People will be searching for the kinds of services you offer, so you want to make sure you're online in a way that's professional and helpful.

Create a Facebook page for your business. Post a professional-looking photo of yourself and post regularly about projects you are working on. Include photos of your events as well. (Be sure to get permission before posting any pictures that feature clients or guests.)
Start a blog. A blog can help you establish yourself as an expert in your field. Post small "how-to" articles to help readers, talk about events you've been working on, trends you've noticed and news from your field.
Open a Twitter account. Start discussions, voice your expert opinion, made predictions about what will be hot this season--keep it interesting and upbeat.
 If you want people to know who you are and what you do, you have to put yourself out there. Join professional organizations, attend trade shows and take part in continuing education seminars. These are all great ways to make connections and to spread the word about your services.


Consider forming alliances with others in related fields. Ran into an amazing florist? Met a great photographer? Be sure to let them know what you do and stay in touch--they may have business they can send your way and vice versa.
 Some of the basics of event planning never change--you have to be a great communicator, experienced budget planner and flawless with details. But styles change and trends need to be followed so that you can keep the look of projects current and fresh.


Keep updating. Read trade magazines to find out what's hot and take new classes and workshops to refresh your skills.
Follow fashion. Look at fashion, decorating and food magazines to learn what's in style. See what's popular on Pinterest. Staying up-to-date will help you avoid producing events that feel dated or stale.

