 Tonks is known for her distinctive mane. In the books, her hair was described as a “shocking pink”. It has also been a purple-pink color verging on lavender, a white-blonde, and brown. Choose which version and which method you want to go with when adapting your hair to Tonks’.If you’re looking for something semi permanent or permanent, dye your hair.
If you’re looking for something more temporary, there are wigs and temporary colour hair sprays available online and at costume stores.
 Separate your hair into workable pieces to apply colour onto. Use a vegan dye that does not last too long, like the Manic Panic brand. Electric Amethyst, Red Passion, and Cotton Candy Pink are the perfect ways to get the colours you might be looking for.Red Passion and Cotton Candy Pink blended together can create the perfect pink you’re after, while Electric Amethyst can be the perfect purple. Use both dye colours to emulate the look of the Tonks represented in the films with her pink-purple combination hair.
Create the colour by adding the dye and conditioner and then mix them together. For purple dye, you will need a drop of conditioner in your mix. For the other colours, use a ratio of 3 parts conditioner to one part hair dye.
 Wigs do not stop at costume shop brand options. You can also search online for retailers that offer neon pink, lavender, or bleached lace-front wigs. They are costly, but the quality and how closely the wigs look compared to your actual hair are great benefits of choosing this option.
 This is a completely optional step, especially if you’ve decided to go big with your hair. Tonks’ makeup look is simple and will act as an extension of her distinctive trait of pink and purple hair.


Use a duo eyeshadow palette in pink or purple and an eyeshadow brush to highlight just underneath the brow with the lighter shadow in the package. Apply the darker pink or purple shade directly onto your eyelid.Use a more pointed brush and a darker purple colour to create a cat eye shape with the shadow on the outer corner of your eyelid. Blend it in with your fingertip in that area to make the shape a little softer.
Apply some mascara to your lashes and some blush with a blush brush to create some rosiness in your cheeks.
If you wish, add a sheer purple-toned metallic lipstick to your lips.

