 Enter the IP address of your router into the address bar of your browser to connect. If you don’t know the address, here are a few to try: 192.168.0.1, 10.0.1.1, and 10.0.0.1. If none of these work, you’ll need to do a little sleuthing.


From your Mac: Open the Apple menu and select System Preferences. Click the Network icon and highlight your Wi-Fi connection on the left side of the screen. You’ll see several IP addresses, but the one you’ll need appears next to the word Router.
From your PC: Press ⊞ Win + R to open a command prompt window. At the prompt, type ipconfig and press ↵ Enter. Look for your wireless connection (you may have to scroll up) until you see “Default Gateway.” The IP address next to that phrase is that of your wireless router.
 If you don’t know this information, check the sticker on your wireless router. If there’s no admin username and password, call your ISP.


You can also check routerpasswords.com for a list of default router admin account information.
If you’ve changed your router admin password and then lost it, you’ll need to reset your router back to its factory settings.
 The list of devices connected to your network depends on the model and manufacturer of your wireless router. Browse to the router’s LAN or DHCP settings and view a list of connected devices or clients. In addition to your unwanted visitor, you’ll also see your own computer and other devices that are supposed to be there.
 This includes your smartphone, other smart devices, printers, wireless speakers, other desktops and notebooks in your house.
 If you see a connected device besides your own, that’s the intruder (or a device you forgot to turn off—be thorough). Write down the MAC address of the device that shouldn’t be there.
 Depending on the manufacturer and model of your wireless router, the location of these settings will vary. Look for Firewall Settings or Security Settings. In one of these locations, you should find something called Address Filtering, MAC Filtering, MAC Access List (check your router’s manual). Enter the MAC address of the device you don’t want connecting to your network. Select Block or Restrict, depending on the model.
Some routers don’t come with the ability to restrict access, so check your manual if you don’t see what you’re looking for.
 Do this by unplugging/plugging the power cable from the back of the device.
 Once the router has finished rebooting, connect to your wireless network. You can also turn on your other devices. The device whose MAC address you blocked will no longer be able to access your network.

