 You cannot know whether your child’s hip pain is caused by a benign condition or a serious infection without taking them to the doctor. If the child does have an infection of their joint or bone, it can be a medical emergency. Check the child into the hospital so they can receive IV (intravenous, or into the vein) antibiotics to prevent destruction of the bone and other serious problems.If your child has hip pain and a fever (101°F/38°C or higher), take them to the hospital right away., As long as your child is having hip pain, keep them out of strenuous activities. Rest is often important in healing the problem causing hip pain. Allow them to gradually increase their level of activity starting two weeks after their pain is resolved.Swimming is a great activity to improve strength and range of motion after a period of rest.
Show them how to avoid bending at the waist and how to avoid putting direct pressure on their hip.Your child may need to use crutches for a while to give their hip some rest., Your doctor may give your child exercise instructions to help strengthen or stretch the joint to prevent further problems. Learn how to do these exercises so you can show the child at home. If recommended by your doctor, take them to see a physical therapist who can teach them to do the exercises correctly., For orthopedic hip problems, ask your doctor about getting a brace or cast for your child. In some situations, this can help the hip joint to sit properly and heal better.Your doctor can help you determine if this option is right for your child., Some conditions require surgery, such as a relatively common disorder in obese children called slipped capital femoral epiphysis. Discuss surgical options with your doctor. Most hip problems can be solved without surgery, however., Rarely, pediatric hip pain is caused by cancer of the bone. If this is the case, work closely with cancer specialists to help treat your child. They will probably receive chemotherapy and other treatments., For benign conditions that resolve on their own, follow-up with your doctor 6 months after treatment. This is to make sure there’s no lasting damage to the hip, and that the child doesn’t need more treatment. For more serious conditions, continue to see your doctor as often as they recommend.