 Having something to munch on will make the time go by faster.;
, Have a small laugh to yourself if you find it funny enough. However, if you laugh too loud, the person next to you may find that you are mentally unsound.
 Maybe the actors have done something that your relatives have done too.
 What things do you have in common? Have you gone through some of the same things as them or been in their position? Catch the reactions of the other actors on what the actor who resembled you had done. Perhaps, you could learn something to make yourself a better person.
 See if you can spot product placement advertising or other brand names featured in the movie. Often most of them can be tad obvious to the audience; trigger your laughing bag if you find it awkward!

, See how long you can hold your breath. Use your watch to time yourself or just count in your mind. Again, if you violate the serenity of the theatre, people may find you brain sick.
 You might want to use your hands to do the counting because the dull movie may cause you to lose count if you reckon the number mentally.
 Start mentally changing what the actors are saying; for example pretend they end all their sentences with the words, "for booze." You can even stop paying attention to their real words and make up a whole new, more interesting conversation for them to have. It sounds immature, but can be incredibly hilarious in the right movie. Just try not to laugh too loud.
 Try to make yourself laugh (quietly)!

, See if you can determine where specific sounds are coming from inside the theater. Move your eyes and tilt your head slightly towards the direction of the sound. People around you who thought that the movie was uninteresting may laugh to that!

, Also known as a cue mark, it appears very briefly in the upper right hand corner of the screen about every 20 minutes. It's a cue mark that tells the projectionist when to change a reel., Recite the alphabet backwards or count backward from 200 by sevens. Other similar mental exercises will help you pass the time.
 This is especially fun if you choose incongruous names, for example: if you see a character who looks like your high school math teacher, name him Montel (which means "chubby" in Malay language). Try not to laugh out loud.
 Did someone just fall out of a plane and live? Come on, filmmakers. Again, try not to laugh out loud., Doing some "good deeds" may help you avoid having to watch another boring movie in the future.

