 There is strong evidence that patients with fibromyalgia can benefit from exercise. Research has indicated that while it may be difficult to get motivated, mild-moderate physical activities is very effective for fibromyalgia. The idea is start with low impact physical activity like walking. It can be very tough to get started, so when you begin, don’t push too hard.


Get up once every hour or two and take a slow walk around your house or apartment building. Walk the dog two or three times more than you normally might. Take the stairs more often and park further away from the grocery store.
Try Tai Chi and Qigong. For a group activity, check your local area for classes. You can also look into yoga and low-impact aerobic exercise classes or groups.Make sure that you rest in between your exercise. Try to find a meditation class. The practice of meditation can significantly and positively impact your mood and your stress levels.
 Since fibromyalgia causes pain and muscle tension, a massage is a great way to help reduce these symptoms. The techniques used in massage can also help you relax as well as reduce your paint and stiffness. You can generally find certified massage therapists in all kinds of locations, such as massage parlors, spas, and gyms.


If you aren't sure, ask your doctor, friends, or family for a recommendation., In addition to meditation, try some deep breathing exercises to help you relax. There are a few breathing exercises that might help. For deep breathing, lie flat on your back. Try using pillows under your neck and knees to help you get comfortable. Put your hands on your stomach, palms down. Take a slow, long deep breath to expand your belly, breathing from your diaphragm. The diaphragm creates a heavy suction that pulls more air into your lungs than rib cage breathing. Repeat this as often as you are comfortable.


Your fingers should separate as they lie on your belly if you are doing it right.
You may get dizzy at first, which is normal because of the amount of air you are taking in. If at any time you feel uncomfortable, stop. , To add a layer to your deep breath, add a humming breath to it. Breathe as you would with deep breathing. As you exhale, make a humming sound with your throat. This action helps strengthen the diaphragm and can help you relax more., There is another breathing exercise that may help you relax more. For this exercise, sit down in a chair. Take three short inhalations through your nose. On the first intake of breathe, lift your arms. Reaching in front, keep the arms at shoulder level. On your second breathe, move your arms to the side. Keep your arms at shoulder levels during this breathe. On the third breathe, lift your arms up over your head.


Repeat this exercise in a series of 10 to 12.
If you get dizzy, stop. Your lungs will take over and return to your natural rhythm.
 Biofeedback is a technique that uses the mind and body to help control involuntary reactions, such as blood pressure, heart rate, and muscle tension. To start biofeedback, talk to your doctor. He will give you special equipment that will show you when your body is doing a certain thing. You can then use this equipment and your own actions to help you control those functions.


For example, if your heart rate is elevated, you can use the equipment and targeted mental and physical actions to help slow it down., There have been a few studies that have shown the benefit of acupuncture with the pain associated with fibromyalgia. Look into certified acupuncturist in your area or ask your doctor for a referral. To try it out, go to at least three visit before you make a decision on if it works for you. If it is, continue the treatment.


You may have to make a decision on whether or not acupuncture is cost effective for you. It can get expensive, so try to weigh the pros and cons of the treatments against the cost.Never try to perform acupuncture on yourself or let someone who doesn't know how perform it on you.
 Being diagnosed with fibromyalgia can be a difficult emotional process. Find a group of people that can go through this process along with you. This will help you feel less alone and you will be able to commiserate with those who have the same condition as you.


Two places to start are the Fibromyalgia Network and the National Fibromyalgia and Chronic Pain Association (NFMCPA).