 Do you prefer a slower, but much stronger character such as Ganondorf? Maybe you prefer a fast-moving, agile character, like Sheik or Fox? Are you a lightweight and hard-to-control but deadly character like Jigglypuff, or a slow-moving, long-ranged tank such as Samus? Or maybe you'd prefer a jack-of-all-trades, such as Link, Doc, or Luigi. Play with everyone, and play through the single player modes with every character to find out who you play best with.;
, This can be done by quickly tilting UP on the control stick, or by pressing X or Y on the controller. X or Y tend to offer more control.


You can also double jump by pressing the jump button again in mid-air.
 While every character has a relatively different set of attacks from each other, all attacks are based from one simple set of controls.



Basic Attack – Press A. Many characters will have a simple array of attacks that is achieved by pressing A many times in a row. For example, Link will repeatedly thrust his sword if you continuously press A.

You can also execute a basic air attack by jumping and pressing A.



Directional Attack – Slowly tilt the control stick in a direction, and press A. This executes a basic moving attack.

Note that you can also execute different directional attacks by jumping and tilting the control stick in the appropriate direction while pressing A.



Dash Attack – Quickly tilt the control stick in a direction to start your character off running, then press A to execute an attack.

Smash Attack – While standing still, Press A and a direction at the same time . Each character has 3 unique smash attacks .

You can also hold down A to "charge up" your smash attack. Release A to execute the attack.
 These attacks highly vary between characters, and reflect more on the character, compared to basic attack maneuvers, which are somewhat similar.


There are four executable moves with the B button:

B + UP
B + DOWN
B + LEFT/RIGHT
B, Alone


Most of the "B" attacks vary from character to character, but almost every character's "B + UP" acts as a third jump. This is an "attack" that is used to help get your character back onto the stage if you have been knocked off.
Note that, unlike A attacks, B attacks do not change, whether you are on the ground or in the air.
 To grab a player, run up next to a player and press "Z" on the controller. To throw, tilt the control stick in any direction .


You can also execute a "running" grab by quickly tilting the control stick to run, and pressing "Z". This gives you a greater range for which to grab a player.
While having a player grabbed, you can press A to hit your opponent a few times before throwing.
Grabbing and throwing is a useful tactic to help set players up for combos and further attacks.
If you have your shield up (holding L or R), you can also grab a player by pressing "A". This is a good way to quickly grab a player that has just attacked you, who will be slightly fazed by hitting your shield .
 It's important to know how to damage another player, but it's even more important to know how to fend off attacks.


Use your shield barrier. This is achieved by pressing L or R. Don't rely heavily on it, though, as because it can break, leaving your character stunned and vulnerable to attack! Characters can also easily grab and throw you when you have your shield up. This is called sheild-grabbing, and it is done by holding r or l to shield and then pressing a which makes you grab. This technique can be used against a person who tries for example to hit you with their repeated basic 'a' attack. When they stop (figuring of course that they aren't hitting you) you immediately press A and you grab them. (Don't use repeated a, it doesn't work on anyone but beginners.
Know how to roll. Rolling is a critical defensive technique that will help not only to evade oncoming attacks, but also to set yourself up to counter your opponent's attack. While your shield is up (pressing L/R), tilt your control stick LEFT or RIGHT.
Know how to "spot dodge". Spot dodging is good for evading enemy attacks without moving out of place. This is done by putting up your shield (L/R) and tilting DOWN on the control stick.

You can spot dodge in the air by pressing L/R while in the air. You can influence movement in your character by pressing in any of the eight directions, or you can press L/R, alone. Remember though that this will disable your up-b move which is usually you main recovery move which brings us to...


Be able to recover when knocked off the stage. This is done by properly timing your jumps back onto the stage, including your "third" jump .
 The act of grabbing edges is useful because it provides your character with a brief "invincibility", per se. Every character can execute different techniques by pressing different buttons while hanging from an edge. Here are some examples:


UP – Your character will climb up the ledge.
DOWN – Your character will drop straight down. Note that you will only have your second jump when dropping from the ledge.
AWAY - Your character will move away from the ledge. Note that you will only have your second jump when dropping from the ledge.
A or B – Your character will climb up and attack.
X/Y – Your character will leap into the air.
L/R – Your character will climb up the ledge and roll forward a short distance.
Depending on the amount of damage your character has, they will attack weaker or stronger. If their damage is 100% or higher, then their edge-grabbing-attacks will be weaker than usual. Example: Normally, Mario does a mini-cartwheel for pressing A. When he has 100% damage, he only does a small kick.
Timing is also critical when pressing these buttons. Depending on how quickly or slowly you press the button, your character will react accordingly.
 It's best to start in VS mode against a computer, so that you can get an easy feel for the gameplay. Adjust the skill of the computer accordingly, to a level that best suits you.


Even as a very talented player, you should limit your skill to a maximum of level 8. Level 9 computers are essentially the same as level 8, only with inhuman reaction time, which is impractical to rely upon when playing with human players.
 It's tough (try impossible) to get good at Super Smash Brothers Melee by only playing against the computer, since the computer can only do so much. Practice playing with your friends!

,


This is not necessary, but it makes the game a whole lot more fun. see the advanced how to play video on youtube, practice what you see slowly, and then you'll be able to kick your friends butts. Don't expect it to happen overnight though, practice practice practice, and watch professionals like Mango, ken, pc Chris, mew2king (m2k for short), Azen, Isai and others.

