 After completing the “Proving Honor” quest, go to the Jorrvaskr (the easternmost hall in Whiterun) and talk to Skjor, a bald man with face paints, and ask for a job. He will tell you to meet him in the Underforge at night.;
, Once the night arrives, take the path on the left side of the Jorrvaskr; this will lead you to a secret opening on the stone wall leading to the Underforge. Go through the secret opening and inside you should find Aela—a female companion—and Skjor.
 Aela will transform into a werewolf, and Skjor will knife her arm and pour some blood on the fountain in the middle of the room. Approach the fountain and press the “Activate” button on your controller to have your Dragonborn drink the blood from the fountain.
 After drinking the blood from the fountain, the screen will darken, and the next scene will show your character standing outside Whiterun, now in werewolf form. You can run around the city and kill some of the guards you see in the area.


After a few seconds the screen will turn dark again, and the next scene will be your character now back in its normal form.
 After turning back to normal form, Aela will tell you that you need to eliminate a group of werewolf hunters called the Silver Hand residing in a place called Gallows Rock.


Exit Whiterun and travel straight eastwards for a few miles past the Valtheim towers and you’ll find a small encampment with a torn down watch tower in the middle. This is Gallows Rock.
 Approach the door you see on the encampment and pull down the chain next to it to open the pathway into Gallows Rock.


Once the door is open, open your in-game menu and select “Magic.” Select “Powers” from the menu panel on the right-hand side of the game screen and choose “Beast Form.” Your main character will now turn into a werewolf.
 All you need to do now is to enter the dungeon and kill every enemy found inside while in beast form. Once the Silver Hand has been wiped out, talk to Aela again and the “Silver Hand” quest will be completed.

