 You don't have to subsist on kale smoothies or run ten miles a day to have a beautiful body. Having a beautiful body means taking care of what you put into your body and paying attention to what your body does.


Get some exercise. Working out for just thirty minutes three times a week can work wonders on your body. You'd be surprised what doing some yoga, taking a daily walk, or going for a swim will do for your sense of well-being.

You can meet new friends in exercise classes, or have some much-needed reflection time during your walks or swims.
Also, your skin will have a healthy glow, and you'll exude a sense of vitality.
If you exercise the right amount, you will also feel happier and will have more energy.


Be a healthy eater. It's okay to splurge on your favorite foods once in a while, but it's important to maintain a healthy diet so your body can feel good on the inside as well as look great on the outside.

Eat three balanced meals a day. Many people skip meals because they think it'll help them lose weight, but this will actually make you cranky and tired.
Have a healthy serving of fruits and vegetables every day. Make sure to dip your hand into your fruit bowl a few times a day, and to eat your veggies with as many meals as possible.
Avoid foods that are overly-processed or fatty because they will make you feel tired and may hurt your digestive system.


Listen to your body. Part of having a beautiful body is not overdoing it when it comes to working out or eating right.

If you're feeling extra tired or thinking you're coming down with a cold, it's okay to skip the workout you had planned. You're better off taking a break than making yourself feel worse, which can prevent you from exercising for even longer.
If you're really craving an ice cream sundae, eat it. It's better for you than eating everything else in your fridge except the thing you really want. You should give in to your cravings--with moderation.

;
, You will feel your best if your skin looks healthy and clean. Washing your face and using the right lotions and moisturizer can help you put your best face forward.


No matter what your skin tone, don't spend too much time in the sun. If you do get a lot of sun, then make sure that you wear a sunscreen with SPF 15 or higher protection.

Even if you're out during a cloudy day, the sun may still be affecting your skin, so make sure to touch your face or look in a mirror to avoid unexpected sunburn.


Drink lots of water. Water hydrates your skin from within and will help to combat peeling and dryness. At least eight cups of water a day is recommended.
Wash your face in the morning and at night. If your skin is oily, then use a cleanser to keep your face acne-free. If your skin is dry, then use a gentler cleanser and be sure to moisturize.
Care for your lips. Wear lip balm, particularly in the winter. If you want a little color along with protection, buy tinted lip balm.
Wear makeup if you have the time and if it makes you feel good. But if you do wear makeup, remember to remove it fully at the end of every day.
 Maintaining daily hygiene is a part of having a beautiful body. If you smell fresh and clean, you will be much more likely to make a good first impression.


Shower daily. This will keep your body smelling and looking fresh.
Wash your hair as often as you need to to keep it from looking greasy.
Wear deodorant to avoid giving off an undesired smell.
 These parts of your body take a lot of abuse from simple daily living. Make sure that your skin stays moist and your nails stay groomed., Not only do they give you a great smile, but they also keep you eating all of the foods that you love at any age. Brush your teeth every morning, every evening, and after every meal, if you can.


In addition to regular brushing and flossing, get a check-up at the dentist every 6 months. This will prevent any major issues that many arise with your pearly whites.
If you want to, try some teeth whitening solutions.
 Hair is your crowning glory. If you've got it, then style it in a way that flatters your face and choose a great color if you don't like your own.


If you don't have much, either clip it short or get a great hat (or several hats) to communicate a message about your personal style.
Maintain healthy hair by brushing it every day, and getting a haircut at least every two months. This will go a long way in helping your hair look its best.
 Your wardrobe does not have to be expensive to be beautiful. It just has to showcase your style and flatter your body. Remember to choose quality over quantity.


Choose good fabrics and flattering colors that you can wash without dry cleaning. Instead of buying 2 cheap shirts that won't last very long, save your money to purchase a well-made shirt that can last for multiple seasons.
You can always find great brands and really unique pieces for less at consignment shops or thrift shops.
 Your beauty regimen will change over time as your body changes, but you're still you. You don't have to look the way you did when you were 25 to be beautiful. You just need to take good care of yourself and put your best foot forward every day.
 People who cultivate inner wisdom and live their lives abiding by wise principles will radiate beauty and blessing to everyone around them. Wisdom can never fully be attained--it's a growing process, and there's always something more to learn.


Meditate or reflect on your actions. You can learn a lot if you take the time to do nothing but think, whether you're meditating, writing in a journal, or just admiring a beautiful view in a park.
Read the works of wise people. You can learn a lot from novelists, poets, or historians. Reading can help you gain knowledge and put your ideas into perspective.
Listen carefully to the ideas of people you genuinely respect.People who are working in a similar field as you, who are involved in healthy relationships, or simply have a lot of life experience can help inform your every day life.
Be more cultured. Watching foreign films, learning a new language, or going to a museum once a month can help you gain an appreciation for how big the world is, and can make you more wise.
 You don't have to be wealthy to develop a generous spirit. Give something to charity on a regular basis, even if you can't give a lot.


If you can't give money or possessions, then give generously of your time. Open your home and share a meal, some tea, or a bottle of wine with friends.
The holidays are a great time to tap into the spirit of generosity. Visit an elderly neighbor or family member, buy gifts for someone who is less fortunate, or help prepare a holiday meal for someone who could use the company.
 Maybe you are a devout follower of a religion. Or perhaps you don't believe in a specific deity, but you find great spiritual satisfaction in creating art or spending time in nature. You will starve your spiritual side if you focus too much on rules and dogma or if you only want scientific truth instead of spiritual truth.


Find a way to see yourself as part of something larger so that you can be more compassionate toward your fellow humans.
Traveling to new locations, or taking in remarkable views, can help you do this.
 Your feelings are important because they tell you what you like and what you don't. However, if you hold on to bad feelings for a long time, they will poison your soul.


Control your emotions. If you're angry with someone, don't let it turn into bitterness or resentment. Go out into your backyard and scream, call a friend and vent, or take a kickboxing class to work it out. Then forgive, be the bigger person, and make smarter choices next time.
Get closure--if you really need it. If you want to share your feelings with someone who hurt you because you think it will resolve your conflict, then it's the right thing to do. However, if you just want to yell at someone, or to get a litany of complaints off your chest, you may be better off writing down your feelings. An unproductive or even a one-sided argument will only make you feel worse and will remind you of your negative feelings.
 Say what you mean. Live life according to your values. State your opinion in a courteous way. Don't pretend to be someone else for someone else's imagined benefit. The world needs you, just as you are.


Be authentic--with caution. Part of being a beautiful person is knowing when you should hold your tongue. Here are some situations where it's better to not say what you mean:

If a loved one is having a particularly bad day, that is not the time to tell them about their flaws. Timing is everything if you want to share your opinions.
If someone is rude to you in public, there's no reason to fight back. Instead, be the bigger person and realize that that person is probably having a bad day.


Leave room for improvement. Though it's important to be yourself, it's equally important to recognize that we are all flawed beings and that you can always improve your character. Be aware of your flaws and accept constructive criticism.
 Whether you're grateful to a Higher Power, to your family and friends or to someone who's courteous to you at the market, take the time to say "thanks." Many people find that keeping a gratitude journal helps them to focus on what they have rather than on what they don't. Here are some other ways to express gratitude:


Send your close friends cards that tell them how much they mean to you. You can do this on a birthday or holiday, but your words may mean the most if you do it just because.
Give small and meaningful gifts. Even if you don't have a big budget, giving your friend the book of poetry she's been talking about, or even painting her a picture of your favorite place, can show how grateful you are.
Tell your loved ones how you feel. Tell your significant other, best friend, and family members that you love and appreciate them as often as you can.
 You don't need a mansion or an elaborate country garden. However, your surroundings often reflect your inner state of being.


Less is more. Go through your clutter and throw away unwanted items. Give a room a fresh coat of paint, or buy a nice plant for your living space.
Fix up your place. Tackle that maintenance problem that you've been neglecting. Wherever you are, you can make your space your own.
Add a few plants to your life. If you have a balcony, a few plants can be a great addition, and may even help spice up your meals.
Remind yourself of what you love most. Hang up pictures of your loved ones, or your favorite places. You will always feel at home even if you're far away from some of your favorite people.
 Even if you don't have a million friends, having a strong support system is a key to being a beautiful person. It's important to maintain the relationships that will help you grow as a person.


Make time for old friends. Old friends have known you the longest, and can help remind you of where you came from, and how far you've traveled.
Develop new friendships. It's never too late to make a new friend, even if you're busy with work and family. You can learn something new, grow as a person, and have fun getting to know a new individual.
Stay in touch with your family. Make time to see your family as often as you can. If they are far away, make type for a phone call, or even write a letter.
Drop your unhealthy friendships. It's important to maintain your relationships, but if you find yourself in a friendship that is one-sided and just makes you feel bad about yourself, you should recognize that not every relationship is worth saving.
 Do you feel passionately about helping the world to become a better place? Then find your own small corner and start doing something to participate. Here are some great ways to get involved:


Raise money for a local animal shelter.
Buy from local businesses. This will help your community thrive.
Go to a town or county festival. You will meet your fellow residents and will learn more about your surroundings.
Throw a block party for your neighbors.
Start a book club for your community.
Volunteer as a reading tutor at your local library or community center. Teaching adults and children how to read will change their lives forever.
Remember that you have what the world needs. People with inner beauty don't hide it; they share it with others.

