 Often, the reason why people don’t feel anxiety during the day is because they are busy. Work helps keep you distracted from your thoughts and anxieties during the day. At night, you may slow down and do nothing, which can cause you to start thinking about your anxiety. Instead, give yourself projects or tasks in the evening to keep your mind occupied.These tasks don’t have to be stressful or strenuous. Read a book, wash the dishes, do a load of laundry, crochet, or put together a puzzle. Anything that helps keep your mind focused on something other than your anxiety.
Having nothing to do in the evening can lead to you getting lost in your head. This leads to increased anxiety.
 Working out after you get off work can help reduce your anxiety at night. Exercise is a natural mood booster and proven method to help reduce anxiety. Aerobic exercise is a quick cure for anxiety. You can try to combat night anxiety by exercising every evening.If you get anxious at night, you can go for a quick walk, do some yoga, or do a short HIIT cardio routine in your living room. This can help manage the anxiety you feel at the moment.
 Alcohol and caffeine can negatively affect your anxiety. They can keep your riled up, causing your to feel jittery. They may also cause you to feel more panicked. In the evenings, limit or completely eliminate your alcohol and caffeine intake.Alcohol can also trigger negative feelings or feelings of depression. It can change your state of mind, which may be more vulnerable at night.
 Sometimes, it may take awhile for your body and mind to catch on that you want to sleep. Things like televisions, computer screens, and cell phones can keep the mind alert, while the light interferes with melatonin production. Start moving towards bedtime an hour before you want to sleep.Turn off all electronics and lower the lights. This helps your body and mind start to calm. Your body will also start producing melatonin, which promotes sleep.
Do something that engages your mind to help distract you from the anxiety of sleeping. This does not include the computer or television. Instead, read, draw, write in a journal, or even play a game. These things are full body and mind activities that can fully distract you and help relax you as you prepare for bed.
 Routines can help reduce your anxiety. There is comfort in doing the same thing. Routines present you with familiar actions and experiences, which do not cause further anxiety. Your bedtime should be a routine time. Instead of going to sleep whenever you feel like it, choose a convenient bedtime that you can meet every night.By using the same bedtime every night, your brain and body will start being trained to know when it is time to go to sleep.

