 The key to gaining a sizable client base is getting the word out to as many people as possible about your business. To do this, ask everyone you know to spread the word about your business to their personal contacts whenever possible.Form mutually-beneficial relationships with other Realtors. While you shouldn't expect your competitors to direct their own potential clients to you, it could be very useful to have a contact who specializes in a different kind of real estate sales or lives in another city. This way, she can send clients your way without losing any business herself, and you can do the same for her.
Make sure to update your address and other contact information on Google so people can easily find you. This will also allow people to use GPS navigation to get to your office and identify your office as one of the ones that may be close to them.
Realtors may be willing to work with you on transactions because all parties will benefit. Real estate commissions are often shared by the listing broker, the broker representing the seller, and the broker representing the buyer.
Politely ask friends and family members to tell their own friends, families, and coworkers about your business. Having people who know you well vouch for you and your company can go a long way toward gaining new clients.
Ask past clients to tell everyone they know about their experience working with you (especially if the transaction went smoothly). Most people are happy to refer their friends and families to businesses with which they have had positive experiences.
 Even if your clients had a great experience with you, their tendency to bring up your company when talking with their friends and families will fade with time. Maintain fairly regular correspondence with old clients so they will continue to spread the word about your company.Ask your clients to fill out a short questionnaire with their birthday, contact information, and mail preferences. Keep this information and reference it often so you can send out appropriate correspondence whenever you can (without overdoing it).
Send past clients "just sold" email flyers, monthly company newsletters, and holiday/birthday greeting cards. To avoid becoming an annoyance, be sure to get clients' permission to do this first! This is important because you may want to include their names in a variety of different places, such as on listing presentations, other types of print advertising or emails, or regular mail. Have each client sign a permission form that includes their testimonial and that clearly lists the places where their names may appear.
Provide past clients with something of value. For example, you could offer them a yearly free valuation of their property and include a report on the neighborhood trends.
 By having a structured incentive program in place, you can encourage previous clients to send potential clients your way. Be sure to mention the incentive(s) to your clients during the home-buying/selling process and include a pamphlet about it along with the other paperwork they receive at the close of the transaction.Only offer incentives for referrals that result in a successful sale and communicate this clearly to your clients.
You may want to create a structured incentive program that rewards successful referrals according to the sales price of the resulting transaction. For instance, you could offer $10 in Home Depot gift cards for every $10,000 of the home sale that resulted from a referral.
 For each serious potential client you receive through a referral, send a small gift and personalized letter to the person who made the referral (whether or not it results in a successful sale). This will always be appreciated and will improve the chance that a referrer will continue to spread the word about your business.Thank-you gifts for referrals do not need to be expensive or fancy -- A restaurant gift certificate, picture frame, or potted plant will do the trick. It's the gesture that counts!
Hand-write your letter for a personalized feel. Many people find written letters to be more sincere and personal, so opt for this instead of a typed and printed (or emailed) version.

