 You'll need a tool that measures length in inches. The usual options would be a ruler, yardstick, or tape measure.


Use a yardstick to measure objects that are longer than a feet(12 inches).
Use a measuring stick when you need to measure the length of a rigid straight edge or line. Rulers are best for short distances. Yard sticks are better for slightly longer distances.






Use a tape measure when you need to measure the distance around a curved object. Tape measures can bend, making them suitable for objects that are not perfectly flat or straight.





;
, Place the starting end of the measuring tool against one edge of the object you want to measure. The starting edge of the measuring tool and the starting edge of the object should be perfectly aligned.The starting edge may not be marked with a “0,” but you can identify the starting edge by locating the number “1.” The end that comes just before the “1” mark on your measuring tool is the “0” end.
 Bring the measuring tool out along the length of the object you're measuring. Keep the tool parallel to this length the entire way down it.

When using a measuring stick, the stick should lie flat against the edge or line being measured.






When using a measuring tape, the tape should wrap around the entire distance being measured.
 Locate the numbered value on the measuring tool that falls out immediately before the opposite end of the line, edge, or distance being measured. This numbered value is the number of whole inches in length.


The numbered values on a ruler, yardstick, or measuring tape all correspond to whole inches.






The shorter, unnumbered lines in between the numbered values are fractions of an inch.
 Identify the unnumbered line on the measuring tool that lands at the exact end of the distance being measured. Count the unnumbered lines in between the measured whole inch value and that final line, including the final line itself.


You also need to count the number of unnumbered lines in between numbered values to determine the fraction.






If there is one unnumbered line, the inches are broken down into halves.
If there are three unnumbered lines, the inches are broken down into quarters.
If there are seven unnumbered lines, the inches are broken down into eighths.
If there are 15 unnumbered lines, the inches are broken down into sixteenths., Add the fraction value you just counted onto the whole inch value you already measured. This should give you your final measurement.



Example: If the ruler has seven unnumbered lines in between numbered marks the inches are broken down into eighths. For a line that measures from the 0 edge to the fifth unnumbered line after the 3 mark, the length of the line is 3 inches plus 5/8 of an inch, or 3-5/8 inches.






If the end of the edge lands on a numbered line, there is no additional fraction to add on.


Example: If a line measures from the 0 edge to the 6 mark, that line is 6 inches long.



