 Practice exams are essential.They will help you understand the law so that it becomes second nature. Take them as you would a real exam. Find a quiet spot in the library, time yourself, and type out your answers.You can usually get practice exams from your professor, who might have posted them online. Use old exams from your professor first. If nothing is available, look at exams from other professors who teach the same subject at your school.
 The practice exam should have a sample answer. Read this carefully, because you will learn a lot about how to spot issues and structure your answers., Exams are generally “issue spotter” exams. You’ll be given a fact pattern, which is like a very short story. Then you’ll be told to identify all of the legal claims and defenses each person in the fact pattern has. You’ll write up a memo identifying the issues and explaining whether you think the person has a reasonable chance of success. When taking an exam, remember the following tips:


Read your professor’s instructions. Don’t skip this step! Your professor might want you to focus on certain issues or keep the exam under a certain word limit. If you fail to follow the directions, your grades will suffer.
Check whether you can use an outline. If not, don’t pull it out during the exam or else the monitor will eject you from the exam room.
Read the fact pattern thoroughly. Don’t immediately plunge into typing up your answer.
Outline your answer. Many people use the IRAC method: identify the issue, state the rule, apply the facts to the rule, and then state a conclusion.
Don’t dump everything you know onto the page. You won’t get credit. For example, don’t start rambling about an insanity defense if that’s not supported by the fact pattern. Instead, identify the key issues first and develop them the most.
 There’s really no reason to talk about the exam once you finish. Chances are, you missed an issue someone else caught, which will only increase your anxiety.Instead of commiserating about the exam, schedule some fun time immediately after.

