 Though avoidance is an important part of staying faithful, you should also be willing to acknowledge your attraction to someone else and then let it go. You may sit down and admit to yourself that you have an attraction to someone else besides your partner. Then, you should work consciously to move past it and get over it.It may be difficult for you to acknowledge that you are attracted to someone else besides your partner. But denying your attraction to yourself can make the situation worse. Instead, try to be honest with yourself about how you feel and then work on resisting your feelings.;
, One of the most effective ways to resist cheating on your partner is to put some distance between yourself and individuals you find attractive, whether it is at work, at school, or among your group of extended friends. Do not put yourself in situations where you may be alone with a person you find attractive or have a lot of one on one time. This can help you avoid any opportunities to cheat.You may try to include your partner in situations with the person you find attractive so you are not alone together. This could include being with your partner in large get togethers where you know the person you find attractive is going to be, or opting out of group hang outs for a date with your partner if you know the person you find attractive is going to be there.
 You should pause and think about the long term consequences of acting on your attraction to someone else. Though it may feel satisfying in the moment, you will be putting your serious relationship with your partner in jeopardy. Consider all the years or months you and your significant other have devoted to each other. Then, ask yourself if it is worth putting all of that at risk for a fling with someone else.If you have children, you may also think about how acting on your attraction to someone else will put them at risk. It could lead to a strain in your relationship with your children and chaos in your household.
 If you are still struggling with your attraction to someone else, you may reach out to a friend or someone you trust and have a talk with them. Choose someone who you think will relate to your predicament and help you work through your thoughts. They may be able to talk you down and help you put your feelings into perspective.You may set up weekly meetings with the friend to talk about your feelings and your resistance to cheating. You may both agree to check in with each other to ensure you are maintaining your relationship with your partner.

