 The most common knots used to tie a horse are quick-release knots, of which there are several varieties, and the bowline knot. Quick-release knots are easy to tie, and while they will tighten up if the horse pulls against the rope, are still easy to release with a quick tug of the trailing rope.
The bowline is a bit less convenient to tie and untie, but will not tighten up if the horse pulls on it. Also, some horses are quite adept at untying quick release knots. If you are going to leave your tied horse unsupervised or know that he has untied a quick release in the past, the bowline is the safer option. Practice tying these knots ahead of time, before you use them with an actual horse.;
, This quick-release knot should not tighten if your horse pulls against it, and is very easy to untie.


First make a fold in the rope (called a ‘’bight’’) and fold it over the pole you are tying to, or through a ring.
Then make another bight in the part of the rope that leads to the horse (called the “standing end”).
Pull the second bight through the first bight.
Then with your other hand, make a bight in the loose end of the rope, and pull this through the second bight.
To tighten the knot, pull on the standing end.
To release the knot, simply tug on the loose end.
 This quick-release knot is easy to tie and untie, and can be finished off in a daisy-chain fashion to take up extra rope, and prevent your horse pulling or tripping on the loose end. First loop the rope over a pole, or through a ring.
Then twist the loose end of the rope to form a loop.
Hold the loop in your left hand, and with your right hand, wrap the loose end over the standing end.
Fold the loose end over into a bight, and pull the bight through the loop in your left hand.
Pull on the standing end to tighten the knot.
Pull on the loose end to release the rope.
To create an extra-secure knot that is harder for your horse to untie, create another bight in the loose end of the rope, and feed it through the last loop. Repeat this daisy-chain process as many times as needed to use up the loose end of the rope.
 This is a secure knot that will not tighten if the horse pulls on it. You can untie it quickly, but your horse cannot.


First take the standing end of the rope in your left hand and wrap the loose end over the pole.
Then twist a loop in the standing end, and feed the loose end through the loop.
Then wrap the loose end back over the standing end, and through the loop again going the other way.
Pull firmly on both the loose and standing ends to snug the knot., Never wrap a rope around your hand or finger, or put your hand inside or through any loop or bight while tying up a horse. If the horse were to jerk quickly, the loop could tighten on your hand and cause serious injury. Be careful to avoid doing this while you practice tying knots to avoid learning unsafe knot-tying habits.

