 If you're using either the double overhand or palms down grip, your thumbs should be pushing into the nail or bar through the wrapping, while your index, middle, and ring fingers are wrapped tightly around the bar. If you're using the double underhand grip, your pinkies should grip the bar the tightest, while your index, middle, and ring fingers grip the bar slightly less tightly.
 Push your fulcrum fingers into the steel as you start bending the ends of the bar toward each other. Your wrists will channel the driving force from your arm muscles, concentrated in your index fingers with the double overhand or palms down grip, the index finger of your far hand with the reverse grip, or your upper palms with the double underhand grip. Your goal is to bend the bar to at least a 45-degree angle.
 Keep up the bending pressure from your fulcrum fingers and your driving muscles as you bend the steel further, until your fulcrum fingers start to touch.


If you're bending from the double overhand position, you can go from making the initial bend to continuing the bend in a single motion without changing your hand grip. If you're bending from the palms down or reverse position, you may have to change to the double overhand position to continue bending the steel.
Ideally, you want to make this part of the bend in a single, smooth motion. If you're not strong enough to do that, you can make multiple attempts in rapid succession, using as much force as you can muster. Don't rest too long between attempts, or the steel will cool, making it harder to bend.
 Press the ends of the bar together until you can lace your fingers together; the ends should be about 2 inches (5 cm) apart. Then, use your clasped hands and upper arms like a nutcracker to finish bending the steel.


You may have to remove some of the wrapping around the steel if it gets in the way. You may also have to grasp the bent steel in one hand and clasp that hand with your other hand, squeezing both the steel and your hand.
As with the sweep, crush the bar's ends together should follow quickly after making the 90-degree bend so that the steel doesn't have time to cool.

