 When it comes to glass paint, you should look at transparency, color range, permanence, and ease of application.


Transparency: how transparent is the paint you're buying? Glass paints come in both transparent and opaque colors. Acrylic paints are usually used for opaque colors, while resin paints are usually used for transparent colors. Transparent colors come both in glossy and frosted varieties.
Color range: look for a true color chart of what the colors will look like on actual glass. Sometimes, paint will look significantly different on glass than it does on the color chart.
Permanence: especially for items, such as wine glasses, that will be used, permanence and durability is very important. Paints that have been baked are usually more durable than paints that haven't been.Ease of application: how easy is the color and pattern to transfer? Does the paint come with any stencils or transfers, or must you make your own?;
, When it comes to glass paint, choose from among from among several different options available. For decorative painting purposes, glass paint falls into three basic categories:


Acrylic enamel paint or enamel paint that’s usable on glass as well as other shiny or slick surfaces.
Acrylic paints that become paints for use on glass when a glass and tile medium is added.
Specialized solvent-based paint.
Know that when it comes to paint, you'll get what you pay for. While cheap paint may be the best to experiment and play with, if you're thinking about painting a showpiece or something higher-grade, it's best to opt for nicer paint. Cheaper paint doesn't apply as well, look as brilliant, or last as long.
 Know that a special paint brush is not required. It’s okay to use your regular painting brushes (rounds, liners, or flats) with synthetic hairs or synthetic mix. Some people prefer the softness of all natural hairs.


Use synthetic or natural-hair brushes. Synthetic and natural brushes can both be used to paint glass; they have different advantages. Synthetic brushes leave more visible brush strokes, while natural-hair brushes give the artist a smoother coverage.
 Make sure that the glass you're going to paint is adequately cleaned before continuing.
 Some glass paints require an undercoat before application and an overcoat after applications; painting without following the directions may result in a failed end product.
 To do this, use either the strip or squeeze-on variety, depending on what you want. Use your stencil or transfer if available, or use freehand.


An alternative to this method is to use permanent marker as your outlay. When painted over and fired, the permanent marker will usually not show, and lead and paint won't mix.
 There are two ways to do this. You can add the paint by the drop, as you move your hand across the desired surface area; or if the volume of the paint is enough, and you find you now you have gaps between spots, even it up uniformly by drawing a toothpick through the area in lines, back and forth. This will also help in ridding the piece of any air bubbles trapped in the paint.
 The lead you have already applied should stop the paint running out of the desired area.


Make use of a sticky stencil. Stick stencils, placed on the opposite corner of the glass, adhere well and give you a good visual suggestion to follow.
 A sponge will provide uniform, even coverage, and is the best implement to use if you're painting an entire piece of glass one color.
 Baked paints last longer than unbaked paints. If you don't want to go through the hassle of baking your painted glass, there are varieties that you can find which don't require baking.


Resin-based paints are removable until baked. If you mess up using a resin-based paint, it's perfectly acceptable to start over. The paint won't become permanent until the glassware is baked.
 Different paints will need to be baked according to different instructions, so check the instructions before putting your glass in the oven.


A glass might go into a 300° F (~150° C) oven for 30 minutes before it's properly baked. Allow the glass to cool adequately before handling.

