 Before considering the many benefits associated with pet ownership, it’s important to make sure you will be able to handle the responsibilities. Taking care of a pet requires a good amount of physical activity. With the types of pet that offer the most therapeutic benefits, you’ll have to feed, bathe, and bring your pet to the vet for checkups.Dogs also need substantial exercise and socialization. Especially if you do not live with someone who will be able to help with these tasks, consider your ability to meet these responsibilities.
If you determine that you may have too much pain or cannot handle a dog on your own, see the section of this article on alternative options to pet ownership.
The financial commitment is also substantial. Dogs and cats - the best types of therapeutic pets - each costs over a $1,000 for the first year you own them, and about $500 per year thereafter.;
, Since dogs are especially responsive to training and are highly capable companions, they make the best therapy pets. If owning a dog is something you’re interested in, the first decision is whether or not to get a dog that is already trained as a therapy pet. A trained therapy pet is the best option, as they will already know how to help you in certain situations.Specifically, dogs trained to be companions for people with conditions like chronic pain will know how to behave in a therapeutic environment and will be eager to develop a comforting relationship with you.
Trained therapy dogs can be especially expensive. Even paying to have a dog rescued from a shelter fully trained can cost quite a bit. Expect to invest at least a few thousand dollars in acquiring a dog that is well trained., Getting a puppy is not recommended for people suffering from chronic pain, and it may be even more difficult to raise a puppy if you have mobility issues. Raising a puppy can be especially physically taxing, as well as stressful. For example, a puppy is likely to interrupt your sleep schedule, and reduce the flexibility of your day-to-day activities. They may even make it harder to keep social and medical obligations. If you do not live with someone that can help you raise a puppy, it is better to adopt an older dog that is already trained., Temperament is often even more important than training. In fact, an aggressive or otherwise poorly-behaved dog may lead to further stress. The more friendly your dog is, the more likely it is that their company will improve your mental health.More directly, the species and personality of your dog may affect their ability to help you cope with chronic pain. If looking for companionship, opt for a breed of dog that is especially friendly, such as a lab or retriever.
 If you are unable to get a dog or simply would not favor a dog as a pet, consider getting a cat. Cats, in fact, are even more calming to be around, and can also provide many benefits of companionship. Other animals, such as birds, reptiles, and rodents may also be fun to own, but do not offer the same benefits of ownership to people with chronic pain.