 Garlic has antifungal properties due to two of its components, ajoene and allicin.At least one study has indicated that garlic is more effective than terbinafine in treating ringworm.Try crushing two to three cloves of garlic, or more if the rash is more extensive, and mixing the crushed garlic with a carrier oil, such as castor or almond oil. Apply this mixture directly onto the rash and leave on for 10 to 15 minutes. Wash the mixture off with warm water and reapply two to three times a day. There may be a strong odor. If any irritation occurs, try changing the carrier oil. If this doesn’t help, you may need to use less garlic or try another method.
Another method is to use garlic oil. Add four to five drops of garlic oil to four tablespoons of a carrier oil. Apply the oil directly onto the rash. Leave on for 10 to 15 minutes, then rinse off with warm water. Apply two to three times a day.
 The Australian tea tree leaves produce an oil that has, among other benefits, antifungal activity, including activity against the fungus that causes ringworm.For younger children under the age of 5, take extra precautions that they don’t ingest any tea tree oil by putting their mouths anywhere near the rash.


Dilute the tea tree oil with either castor or almond oil in a 1:1 ratio. For example, if you are using one teaspoon of tea tree oil, dilute with one teaspoon of carrier oil.
Apply this mixture directly onto the rash and leave for 10 to 15 minutes. Wash off with warm water and reapply two to three times a day. There may be a strong, but not unpleasant, odor.
If any irritation occurs, decrease the amount of tea tree oil. For every teaspoon of tea tree oil, use two teaspoons of carrier oil. Try changing the carrier oil. If this doesn’t help, you may need to try another method.
 Apple cider vinegar (ACV) is used for many, many health problems. Part of its usefulness is due to its acidity. The ringworm fungus doesn’t thrive in acidic environments.


Try the ACV on a small area of skin first to make sure your skin isn’t sensitive to it. If there is no reaction, try ACV to treat ringworm.
Soak a washcloth or towel in ACV and apply it directly to the ringworm rash for 30 minutes. Rinse off with warm water and repeat twice a day. There may be some a mild stinging sensation with the ACV is first applied.
 Lavender oil has antifungal properties, and is used in folk medicine for treating fungal infections and skin conditions.This method is recommended especially for children. Most kids love the scent of lavender, and it has the added benefit of having a calming effect on most kids.


Mix one to two drops of lavender oil in one tablespoon of castor or jojoba oil. Apply this mixture directly onto the rash and leave on for 10 to 15 minutes. Wash off with warm water. Reapply two to three times a day.
If any irritation occurs, decrease the amount of lavender oil. Use only one drop for every tablespoon of oil or use one to two drops of lavender oil for every two to threes tablespoons of castor or jojoba oil.
A recent study indicated that a very effective approach to ringworm was to mix tea tree oil and lavender oil.To do this, add two drops of lavender oil to two tablespoons of tea tree oil. Dilute this mixture by adding two tablespoons of castor, almond, or jojoba oil. Apply this mixture for 20 to 30 minutes and rinse off with warm water. Repeat two to three times a day.
 Coconut oil has antifungal properties as well as antimicrobial and antiviral properties. The antifungal properties are due to the medium chain fatty acids (MCFA), which have been found to kill many different kinds of fungi.Buy coconut oil that is not hydrogenated and is unrefined.
Apply the coconut oil directly onto the ringworm, or put it on a cotton ball and then apply to the ringworm. Use a cotton ball to massage the coconut oil into the spot. Leave overnight.Do this daily.

