 If you are really pressed for time and resources, you can still create a delicious beach-themed cupcake without a lot of skill and effort.

Crush 20 graham cracker cookies in a large plastic bag. The crushed graham crackers will become a “sandy beach” atop your cupcake so take time to thoroughly crush the cookies. Transfer crushed cookies to a paper plate.






Frost a thin layer on top of each cupcake. Choose light blue frosting (tint white frosting with blue food coloring), which will represent water when you are finished.






Dip half of the cupcake in the crushed cookies. Now you have a sandy beach!






Add more blue frosting to the other half of the cupcake and gently lift the frosting to create small peaks.






Top with a small drink umbrella, perched atop of the sandy beach side of the cupcake.
 Using candy, create a small sea turtle to sit on top of each cupcake. You will need sour peach gummy ring candies, gum drops (red and green), spearmint leaf candies and mini chocolate chips.

Add a thin layer of frosting to each cupcake. However, don’t frost each cupcake too early in advance as you don’t want the frosting to dry. The frosting will act as the “glue” to hold your sea turtle in place.






Place the peach gummy ring in the middle of the cupcake and add a gumdrop to its middle. This will be the basis for the turtle’s shell.






Add a gumdrop to the top of the gummy ring to become the turtle’s head. Consider using a green gumdrop for the head, especially to match the spearmint leaf candy arms.






Slice a spearmint candy in half to create the turtle’s fins. For faster assembly, do this ahead of time. Create more of a fin appearance by rounding out the inside of the spearmint candy so that it fits around the outside of the peach ring candy. Don’t discard the cut pieces--the smaller cut pieces can be used for the turtle’s feet.






Place the larger pieces of spearmint candy alongside the top of the peach gummy candy and below the turtle’s head. Add the feet at the bottom.






Place a dab of frosting on the bottom of two mini chocolate chips and place on each side of the turtle’s head to create the eyes.
 This cupcake design may be slightly more time consuming and require a higher skill level, but can be mastered with just a small amount of practice.

Gather your supplies. You will need two frosting bag tips (#104 and #3), a bag of red frosting (white icing mixed with red food coloring), small white jawbreaker candies (or another round white candy) and a black food coloring pen.






Add a thin layer of frosting to each cupcake.






Create the crab’s base by making a small, thick half moon atop a pre-frosted cupcake (using tip #104).






Add the two white eyes (or jawbreaker/white candies) to the middle/back of your base and create eyeballs using the black food coloring pen.






Pipe a small amount of red frosting behind the eyes using the #3 tip.






Pipe over the top of the eyes using tip #104. Completely blanket and cover the crab from bottom of the base, over the top of the eyes to the other side of the base-- this is the upper half of the crab shell.






Create legs and crab claws using the #3 tip. Give the crab three legs on each side of the base and then two pincher claws in front.
