 Place 2 tablespoons of coconut oil, 1/2 cup (133 g) of creamy peanut butter and 1/2 cup (100 g) of packed brown sugar into a mixing bowl. Beat the mixture with a hand or stand mixer until the mixture is combined.Because there's no butter in this, the mixture may not become very light or fluffy.
 Turn the mixer down to low and stir in 2 teaspoons of vanilla extract and 1/8 teaspoon of salt. Scrape down the sides of the bowl and slowly add in 1 cup (92 g) of oat flour. Beat the dough until the flour is just combined.Set the peanut butter dough aside while you prepare the rest of the bark.
 Lay aluminum foil in a jelly roll pan and set it aside. Get out 1 1/2 cups (330 g) of coconut butter and place it in a microwave-safe bowl. Set the bowl over a medium saucepan that has 1 inch (2.5 cm) of water in it. Heat the double boiler, so the water simmers and the coconut butter melts.You could also melt the coconut butter in a 350 degree F (180 C) oven for 5 to 7 minutes. Take the melted butter out before it burns.
Avoid using coconut oil in this step because it isn't the same as coconut butter.
 Measure out 3/4 cup (180 ml) of the melted coconut butter and pour it into the prepared pan. Spread it evenly with a rubber or offset spatula. Place the pan in the freezer to chill for 5 minutes.Chilling the coconut butter will help it harden quickly.
 Remove the pan from the freezer and scoop the peanut butter cookie dough onto the hardened coconut butter. Use your fingers or a butter knife to spread the dough evenly.Your fingers won't stick to the dough because there's a lot of oil in the dough.
 Pour the rest of the melted coconut butter across the peanut butter cookie dough in the pan. Use a spatula or knife to spread it evenly.If you want to decorate the bark, you can top it with vegan sprinkles.
 Put the pan of bark in the freezer and let it chill for 10 minutes. The coconut butter should be completely hardened. Take the pan out and peel the bark out of the pan and aluminum foil. Cut the bark into squares or a variety of shapes.You can store the leftover bark in an airtight container in the refrigerator.

