 Since most ovens take about 15 minutes to preheat, it’s best to begin preheating right away. Set your oven to 400°F (204°C). While your oven heats, you can prepare other parts of this recipe., Spread your chickpeas in an even layer on a rimmed baking sheet. Drizzle your oil over the peas, then use a wooden spoon or a similar utensil to roll the peas around, coating them in the oil. Then sprinkle garlic powder, salt and cayenne pepper on them.

To prevent missing some of your chickpeas with your seasonings, toss them after adding everything to evenly spread the garlic powder, salt, and cayenne pepper.
If you prefer a mild salad, you may want to leave out the cayenne pepper or use a reduced amount., Once the chickpeas are coated in oil and seasonings, they’re ready for the oven. Insert your baking sheet into the oven and allow them to bake for 20 minutes, then use a wooden spoon to roll the chickpeas to promote even cooking. Bake these for another 10 to 20 minutes.

When your chickpeas have finished baking, remove them from the oven and set them off to the side for later. Be sure to use proper safety implements, like an oven mitt and potholders, to prevent burns and damage to your kitchen., Add the cashews, water, olive oil, lemon juice, Dijon mustard, garlic powder, clove of garlic, vegan Worcestershire sauce, and capers to your blender. Pulse the blender until the ingredients form a smooth mixture. Add salt and pepper to taste.

You may want to pour your vegan Caesar dressing into suitable serving container so it’s easier to pour dressing onto the salad.
Coldness will make this kind of dressing thicken up. Remove your dressing from the fridge (if necessary) 15 minutes before serving to give it time to soften., Add the cashews and garlic to the processor. Process these until they are finely chopped. Excluding salt, add the rest of the parmesan ingredients to the processor and pulse until everything is well mixed.

When all ingredients have been combined in the food processor, add salt to taste., Remove the stems from the kale and then chop these finely. Put them in a large serving bowl. Chop up your romaine lettuce similarly and add it to the same bowl. Toss these to mix the kale and romaine together.Be sure to wash your kale and lettuce. A brief rinse under cool water will remove bacteria, dirt, pesticides, and bugs., Drizzle your dressing onto the romaine and kale. Toss this to evenly distribute the dressing. To this, add your chickpeas, and parmesan cheese. Add salt to taste, and enjoy your vegan Caesar salad.