 If you go to sleep right after you watch a scary movie, you are more likely to have nightmares. While you are sleeping, your brain strengthens the memories and fear you experienced while watching the movie. It is best if you do not go to sleep at all that night.However, if you cannot stay up all night, try to sleep as little as possible. The more sleep deprived you are, the less your brain can create those bad memories.


Try not to watch the movie late at night when you tend to be sleepy.
If you cannot physically spend time with another person after the movie, try calling, texting, or video chatting with someone.;
, Your family and friends are a great source of support for you. They can make you feel secure and safe.They can also encourage you, get your mind off the movie, and offer you advice about dealing with the scary movie. If you feel comfortable, discuss your fears with them.


You can also ask them how they handle scary movies. They may have some tips that you have not thought of.
Do not spend time alone with someone who is just as scared as you are. You may actually feel worse and freak each other out.
 Just as scary movies cause you to experience fear and anxiety,watching a funny movie, video, or television show can make you feel happy. Laughing decreases your stress and causes your body to release feel good hormones.Laughter will help you feel good and forget about the scary movie you just watched.


The subject of your funny movie does not matter. As long as it makes you laugh out loud, you will reap the benefits.If you cannot find anything funny to watch, at least watch something that is pleasant or not scary at all. What you watch affects what you dream about and how well you sleep.
Reading jokes and funny stories that make you laugh are also an option.
 While the emotions that you experience during the movie are real, you know that you just watched a fictional story. If the movie you watched had zombies, vampires, werewolves, or some other mythical creature, tell yourself that none of those things are real.


Tell yourself out loud, "That movie was pretend. ___ are not real. I do not need to worry about this."If the movie was more realistic, remind yourself that you are in a safe place and those things did not happen to you. The people you watched were actors and were pretending.
 Specific scenes or scenarios in a movie may cause you to become scared. For instance, a burglar breaking into the house, getting attacked in the shower, or something hiding under a bed may really get to you. In these instances, remind yourself that these things happened in the movie, not to you.For example, if you are concerned about the shower, go to the bathroom and see that no one is hiding in there.
If you are worried about someone breaking into your home, double check the locks on the doors and the windows so you feel safe and secure.
Turn the lights on or use a flashlight to look under your bed.
If darkness is scary to you, sleep with a nightlight or keep the lights in the hallway on.
 Read a book, listen to music, play a video game, or go outside. Do anything that makes you feel better.Try to stick to positive distractions. The more positive thoughts and feelings you produce, the less power your scary thoughts will have over you.Taking deep breaths is also a way to relax and calm yourself. Breathe in slowly through your nose and count to four. Hold your breath for seven seconds ,and then exhale through your mouth for eight seconds. You should feel better after a few minutes of deep breathingDoing activities that engage your mind and body are also helpful. Washing dishes or fixing yourself a snack can also get your mind off of the movie.

