 An experienced attorney can be a stable sounding board during a turbulent time. Furthermore, a family law attorney will be familiar with what local evaluators are looking for. If you have to hire your own evaluators, then your attorney can find evaluators who may be biased in your favor.


To find an experienced family law attorney, contact your state's bar association, which should run a referral service.;
, To adequately prepare for the evaluation, you will need to know what it includes. You may have been given a brochure or hand-out by the court. If not, you should contact the court or the appropriate department and ask. Often, custody evaluations include:


Creating a timeline. You will probably have to complete a timeline, which discusses key moments in your relationship with the other parent. Often, the investigator will collect this information by having you complete a questionnaire.
Gathering records. The evaluator will want to gather information on the child, including school and medical records.
Interviews. Both parents will be interviewed, as well as the children.
Psychological testing. Often the parents will undergo psychological testing to judge their overall psychological status. Children, too, may be tested to gauge emotional functioning and the health of the parent-child relationship.Home visits. The caseworker could make home visits to assess the living spaces. Home visits are most helpful when the child is under six years old.
Monitored parent/child play. You and your child will play together and be videotaped. The purpose of this exercise is to see how you interact with your child.Another interview. You may be asked to return for a second interview in which you respond to results of the psychological testing or to allegations made by the other parent., The best way to get information about an upcoming custody evaluation is to locate and talk with people who have undergone one recently. Ask if you can sit down with them for a half hour and just hear about their experiences.


Though you should ask any questions that you have, you may also just want to listen.
 Evaluators do not decide custody. However, they often prepare a written report which is then given to the judge, who will use it when determining custody. The purpose of the report is to assess the dynamics of the family as well as the needs of the children.You should be given an opportunity to review the report before your custody hearing., The cost of a custody evaluation can run between $2,000-6,000. Generally, the cost is split between the two parents. However, you can gain a tactical advantage by paying for the entire evaluation process. Doing so allows you to:Show the court that you are serious about the evaluation.
Choose who does the evaluation.
Schedule your interview first. Interviews will not be scheduled until payment is made. Therefore, by agreeing to cover the entire cost, you can be sure to schedule your interview first. This allows you to create the first impression of what went wrong in your marriage, as well as create the first impression of the other parent in the evaluator’s mind.
 Because your children are likely to be interviewed and possibly even undergo testing or other evaluation, you should prepare them for the custody evaluation process. If they understand that you are going through a divorce, then let them know that the investigator is trying to learn about the family to help determine custody. If the children are very young, tell them that the investigator wants to get to know them and the family.


Raise any concerns with the investigator. Investigators should be sensitive that a divorce is stressful and that young children may be hesitant to express their feelings.
If you are hiring an investigator, then you should ask how the investigator discusses the evaluation process with children.
 The evaluator should be interested in your child's school and medical records. You will also want documents that show you have been involved in and properly supportive of your child's care. Accordingly, you should also make copies of:


Report cards and attendance records
Pictures or records showing you volunteering at your child's school

, Your reference list is critical. It can serve two purposes: to bolster your credibility in the eyes of the evaluator but also to discredit the other parent. For this reason, you should dedicate some time to coming up with a list of references. You should include names, addresses, telephone and email address, as well as the best time to reach them.You can also explain beside each reference why you have listed them.For example, you might state, “Can attest to my volunteering with my son’s baseball team” or “Saw my ex-husband slap our son at the restaurant.”


Appropriate positive references include family members and anyone else who can confirm your good parenting skills.Appropriate negative references include anyone who has seen the other parent mistreat your child or anyone who has expressed doubts about your ex’s parenting abilities.You should talk with references in advance and make sure that they are willing to speak positively about you to the investigator.Do not include someone on the list unless you are sure that they will speak positively.
 Before meeting for your initial interview, you may be asked to fill out a parenting history survey or other questionnaire. The purpose of the questionnaire is to gather background information on you and the other parent. To prepare for it:


Try to find a sample questionnaire that is used by your county investigators. Review it to uncover what kind of information the investigator is interested in.
Sit down and think about any incident that you think highlights your skills as a parent. Try to remember if you handled any crisis involving the child, including being called into school, taking the child to the emergency room, or leaving your job to attend to the child.
Think about what makes your ex a bad parent. Again, focus on specific examples. Does your ex have a drug problem? Does he or she have a criminal record or a violent character? Does your ex associate with people who have criminal records?
Know what “red flags” evaluators look for. For example, the evaluator will be troubled by: conflicting dates of critical events, such as when you and the other parent met or started dating; inability to acknowledge troubling incidents that occurred in the relationship, even in retrospect; trivializing traumatic events, such as violence; inability to recognize how unresolved problems from childhood impact the present., In the questionnaire, you may be asked for information about the other parent. You could be asked for your general impressions or what you think about his or her character or parenting abilities. If you want to address things like unstable employment history, drug addiction, or criminal history, then you should have appropriate supporting documentation to back up any assertions.


Documentation is critical. The more documentation you have, the harder it will be for the other parent to deny problems.
Appropriate documentation includes W-2 forms to show employment history,copies of criminal records or citations to show criminal behavior, and bank records/credit card statements to show financial mismanagement.
 The interview may be videotaped and will likely be held in an office. You will probably be asked to sign a release allowing the evaluator to videotape you. If you get nervous during interviews, you should meet with an attorney who can do a mock interview. To prepare for the real thing, think about the following topics, which are usually raised in the interview:Your childhood
The relationship of your parents
Why you were attracted to your spouse
How you and the other parent divided childcare responsibilities, including household responsibilities (chores, cooking, cleaning, etc.)
Your parenting style, including how you would handle emergencies
How you discipline your child

, The goal of the initial interview should not be to “trash” the other parent. In fact, the evaluator may hold it against you if you trash or “slam” the other parent.However, you do need to subtly and not-so-subtly show why you are the better parent. You should prepare for how to reveal negative information in an appropriate manner.


Instead of saying, “He screwed his secretary who’s young enough to be his daughter,” you could say, “Difficulties started when he began his affair with Kacey, his new secretary.”
Instead of saying, “She bankrupted the family because she never saw a pair of shoes she could say no to,” you could say, “We couldn’t cover the charges she was making on the credit card.” Also, be sure to have provided documentation of the bills. Using documentation is a great way to “neutrally” convey negative information about the other parent.
Don’t say, “I’m angry” about something. Instead, say you are “worried” or “concerned.”The goal is to come across as fair and reasonable, without a surplus of anger. Prepare with your attorney or with a friend, so that you can convey negative information about the other parent without sounding caustic or insulting.
 Depending on the issues in your case, you may be asked to take psychological/psychiatric testing. Try to find out what test will be administered. Often, the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory (MMPI) is offered.


A list of common tests, with summaries, is available here.
Research each test to determine its validity and reliability in the scientific community. Ask how much time each test should take and arrange child care accordingly.
If you are required to take psychological tests, you should definitely seek out an attorney. An attorney will help you understand the purpose of the test and how to undermine the results in a court case (should you dislike the results).
 It is to your advantage to be forthcoming with the investigator. Provide any information requested in a timely fashion. Try to build a trusting relationship.


Be friendly. The easier you make the investigation, the more likely that it will be favorable to you.
Ask questions. If at any point you have questions about the investigation, then don't be afraid to ask the investigator. Asking questions will show that you are engaged and that you take the evaluation seriously.
 You need to make your home clean for the home study. Although the home does not need to be pristine, you might need to haul out accumulated magazines, clothes, books, newspapers, and refuse.


Get rid of odors from cigarettes and pets.Also pick up pet droppings.
Be sure to pick up every room in your home, not simply the child's bedroom. The investigator wants to see a clean home.
 You should give special attention to your bathrooms. Scrub toilets, sinks, showers, and bathtubs. Replace missing tiles or dirty shower curtains. Make sure there is both hot and cold water but that the hot water isn’t too hot.
 Make sure that there are sheets on the bed and that the bed is made.Cap electric outlets, as those can be a safety hazard.
If possible, fill the room with a desk, chair, dresser, toys, and lamps so that it looks like a bedroom ready for a child to move into., Make sure that there are no exposed wires, broken steps or railings, or broken windows. Have all of these fixed.


Pools and hot tubs can be hazards as well. Cap or secure them so that children cannot enter. Also install child monitors, if possible.Keep medicines and cleaning supplies out of the reach of children.Put them in locked cupboards, high up from the ground.
Make sure firearms and other weapons are under lock and key. You also might want to store them off-site, with a friend or family member.
Hide racy reading material. Though Playboy and other magazines are not “dangerous hazards,” they could be seen that way depending on the home evaluator. Keep this material out of sight., You need to show that your home is safe. Make sure that smoke alarms work. Ideally, you should have one smoke detector in every room. Also be sure to have at least one fire extinguisher on each floor of the house, securely mounted and fastened to the wall.You also should purchase and install at least one carbon monoxide detector., Throw out old, moldy food and sanitize your cupboards, pantry, and refrigerator. Then re-stock with healthy foods.Also make sure you have “child appropriate” food: fresh fruit, milk, bread, cereal, etc.Don’t leave only beer and snacks in the refrigerator and think you can tell the evaluator that you go out for healthy meals.
 The investigator will want to meet with everyone who will be living in the home.This includes other children.


If you have frequent guests in the house, these people should be there for the start of the home evaluation. They may leave 10 minutes after the evaluator arrives.Everyone should be dressed appropriately, given their activities that day. You do not have to "dress up," but everyone should be wearing clean, neat, well-fitting clothes.

