 Aerobic exercise is when oxygenated blood gets pumped to deliver oxygen to the muscles. Given that roughly half of American, middle-aged adults complain of insomnia, figuring out how to improve sleep through aerobic exercise is of utmost importance. Some basic improved sleep concepts follow:Get your heart rate going, but make it moderate enough to allow you to still keep up a conversation. You can choose fast walking, swimming, jogging, cross-country skiing, biking, dancing or using an elliptical machine.
Work out at roughly 75% of your max heart rate (i.e. 220 minus age). Take your heart rate while working out, counting the number of heart beats in 15 seconds and then multiple it by four.
Try to exercise five times a week for 30 minutes. More is fine, but less is not preferred.
Keep at it for about four months. Results will not be immediate, but after an extended time there will be visual benefits as well as probable sleep improvements.
Not only will exercise improve general nighttime sleep, but it will also improve the post-lunch fog that falls over most people.;
, Some studies have indicated minimal physiological difference between aerobic and anaerobic exercise.Try pushing yourself as hard as you can in short bursts. Training anaerobically literally means you’re training without oxygen, so you won't be able to do the exercises for extended periods. Figure a way to periodically go as hard as possible.


Try to aim for 85% of your max heart rate, or higher, to go anaerobic.
Sprint like your life depends on it. You won’t make it far, but build in a few rest periods and it will wear you out enough to produce the desired physical and sleep-related results.
Jump up and down with weights. Start with small dumbbells at first, and either increase the weight or the height of the jump as you become accustomed to the difficulty.
People who engaged in regular anaerobic activity lost fat more quickly, and secreted more growth hormones, which helps you to repair your body's systems, heal more quickly, and rest more soundly.You may also wish to try high-intensity interval training in which you alternate periods of low-intensity exercise (like walking) with bursts of high-intensity exercise (like sprinting).
 Lifting weights has been shown to aid sleep in a variety of ways. Aim to lift weights two to three times per week with plenty of rest between muscle group sessions. Once you feel comfortable with a specific weight, make gradual 5–10 percent increases to the repetitions or the weight.Not only does strength training improve sleep, it also lowers weight and helps fight off sleep apnea.
Weight lifting helps with depression.Since sleep is a time for muscle recovery, resistance training acts as a jump-start towards sleep. You may even fall asleep faster and make it through the entire night without interruption.

