 Many toddlers have short wispy hair. However, some toddlers, especially girls, might have longer hair. It’s much easier to work on thinner and smaller sections of hair, so sectioning the hair is very important.


With longer toddler hair, it’s often a good idea to part the hair in the middle. This will make it more likely that the strands you cut will not end up uneven.To cut longer hair, take a wide-tooth comb, and section the toddler’s hair into sections. Start with the top of the hair, and clip sections of the hair up so you can start by working on the hair that’s underneath and in the back.
Make two sections out of the hair by each one of the child’s ears. Then, make two sections in the back, splitting it down the middle. Next, split each of the two back sections in half. Lift the sections up and clip them.
 This hair will serve as the length guide. The length guide is the most important cut you will make.


Cut the remaining hair in the back at the length that you would like the toddler’s entire haircut to fall.
You will match all of the remaining cuts to the same length as the guide. You need to make sure that you can see the guide as you cut the other sections, so make sure the sections you take down next are not too thick.Cut the hair in a straight line. Pull all of the girl’s hair to the back. Cut a straight line, with your scissors at 11 o’clock, to create a soft textured line. Do this by holding a section of the hair with your fingers, and then snipping off the desired amount.
 Cut the back of the hair first by pulling the hair straight down on the sides.


Now connect it with the back hair to even it out. Try to get the toddler to look slightly down while you cut.As you cut a section of hair, let down some of the hair in the clips, to continue trimming the hair. Use the first section of cut hair as the guide for length when trimming the rest.
Pull down the next section, and trim it to match the guide section’s length. Do this section-by-section. If the child’s hair is thick, you can pull down smaller pieces of the section so you’re able to see the guide.
To cut the sections by the ears, comb the child’s hair by the ears all the way back, and work from behind.

