 Some people prefer to discipline their children themselves, while others might be okay with a close friend or relative correcting their children now and then. Ask your friend what they prefer.


For example, you might say something like, “Your kids are really well-behaved, but I just want to ask you about something. If any disciplinary issues arise when you and your kids come to visit, would you prefer to handle it on your own or do you want me to say something when I feel that it is warranted?”
Keep in mind that even correcting your friend’s kids in minor ways may rub them the wrong way, so if you are unsure or uncomfortable asking, then it is best to leave the disciplining to your friend.
 When your friends have children, those children become a central part of their lives. If you want to have a deep connection with this friend, it will help for you to be involved in this part of his or her life.


Accept invitations to events with the child, like birthday parties or trips to the amusement park. You don't need to accept these every time, but take part sometimes. Let your friend know you want to be invited to these types of activities.If you feel comfortable doing so, offer to babysit from time to time.This will give you a chance to connect with your friend's children, and will also give your friends some freedom to do other things the kids can't be involved in.
If your friend tells you about something he or she had hoped to do, but is unable because of a lack of childcare, just let him or her know you'd be willing to give it a try!

, Childless people often make the mistake of talking down to children or ignoring them when they try to contribute to adult conversations.This is frustrating to both the child and the parent.


Acknowledge your friend's kids and respect their efforts to contribute to conversations, even if they seem silly.
Remember that kids learn by asking questions. These interjections into adult conversation can be trying at times, but they are a part of how children develop an understanding of the world.
 Don't try too hard to get the attention of your friend's kids or be the "cool uncle/aunt." While you don't want to ignore the children, it's often a good idea to let them come to you.Some children are anxious or fearful of people they don't know well. Your attempts at cuddling or playing with them may have the opposite affect to what you intended.

