 Building a good relationship with your cat’s vet takes time. Rather than see your vet only once a year for a big checkup, try to schedule several smaller checkups a year. If you only bring your cat in for emergencies, your vet may not see you or your cat very often and not be able to build a relationship with you. Try to schedule appointments throughout the year for checkups so you can get to know your vet and create a connection with them.For example, you may commit to one checkup every three months so your cat gets regular medical care. Or you may try to bring your cat in several times a year so they see the vet often enough and you can build a relationship with them.
Bringing your cat into the vet more often can also ensure they are in good health and are not at risk of any chronic issues. Seeing the vet on a regular basis usually also means you will not have to worry about your cat going untreated for any major health problems.;
, If you know your cat is due for an appointment at the vet, call and book an appointment in advance so the vet is prepared. Try not to schedule last minute appointments with the vet, as this can be an inconvenience for them.If you are following a schedule for the appointments, book them way in advance so the vet has advanced notice. This way, the vet knows when to expect you in and can prepare properly for the appointment.
Try to book your appointments in the early morning for when the vet is just starting their day. Most vets are busy all day with patients and can be more irritable by the end of the day. This is a good option if your cat has a serious medical issue or is known to be temperamental at the vet.
 Showing up late for your cat’s vet appointments are certainly not the way to get on their good side. Try to be on time for all vet appointments. You can also try to show up five to ten minutes early for appointments. This can give you time to calm your cat down before the appointment, if needed, and will make the vet feel less rushed.If you are running late for your appointment, make sure you call the vet’s office and let them know. Apologize for running late and ask if it is possible for you to hold your existing appointment. Your vet will likely be less upset about you being late if you call and explain.

