 There is no super food that contains all the necessary, protein, vitamins, minerals, and fibers needed for a healthy diet. Instead, food contains combinations of these requirements and, therefore, you need to diversify the food you eat from the five major food groups on the food pyramid. Because we often eat food that we enjoy and are familiar with preparing, it is difficult to diversify our diet. Try to moving away from eating the same or similar foods on a regular basis.
Think about balance: people often choose higher or lower amounts from some food groups more than other that is suggested in the food pyramid.
Food with beautiful colors – red, yellow, and green – usually found in fruits and vegetables, is very healthy. In other words, eat with your eyes.
If it is too difficult to make whole sale changes in your diet, consider changing out just one portion at a time or adding something different to each meal.
Most people love leftovers, but usually leftovers cannot be a meal in itself. Add vegetables or whole grain breads to your leftovers to make a more complete meal.
 There is a reason why these three categories are the largest spaces on the pyramid and contain the highest number of servings – because they are the healthiest. Eating plenty of these foods will make you feel full and leave less room for fat, sugar, and oils. Vegetables and fruits contain important vitamins A and C, folate, iron, and magnesium, and are low in fat and sodium.
Dark, leafy vegetables like broccoli, spinach, and romaine contain fiber and are known to prevent some cancers and restore damaged skin.
Deep, yellow vegetables such as carrots and sweet potatoes contain large amounts of antioxidants that protect against cardiovascular disease and cancer.
Choose from fresh fruit and fruit juices and either frozen, canned, or dried fruits to meet the required amount of servings. Avoid heavy syrups or added sugar products claiming to be fruit products.
Citrus fruits, melons, and berries are rich in vitamin C, packed with antioxidants, and are a delicious alternative for desert compared to sugary cakes and pies.
 The food pyramid focuses specifically on fat intake because research finds that the America diet is too high in fat. Therefore, the food pyramid is designed to lower the intake of fatty foods and cholesterol. Avoiding these two deadly ingredients will reduce your chances of getting heart disease, cancer, and help you maintain an ideal weight. Fat should never be more than thirty percent of your total calorie intake. Just by eating the healthy food listed on the food pyramid with the lowest fat content, you will consume fifty percent of total fat suggested by the USDA.
Try not to constantly check how many grams of fat you eat every day. Instead, check it once or twice a week just to make sure you are staying within the guidelines.
In particular, avoid saturated fats found in meat and dairy products because they could increase your risk for heart disease.
Although cholesterol is similarly found in meat and dairy products and causes increase risk of heart disease, they are not the same as saturated fats, but should also be avoided.
 Added sugars, not those that are naturally found in fruits, contain no nutritional value and, instead, make you fatter and more prone to diseases and cancers. Sugars include white, brown, and raw, as well as corn syrup, honey, and molasses.
Added sugars can be found in most of the foods we enjoy like ice cream, candy, soda, jams and jellies.
Try to limit added sugars to six teaspoons to a low calorie diet; twelve teaspoons to a moderate calorie diet; and 18 teaspoons to a high calorie diet to minimize potential damage.
 Salt in itself is not bad, the problem stems from added salt during cooking or seasoning food that already contains salt. In other words, be mindful of food labels since they reveal how much salt or sodium is already present in the food. An abundance of sodium in your body causes water retention, which places an extra burden on the heart and blood vessels causing high blood pressure. This could lead to more serious problems like a heart attack or stroke.
Instead of using table salt, substitute it with herbs, spices, vinegar, or citrus juice.
Try to purchase unsalted or low sodium foods.

