 Before you pack and leave for your automobile trip, buy a urination device to take with you. A disposable urinal is the best option because they are the easiest to use. If you have not used one before if might be a good idea to buy a few different types and bring them all with you.You can also just pee in a bottle.


There are a lot of urination devices on the market for both menand women.If you do not want to spend money on a disposable device, you can use materials you might already have. A lot of men will use a milk jug, but milk jugs can be bulky and take up space in the car.Gatorade bottles and Core water bottles have a wide mouth opening, so they are preferable for many women.;
, Since the same hand(s) you will be using to urinate will be operating your automobile, bring something to clean up. Hand sanitizer, baby wipes, or paper towels pre-soaked in soapy water will all work fine.You can find hand sanitizer and baby wipes at any big box store (like Walmart) or supermarket. If you do not want to invest much money, get the travel size.
To pre-soak your paper towels: Take a dry paper towel and place it under running water until it is soaked. Pump one or two drops of liquid hand soap onto it and rub it in until you see the soap lather. Squeeze out any excess water, and fold it into your desired size.
 When you are ready to hit the road, make sure your urination device is accessible and ready to go in case you need it in the vehicle. Ideally, you won’t have to search for it.


You can put it in your center console, the car door pocket, or your glove compartment.
 When you need to urinate, pull your car over to a safe place. The sides of the road, a freeway exit, or some other place away from traffic are all good options. For safety, do not pull your car over onto the side of a major freeway or highway. Do not use your urination device while you are driving.
 Grab your urination device from wherever you stashed it. Remove the lid if it has one. Tilt the device toward your body so the bottom is at a 45-degree angle to the floor. Urinate into the mouth of the device, aiming for the bottom.If your device has a lid on it, make sure you replace the lid when you are done.
 Grab those wipes or hand sanitizer and clean up before you get back on the road. You can dispose of the urination device if there is a receptacle nearby. If there is not, set it aside for now. If you think you will need it again soon, set it nearby. Or, you can get another disposable device if you brought disposables.Do not dispose of your urination device outside the vehicle. Most states have strict fines for finding containers full of urine alongside the road., Continue driving toward your destination, much more comfortable now. Make sure you drink enough water. Dehydration causes fatigue, which is a bad combination with driving.