 If you have fair skin, deep or bright peach eyeshadows can often look too harsh. Instead, look for soft peach shadows that have some pink in them so they look more natural with your skin tone.Avoid peach eyeshadows that lean too orange. They are usually too warm for fair skin.;
, Medium skin tones can also wear light pinky peach shadows, but more intense peach shades tend to stand out more. Consider a mid-tone peach with stronger orange undertones.Mid-tone peach shadows will typically have “peach” in their shade names, such as “Candied Peach” or “Peach Pop.”

, If you have a tan complexion, you want to choose peach shadows that have enough depth to them to show up against your skin. Opt for bronzey peach shades that will complement the similar bronze tones in your own skin.Bronze peach shadows often have shade names such as “Golden Peach” or “Sunkissed Peach.”

, Dark skin can wear nearly any type of peach eyeshadow. However, for the most flattering look, it’s best to choose a bright, rich peach eyeshadow that will complement your deeper skin tone.Bright peach shades tend to have shade names such “Vivid Peach” or “Intense Peach.”

, In addition to the tones in a peach shadow, it’s also important to consider the finish. A matte peach shadow has no shine, glitter, or shimmer, while a shimmery or metallic peach shadow offers rich shine. A satin peach shadow isn’t completely flat, but only provides minimal shine.Matte peach shadows can work as a lid or highlight shade, but they’re especially good for using in the crease. They’re also the best option if you have mature or wrinkled eyelids because they won’t draw as much attention to fine lines.
Shimmery or metallic peach shadows are best used as lid or highlight shades.
Satin peach shadows can be used all over the eye.
 No matter what color eyeshadow you’re wearing, it’s important to apply a shadow primer to your eyelids first. The primer helps keep your eyeshadow in place all day and prevents creasing. Dab a small amount on each eyelid, and blend it in with a clean finger.If you don’t have an eyeshadow primer, you can use a little concealer instead.
 If you want your peach eyeshadow to be the star of your eye look, apply it to your eyelid. Use a flat eyeshadow brush to gently pat or press the shadow onto your lid for the most opaque peach color.Light or mid-tone peach shadows with a shimmery or metallic finish work best as lid shades.
If you really want the peach shadow on your lid to be bold and intense, consider using a peach cream eyeshadow as a base. Use a clean finger to dab the cream shadow on your lid, and then press a powdered peach eyeshadow in a similar shade over it.
 If you want to add warmth to your eye look with peach shadow but still keep it soft, blend it through the crease. Use a fluffy, tapered crease brush to lightly sweep the peach shadow through your crease.Your crease is the area where your eye lid naturally folds.
A mid-tone or dark peach shadow with a matte or satin finish works best as a crease shade.
If you’re working with a lighter peach shadow, it can actually serve as a transition shade. That’s a shadow that helps your crease shadow blend into your brow bone highlight. Use a very fluffy crease brush to lightly blend the shadow through the upper portion of your crease before you apply your actual crease shade.
 When you want the peach shadow to stand out and keep your overall eye look soft, it’s best to pair the peach with shadows in natural, earthy tones. Look for cream, ivory, beige, tan, taupe, gray, and brown shades that will allow the peach to pop.If you’re using a light peach shadow on the lid, pair it with dark tan, taupe, gray, or brown shades in the crease.
If you’re using a mid-tone or dark peach shadow in the crease, pair it with a cream, ivory, beige, or light tan shade on the lid.
 If you want to make a bold statement with your peach eyeshadow, pair it with contrasting shades. Blue is opposite orange on the color wheel, so shadows in blue tones will create the boldest contrast. Green shades can also work well for a bold peach look.To keep your eye look sophisticated, opt for rich blue shades, such as navy or teal. Darker greens, such as olive or forest, work best too.
If you want a bold peach eye look but don’t want to use contrasting shades, consider going monochromatic. Pair the peach shadow with vivid orange, tangerine, or copper shades.
 To make sure that your eyes look finished, don’t forget to pair your peach shadow with eyeliner and mascara. Traditional black liner works well with peach tones, but brown shades, such as bronze or copper, are especially flattering. Next, apply one to two coats of your favorite black mascara to help your lashes look longer and thicker.


If you prefer, you can skip eyeliner. Your eyes will have a softer, fresher look.
If you want to make your eyes look wide and bright, it’s a good idea to use an eyelash curler to curl them before you apply the mascara.
 When you’re wearing peach shades on your eyes, it’s important to add a little warmth to your skin to keep your look balanced. Use a fluffy face brush to apply matte bronzer to the highpoints of your face, including the hairline, temples, cheekbones, and jawline.If you have fair skin, be sure to choose a bronzer that doesn’t have strong orange undertones. Those types of shades tend to look muddy on light skin.
For darker skintones, look for a bronzer with earthy red undertones.
 To keep your look soft and flattering, it’s a good idea to use blush in a shade that complements your peach shadow. That doesn’t mean it has to be the exact same shade as your shadow -- opt for a peach, peachy pink, coral, or orange blush.If you want a fresh, natural look, you can go for a monochromatic look with your blush. Dust your peach eyeshadow over your cheeks to serve as your blush so the color matches exactly.
 Depending how bright or bold you went with the peach shadow on your eyes, you can opt for a peach or nude shade on the lips. If you want your eyeshadow to really stand out, peachy nude lipstick or gloss is the best option. If you went for a soft peach shade on the eyes, you can wear a bright or deep peach shade on your lips.If you want to make a bold statement with your lips, you can also use an orange lip color. It will have similar undertones to the peach shadow on your eyes, and can be judy head-turning as the usual bold red lipstick.

