 If you've noticed your horse chewing and a change in his diet, a medical condition may be affecting your horse. If you're unsure if there have been any changes, ask yourself the following questions:Does the horse eat more or less?
Has the horse become a messy eater?
Is the horse losing weight?
Is the horse drinking more or less?
Have the horse's droppings changed?

, Your horse should be chewing grass and foraging for up to 20 hours a day. If your horse is getting a high-concentrate diet (like pellets), he won't have the chance to chew for a prolonged period of time. While this means he won't need to physically chew, he'll still have a psychological need to chew.Your horse may also develop strange chewing habits if his diet is missing necessary vitamins or minerals.
 If you think your horse's diet is causing the chewing, have a veterinary nutritionist evaluate the diet. The nutritionist can see what needs to be adjusted so that the diet is balanced and not deficient in vitamins and minerals. You may also be referred to the vet for blood work to determine where deficiencies lie.You may also want to switch from a concentrated diet to a forage and hay diet, so the horse spends more time chewing.
 Your horse may start chewing things as a way to distract himself from pain. He may have a nagging or low-grade pain, like a stomach ulcer. Your horse may show one of the following signs if he's in pain:A gaping mouth when you ride
A clamped down tail when you ride
Tense muscles
Any behavior that's uncharacteristic for your horse (for example, a lower energy level, strange facial expressions, or reluctance to interact with other horses)
Elevated heart rate

, If a dental problem is causing your horse's chewing, you'll need to make sure that the cause is identified and treated. Only by treating the medical condition will the chewing stop. Get medical attention for your horse if you notice:Changes in eating habits
Signs of pain
Rough wear on the teeth
Excessive salivation
Bad breath
Face or jaw swelling

