 Although it is certainly fine to go get a drink of water now and then throughout your work day, what can get you in trouble is heading over there—or to any break room situation—when other coworkers are gathered there. The water cooler has become the symbol for communicating office gossip, and steering clear of it can prevent you from getting embroiled in the politics you are trying to avoid.Opt for water breaks when the cooler isn’t surrounded, or for breaks when the break room is empty.
To further fortify your avoidance of politics, be strict about who you take breaks with in general, limiting your lunches to trusted coworkers.;
, If you do your research before you get started on a project, you can avoid crossing boundaries into interpersonal issues. For example, if you are assigned to a project without asking any questions and you encounter a problem a couple of days later, you can upset the office equilibrium if you ask the wrong coworker for help. Get all your instructions from the get-go.Ask lots of questions when you get a project. Even go so far as to ask the boss or supervisor for a meeting so that you can ensure that you aren’t impinging on their work time.Ask the person who assigned you project who they prefer you ask questions of before starting the project. This can minimize offense if you go to someone your boss doesn’t like.
 In order to stay out of office disputes and politics, you have to not care what they think. Getting in the mix and defending yourself can just add fuel to the gossip fire, not to mention create a reputation for yourself of being a time waster.Recognize that work isn’t about who is most well-liked, like it was in high school. Coworkers who form cliques are bad examples, so stay away from them.
 Instead of worrying about what coworkers like you, focus on doing a good job. If you’re looking for a promotion, the best way to ensure one is to perform high-quality work. A diligent worker does not need to degrade others or pit people against one another in order to advance, because a good performance speaks for itself.


Some office politics are related to disputes about who deserves a promotion or more power in the workplace. Stay out of these conversations and build up your reputation as a hard worker.

