 Each blog post you write should have a topic, however broad or loose, that the post is built around. Publishing a string of unrelated thoughts might be fine once in a while, but stay away from making every post as unfocused as a daily diary entry. Think of each post as a mini-essay; you've got to have a thesis to keep the post moving and make it interesting enough to read.


The topic can be obvious, like "My Thoughts on Seeing Wicked for the First Time," or it can be a subtle theme that ties the post together unexpectedly at the end. Get creative with your organization and presentation of your thoughts.
Some bloggers like to repeat topics that are popular with readers. For example, you could have a "Music Monday" recurring topic where you discuss new music you'd like to share.
 The headline, or title, of your blog post should be devised to draw the reader in immediately. Get creative with your headlines and make them funny, mysterious, arty, surprising, or otherwise extremely interesting. Your headline is the start of your post and will help the reader decide whether or not to keep reading, so it shouldn't be neglected.
 Online writing is characterized by short paragraphs of no more than 3 or 4 sentences, and sometimes fewer. The paragraphs should be broken up with line spaces, rather than indents. This style is much more conducive to online reading, which occurs from the top of the screen to the bottom, rather than from side to side. You'll lose readers if you make it too difficult for them to scan the page quickly., Breaking up the text with subheadings is a good way to prevent your post from seeming like a long, difficult-to-tackle essay. Subheadings are usually written in a bolder, bigger, or entirely different font from the rest of the text, drawing the eye's attention when it might otherwise wander. If you don't want to break your post up into labeled categories with subheadings, consider bolding an important sentence here and there to make the post more visually interesting.


Another way to add visual interest to the post is to play around wit other types of formatting. Bold or italicize individual words, experiment with different font sizes, and use different colors.
This strategy can definitely be taken too far, so make sure you don't overdo it. You want your post to remain readable, and too many fonts or colors could create a visual catastrophe if you aren't careful.
 This gives readers a concrete takeaway and has been shown to keep people on the page longer. Items on a list can also act as a stand-in for subheadings when it comes to breaking up the text to make it more interesting.


If you're including a how-to section, make sure your tutorial is easy to follow as well as entertaining. Don't switch your tone entirely to that of a how-to manual; it should still be written in your voice.
Lists are a good way to organize thoughts that are seemingly disparate. You could write a list of "5 Ways to Mentally Prepare for the New Year," for example, and include 5 funny anecdotes related to things you've been thinking about as the year comes to an end. You've essentially created a structure for your post where before it would have simply been a string of unrelated stories.
 Some bloggers use more links than others, but most sprinkle a few into every post. Linking to other articles is one of the hallmarks of online writing. It's a great way to connect your blog to the greater online world. Linking also makes your writing seem more relevant and up to date - a huge bonus when it comes to attracting readers who check blogs because they want to be in the know on a certain set of topics.


Link to other people's blogs. They'll start linking to yours, too, and you can share each other's traffic.
Link to fascinating items people may not have seen. Readers will start coming to your blog for good information they can't find elsewhere.
 Some bloggers use 8 images for one post, while others use one or even none. Whether you include images in your blog is entirely up to you, but it's worth experimenting with a few to see whether they increase your traffic and make your blog more interesting. Just remember to follow the same rules you follow in your writing: keep the photos relevant, offer something unique, and where appropriate, get personal.


You don't have to use professional-looking photos on your blog; pictures you've taken with the camera on your phone will do just as well in most cases.
If you're starting a blog about food or another topic that works best with pictures, consider investing in a good camera and learning how to edit photos for web use.

