 Getting one isn't very hard and usually not expensive. These alarms can be a great deterrent for burglars. Make sure, however, that it is professionally installed.;
, Unlocked doors and windows make it easy for someone to rob your house. If a lock doesn't work, get it fixed immediately.
 As strange as it may seem, people may want to rob you for what is on a box at the end of your driveway. If you have a box that shows a plasma screen TV or something else very expensive, you want to get rid of it.
 If a house looks vacant and unprepared, that house may be a victim of a robbery. Leaving lights on is a safe measure for any house.
 If you're going to be gone for a while, neighbors can help protect your house.
 Leaving it open, even during the day puts your car and its contents at risk from strangers passing your house. Be especially vigilant about closing it at night. If you see your neighbors garage open after bedtime, call them to let them know. They will appreciate the call, and likely return the favor if you inadvertently leave your garage open.
 This goes for your car as well.
 Keep a key for the deadbolt inside the house near the door at all times so you can escape easily in case of a fire.
,, For sliding windows use channel locks that clamp on or a stick that keeps the window from sliding open. Once in your garage, thieves have many opportunities to break into your house using your own tools from the garage. And unfortunately once in your garage often the door leading into your home is unlocked. So lock it, with a dead bolt, and keep it locked when you are gone or asleep.
 These can often be reached by athletic youth or experienced thieves seeking easy access into your home.
 Leave them on when you are gone, or put them on motion sensors, and/or light sensors so they are on at dusk and/or when someone approaches your house.
 You may want to invest in a car alarm as well.
 Most thoughtful thieves will find a hidden key if they have time to search. If you have to keep a key outside your home keep it at a neighbors house. You could even keep it hidden outside their house if you are concerned about them being unavailable when you need your key.
 Don't use a number that could be looked up by a determined thief. Avoid birthdays, addresses, phone numbers, or sequenced or repetitive numbers. It is okay, not best, but okay to combine numbers, such as the first two digits of your phone number plus the month you were born. Or you could use two digits from your Mom's birthday and two digits from your Dad's birthday. Don't share this code with anyone but your immediate family.
 If you have valuable equipment or tools, put them out of sight, out of mind. For a few it, may be tempting to help themselves to your stuff, or tell a friend where there are some valuable items to be lifted at a later date.

