 The best oral hygiene habit to get into is to brush your teeth at least twice everyday — once when you wake up in the morning, and again before you go to bed at night. If you do absolutely nothing else for your teeth, at least do this., When you eat and drink during a meal, the enamel on your teeth can soften temporarily. Brushing your teeth immediately after a meal means you may accidentally erode your enamel. Instead, wait for about an hour after you’ve eaten before you brush your teeth. This will allow the saliva in your mouth to help neutralize the acid content and return your enamel to its normal strength., While toothbrushes come in variety of bristle stiffness, you should always use a soft or sensitive bristled brush.If possible use an electric toothbrush instead of a manual toothbrush. The fast action of an electric toothbrush can actually remove twice as much plaque as manual brushing. Look for a sonic electric toothbrush — the head movement offers the correct movements of the brushing technique and they are more gentle on your teeth.Toothbrushes also come in a variety of shapes and sizes. Choose the shape and size that fits best into your mouth and feels comfortable when brushing. The best brush is one that allows you to reach to the very back of your last molar without difficulty., The American Dental Association (ADA) has a seal of acceptance that can be found on dental products that meet their rigorous standards. When selecting a toothpaste, ensure it has the ADA seal of acceptance on the label. Among other things, the ADA seal of acceptance ensures the toothpaste contains the proper amount of fluoride for certain age groups.If you do not live in North America, check to see if a national or regional dental organization reviews and provides seals of approval for dental products in your area. Then look for that specific seal on the toothpaste you buy.
 Brushing your teeth with the proper technique will help ensure removal of the most amount of plaque possible. The back-and-forth technique you see in movies and on TV will actually harm your enamel. The best brushing technique to use is as follows:Hold your toothbrush at a 45-degree angle to your gums.
Move your toothbrush back and forth in short, gentle strokes. Brush each tooth surface 15 times and make sure you count them without applying too much force.
The best way to clean the chewing surface of the molars (where is the highest risk of decay), is to apply a circular clockwise and anti clockwise movement so bacteria can be eliminated by the centrifugal force.
Clean the back of your front teeth by placing the brush vertically against the back of your teeth and making up and down strokes with the brush.
Don’t forget to use your toothbrush to brush the surface of your tongue as well.
 Each time you brush your teeth, you should brush continuously for two minutes. Split the time between all areas of your mouth to ensure they all get equal treatment. Use a timer or stopwatch to ensure you don’t stop early., Always rinse off your toothbrush when you’re done brushing and make sure there’s no toothpaste residue left on the brush. Store your toothbrush in a cup or toothbrush holder so that the brush is standing upwards.If you’re away on vacation or a business trip, try to store your toothbrush in the same fashion in your hotel (or wherever you’re staying). It’s not a good idea to keep a toothbrush cooped up inside a toothbrush holder longer than absolutely necessary.
 At the very least you should replace your toothbrush, or electric toothbrush head, every three to four months. If the toothbrush looks like it’s damaged or worn, replace it sooner than three months., An awesome oral hygiene routine includes flossing your teeth once a day. Dentist’s recommend you floss in the evening, before bed, as this will help to remove any food residue before it has a chance to sit on or between your teeth all night.While most people tend to floss after they’ve brushed, it is actually recommended that you try flossing before you brush. This helps to remove food particles stuck between your teeth and gums and then allows those areas of your mouth to be cleaned more effectively when you brush., When pulling off a strand of floss from the roll, take about 18 in or 46 cm. Roll one end of the floss around the middle finger on your right hand, and roll the other end of the floss around the middle finger of your left hand. Leave enough floss between your middle fingers so you’re able to grab the floss using your thumbs and index fingers on both hands., While you want to hold the floss between your hands tightly, you want to be as gentle as possible when you’re actually flossing. The floss should be used to rub your tooth up and down while it’s in-between two teeth. You should also attempt to curve the floss around the tooth for better results.As you move through your mouth, unwind one end of the floss and wind the opposite end, so you have fresh floss every one to two teeth.
 There are several alternative tools that can be used in place of floss, if you find it difficult to use floss. Floss picks have floss mounted between two ends so you don’t have to wind and unwind floss yourself. They also have an easy-to-grip handle to manipulate the pick between your teeth. There are also electric flossing machines that spray a jet of water that can be used to clean between your tooth (sometimes referred to as a WaterPik)., Consider using an antimicrobial mouth rinse or a fluoride-based mouthwash everyday. You can use the rinse/wash each time you brush, but you can also use it between brushing to keep your mouth fresh.If you don’t like the idea of bringing a toothbrush and toothpaste to school or work with you, you can always bring a small jar of rinse/wash instead to use after a meal.
 Chewing sugar-free gum throughout the day, specifically after a meal, can help protect your teeth. Chewing gum generates more saliva in your mouth, which in turn can balance the level of acidity. Plus, chewing gum can clean the plaque off your teeth, which will help prevent decay and erosion.Look for sugar-free gum that contains xylitol, as it helps maintain an neutral Ph balance in your mouth.
Note that some people with jaw issues (such as TMJ) may be advised not to chew gum as it will cause more problems than it will solve. If you have been diagnosed with a jaw issue, ask your dentist if you should be chewing gum.
 Sugar can be very hard on teeth. Sugar can cause or worsen tooth decay, which in turn can lead to cavities. Reducing the amount of sugary food and drinks you consume will help keep your teeth healthy in the long-term.Keep in mind that this includes the sugar you put into items such as coffee, tea, lemonade, iced tea, and other drink mixes.
 Foods and drinks that have a high acidic value can also have a damaging effect on your teeth by eroding the enamel. Enamel protects protects the dentin, which contains the pulp with the nerves and blood vessels of your teeth. Without enamel you’ll find yourself becoming very sensitive to hot and cold foods and drinks and you’ll also likely experience pain. Reducing or eliminating acidic foods and drinks will help to protect your enamel and keep your teeth healthy and strong.If you are drinking an acidic beverage, try drinking it with a straw. This methods help prevent the drink — and therefore the acid — from actually touching your teeth.
 Smoking is terrible on your mouth. In addition to giving you bad breath and stained teeth, smoking can also increase your chances of losing your teeth and getting mouth cancer. If you currently smoke, seriously consider quitting. If you do not smoke, don’t start. Quitting smoking can also have positive benefits on your overall health and wellbeing, not to mention your pocketbook., There are several things you may do on a regular basis that have become habits, but are actually quite bad for your teeth and mouth. Reducing the amount of time you use the habit, or eliminating it altogether, will significantly help keep your mouth healthy and strong. The following bad habits should be avoided:Biting your nails.
Brushing too hard or with a hard-bristled toothbrush. Massage, don’t scrub, your teeth when you brush.
Grinding or clenching your teeth. If you happen to do this while you sleep, ask your dentist about a mouthguard.
Chewing ice cubes.
Using your teeth as tools! This includes using your teeth to rip tape or open a plastic package. Use scissors instead.
 Ideally you should have a professional cleaning and dental exam at least once a year, however some dentists (and insurance plans) may suggest as often as every six months. A professional cleaning will allow a dentist or dental hygienist to scrape off all the built-up plaque and tartar on your teeth that you are not able to remove with brushing or flossing. X-rays are often taken at annual dental exams in order to allow the dentist to determine if you have any cavities or other issues., If you find yourself experiencing any of the following problems, make an appointment to see your dentist right away. Many of these issues are symptoms for much more serious dental problems which, if caught early, may be simple to fix. If your dentist is already aware of these issues from an annual exam, follow their instructions as to how to handle the problem.Very red, swollen and tender gums.
Gums that bleed a lot when you brush or floss.
Gums that appear to be pulling away from your teeth (it looks like your teeth are getting bigger).
Gums that seem to grow bigger and wider, slowly covering the surface of your teeth.
Loose teeth (other than baby teeth).
Changes in your bite — the way your top and bottom teeth align.
Very high sensitivity to heat or cold.
Constant bad breath or bad taste in your mouth.
 Fluoride can help prevent tooth decay and, therefore, cavities. Fluoride is normally found in toothpastes and mouthwashes, but can also be applied as a varnish or treatment at your dentist’s office. Annual fluoride treatments are normally recommended for children and teenagers, but adults can also benefit.Many cities throughout North America add fluoride to their drinking water, which is for your teeth. Check with your city to determine if fluoride is added to the water where you live.

