 Before you file a motion with the court, review the terms of the initial order and look for any statements regarding the termination of your child support obligation.


Your order may list specific events or dates that end your obligation under the order. If the date or event listed has occurred, that is all you need to prove to the court. For example, if your order states that your child support obligation ends on your child's 21st birthday, all you need to prove to the court is that your child recently turned 21., If you and the other parent are still on speaking terms, you may bring the issue up with the other parent and see if they agree with you that you should no longer be paying child support.


If you can reach an agreement with the other parent, often you can file an agreed motion and have the judge approve it without having to attend a hearing.
If both parents cannot agree that child support should be terminated, going to court and letting a judge decide may be your best option., Many courts have fill-in-the-blank motions you can use to ask the court to stop your child support order.You should be able to pick up copies of the forms you need from the clerk's office, or download them from the court's website.In some states such as Missouri, the parent who receives the child support payment is responsible for telling you when the child no longer meets the state's legal requirements to receive child support from you.
 The court will need copies of the original order as well as any documents or other information that supports your claim that child support should end.


If your child support obligation ends when your child reaches a certain age, all you need in addition to the original order is a document such as a birth certificate that proves the child's age.If your original order provides for termination under certain conditions, you must be able to prove those conditions have occurred.For example, suppose your order states that you owe child support until the child turns 18 unless the child attends college, in which case you must continue to provide support until the child turns 21. If your child is 19 but quit college and got a job, you would need proof that your child quit school and is living on his own.
You also may no longer be required to pay child support if you got back together with the other parent. You would need to prove to the court that you've actually reconciled, for example by attaching evidence that you both live in the same house., Enter the information required thoroughly and accurately, using the format requested by the court.


In some states such as Missouri, you also must file an affidavit with the court listing the facts that indicate your child support obligation should be terminated. An affidavit is a sworn statement and typically must be signed in front of a notary public.
If you and the other parent agree child support should be terminated, you both must sign the agreed motion and fill out the form for the agreed order, which the judge will sign., You must file your motion with the same court that issued the initial child support order.


Typically you must work directly with the court to stop your child support order if your order was not established through the state child support enforcement agency, or if the agency never took responsibility for administering your payments.When you file your forms, you must pay a filing fee, usually under $100. If you cannot afford the filing fees, you can file an application with the court to have those fees waived. As part of that application, you will have to disclose various information about your financial status, income, and obligations.#Have your forms served on the other parent. You will be responsible with providing the other parent with legal notice that you are asking the court to terminate your child support obligation.
Typically you would contact the sheriff's department to have a deputy serve the forms on the other parent personally. Some courts may allow you to complete service using certified mail. You should expect to pay a small fee for service of process.If you and the other parent came to an agreement, and you filed a joint petition or motion, you won't have to serve the other parent. In the court's eyes, both of you have filed the petition together., If the judge schedules a hearing for your motion, you must appear or the judge may dismiss your motion and you will continue to owe child support.


If you and the other parent agree that child support should be terminated, the judge typically will not order a hearing. He simply will sign the agreed order that you submitted to the court along with your agreed motion.