 You will need to run your dedicated server from a separate account, or you will not be able to connect to your own server. You do not need to add any games to this account, the game files are not necessary to run the server.
 This program can be found by clicking the Library menu in Steam, and selecting Tools from the dropdown menu. Browse the list for Half-Life Dedicated Server (HLDS). The server program will require about 750MB of hard disk space.

Half-Life Dedicated Server is provided free, even if there are no Half-Life purchases on the account.
 Once the HLDS is installed, double-click it in your Steam library to launch it. The Start Dedicated Server window will open. You can select from a list of Half-Life games. Select Counter-Strike 1.6 from the Game menu., You can rename your server to whatever you’d like. Use the Map menu to select the starting map. Under Network, select LAN to create a local server. Anyone on the network with Counter-Strike 1.6 installed will be able to join the server., Once the server is running, the server configuration window will open. You can make adjustments to the server without restarting it.

Use the Configure tab to input server details such as time limits and score limits.
The Statistics tab will show you how well your server is performing. Closing other programs while the server is running will increase performance.
The Players tab will show all of the players currently connected to the server. You can kick and ban players from this menu.
 You can remove bans from this menu.

The Console tab will allow you to input commands to the server such as immediate level changes.
 Any computer connected to the same network as the dedicated server should be able to see the server in the Steam servers list. Open Steam and right-click on the icon in the system tray. Select Servers from the menu. Click the LAN tab. The dedicated server should appear on the list. Joining it will automatically launch Counter-Strike 1.6 as long as it is installed.