 Make sure to fully detangle your hair before proceeding. If you have curly hair, gently run a pick through to manage and detangle your curls. Remove any and all hair accessories, such as bobby pins or barrettes, before attempting the hairstyle.


This is a very casual look that truly only takes 15 seconds, so don’t worry about getting your hair perfect before you start. Just get the tangles out.
Have some hairspray and a few bobby pins within reach when doing this style, just in case you want a little more hold or security.
 For this style, the height of the ponytail is up to you. You can do a low ponytail if you want the final look to be situated close to the nape of your neck. You can also gather your ponytail at medium height or you can try it slightly higher than that., Using your right hand, grab your hair at the ends and twist it so that your ponytail looks kind of like a rope. You can twist it as tightly or as loosely as you like, depending on how you’d like the final style to look. If you want the final style to be neat, twist it tightly. If you want a more casual look, twist it loosely.
 Continue to pull it around, forming a bun, until you run out of hair. Tuck the ends of your hair under the bun., You will push the pointy end out through the center of bun. You should have approximately the same amount of stick showing on both sides.
 Then pull the blunt end straight up, so that the pointy end brushes against your scalp and is then pointing down. Push the pointy end back through under the bun, which will secure it in place., At this point, you are only using one chopstick. You can stop there, or if you want a look using both sticks, slide the second stick carefully through the twist, taking care not to bump into the first stick.


If you have short layers in your hair, the ends may be sticking out a small amount. One option is to bobby pin them and use a bit of hairspray to secure the bun in place. For a slightly more casual look, allow your layers to hang loosely around your face. Arrange them until you like what you see.
 If you're worried about the security of your style, try a short mist of hairspray all over the hairstyle. If you have bangs, arrange them in the way you like best and give it all a short mist of hairspray to lock it in.

