 Some dog breeds—those that are mellow, friendly, relatively low-energy, and have an even temperament—are behaviorally better suited for spending time around children. Depending on the size of your children, they may also be at risk for being bowled over by an over-excited large dog. Breeds including the bulldog, beagle, newfoundland, and golden and Labrador retrievers are loyal, mellow, and should get along well with children.While weimaraners and vizslas are loyal and fun breeds, they can also have high levels of energy and require plenty of space to run and exercise, so should not be kept cooped up with young kids.
Boxers and bull terriers are fun and playful breeds, which make them an ideal choice for being around energetic kids.
 When considering adopting an animal for your family, it’s important to clarify to children that they’ll be partially responsible for caring for the animal. If your children are consistently bad at managing the household chores they already have, they may not be prepared for helping take care of a dog. Take stock of your children’s age and maturity level, then let them know the types of dog-related chores they will be responsible for.Kids younger than 4 aren’t ready to help care for a pet yet.
Kids from ages 4–8 can help brush and groom the dog (with adult supervision).
Kids from ages 9–12 can feed and water the dog daily.
Kids from ages 13–17 can help perform the same tasks as adults: walking the dog, picking up the dog’s excrement, helping train the dog, and attending obedience classes if necessary.
 Dog allergies vary in severity; mild allergies result in minor skin irritation, and severe allergies can be life threatening. It would be distressing to adopt a dog and find out afterwards that one or more of your children have a serious allergy.If one of your more children are allergic to dogs, consider adopting a different breed of pet: for example, a cat, a bird, a lizard, or fish.


Schedule an appointment with your children’s pediatrician. Let the doctor know that you’re interested in adopting a family dog and would like to have an allergy test run on your kids beforehand. Doctors provide these tests often, and the tests consist of placing a small amount of allergen in your children’s skin.

