 The lemonade stand is a classic idea that can earn you some extra money in the summer months. You can set up a booth at a local fair or just in a neighborhood park where people walk by frequently. If you don't want to limit your business to the summer months, consider selling warm cider or coffee during winter.


Ask your parents to check regulations in your location to make sure it's okay to run a lemonade stand. You do not want to violate your area's health code.Make sure you take safety precautions if you're handling warm beverages., Make a list of the chores that need to get done around the house on a weekly basis. Then, come to an agreement with your parents about how much money you think you should get for doing those chores.Don’t be disappointed if your allowance is not as high as you would like it to be. You can always take on extra chores and ask for more money, or renegotiate your allowance with your parents later to become as rich as you want to be.
Some common chores you could do are cleaning the bathroom, doing dishes, making the beds, vacuuming, dusting, sweeping, mopping, and walking the dog.
 If you have elderly neighbors or neighbors with demanding work schedules, they may jump at the opportunity to pay someone to perform basic chores. Try going door to door in your neighborhood to see if anyone would be willing to pay you to do work for them.


During the summer months, offer to do lawn mowing. You can offer to shovel or snow blow someone's driveway in the winter.Offer to clean out people's attics or garages. Attics and garages get messy and disorganized fast. See if anyone needs their garage or attic cleaned out., If you have a younger sibling, and you are old enough to babysit, ask your parents if you can babysit your younger brother or sister for money. This can help you gain experience and eventually babysit other kids around the neighborhood. Keep in mind, however, that most people prefer babysitters to be in their early teens at least. If you're under 13 or 14, neighbors may hesitate to hire you., If you know neighbors or family members are going on vacation, offer to watch the pets for a small fee. If you're an animal lover, this can be an especially fun way to earn money. Make sure to be responsible, however. Follow all instructions for care exactly, especially if you're dealing with a pet with special needs like medications or dietary restrictions., If you're musically inclined, consider starting a band with friends and family members. If you can play popular songs that are heard on the TV and radio, then you can book gigs for local events and get rich. Try to learn songs in a variety of genres so you can book many different gigs. Learn religious songs for church events, radio songs for school dances, and old- fashioned songs for retirement parties.

