 A lack of interest in clothing, grooming, and personal hygiene may be a sign they have a drug problem. This is especially true if the person once took pride in their looks and public presentation.Pay special attention to stains on clothing that appear to be caused by vomit, urine, blood, or burns.;
, They will often appear different if someone is intoxicated. Red, bloodshot, glassy, and unfocused eyes are all potential signs of drug use. Specific drugs change a person’s eyes in the following ways:


Alcohol can make eyes appear glassy and unfocused.
Marijuana leads to bloodshot and red eyes.
LSD, ecstasy, cocaine, amphetamines, and methamphetamines cause the pupils to dilate (grow larger).
Opiates such as heroin and narcotic painkillers cause the pupils to constrict (shrink). , Strange or unpleasant odors may be a sign that they are using drugs. Alcohol and drugs can sometimes be detected on a person’s breath, clothing, and even skin. Odors connected to poor hygiene can also be a sign of drug use.


Alcohol lingers on a person’s breath long after their last drink, and can even seep out of their pores the next day.
Marijuana odors can seep into clothing and fabrics. Roaches or half-finished joints generate an especially powerful smoky smell.
Methamphetamines can cause chronic bad breath. Meth labs often smell like sulfur, rotten eggs, and powerful cleaning chemicals.
When smoked, crack has the smell of burning rubber or plastic.
Many stimulants and opiates don’t have strong odors. However, cocaine smells faintly of gasoline or ether, and heroin smells like vinegar. , Unusual or excessive sniffles or frequent nosebleeds could mean that an individual is snorting drugs. Cocaine, heroin, meth, ecstasy (when crushed), and many other drugs can be snorted up the nose. By snorting drugs, they enter the bloodstream through sensitive nasal membranes, which respond by producing excess protective mucous and sometimes bleed. , Also look for bruising that could demonstrate the injection of drugs such as heroin, cocaine, or meth. Injecting drugs is very dangerous because unclean needles carry a risk of infection and transmit diseases including HIV-AIDS.


Repeated injections cause increasingly pronounced marks and scars on the body.
The more an individual injects drugs, the more they must find new places to insert needles, as the previous injection areas suffer vein collapse and scarring.
Someone who covers their skin with excess clothing may be attempting to hide ulcerations, abscesses, infections, scabs, and skin damage. , If someone is shivering when it is warm, sweating when it is cool, or shaking uncontrollably, they may be experiencing withdrawal symptoms. If addicted to drugs, withdrawal symptoms can start in a matter of hours after they last took the drug.


Other signs of withdrawal include watery eyes, sneezing, coughing, headache, heart palpitations, nausea, vomiting, and diarrhea. 