 If transportation is unavailable, trying thinking of ways that you can incorporate walking as a part of your date. Think about what is within walking distance in your town or city, and plan your date around the journey, instead of the destination. If you live close to a restaurant, movie theater, or coffee shop, walk with your date to get there.


Explore your town or city. Put on a pair of comfy shoes and explore the area you live in. Spend time getting to know more about where you live, while also getting to know your date.
If there is an arcade you like on the same street as your favorite pizza place, then take your date there.
Make spontaneous stops on your way, if you don’t have dinner reservations or have to be at the movie theater at a specific time.
Plan your route ahead of time, if there is a special place or area that you want to show your date.
 Bring your dog with you on your date, and/or ask your date to bring their dog. If you both love dogs and dog walking you can enjoy spending time with your date and your pup. You can take your dog for a walk around the neighborhood or through a park that is close by.


Take your date to the dog park. You can spend time watching the dogs play and talk about what you already have in common, a love for dogs!

, If you live an area with good hiking trails, go to the woods for a hike. You’ll be able to talk and get to know each other without distractions, all while spending time outdoors. Your hike doesn’t necessarily have to happen deep into the woods, a walk through a park close to where you live is a great way to spend time together.


If you live close to the ocean, go for a walk on the beach. Try to plan your date so that you can watch the sunset together.
If you live close to mountains, make a plan to take a scenic route to a spot with great views.
If you live in an area close to the woods, follow a trail.
 Plan a date that involves bicycle riding, so that transportation is no longer an issue. You can plan your entire date around riding bicycles, or just use them to get where you are going. If your date lives far away, you both can ride your bicycles and meet in the middle.


Ride your bicycles to an ice cream shop, and share an ice cream sundae when you get there.
Ride your bicycles to a nearby park. Plan to set up a picnic when you find a good place to stop.

