 Your audience needs to know that your character is a vampire. You can state it outright, or, if you want to be more subtle, give clues so your reader (and maybe your characters) can discover the vampire. If you want to build some mystery and suspense (always a good idea with vampires), it is better to show the character is a vampire rather than stating outright.Feel free to ignore certain rules. To make your work stand out, you can ignore or modify certain character traits of the vampire. Unpredictability can be a good thing in fiction. Just make sure you explain these to your audience at some point.If killing the vampire is integral to the story, there must be a way of killing it. If the vampire is the hero, and can't die, then there is little suspense. If the vampire is the villain, then you have given your heroes an impossible task, and the story will only end in failure.;
, Your character may not need to kill the vampire right away, especially if he is the main villain. You will want your hero to be able to keep the vampire away while he looks for what is necessary to kill it. Some of these actions include:Holding holy objects, like a cross or Bible. Vampires are evil creatures, so the generally reject sacred items. Similarly, vampires resist sacred places, so churches and other religious buildings can be safe spaces. These do not have to be exclusively Christian, so symbols from Judaism, Islam, and other faiths can work. It is important to remember that the symbol itself is not as important as the faith of the person using it.
Spreading small grainy items like salt or sand. Traditionally, vampires will obsessively count objects they come across, so something small that you can drop in large amounts can delay your foe. Fine grains like oats or rice will also work.
Similar to fine grains, vampires may also count the knots in a fishing net. Hanging one over doors and windows will buy some time if a vampire tries to enter.
Having certain plants. Vampires resist plants that generally symbolize new life, such as roses, holly, or hawthorn. Other traditions use plants such as buckthorn, juniper logs, blackthorn, or rowan. Your character can have these around the home, or carry them around.
 One good way to kill a vampire (or any other creature) is by cutting off its head. In some genres, the mouth is then stuffed with garlic to prevent the vampire from coming back., There are certain objects, like bullets or wooden stakes, that can be driven into a vampire's heart or chest, that will kill it.Wooden stake. There can be something special about the wood (from a particular tree, or shaped into a holy object like a cross), or it can just be a sharp piece of wood. Some vampire stories in modern day settings use everyday wooden objects like pool cues and coat racks.Like some of the wooden stakes, in many cases there is something special about particular bullets that will kill vampires. They can be silver bullets (as with werewolves), or blessed by a priest to be sacred objects.
 Vampires are evil creatures, and may not react well to sacred objects. Spraying them with sacred water can scald or burn vampires. You'll have to decide if the vampire need to be doused in it, or just a splash will do., In some traditions, vampires need to avoid the daylight, or else they will turn into dust. In other works, vampires move around in broad daylight without any problems.If you decide to make sunlight fatal, remember that most of your action with the vampire will need to take place at night or in dark areas.
 The characters killing the vampire need to be able to accomplish the task, so they need a way to acquire necessary items. If they need holy objects, your characters may need access to a church or priest. If their weapons require a certain type of wood, those trees should grow in your setting.

