 This recipe is a little more complex than the one above, but the result is a fuller, more impressive dish. The recipe starts basically the same way: chop your lettuce, bell pepper, and tomatoes into small pieces so they'll cook quickly. For this recipe, you'll also want to chop about two medium onions and slice a handful of olives.If you are including the optional green onions and cilantro, chop these up at this point as well.
 In this recipe, you will make your own chunky salsa rather than using storebought salsa. Add chopped onions, tomatoes, bell peppers, and olives to a large mixing bowl. If you are using the optional cilantro and green onions, add these as well. Mix well to combine. Don't worry if the tomatoes make the mixture a little watery. Set aside when combined.


If you have a lime handy, squeezing half of it over the mixture can lend it a bit of a tangy flavor. You can also try using a squirt of bottled lime juice. This isn't required, however.
 Set a frying pan over medium-high heat for about three minutes. Add a little cooking spray or oil and crumble the beef into the pan. Cook until well-browned and no pinkness remains (about five to ten minutes), stirring and breaking up the meat with your spoon or spatula.


As noted above, when the meat is finished cooking, some grease will remain in the pan. Drain this carefully and dispose in the garbage.
 Pour the water into the pan with the beef, followed by the seasoning. Stir well so that the beef is evenly coated (the water will make this easier). Simmer until the water evaporates.


If you don't have taco seasoning, it's not hard to make your own. Most commercial seasonings are just chili powder, cumin, paprika, and coriander, with a little salt, onion powder, and/or cayenne added for flavor. See our article on taco seasoning mix for step-by-step recipes.
 Put a generous pinch of lettuce in the center of each serving plate. On top of this, arrange your beef, beans, vegetables, and cheese in layers to give each serving a multi-tiered presentation.


Now is your chance to get creative. There's no "right" order to layer your ingredients, so feel free to arrange them however you want. You can also use the sample order below, which works well:




(Bottom) Bed of lettuce
Seasoned beef
Beans
Chopped vegetable mixture
Sprinkled lettuce

(Top) Shredded cheese





, In this recipe, the tortilla chips are used like miniature spoons that you can eat. Arrange a generous portion of chips around each salad in a way that you find pleasing.


Again, the exact arrangement here is up to you. One idea is to try laying chips in a circle around the edge of the plate, for instance. You can also wedge the chips in the salad itself at an angle to make something that looks like a flower.
Keep a bowl of chips handy for when your guests run out of chips on their plates.
 To finish off your taco salad, put a portion of guacamole and sour cream on each plate. You can put these on the side or on top of the salad itself. If you're not sure whether your guests like these ingredients, putting them on the side is probably safest.


To get a clean presentation, try using a melon baller or a tablespoon to get round, even scoops of each ingredient.

