 To prevent potentially dangerous strangers from learning too much about you and your location, ensure that your surroundings give no indication of your specific location. For instance, if you want to make a video of yourself conducting an interview of a fellow student at school, make sure that you are not standing directly in front of a sign with your school name or logo emblazoned on it. Predators can easily look your school up, by logo or name, and you likely won't enjoy meeting this sort of admirer.


Things to look for in your surroundings include: vehicle license plates, park signs, buildings or open air art unique to your location, street signs, etc.;
, Add a conspicuous mole (or even a tattoo) to your face, sport tinted glasses, or wear a hat or cap that changes your look dramatically. Introduce yourself using a nickname that suits your video persona. Change your persona to best suit each video you create; the constantly changing appearance will make it more difficult for predators to identify you in person, and keep you interested in producing new entertainment for others to enjoy, safely.
 Excited friends and family members may be tempted to let the whole world know they know and adore you, so remind them that adding personally identifying information to your videos creates potential danger for you, and ask that they help you stay safe online.
 Checking each of your videos twice can prevent an inadvertent slip-up from compromising your safety. Look and listen for: any mention of your real name, or a sibling or parent's name, and any personally identifying information that might be visible in the background of your video. If you find something that you wouldn't be comfortable sharing with a potentially dangerous stranger, pull the video back into an editing program and make some adjustments.
 A friend or family member will likely spot any personally identifying information (or inadvertent location identification) you may have overlooked.
 Videos made with friends can be wildly entertaining. Make sure each of you has a nickname and a look that suits the topic of your video before you begin. Disguising each of the video participants will ensure that your safety is not compromised should they create their own videos for the internet without taking steps to ensure their personal privacy. If your video is already complete, change everyone's appearance at once by changing the color tone of your video to black and white.

