 Keep in mind that whenever you go online, you run the risk of having any information that you share stolen by hackers. Reduce your risk of losing important financial information and do your online shopping through your own Internet provider at home. If you have WiFi, make sure it's passcode protected so strangers can't access it. Avoid sharing financial information online when using:


Shared networks at work.
Free WiFi hotspots.
Any Internet access that’s open to the public.
 Search online for outside reviews for each company that you intend to buy from. Look for any red flags that might indicate that you’re better off buying somewhere else if you've never heard of that company before. Don’t automatically accept that it's a legitimate or trustworthy business just because it has a professional-looking website. Also double-check that you typed the web address correctly, since scammers often create websites with common misspellings of legitimate vendors.Easy sources include Google and Yelp reviews from previous customers. If you can’t find any of those, this may be a sign that you should make your purchase elsewhere.
Always check who is fulfilling the order before completing your purchase. Remember that marketplace sites like Amazon often act as a middleman between yourself and a third party instead of fulfilling the order themselves. This means they will share your debit card information with that third party in order to complete your purchase.
 Only makes purchases through sites that are well encrypted against hacking. Once you proceed to the site’s checkout section, check each page that you go through for visual clues that indicate strong security. These include:Each page’s URL switching from the “http” heading to “https.”
A padlock icon in between “https” and the rest of the address.
 If you choose to shop online with your debit card, be vigilant about the account that it’s tied to. Make a daily practice of checking your balance so you can spot any fraudulent activity right away. Expect to be held legally responsible for any purchases made through your debit card if you don’t alert your bank about fraudulent purchases within 48 hours of each incident.Start checking your account every day as soon as you start using your debit card online, but don’t slack off as time goes by. Just because a hacker didn’t use your information right away doesn’t mean that they don’t have it at their disposal.

