 The holographic lip gloss phase is still brand new, so you probably can’t stroll into any pharmacy or beauty supply store and grab one off the shelf. Your best bet is to look online where you can find different shimmer colors, from a more hot pink sheen to a dramatic green. Then, pick out a lipstick that you think will work well with the gloss you’ve purchased. The holographic lip gloss will reflect multiple different colors (almost like an oil spill reflecting light), so don't get too wrapped up in the color of the packaging! The color advertised will mostly reflect the general color scheme you will be able to achieve.There are no set-in-stone rules about pairing lipstick and holographic lip gloss, and the lip gloss will really look like a mixture of colors. However, think about combinations you love, like a red lipstick with a pinkish holographic lip gloss, or a deep purple lipstick with a light blue holographic lip gloss.
You don’t necessarily need to wear a lipstick under your gloss, but it will magnify the effect of the gloss. Putting it on bare lips will be less noticeable than putting it over, say, a dark red or a deep violet.;
, This type of product works really well with the holographic lip gloss. In general, liquid lipsticks adhere more firmly to your lips than regular lipsticks. This will allow the gloss sit on top, rather than mixing with the base lip product. The flatter your lipstick dries, the better!, Once you’ve chosen your lipstick and holographic lip gloss combo, it’s time to apply the lipstick. There’s no big trick to this – apply it like you normally would. Begin in the center of your top lip, carefully moving outwards to the outer corners of your mouth. Then, do the same on the bottom.


If you have trouble staying in the “lines” of your lips with a lipstick, use a small lip brush to paint the product on. This will ensure you have a crisp, clean border, the holographic gloss get all the attention.
 Once you’re satisfied with the coverage of your lipstick, it’s time to blot it. You don’t want any extra lipstick on your lips, especially since you will be layering it with the gloss. Excess product will mix with the gloss and muddy up the beautiful holographic effect. Gently kiss a piece of tissue or lightly dab the tissue over your lips. Make sure the color doesn’t look patchy or faded afterwards.If you have oil blotting sheets, this work well for this step!

, Once you’ve applied your lipstick and it’s dried completely, it’s time for the fun part. Grab your holographic lip gloss and carefully start applying it in the center of your lips. Fill in the entire center, and then carefully move outwards, bringing the product to the outer corners., You don’t want your gloss to look goopy or super heavy. After you’ve used the applicator to put the product on your lips, gently dab it with your fingertip so that it spreads evenly and the excess gloss is removed. Make sure to use a very light hand so you don’t disturb your layer of lipstick at all., Whether you’re heading for a night on the town or to a friend’s house, you definitely want to bring your holographic lip gloss with you. The effect created by the lip gloss is magical, but it also isn’t the most long-lasting. Throw the product in your purse or pocket so you can swipe on a bit more every time you notice the shine start to dull. Enjoy your dazzling holographic lips!

