 Analgesic medicines are a popular form of pain relief during pregnancy. Such medicines are usually injected into a vein or muscle to help ease pain during labor.These medicines are usually used very early during labor and are designed to help you rest to save energy for later in labor. However, you can ask your doctor about use of analgesic medicines if you're experiencing back labor and see if she has any suggestions.There is generally a low risk of complications when using analgesic medicines., Many women use regional anesthesia to treat labor pains, especially those that come in the later stages of childbirth. Ask your doctor about what options are safe for you.


There are typically three types of regional anesthesia used during labor: epidural, spinal, and a combined spinal epidural.In an epidural, a thin plastic tube is placed in the back and medicine is released when needed. The tube is left in place throughout labor and can be used to inject a stronger dose of medication if a caesarian section is necessary.Spinals are usually only used in the event of a caesarian section. A single injection to the spine is used to administer medication.In a combination of the two, the spinal injection is used but a tube remains in place in case more medication is needed.It usually takes 10 to 20 minutes before regional anesthesia works. A lot of research has been conducted on the effects of regional anesthesia on the baby and it is very safe for you and your baby.The obstetrician can also administer a pudendal nerve block, but this is usually done immediately prior to pushing and it is not as effective as epidural.
 There are a variety of pain killing medications available that are safe to use during labor.


A variety of opiates are safe for use during labor. They are usually given in the form of an injection. While they are safe to use for you and your baby, they may cause nausea and sleeplessness and a temporary depression in breathing.Nitrous oxide is an odorless, tasteless gas that is inhaled and is often used to ease pain during pregnancy in the United States.