 If you have histrionic personality disorder, you may find talk therapy very useful. Talk therapy is often used for people with HPD since those with HPD love to talk about themselves. During talk therapy, you will discuss your feelings, experiences, thoughts, and beliefs.The goal of talk therapy is to help you become aware of negative and distorted thoughts that dictate your behavior and affect your relationships. It can help you work on not acting in an emotional, overly dramatic way.Psychotherapy is generally considered first line therapy in those with personality disorders.;
, Solution-focused therapy can help you if you have HPD. Solution-focused therapy can help you figure out ways to solve problems in your life and alleviate symptoms and difficulties that have arisen due to your condition.In solution-focused therapy, you will work on being independent in problem-solving and decision making. You will address your need to be saved or play the victim by working on how to face problems independently. Your therapist may help you learn how to become more assertive.For example, solution-problem therapy can help you learn how to deal with problems that you over-exaggerate or over-dramatize. You can learn how to approach a problem in a more logical, calmer way and avoid relying on others to fix problems for you.
 Cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) works on replacing negative thoughts with healthier, more realistic ones. In CBT, you will work on treating and changing your negative or damaging thought patterns. You will also work on being able to identify negative, irrational, or overly emotional thoughts.For example, your therapist may work with you on replacing thoughts that you are a failure or inferior to others, or help you reduce the thoughts about needing someone to take care of you. You also will work on being able to identify impulsive or dramatic behavior and learn to change that behavior.
Your therapist may use modeling or acting exercises to help you learn how to appropriately interact with others in a social setting.
 When treating histrionic personality disorder, you should use caution when going to any kind of group therapy, including family therapy. Many think that group therapy is not effective for HPD because the group setting can trigger the disorder, making you try to draw all the attention to yourself.Others think that eventually, those with HPD can use group therapy to learn how to interact with others.In a group or family setting, you may end up giving into your disorder by over dramatizing things or exaggerating your feelings to gain sympathy or attention.
However, if you are undergoing assertiveness therapy, your therapist may suggest family therapy to help teach you how to interact and talk with your family.

