 Then draw an irregular cone-like shape just below the circle. Add two lines that looks like an inverted U on the head.



 ;
, The vertical line will be a guide for the center of the face and the horizontal line is where the nose will be drawn.
,,






Below it, add an oval shape filled with black for the nose and outline the sides of the mouth and nose.
, Starting from the ears, draw a triangle with rounded corners on the right. Do this also for the left but make it appear like it is partly hidden.






Draw a banana like shape (partly hidden) on the top part of the head.
Add two black filled oblongs on the eyes.
Lastly, add the mouth with a slightly slanted vertical line.







Complete the hand details by extending the line of the fingers as shown in the illustration.
For the bracelet, add a tiny line on the inside part.
For the dress, add a long curve crossing the lower part of the dress from left to right. Add curvy lines on the lower right part of the dress and then draw two line on the right part of the dress to illustrate folds on it.
 Choose a pink that is not too bright nor dark. Don't forget to fill in her back with pink just below her head too.






Color the top part of the head and inside of the mouth with red.
The ears and the area surrounding the mouth with flesh color.







Fill the bracelet with an orange color close to beige.







Add eyelashes as shown in the illustration. The left side should not have two pointy lines because they are hidden below her hair.
To complete the hair on the right side, draw lines to separate it into three parts.
 Tweaking colors is important to show the depth of illustrations. It is a matter of showing light and shadows. The usual style used is by adding some darker shades of the base color of where it is applied to.






Like for example, on the hair where it is colored pink, a darker shade of pink is used to give more dimension to it.
Upon completing this, you will not only be able to draw Amy Rose but also understand the basic principles of light and shadows.

