 This is a mobile method, so you will need an Apple device (or some device with iMovie on it). This includes: Mac (computers/laptops), iPhone, iPod and iPad.;
, The apps you will need are:


iMovie (this may be free in some cases)
Video download and player - Titan (sometimes just called "Free Video") (free or premium).
 At the bottom should be a "Browser" tab. Tap that. Scroll up. There is a URL bar and a Google Search bar. In Google, search for a Dance Moms number you'd like to use.
 Scroll up and tap and hold the URL of the video. A list menu should come up.
 You can also just download the video without renaming it. You'll be able to see the video by the thumbnail, so it doesn't really matter what you name it.
 Your videos will come up. Tap and hold the video you want to audio swap. Tap "Save to camera roll".


It can be easy to forget or maybe think you can skip this step, but it is essential, so don't overlook it.
 Tap the create button ("+"). Tap "Movie". On the design "Simple", tap "Create".
 You should be on "Video" in the tabs at the bottom of the app. Tap "all" and choose the video that you downloaded. Tap an arrow that signifies "use".
 Choose your song. Choose the "use" arrow.
 Choose the sound icon. Turn the sound to 0%.
 You can do this by:


1. Putting the white work bar line where you are splitting the dance and part that should be taken out. This should be done twice unless the part that is being taken out is at the beginning or end.
2. Tapping the part to be removed and tapping "Delete".
 This works the same as parts to be removed (Step 9). Separate parts of the dance. Duplicate them. Hold them in to move them to a different part of the dance.


Note: When you are moving a part, it can only be placed at separations or at the beginning or end.
If there is a part of the dance that you would like to remove, but the clip is too short, shorten the part attached to it.
 For example, split it, duplicate it, shorten it, and so on.
 Your work should already be saved. Name your work.
 This step is optional.

