 Every single one of us has exactly 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. So we're not actually going to organize time, we're trying to organize ourselves. And organizing ourselves takes a lot of time, so planning is one of the best ways to tough it out.;
, Definitely easier said than done. So firstly, (if you don't have it already) get a planner. They're really good tools to help you organize.
 You want to be able to balance work and fun. For a start, think of what you want to do or have to do after school. Most of us think about completing homework, but make sure you make some time for yourself too. You can surf the web for examples of different schedules. Once you've got a rough idea of it you'll find it easier to start yours.
 Below are a few examples of tips on the basic stuff you need to focus on to maintain a happy lifestyle.
 If they didn't, you'll have to make a list of exactly what you need. You can add any extra stuff you want, like sticky notes, tabs, erasers for pens, etc., if they're not listed already. Try not to go overboard and buy things which you don't need or stuff which you won’t use at all.
 Use dividers to separate sections for different things which you want to keep. Be free to customize it however you want, but keep it simple yet fun and creative.



Top Tip: Magnetic hooks are really useful too. Rather than rolling up clothes and stuffing them straight into your locker, you can hang them up on the hooks. Many students find these really handy as they don't consume space, leaving more room for other things in your locker.



Use subject dividers to separate different sections for different subjects. You can also use punch pockets for your binder. Punch pockets can help you store smaller notes or small documents from each class. Try to get one pocket per subject.

Top Tip: Color-coordinating is also a great way to organize. Try to choose one color for each subject. For example, let's say you choose yellow for Maths. So for Maths, use a yellow subject divider, a yellow side rim for the punch pocket, yellow tabs, and so on. You can even use a yellow highlighter to highlight notes for Maths!

, Don't ever postpone work. If you're really free, instead of wasting your time talking over the phone, work on that assignment you haven't completed yet. Whenever you decide to postpone work, you're just building it up some more. And if you rush to complete lots of work the night before the deadline, you end up


losing sleep,
getting stressed up,
being unable to produce quality work, and
if you ask your folks to help you out, you're gonna get nagged at

, They might be able to evaluate whether your tuition classes are really worth your time, or whether your homework is too much for you to handle.



Top Tip: A good idea of how long you should take to complete your homework is to add 10 minutes for each grade. Let's say, if you're in 5th grade, homework should take about 50 minutes daily to complete, and when you go to 6th grade, it'll be one hour daily.
Sometimes you might take a bit longer to complete your homework, depending on your writing speed, available resources to research things, the environment, or maybe you just take some time to do something. So it would be normal if you take an extra half hour to finish your homework. But if your time exceeds an extra 90 minutes, then better get your parents to talk to your teachers. Life shouldn't be just about homework.
 This place should be free from distractions, and should suit your study style well. Choose a table which has multiple drawers, and is an appropriate size. A few basic study tools that you need to have are:


a study lamp
access to a laptop/computer with internet connection

bookcases or file holders
stationery
pencil holder/case
art materials
a paper wastebasket
a cork board


, Keep these areas neat and tidy, as they are your personal areas. When important places like these are kept messy and loitered, they tend to have negative effects on your overall health, like stress. Besides, you don't want to suffer the whole night looking for that form you have pass up the next day, would you?


If you have a really tight schedule and don't have enough time to do a through clean-up, try breaking it up into smaller acts to do each week. But if you decide to do this, then it might take much, much longer than you thought it would. The best thing to do is, before you finally break from tension, forget about your homework (for a while), lock your room door, and start to tackle your mess. A good half hour is enough for a nice clean up.And once you're done, it'll feel really good that you've finally done it.
 If you feel that your energy has been sapped away from you and you're tired to the bone, a well-earned rest is just what you need. Apart from a good 8-hour rest at night, you should try a 30-minute nap during the day. Don't oversleep though-a short nap, even though it's less than 30 minutes, would give your body a good energy refuel.
 The only reason that you feel tired is that you're not exercising. The more you exercise, the more your body becomes refreshed. Exercise also helps you to think more clearly, improve your immune system, make you feel active, improve sleep, and even clear your skin!


You can even work out with your friends for motivation. Major boost!

, It takes time, but you would feel really good about yourself once you start to take good care of your the skin you're in.
 Being clean and neat means good body hygiene. Every girl needs deodorant. Try one that has a mild smell.



Top Tip: Choose a deodorant which says that it is antiperspirant. Normal deodorant just makes the sweat smell less prominent, but the antiperspirant ones blocks sweat all at once.
It's ok if normal deodorant (including the antiperspirant ones) don’t work for you. Sometimes some girls just need a stronger prescription. Visit a dermatologist to help you out with this.
 You want to be squeaky clean and smell good and fresh, so use a shower gel that smells like it. Always take a bath before school. This will have you clean and fresh for school in the mornings.



Top Tip: Choose a soap that has a great scent which uplifts your mood. Scents like eucalyptus can make you feel energized in a snap. Fruity scents are also refreshing.
If you want something more natural, go for "floral" smelling soaps. They're really calming and are a girly staple.
 Use a really good toothpaste. Try the ones with breath strips and stain removers. Also, floss your teeth after you eat. Don't eat anything too sticky, gooey or has a high content of sugars, since this is bad for your teeth and gums.



Top Tip: Once a week, dab your toothbrush into baking soda, lightly brush your teeth, and rinse. This really helps to polish teeth giving you stainless pearly whites for a Hollywood style smile! Continue doing this for four weeks for the best results.
 When you want to be clean and neat, you have to have good hair. Think of a movie star's hair. Not only is it shiny, it has a healthy glow to it too. Shampoo your hair once every two days, (not daily, since this can strip off oils that give hair its natural shine) and don't forget conditioner. Choose ones that suit your hair type.



Top Tip: Indulge yourself-or to be more appropriate, your hair-every once in a while. Treat your locks with an intensive treatment once a week, or according to the instructions on the type of treatment you choose to use. What type of treatment you choose is totally up to you, but just make sure that it’s tailored specifically for your needs.
 They're much more effective at battling out nasty germs from your hands, keeping them much more cleaner and hygienic.
, Although your friends might not care, teachers do. They always notice these kinda things. Remember, it's always the small things that makes a big impact. So, always try to make sure that your clothes are crisp and clean for school!


If you want your ironing job to be much less of a chore, try popping your clothes into a clean plastic bag and sprinkling the whole thing with a bit of water. Then tie the bag and wet the outside of the bag. Put the bag in the freezer for about two hours, then remove the clothes and start ironing them. This makes the wrinkles on the clothes much quicker to iron out.
 But don’t always use them on a daily basis. Chemical overload causes serious damage to your hair.
 Also make sure that all bands that you use are fabric-coated ones, not rubber bands. Rubber bands can split your hair, unlike the fabric bands.
 Find one which doesn't feel too heavy or greasy.


Before bed, slather on moisturizing lotion on your feet and cover them with socks. This works to seal and lock in moisture, and is especially great if you sleep in a heated room.

Top Tip: If you want to stop your lips from chapping, rub them with lots of petroleum jelly, or better known by it's brand name, Vaseline, before hitting the sack. When you wake up the next morning, slowly rub your lips with a soft, damp cloth to slough off dead skin cells.

