 The law provides two types of property division or "partition" – a voluntary partition, in which both co-owners agree to divide the property, or a compulsory partition, in which a judge orders the property divided.Depending on how tense relations are between you and the other owner, they may not be willing to divide the property. However, when faced with the prospect of a lawsuit they may be more willing to compromise.
Send the other owner a written letter letting them know that you want to partition the property and would prefer to present a voluntary petition to the court.
Voluntary petitions typically are approved by judges, while compulsory partitions are much more difficult to obtain and may require significant time and expense on both sides.
Keep in mind that partition does not have to be 50/50. For example, suppose the co-owner is your brother, and the two of you inherited your parents' property. Your brother wants to build a strip mall on part of the several acres of land, while you want to keep your parents home and yard intact.
In that situation, you may be able to offer your brother a smaller portion of the land on which to develop the retail stores while still maintaining a significant buffer between the commercial property and the house for the sake of privacy and security.
 Particularly if you and the other owner don't get along very well or have trouble communicating, a neutral third-party mediator may be able to facilitate a discussion that leads to a voluntary partition of the property.You typically can find community mediation services that will conduct a mediation session at a relatively low fee, which can make mediation financially preferable to a lawsuit.
Since it is non-adversarial, mediation can be especially valuable if the co-owner is someone with whom you want to continue a relationship after the property dispute is settled.
Mediation also gives you the benefit of control. You and the other owner can decide how best to divide the property will accounting for any expenses either of you have made to maintain or improve it.
If you do reach an agreement through mediation, make sure it is put into writing and signed by both of you. That agreement also may need to be notarized and recorded with the county recorder where the property is located.
 If you need to file a lawsuit for compulsory partition of the property, you should hire an experienced real estate lawyer to help you navigate the process and ensure that the transaction is completed as smoothly as possible.There may be court-ordered conditions attached to the compulsory partition of the property. An attorney can predict these as well as provide advice on how to avoid them.
While you have an absolute right to a partition of property, you don't necessarily have the right to dictate how the property is divided, and a compulsory partition may result in a forced sale of the property.
If you prefer for there to be a partition in kind, in which you retain full ownership in a portion of the property and the other owner owns the rest of it, an attorney can help express this preference.
 You must file a complaint or petition with the clerk of the court in the county where the property is located to initiate your lawsuit. This document asks the judge to split the property between you and the co-owner, and typically must be filed whether the petition is voluntary or compulsory.Keep in mind that will you can request the property be divided in a particular way, the judge has discretion to divide the property as he or she sees fit to account for any expenditures made by either of the co-owners.
You will have to pay filing fees when you file your lawsuit, typically a few hundred dollars.
Once your petition is filed, the clerk typically issues a notice that will be recorded at the county recorder's office. This notice lets anyone with an interest in the property know that the property is currently the subject of a partition proceeding.
You also must have the other owner served with a copy of your petition and a summons to appear in court.
 After you file your petition, the other owner has a brief period of time to file an answer or other response with the clerk of the court indicating whether they agree with the partition of the property.In cases where you've filed a petition for voluntary partition, this process may be much simpler. Typically you don't have to wait for a response from the other owner, and you may not even have to appear in court.
If the other owner decides not to fight the partition, they may not respond. On the other hand, they may prefer a different division of the property and file a response indicating their preference.
There also is a chance that the other owner will object to the property being partitioned. Your case will be more difficult in this situation and may result in forced sale of the property.
If a judge's decision is required, you both must appear in court with your attorneys and argue for or against the partition of the property.

