 This is your first dance, and you should feel comfortable. For guys, just wear a nice graphic tee and a pair of jeans. If its formal just a nice white, button up shirt and a pair of black slacks/pants with black shoes. Remember, white socks do not go with black shoes. Be sure to put your best hair on,(like a wedding ) and use conditioner.

l
, Don't act like anyone else, be yourself. If you want to get someone to dance with you, don't be afraid to jump out of your seat, and ask who you want to dance with.If whoever you ask turns you down, THEY should be ashamed, not you.
 Listen to the radio and get to know most of the words to popular music. Also, learn dance songs such as Teach Me How to Dougie, You're A Jerk, Wobble, Wop, Single Ladies, Cat Daddy, Cupid Shuffle, Cha Cha Slide, Macarena, Like the Bernie, and Crank That. The DJ will most likely be playing these songs, and if you know them, it'll make you feel part of "the crowd".
 Sometimes its just more fun to dance with your best friends. Just don't make your dance group too big, there needs to be space for everyone!

, Or else people might look at you like "what are they doing?!". No one can resist a crazy girl or guy. Consider dancing and having fun. The girl who dances and has the most fun is the most gorgeous girl in the room. Just go all out, jump up and down, and have fun! People aren't jealous of the people with the pretty hair; they are jealous of the people having the most fun!

, People might look at you and wonder, "Why isn't he/she out on the dance floor?" Just care less about what the others think of you. If you really want to dance, get out there and have fun.
 Then they will put on slow music and you need to find someone to dance with. Some of you will be too shy to dance with someone unknown so it’s OK to dance with your girlfriends. But for those with their partner, be ready to slow dance; or if you don't want to or think no one will ask, go to the bathroom or get something to eat or drink. Relax a bit because you might be tired out with the faster songs. Listen to the beautiful music and the lyrics of the slow dance. The guy will put his hands on your hips (or higher if you guys want to get comfortable) and you will put your arms on his shoulders. Just sway and move your feet side to side. It might seem awkward at first, but everyone feels a little embarrassed, so just relax!

, Many people from your school go to dances, so try to find someone new. But make sure they're not weird, because you'll get burned about it later.
 Many of them go to school dances, so you have to be careful. Make sure you're not in the big clump of wannabe's near their group of friends, because you'll be considered annoying. And many of them take pictures with their phones for social networking sites (Instagram, Twitter, Facebook, etc.) so you don't wanna be the kid in the background striking a crazy pose and having people call you "Disco Girl"! Thus concluding, that if you aren't one of them, don't be near them!

