 You won't be able to do your homework if you forgot about it, so keep track of your class schedule, important due dates, and other bits of important information (reading schedules, group contact information, etc.).


Try using a calendar.
Establish connections with a friend or fellow student. If either of you are absent, you can help fill each other in on what was missed in class.
Do not be afraid to contact your teacher if you need any class information. He or She is there to help.
 You won't always have time to dedicate yourself entirely to each of the tasks or projects in your life, but be sure to always put your own personal academic success high on your priority list.


This may mean staying in on the weekend or saying no to a friend, but in order to succeed in school you must have enough time to do your work. This means prioritizing things that you might hate doing.
 Managing your time wisely is the single, most effective thing you can learn to do to help yourself succeed in school.


Plan ahead and know important due dates. Mark these on your calendar.
Know that each the schedule of each week will vary drastically. Some weeks you may have an exam, a paper due, and perhaps a game or band performance that same week. Allocate time according to priority.
 When it comes time to do your homework, commit yourself entirely to the task at hand. In time, you will soon be able to gauge your own work rate and homework patterns, and will be able to more accurately plan your time.


Everyone has their own work habits. While waiting until the last minute is never an ideal situation, some students do perform better with the added pressure.
If you are one of these people, try scheduling less time for your homework (but earlier on), instead of waiting until the last minute. This will help simulate pressure, but still ensure that you can complete the assignment.
 When you get an assignment back from a teacher, do your best to read the comments and understand why you received the grade that you did (good or bad).


Do not be afraid to ask a teacher to clarify or elaborate on a comment. Be patient, however, as many educators are overworked and are trying to find happiness in their own lives as well.
Be honest with yourself. If you received a bad grade, own it... Do not make excuses.
 Believe it or not, but studying and doing homework are not the same thing. "Studying" refers to the very act of learning, which can occur in the classroom or at home. Homework, on the other hand, is designed to reinforce a lesson through repetition and practice. Set aside time to "study" the subjects that are difficult for you (e.g., math, chemistry, history).


Studying can help you get caught-up and even ahead of the classroom.
Like homework, each student develops his or her own study habits.
Be sure to allocate time for homework and for studying.
 Ask a friend for help in the subjects that are difficult for you; or see a tutor, or speak with your teacher. There are many ways of getting academic help while in high school, but you need to be proactive.


Be honest with your own weaknesses.
Do not be afraid or ashamed. Many people need help. In fact, Albert Einstein struggled with learning how to read.
 There can be a lot of distractions in high school, so do your best to remain focused. Don't forget, high school is about learning.Many teams and clubs have GPA requirements.
You'll need a good academic record when you apply for college or jobs.
Be proud of your handwork and good grades.

