 This isn't as easy as brewing it because there's a lot of choice! You will also need to decide between loose green tea and green tea teabags; while teabags are more convenient and there's nothing wrong with using them for flavor or strength, the loose tea may feel more authentic for a full experience of enjoying your green tea. Here are some green tea types to consider:Gunpowder – the Chinese also call this "Pearl Tea". The tea resembles tiny gunpowder pellets. When water is added, the little pellets or pearls unfurl. This one stays freshest longest.
Hyson – This has a very pungent taste, and has thick, yellow-green leaves twisted into thin and long shapes.

Dragonwell – This variety is very popular in China. It tastes mellow and has a light green flavor. The leaves open to reveal a bud when water is added.
Agarwood - mild traditional green tea taste. Make sure you use whole leaf tea vs tea made from the wood which is illegal to purchase.
Pi Lo Chun – In Chinese this name translates to "Green Snail Spring". A rare tea, the little rolled leaves look like snails. Owing to the fact that the tea bushes are grown amid orchards, this tea tends to have the flavors of plums, peaches, and apricots embedded in the leaves.

Matcha – This is powdered green tea leaves. It appears a bright green when water is added.
Gu Zhang Mao Jian – This tea only uses the silvery-tipped young leaves picked within a set 10 day period during spring. While darker than other green teas, it has a smooth and sweet taste.

Sencha – This is a common Japanese green tea. Jewel green matcha is a good choice for those who find other green tea too "grass" tasting.Gen Mai Cha (genmaicha) – This is sencha tea leaves mixed with fire-roasted rice. The taste is savory and earthy. Also Japanese in origin.
Gyokuro – This Japanese green tea has leaves that look like pine needles, with a sweet and smooth taste. The tea looks green.
Hojicha – A tea with large, unrolled leaves. It tastes nutty.;
, Purchase small amounts only, and keep it in a cool spot. Green tea over six months old is no longer fresh.
 While this isn't necessary, it's a common practice for tea drinkers who regularly enjoy green tea because it prevents cross flavoring from black or herbal teas. If this doesn't bother you (indeed, you might not even notice the difference), just be sure to wash your regular teapot well.


Green tea should only be brewed in ceramic, clay, china, glass, or stainless steel teapots. Do not use plastic or aluminum teapots.