 It may sound gross, but washing you hair every 2 to 3 days (instead of every day) actually leads to healthier hair! If you wash your hair every day, you will strip it of its healthy oils. This results in hair that looks dry, brittle, and ratty.If your hair tends to look oily, consider wearing it in a braid, ponytail, or bun on the second or third day.


If you exercise a lot, have fine hair, or have oily hair, then you may need to wash your hair every day or every other day.Consider using a gentle shampoo and conditioner in these cases.
 Focus the shampoo on your scalp and the top to middle of your hair. Gently massage it into your scalp using your fingertips—never "scratch" your scalp with your nails. After rinsing the shampoo out, apply the conditioner, focusing it on the ends of your hair. This will keep your hair from turning dry and your scalp from becoming oily.


Use the right type of shampoo and conditioner for your hair. Again, not everything that works for your friend may work for you.
 Don't comb your hair straight down from the roots to the ends at first. This can make your hair snap and break. Instead, work in small sections, starting from the ends of your hair. Once the rest of your hair is smooth, only then can you run the brush from roots to ends.
 Not only can daily straightening or curling look boring after a while, but it can do a lot of damage to your hair. When you do heat style your hair (ie: straightening or curling), apply a heat protectant spray or serum to your hair. This protects your hair from getting burnt and prevents it from looking dry.


Having a bad hair day with unmanageable frizz? Try braids. They are much gentler on your hair than straightening, and take much less time to do!

, Stay away from products that contain silicones and sulfates. Silicones are great at making your hair appear sleek, smooth, and shiny, but they can cause build-up over time, which results in dull, lank, and limp hair. They can only be removed with sulfates, which are harsh cleaning agents that make your hair appear dull and dry., It may sound gross, but the soft hair you'll get afterwards is well worth it! Vinegar cleans out any buildup in your hair as well as restores its natural pH. The result is soft, shiny, smooth hair. Mix ½ to 4 tablespoons of apple cider vinegar in 1 cup (240 milliliters) of water, then pour it over your hair towards the end of your shower. Tilt your head back and close your eyes so that you don't get any in your eyes. Follow up with a cool water rinse to close the cuticles and maximize shine., Hair masks are like rich conditioners that help soften, hydrate, and moisturize your hair. Each brand varies, but you generally apply them after shampooing your hair, then leave them on (preferably under a shower cap) for 10 to 15 minutes. After that, you rinse them out; you don't have to use conditioner!

, It is much easier to embrace your hair than to fight against it. Visit a hair stylist, and ask him or her to help you choose a hairstyle that suits your face shape and hair texture.

