 If the values in a given set all occur the same number of times, the data set has no mode because no number is any more common than any other. For instance, data sets in which every value occurs once have no mode. The same is true for data sets in which every value occurs twice, three times, and so on.


If we change our example data set to {11, 15, 17, 18, 19, 21} so that each value occurs only once, the data set now has no mode. The same is true if we change the data set so that each value occurs twice: {11, 11, 15, 15, 17, 17, 18, 18, 19, 19, 21, 21}.
 Generally, most data sets are quantitative - they deal with data in the form of numbers. However, some data sets deal with data that is not expressed in the form of numbers. In these cases, the "mode" can be said to be the single value that occurs the most in the data set, much as it is for numerical data sets.In these cases, it may be possible to find the mode while being impossible to find a meaningful median or mean for the data set.


For example, let's say that a biological survey determines the species of each tree in a small local part. The data set for the types of trees in the park is {Cedar, Alder, Cedar, Pine, Cedar, Cedar, Alder, Alder, Pine, Cedar}. This type of data set is called a nominal data set because the data points are distinguished only by their names. In this case, the mode of the data set is Cedar because it occurs the most often (five times as opposed to three for Alder and two for Pine).
Note that, for the example data set above, it's impossible to calculate a mean or median because the data points have no numerical value.
 As noted above, it's possible for the mode, median, and/or mean to overlap in certain cases. In special, select cases where the density function of the data set forms a perfectly symmetrical curve with one mode (for example, the Gaussian or "Bell-Shaped" Curve), the mode, mean, and median will all be the same value. Because a distribution function graphs the relative occurrence of data points, the mode will naturally be in the exact middle of a symmetrical distribution curve, as this is the highest point on the graph and corresponds to the most common value. Because the data set is symmetrical, this point on the graph will correspond with the median - the middle value in the data set - and the mean - the average of the data set.


For example, let's consider the data set {1, 2, 2, 3, 3, 3, 4, 4, 5}. If we were to graph the distribution of this data set, we'd get a symmetrical curve that reaches a height of 3 at x = 3 and tapers off to a height of 1 at x = 1 and x = 5. Because 3 is the most common value, it is the mode. Because the central 3 in the data set has 4 values on either side of it, 3 is also the median. Finally, the average of the data set works out to 1 + 2 + 2 + 3 + 3 + 3 + 4 + 4 + 5 = 27/9 = 3, meaning that 3 is also the mean.
The exception to this rule is for symmetrical data sets with more than one mode - in this case, because there can be only one median and mean for the data set, both modes will not coincide with these other points.

