 You may shave your arms with a safety razor just as any part of your body. This is a temporary solution, and you may see hair regrowth within a few days. In order to keep up with this method, you will need to shave your arm hair a few times a week. Because you are cutting your hair with a blunt razor, this method may cause noticeable ingrown hairs. The hair may also appear to grow back thicker. Be aware of these side effects when choosing to shave arm hair.;
, Arm hair lies flat against the skin. Trimming arm hair length therefore greatly reduces its appearance. Use an electric hair trimmer with an adjustable blade to trim hair. Do not shave all the way down. Your shorter arm hair will make it look a lot thinner. , A depilatory cream dissolves the hair from the base. This means that your arms will be smooth for about a week. The hair will also appear to grow back in softer than shaving. Do a patch test on your skin to make sure you do not have an allergy, then apply to your arms as indicated on the label. Exfoliate afterward to remove any remaining hairs. It is recommended that you stay out of the sun for 24 hours before and after using a depilatory cream. Consider applying a hair-inhibiting cream in between depilatory cream applications to keep hair thinner and softer. , If you have a lighter skin tone and thin hair, consider bleaching your arm hair. Bleaching uses hydrogen peroxide to remove the pigment from your hair. This may greatly reduce the appearance of your arm hair by turning it a less noticeable shade. , Waxing will keep your arms smooth for about four weeks. At-home waxing treatments are therefore long-lasting and relatively inexpensive. Try a cold wax kit so you do not burn yourself. Apply the strip to your arm as per the instructions on the label.


Hair must be at least a quarter-inch long for the wax to grip it properly. Allow your hair to grow out for a few weeks to a reasonable length before attempting to wax it. You can also make your own wax at home using sugar and water. Combine 1 cup sugar, 2 tablespoons vinegar, and 2 tablespoons water in a saucepan and bring to a boil. Reduce to medium heat. Pour into a glass container when it turns a ginger-ale brown color. Let cool slightly, then apply to skin with a butter knife. Pull firmly upwards and the sugar wax will remove the hairs. Apply corn starch to skin beforehand to get rid of excess moisture. 