 Because apples are part of the “dirty dozen” and contain lots of pesticides, it is a good idea to purchase organic apples at the grocery store.Pesticides are associated with diseases of the nervous system, the endocrine system, cancer.So when possible, look for organic apples., Avoid tart apples such as Granny Smith, as the flavor can be too strong and unpleasant for babies.Keep in mind that one medium apple will make about five ounces of apple puree., You want apples that are firm, with no soft parts or bruises or wrinkled skin, as this is a sign the apples are not fresh.Remember that fresh apple should only be given to babies one year and older once they develop the ability to chew with their teeth, as apples are hard and a young baby can choke on them., Rub the apples one by one apple with your hands and rinse them well.If you are using sprayed apples rather than organic apples, you can try to remove as much of the pesticides as possible by filling your sink with water and adding one cup of vinegar.Soak the apples in the solution for 10 minutes and pat dry., Your baby cannot chew apple peels so it is necessary to remove them.


If you are using sprayed apples as opposed to organic apples, it is especially important to peel the apples as this will get rid of the pesticides on the peels.
 To do this, first cut an apple in half with a sharp knife. Put the halved peeled apple in your palm and with the tip of a sharp knife, remove the core of the apples, including the seeds. It is important to remove the seeds as your baby could choke on them.
 Do this for the rest of the apples you are going to be using.


To maintain freshness, it's a good idea to store the apples in the refrigerator and cut them up right before you are going to use them.
 Leave it on the stove to boil and then reduce the heat.Let the apples cook for 10 minutes on low heat.
You can also create other varieties of apple puree like an apple and pear puree, which is suitable for babies 6 months and older.In fact, an apple can be mixed with various fruits and vegetables. Depending on your baby’s age, you can prepare apples with carrots, potatoes, plums, pumpkins, fresh mashed banana, and meat., If it is cooked, it will be very soft and turn easily to a pulp.


If the apple is still hard, continue cooking the apples for another minute, until they are soft. #*After 10-15 minutes on the stove, the apples should be cooked. Do not cook them too long because the high temperature kills the vitamins and minerals in the apples., Drain the apples into a bowl and rinse them in cold water to stop the cooking process and preserve as many nutrients as possible.


Save the water from cooking for later use.
Do not add sugar to the apples as they will be sweet enough on their own and do not need any extra sugar.
 If it is too thick, add the water you saved from cooking or a little breastmilk or formula.


If you are preparing applesauce for babies older than 10 months, you can make a puree by crushing the apples with a fork or potato masher as it will not have to be as fine or smooth.
 Let the leftover applesauce cool completely and put in a clean sealed container, where it can stay in the fridge for up to three days.Applesauce made with the formula can be refrigerate for up to 24 hours, as long as it is made with refrigerated prepared formula.Applesauce made with breastmilk can stand in the refrigerator for up to 5 days. After that throw it away.If you are making a big batch of applesauce, the safest option is to add water to the apples and then add breast milk or formula when you reheat the applesauce. This way, it will not to spoil.You can also freeze applesauce for up to 3 months in BPA free plastic containers. Before serving it to your baby, thaw it by putting it in the fridge for 24 hours.
 You’ll need:


2 1/2 cups milk
1 cup water
1 cup rolled oats
2 apples, cleaned and peeled
Apple porridge is suitable for babies 9 months and older., Then, pour the cup of water into a saucepan and set it to boil.
 Cook them for 5 minutes.
 Cook the ingredients on low heat, stirring occasionally.


Let the porridge cook for 10 minutes.
The porridge is ready to serve to your baby when you get a smooth mixture and all the liquid is absorbed.
Make sure it is not too hot before you serve it to your baby.
 This variation on apple porridge with chicken is great for babies 8 months and older. You’ll need:2 cups of water
1 cup chopped apples, cleaned, peeled, and diced
1 chicken breast, diced

, Heat the pan until it boils and then lower the heat.


Let it cook for 20 minutes.
 Pierce an apple with a fork to make sure it is soft. Cut a piece of meat and check the color of the meat inside. If it is white instead of pink, the meat is cooked.


You can also try a piece of meat to make sure it is soft.
 Drain the ingredients and save the water.
 If the mixture is too thick, add a little of the water you saved.


You can also add a bit of homemade chicken soup or broth that does not have a lot of salt.
 To test if the porridge is cool enough, you can put a bit of it on the inner side of your forearm to make sure it is not too hot or try some yourself before feeding it to your baby.
 In fact, without a peel, the apple will turn to mush as you bake it.


Give your baby a baked apple when they are 6 months and older., If you are only feeding one baby for one meal, prepare one apple.


If your baby is 8 months and older, you can put a little butter or sprinkle some cinnamon on the inside of the cores. This will add a little spice and introduce your baby to a new flavor.
Small amounts of cinnamon are not harmful to your baby., Place the halved apples into the dish, with the peels facing up., Check the water level periodically and add more water to the dish if necessary.


The apples are baked when the inside of the apples are soft. Pierce the apples with a fork to check if they are soft and ready to come out of the oven.
 Once they are cool and easy to hold, peel them. Then, crush them with a fork to make a mush or use a spoon to scoop out the baked inside fruit of the apple and offer it to your baby.
