 It's best to introduce your new dog to an old dog in a neutral space, to reduce territorial issues. Try going to the park or a neighbor's yard, where the dogs have space to introduce themselves.If you have more than one dog, try introducing them one at a time.
Have another person on hand. You'll need to have a leash with the old dog. Someone else will need to have the new dog on a leash. That way, they can be separated if you need to give them some space. Give them a little room on the leash, though, so they won't feel quite as restrained., Let them give each other a quick once-over by letting them circle and sniff each other. However, don't let them get too involved in this action. Rather, get them doing something else semi-together, such as going on a walk.In fact, one way to introduce them is have the person with the new dog come up beside you while you're walking. Leave a little space between the dogs, but let them sniff at each other as you walk.Watch the dogs' body language. Be sure to watch both dogs for signs of aggression. You may see their ears stand up, their hair ruffle up, or their tail go up. They may growl or bare their teeth. They may also hold each other's gaze for a long period.If you notice signs of aggression, distract the dogs with toys, treats, or something else each one will be interested in.
However, signs of play are good. A sign of a playful dog is bowing the front part to the ground with the back end up in the air.
 When you go home, start with the yard rather than the house. Let them get used to each other again. When they seem ready to play, rather than be aggressive, you can let them off the leashes to play in the yard.Keep the dogs separated when you can't watch them. It's best to supervise new dogs with your old dogs at first, just in case one or the other gets aggressive. If you can't supervise them, separate them into different crates or different parts of the house., To introduce a new dog to a resident cat, it may be easiest to start with the dog behind a baby gate. That way, the cat still has free range of the household, but the dog and cat will slowly interact with each other through the gate. You can encourage interaction with treats., Once your dog starts to get used to you and your household, consider socializing it with other dogs and people. You can take your dog out to public places where dogs are welcome, like pet stores and dog parks. You can also invite people over to visit your dog.If your dog is nervous around other people, try using treats to help the situation. When a person is at a safe distance (doesn't make your dog nervous), give the dog a few treats. Keep the person at this distance (it can help to use a friend), and continue giving treats as the person walks out of sight. When the person is gone, stop giving treats. As your dog becomes more comfortable, try having the person get closer, as you continue to offer treats. Your dog will eventually come to associate strangers with treats, which should decrease its nervousness.However, some dogs will always be nervous, and you may just want to avoid taking them around strangers as much as possible.
 While you want your dog to socialize with others, it's important to let the dog decide when it is comfortable interacting. That is, let your dog approach other people and dogs; don't force the dog to approach. That can lead to bad interactions, as your dog may feel threatened and even get aggressive.Signs of aggression include barking, growling, and lunging, as well as ears up in the air, puffed-up fur, and a high tail. These body movements are meant to make your dog look bigger and more threatening.
If you're dog is anxious, it will try to make itself seem smaller. It may tuck its tail between its legs, lick its paws, or crouch or cower.
If you notice either of these behaviors, it's best to pull the dog away from the interaction.

