 The best singers in the world spent years learning the songs of other songwriters, studying the art form and playing music daily. The Beatles spent 2 years in Germany as a cover band, sometimes playing for 8-10 hours each night.Bob Dylan covered folk songs, even lifting old-time melodies, for years before he started recording only original music. Both Bob and the Beatles are considered some of the greatest songwriters to ever live -- and they both started as cover bands. This isn't a mistake, this is because they needed to learn from the greats before becoming greats themselves., Don't feel like you need to have a full song in your head in order to write it down. Even if all you think of is a single rhyme, or you just imagine a wordless melody to hum, record it for later. These kernels of music may fit perfectly into songs you haven't finished yet, or become the seeds of completely new songs over time. Great songwriters are writing constantly.


Dedicate a notebook to music. Whenever you're out of inspiration, turn back to it and read a few pages -- what ideas stick out again?
Famous singer-songwriter Tom Waits carries a tape recorder with him everywhere he goes, recording lines, melodies, and inspiration throughout the day and listening to it at the end of the week., There is no experience that can't be turned into a song as long as you keep your mind open to it. From surrealistic trips into pop-culture tragedy in "American Pie," to the endless professions of love and loss in pop music, to an ode about a "Yellow Submarine," great songwriters can spin a song out of their life, imagination, the news, or simply a feeling. This isn't to say that your should write about anything and everything, simply that there is no "wrong" topic for a song.


Don't purge your ideas because you "don't think they'd make a good song." Just let your ideas flow without judgment -- you can decide if an idea isn't worth it when you're recording your album or writing a set list.
No idea is too small to become a song. "99 Red Balloons" is about a Rolling Stones concert effect where they released balloons, for example."I think songwriting is the ultimate form of being able to make anything that happens in your life productive." --Taylor Swift, "Good artists borrow, great artists steal." Interestingly enough, this quote was originally attributed to Picasso but is also found in the writing of T.S. Elliot, Steve Jobs, and many others, all of whom may have stolen it. The point is simple -- you need to consciously pull your influences and inspirations into your writing.If you're struggling with a melody for your new song, play the chords from a similar song. Snap up your favorite lines from songs and re-use them in interesting ways, and realize that this isn't really "stealing," it is just the artistic process. All art is a combination of your own feelings and the notes, chords, and melodies that are already written -- so own up to this and start stealing like a pro.


Note how Vampire Weekend's "Step" re-purposes several melody lines from Souls of Mischief's "Step to My Girl."
Bob Dylan's famous, game-changing lyrics to "Blowin' in the Wind" is set to the old melody of "No More Auction Block."Hip-hop is built on sampling, homages, and borrowed clips. Sometimes it's obvious ("50 told me go 'head mix the style up"], sometimes it's subtle ("there she goes again / the dopest Ethiopian").
 There is a reason that many of the best songwriters can play 5-10 different instruments, even if only a little bit. Playing a song without thinking of words sharpens your ear for melody, rhythm, and song structure. It also helps you think about music without the pressure of coming up with original words. Even if the instrument isn't one that you normally play, spend some time getting to know music in all of its forms -- it will improve your songwriting considerably.


You don't have to play multiple instruments to be a songwriter, just something musical. Start playing an easy melody instrument like a piano or guitar to learn the guts of your music as you write

, It may seem like odd advice to stop songwriting in order to be a better songwriter, but you need to live your life to the fullest to give yourself fuel for a great song. The best way to do this is to set aside time for songwriting every single day, giving yourself a few dedicated hours to focus on your craft. As you get used to this schedule, you'll find it helps you turn on "songwriting mode" when you need to write, and you won't feel worried about not-writing when you're at a party, on a hike, or reading a book.


“Life isn't a support-system for art. It's the other way around.” -- Stephen King