 You have to clean your gas or electric burners every now and then. Gas burners can be removed and washed by hand with warm water and soap. If you are lucky to have gas burners that can go into the dishwasher, throw them in there after you scrub off excess food. For electric burners, wipe debris with a moist sponge..The type of grate determines how you wash your burners. If you have an uncoated grate, use a scouring pad to clean the grate. If you have a coated grate, use a soft sponge.;
, Use a sponge and soap, or invest in some Clorox wipes to really break down those stains. If grease spills on your stovetop, clean it up right away because it becomes difficult to remove as it hardens.
 Wash them in the sink using warm water and mild dish soap. Avoid using a soap that has abrasives or ammonia in it, as these components will wash away the markings on the knobs.
 Use a soapy cloth to clean the vent hood. Wash away the suds with a damp cloth, then dry with a dry cloth. Once a month, remove the vent filters and soak them in warm, soapy water. Gently scrub to clean, then let them dry thoroughly before putting them back.If you have a stainless steel hood, use a cleaning product meant to be used on stainless steel.
 Remove the grates from the oven. Fill a tub or bucket with warm, soapy water and soak the grates for several hours. Anything coated on the grates will be easier to scrub off. Use a scouring pad to scrub the grates.
 You should deep-clean your oven every few months, or as soon as it starts to smoke while you are cooking. An effective oven cleaning mixture is ¼ cup salt, ¾ cup baking soda, and ¼ cup water. Cover any bare metal or clog openings with foil so that they do not get damaged by the mixture.If you have an electric stove, remove the racks and put the oven on cleaning mode. When the cycle has ended, use a damp cloth to remove any residue left by the cleaning cycle.
 Use a plastic spatula to remove the mixture. Wipe the oven clean with a rag. Replace the racks when they are dry.
 Sort through each item. Throw out any items that have expired or gone bad. If possible, do this before going grocery shopping so that the old expired stuff can be thrown out, thus making space for new groceries.


Combine two tablespoons baking soda and one quart water. Dip a sponge in the solution, then wipe down the entire surfaces of the fridge, making sure to scrub out sticky stains.Wipe down every drawer and shelf, not just the main part of the fridge.
 Dip a clean rag in water and wash away any residue left behind by the baking soda solution. Use a clean towel to dry each surface.
 If your fridge smells bad, open a box of baking soda and leave it in the fridge. Baking soda absorbs odors and makes your fridge smell fresh.
 First, unplug the refrigerator. After you have done this, remove your frozen items. Throw out expired items and put the rest in a cooler while you clean.
 Combine 1 cup of water, 1 teaspoon dish soap, and 1 teaspoon white vinegar. Shake the solution well. If possible, put the solution in a spray bottle so you can just spray the whole freezer., Be sure to dowse every surface. If you don’t have a spray bottle, dip a clean rag or sponge in the mixture and wipe down every surface. After the freezer has been wiped down, dry it off with paper towels. Plug the refrigerator back in and restore your frozen goods to their proper places.
 Whether they contain food, kitchen supplies, or your secret stash of candy, clean your cabinets out every once in a while. Throw away expired items and wipe the cabinets with a wet, soapy rag to remove dust and crumbs., Grime and grease can build up on the fronts of cabinets. Wipe them down with a wet rag and dry them thoroughly to avoid any color distortion.


If you have wooden cabinets, consider using a cleaning supply specifically made for wood.
 You should do this every night after you are done cooking. Use a sponge and soapy water to wipe counters down. Wipe them dry with a clean rag or paper towels.You could also buy some cleaning supplies to wipe your counters down with. There are many anti-bacterial sprays, disposable wipes and de-greasing products.
If your counters are made with granite or stone, you should use cleaning supplies specifically made for that kind of countertop.
 Either rinse dirty dishes and cups and put them in the dishwasher, or wash them in the sink. Make sure to do this before you start cleaning the sink.
 To avoid mold growth or water stains, wash the basin with warm, soapy water and a sponge. Rinse along the edge of the basin, as well. Remove water stains from the fixtures.
 To clean hard to reach crannies of the faucet, use a toothbrush dipped in warm, soapy water. Buff out any water spots left behind with a dry cloth.
 If your water has a high mineral content, you may notice a mineral deposits. To get rid of these deposits, combine one part water with one part white vinegar. Gently scrub away the deposit with a rag. Rinse the area and let it dry., If your sink is having a hard time draining, run the garbage disposal to get rid of anything that might be lurking down there. Its important to sanitize your disposal once in a while as well. Make frozen cubes of vinegar in an ice tray, drop them down the disposal, then pour boiling water into it as you run the disposal. This will also sharpen your garbage disposal’s blades.
 Use warm, soapy water and a sponge to wipe any splatters inside your microwave. For really tough stains, use a mixture of 2 tablespoons of baking soda and 1 quart of water. Rinse with clean water, then dry with a clean rag., While you can simply wipe each part of an appliance (aside from the electrical part) you should always consult the manual that came with the appliance. Appliances you should clean include:



your toaster, your coffee maker, your blender and your coffee grinder.
 When you clean your appliances, make sure you know where each part goes. Do not lose any parts of the appliance. Clean each appliance one at a time so as not to get confused.
 Before you deep clean your floor, sweep any specks of dust, crumbs, and garbage that might be on the floor.
 Use a mop and bucket of soapy water to deep clean your floor., After you have finished cleaning, put all cleaning supplies back in their proper place so that you don't trip over them.
 Last of all, take out the trash. You should do this last because while you are cleaning you will undoubtedly find things you will want to throw away. Wash the trash can with soap and water. Replace the bag with a new one.

