 Once you've worked on your appearance and social skills, it's time to actually try to make friends. The first step is just to introduce yourself to some of the older kids you'd like to be friends with.Just walk up and say "hi" and tell them your name. Don't forget to smile and maintain eye contact.
Keep it brief. Don't try to have a long conversation the first time you meet them.Ask people you meet a question about themselves to get them talking, rather than talking about yourself. For example, you could say: "Are you guys going to the game on Friday?" or "Have you heard the new song by Unreliable Narrator?" Keep it casual, and don't ask questions that have obvious answers you already know.
 A good way to win the friendship of anyone is to act like they're your friends already. Once you've introduced yourself and know people's names, make sure to say hello to them in the hall from then on, greeting them by name.Give people compliments that you'd be happy to receive yourself. If someone has a particularly cool outfit on that day, tell them you like it. Don't do this all the time or be overly fawning--remember, you want act like they are your friends, not your idols.When they talk to you, listen with sincerity. Learn about things they like and dislike, and talk to them about those things as if you were friends already.
 If things go well, eventually you'll probably be invited to some event by your new would-be friends. Maybe it's a party, a sporting event, or just to hang out downtown. Whenever you are invited, do your best to show up.You can't make friends with people you don't spend time with. Spend as much time as possible with the people you are trying to befriend, without inserting yourself into situations you haven't been invited to.
When you are invited to gatherings, look for opportunities to be helpful. Were you invited to a party? Ask if there's something you can bring. Stay around afterward and help clean up if you can. Helpful people are often popular people

, At the same time, you don't want to appear overeager. This can be off-putting to some people. So, when you get a chance to spend some time with the older kids you are trying to befriend, play it cool.When you are invited to something, say "thanks for the invite," but don't gush on and on about how grateful you are and how cool it is that they invited you.
Don't show up late to things, but don't necessarily always be the first one there either.
If you want to invite them to something, feel free, but don't constantly ask them to join you for lunch, invite them over to your house, or send them texts or social networking messages. Don't learn their routines and follow them around.
If someone gives you a clear signal that they don't want to be your friend, let it go, don't keep trying. If that person has a change of heart, he or she will come to you.

