 The number one way to save money at amusement parks is to avoid buying your tickets the day of your trip. Some amusement parks offer discounts on any tickets purchased online.By planning and purchasing in advance, you’ll be able to check for flash sales, special discounts, and you can schedule your trip at the most affordable time.;
, Organizations like the National Education Association (NEA), American Automobile Association (AAA), and AARP (formerly the American Association of Retired Persons) offer members special discounts. Check with these and other organizations to see if you’re eligible for any deals.Deeper discounts are sometimes offered to members on specific days of the week.
Some credit card companies also partner with major amusement parks and offer their cardholders special offers when you purchase tickets with that card., Online deals are easy to come by, so keep an eye on sites like Groupon, LivingSocial, Undercover Tourist, and RetailMeNot. Some of the best deals can also be found on amusement parks’ social media feeds.If you have a specific park in mind, follow their Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram, and download their mobile app.
You can also look for coupons offered by an amusement park’s partners, like fast food chains or beverage companies.
 If you’re open to a weekend or week-long trip, research the park’s multi-day pass options. Many offer a third day free when you purchase a two day pass. Typically, the more days the pass covers, the deeper the discounts.Chain amusement parks, like Six Flags, usually honor season passes at all of their locations. Season passes also typically come with extra perks, like parking deals and exclusive ride times, so splurging on them might be worth your while., Amusement parks have become experts at increasing attendance through discounts and special events, so there’s not really a true off season anymore. However, you can still find deals and smaller crowds during lower-volume times, which include mid-January through mid-February, late August through September, and early December.You can find reliable crowd calendars at TouringPlans.com to see how busy a major amusement park usually is on a given day of the year.If possible, book your trip on weekdays for the deepest discounts.