 Chung needs to be at level 15 to become a Guardian; otherwise, the Guardian quest will not be available in your Quest Log.;
, Head back to Elder Village then open your Quest Log. There you will see a quest titled “Guardian Advancement”; click it to see the information on the quest, and then accept it.


The Quest Log is the exclamation point (!) icon at the lower-right side of the screen. You can also press Q on your keyboard to open the Quest Log. Once you click on the exclamation point or press Q, a window will appear showing the list of On-going and Available Quests.
It is advisable to open the Quest Log in the cities or towns to avoid being attacked by monsters.
 The first task you have to do is enter the Suburbs of Wally's Castle on any difficulty to defeat the boss, William the Phoru. Collect one drop item from William after killing him, which you will need later on.


You can enter this dungeon under any difficulty, but it's best to enter under the Very Hard for a chance to obtain rare items.
To enter a dungeon, simply click on the Dungeon tab found on your screen. This will open a window showing you the available dungeons for your level. Click on the dungeon you want to enter, and then click “Start Dungeon” (or hit F8 on your keyboard). This will automatically assign you to a party, but if you're already in a party, choose “Start with current members” instead.
To change the dungeon difficulty, after opening the Dungeon window and choosing the dungeon you want to enter, look at the menu to your right; here you can see the description of the dungeon and the dungeon difficulty. You get to choose from Normal, Hard, and Very Hard. Keep in mind that the higher the difficulty you choose, the more stamina is consumed per run, and this also requires a full party to clear the dungeon, depending on the dungeon level.
 After you have killed William and collected a drop item from him, look for Lenphad in Elder Village and hand the drop item to him.


Lenphad can be found at the upper-right side of the village; he's the village Blacksmith, a huge man standing a few steps away from the Alchemist.
Click on him to talk, and then select “Quest.”

, At this point, there are two more tasks: kill William under Hard mode and complete the Suburbs of Wally’s Castle under Very Hard mode. You can do these tasks in one dungeon run; just enter the Suburbs of Wally’s Castle under Very Hard mode and kill William at the end of the run.


It's highly advisable to enter the dungeon with a party to complete this round quickly and to have a higher chance of survival.
There is no time limit or grade required, so take your time and enter every room to get rid of mini bosses for rare items.
 After you have completed the tasks, return to Elder Village and talk to Lenphad to become a Guardian.


Alternatively, you can simply open your Quest Log by pressing Q on your keyboard and then clicking on “Complete quest.”

, Now that you have completed the first leg of the chain, you can choose one of the three advanced classes for your character. Select Shooting Guardian in your Quest Log and then click “Proceed.”


After accepting the quest, you will receive another set of tasks, but these are much more difficult and requires a lot of time.
 You have to enter Wally's Castle under any difficulty; however, you're required to clear the dungeon without receiving not more than 30 hits from the monsters. If you’re hit more than 30 times, you will have to restart the the dungeon run.


There are no time limit and grade requirements.
 After you have completed your first task, return to Elder Village and look for Luichel. She's the Accessory Shop owner in the Elder Village; click on her to talk and then choose “Quest.”


Luichel can be found at the upper-left side of the city. She's standing near the exit portal and is wearing a lovely dress.
 These monsters are found in Wally's Castle. Enter the dungeon under Very Hard mode, and quickly kill off the required number of monsters within 15 minutes.


This is easy to achieve if you have strong party members, and if needed, you can ask your high-level friends to assist you in completing this quest.
 After you have completed Wally’s Castle and killed the monsters, return to Luichel to become a Shooting Guardian.
 Every class advancement in Elsword will give a new addition to your combo. For Shooting Guardian, you will receive Gun Stance, which is similar to Archer's Stance skill; however, this combo is easier to do and more effective when it comes to dealing with fast-moving enemies.


Perform this combo by pressing X, Z, Z simultaneously. Your character will release 3 shots with his pistol then finish it off with a cannon blast, which will inflict massive magic damage to the enemies (X, Z, Z).
 The Shooting Guardian can release 5 shots simultaneously while airborne. Run towards your enemy and then press Up to jump, tricking your enemy to jump after you. While airborne, press X twice to release the Air Shots combo. Your character will unleash 5 shots diagonally, and each will inflict major magical damage (run towards enemy, Up, Z, Z).
 You can dash past your enemy by pressing the arrow key twice in their direction. If you press X three times after that, your character will execute its third combo: after dashing past the enemy, he will turn around to shoot twice with his pistol and then finish off with his cannon (Arrow key towards the enemy twice, X, X, X).


This attack inflicts both physical and magical damage.

