 Although it can be stressful to be in a room full of loud children, getting aggravated will only make things worse. If the children see that you are becoming annoyed or you start yelling, the situation will likely only become more loud and out of control. Always stay calm and act in control, even if you don't feel like you are., Whether you work alone or with others, you will want to keep your commands and rules consistent. Keeping things consistent can help your kids know what's expected of them and when it's expected. Whenever you are trying to keep a group of kids quiet, always use the same commands and consequences to help make your directions clear. If you work with other instructors, have them use the same commands and consequences that you do.
Avoid changing your instructions to keep quiet. Try to quiet the kids down using the same methods to make them routine and familiar.
Try to use the same methods in different situations. For example, if you have a key word that means "be quiet", you'll want to use it in the class room, on a field trip or any other situation you might need to.
 Often times, it's only a few children who are causing the entire group to act unruly. If you can identify and separate kids who seem to make trouble or act inappropriately when they are together, you can help control the group's behavior. Always try to separate disruptive individuals to help keep things calm., Not all methods will work as well as others, depending on the age group of the children you are working with. You'll need to use the right methods on the right age group to help keep them quiet. Always think about the ages of the kids you are trying to keep quiet and use the best methods with them.Younger kids respond well to playful ways of quieting down.
Older children seem to respond well to group rewards or consequences.
 Even though you may have some great methods that usually work to keep kids quiet, they may not always work. Maybe the day is a particularly exciting one or the kids are just not ready to quiet down. If you feel that you've lost control over your class and the usual techniques for quieting down aren't working, try some of these basic methods to help you regain control:Slowly increase the level of consequences. For example, if you are using a point system, take away more and more points for every minute the kids are too loud.
If one child is responsible for the disruption, send them out of the class and speak with them apart from the class.
Changing the activity you are doing can shift the focus onto something other than the disruptive activity they are engaged in.
Once your kids have started to quiet down, have them put their materials away and simply sit in silence. Wait for at least five minutes in silence before resuming.

