 The front desk of a hotel is called Reception, and this is where you will officially check-in.
 This can include your Driver License, Passport, and one or more credit cards. If you are staying abroad, the concierge will usually either copy the front page of your passport, or keep your passport for the duration of your stay.
A print out of your reservation confirmation can be useful, particularly if you secured a special rate or promotion.
If you do not have a reservation, be prepared to be turned away if the hotel has no vacancies. Ask the concierge for suggestions for alternate hotels.
Most hotels will place a hold of the full amount of your stay plus a percentage as incidentals per day, so it's best to not give them your debit card.
 Make sure to note the location and time of breakfast, internet access and passwords, office work areas, lounges, bars, restaurants, gym and spa facilities and the like, to make your stay more comfortable.
 Reception and/or the concierge can provide you with a map and with recommendations about where to go and what to do nearby.
 Many keys are electronic today, but some hotels still have old-school metal keys, sometimes necessary to run the electricity of your room.


Take note if you are expected to leave the key at the front desk, which can be standard procedure if there is only one.
 If the bellboy brings up your luggage, be sure to tip them for their trouble.


Sometimes the journey involves a nice trolley and elevator; at others, the bellboy literally has to haul your luggage up numerous flights of stairs. Tip accordingly!

, Before you unpack and get comfortable, check and make sure that everything in your room is as promised, that it's stocked and that there are no foul odors or stains on the bed (bedbugs), etc.Check for cleanliness, sufficient bathroom linens and supplies.
Check the closet for extra blankets and pillows.
If you are displeased with your room's location, scent, or noise-level, politely request to be relocated. Hotels will often comply if possible. If they cannot place you in a similar room, ask if they will upgrade you to a nicer room or a room with a view.
 Relax and unpack, take a shower, and get ready for the next thing!

