 Compromise means you will not get everything you want, and your parents will not get everything they want, but you will both get parts of what you want. Be willing to meet your parents halfway. You will be able to agree to a compromise where your parents yell at you less or not at all, and your parents will feel their wishes are more respected.
 The goal is to get your parents to stop yelling at you. Whatever the agreement is, your parents will expect you to uphold it. You should expect the same from them! In the agreement, advocate for it to include your parents not yelling at you. Try:


"If we agree that I will limit my swearing, I would also like to agree that I will not get yelled at if I occasionally make a mistake."
"Let's talk about what we both can change to make it better."
"Instead of yelling, could you agree to try something else instead?"

, It might be helpful to think about who you are going to talk to, when, where, and get a good idea of how to start the conversation ahead of time. This will help show how important it is to you and that you are taking it seriously.


Who? Think about if you want to talk to just your Mom, just your Dad, or both at the same time.
When? Pick a time when both you and your parents are calm and content. Make sure not to choose a time when you or they are tired, angry, or have just fought as it might make the discussion more difficult and your parents more likely to yell.
Where? Think about where you would be comfortable talking to your parents. At home? Going out to eat?

, When thinking about a compromise, consider what you are willing to agree to and what you think would be fair. Be considerate and get creative!


Having a "swear jar" where you have to put in money or take a chore from everytime a swear is used or you get yelled at for slipping up. If you have to put money in, maybe make a reward that if you don't swear for a month, you get to take the money back!
A set amount of swear words you are allowed to use per week.
An agreement for use of certain words and not others.
Being able to swear in certain places or in front of certain people.
What consequences will there be if you the agreement is broken by you or your parents, and what rewards if you are successful.

