 In the days following your sugaring, make sure the clothing you wear is loose. This is especially true if you got a bikini or Brazilian wax. Your skin will be very sensitive following sugaring, so make sure to wear loose fitting clothing to your appointment and for the first few days following., Sugaring can cause skin to dry out, so make sure you moisturize the area gently after your appointment. If you intend to have another sugaring appointment in the near future, moisturizing is especially important.Moisturize using natural oils over lotions that contain chemicals. Natural oils and body butters work well.
You should not moisturize the day of your appointment. Wait at least 24 hours to begin moisturizing.
 Ingrown hairs are a common complication associated with sugaring. To prevent an ingrown hair, do a dead sea salt soak within the first 24 to 48 hours of your appointment. You can buy dead sea salt online or at a local health foods store.Fill you sink with cold water and then add 2 to 4 tablespoons (29.6 to 59.1 ml) of salt. Take a clean towel and soak up some of this solution.
Apply this cold compress to the area where hair was and leave on for about 15 minutes., With sugaring, exfoliation is important to the after care process. You should exfoliate 2 to 7 times a week following your appointment. To exfoliate, you can use an exfoliating gel you purchase at a drug store. You can also try walnut scrub, pumice scrub, or scrub gloves.It's best to exfoliate in the shower. Rub your chosen gel into the area where hair was removed. Rub somewhat vigorously, as you'll need to loosen the skin.
Rinse when finish and pat dry when you get out of the shower.
 In the days following your appointment, your skin will likely be sensitive. Your sin may also be more prone to infection. While you may be tempted to scratch, as your skin may be itchy, refrain from doing so. This can further irritation.If you find yourself very tempted to scratch, you can try clipping your fingernails short. You can also put scotch tape over your nails to prevent you from scratching.
 As exercise can cause sweat and skin irritation, do not exercise immediately following your treatment. It may be a good idea to get your work out in prior to your sugaring appointment. You can also make the appointment on a day you do not normally work out.Talk to the staff where you had your sugaring appointment done about exercise. When you can exercise again may depend on where the hair was removed.
 Hot water can irritate sensitive skin. Baths and hot tubs especially harbor bacteria, and your skin will be sensitive to infection. You also do not want to burn exposed hair follicles, as this can prolong the healing process. Stick to showers and use lukewarm water., Sugared skin is very sensitive to UV raise and may burn easier. For the 24 hours following your sugaring appointment, stay out of the sun as much as possible. You should also avoid tanning beds.If your skin is sunburned, do not have a sugaring treatment. Wait until your skin has healed to schedule your appointment.
 Your body will be more prone to infection after a sugaring appointment. If you removed your pubic hair via sugaring, avoid sex for at least 24 hours. This will give your hair enough time to heal., It will take anywhere from 24 to 28 hours for your skin to heal after sugaring. It's very common for red spots to form on sugared areas. These spots form where the hair root was removed, and may look somewhat similar to a sun burn. Do not worry about such spots as they'll clear up in a few days., In the event you get an ingrown hair, treat it promptly. Ingrown hairs can cause serious skin irritation if left untreated. You can use topical gels designed to treat ingrown hairs at a local supermarket. If ingrown hairs do not clear up on their own, see a dermatologist.Doing sea salt soaks regularly following a sugaring appointment can prevent the formation of ingrown hairs.
 If you notice redness, itching, burning, or other symptoms that do not go away within 24 or 48 hours, see a dermatologist. Sugaring is usually safe, but can make your skin more susceptible to infections. If you have a rash that you suspect may be infected, make an appointment with a dermatologist.

