 Drummers are hard to find; however, you can't just teach a guitarist or a bassist to play drums (they're very different instruments). If you absolutely can't find one, it might be wise to become one yourself.
 Even if you don't play guitar for the band, you'll want one to write music for and as a back-up if the guitarist forgets theirs or doesn't have one.
 Nowadays, bass players are becoming harder to find. However, if you can't find a decent bass player, get a guitarist to learn to play bass (they're very different instruments, but the bass can be played like a guitar, although it might sound differently).
 Not everyone thinks they can sing, so make sure they can sing. But of course, you need to find a good one. If someone can sing choir music, great, they will probably be able to be a rock singer, although it isn't a prerequisite. Also try to find someone who has a lot of personality. People will not be interested in a singer who never moves and never shows any emotion.
 A good techno breakdown, or choir barrage is a good addition to a song. If you can find one who can out-shred your guitarist, nab them. Keyboards add depth and an epic feel to your songs.
 If you play other peoples music you are called a cover band. Cover bands can be good, because people want to hear their favorite tunes live and won't have to spend a fortune to see the real band play it. Keeping this last point in mind, it is wise for bands who write their own songs to also learn a few popular songs because doing so will greatly improve your chances of getting gigs.
 Don't pick songs that are too old or not catchy enough.
 Most bands practice at the drummer's house because drums are big and a total pain to move around to other people's houses. If your can't practice at the drummer's house, find a band member who is willing to volunteer their garage for practice(just make sure their parents are ok with it first, if they're still living with them) There's no such thing as TOO good.
 The first thing you do will not be making a CD. People have to find out about your band and also have to like it.
 If people really like these songs consider producing a CD.
 Don't worry about making it too complicated. Just send the demo to nearby records and see if they're interested. Don't get too sad if they don't like it you just have to keep sending it to people.
 You just have to hope that people will listen to it.
 Make it seem like you've gotten more mature. Not a lot, just a little. People always like that stuff.
 At one point you have to do something REALLY different. Big bands like Led Zeppelin and Queen got their biggest hits from doing songs that were way out of the ordinary(Stairway To Heaven, Bohemian Rhapsody).
 It should be at least three.;
, Or you become one yourself or teach a friend

, Bass is the heart of contemporary music. you may teach a guitarist to learn bass.
 guitar is an extremely important instrument.
 they are easy to find.
 They can be tough to find but they are optional.They can use samplers, turntables and control pedals and processors.
, A random mixture of words or something that sounds cool.
 you may also make fusions.
,,,,,,!

