 Different types of tape will be able to be peeled off quickly and easily without much extra effort, while more sticky or hefty types of tape will be more difficult to remove. Figuring out what you're working with will help you to plan the removal job properly:


If you're removing Scotch tape, you should be able to remove the tape quickly without leaving much residue that will need to be removed. Use your fingernail or a knife to remove the tape, then wipe the surface down with a clean cloth.
If you're removing masking tape, it's likely that some sticky residue will be left over on the glass, though the tape itself should be fairly easy to remove. It's likely that you'll need a small amount of acetone or commercial Goo Gone to get the glass cleaned up.
If you're removing duct tape, it's likely that you'll need to spend some time scraping the tape off vigorously, using a putty knife, scraper, or some other kind of knife. You'll also need to spend some time with isopropyl alcohol, paint thinner, or some other kind of cleaner.;
, Before removing the tape, it can help to soften the tape, as long as the surface will not be damaged by the water. Soak the surface by wetting a sponge or towel with warm water and pressing it on top of the surface. Wait for a minute or so before starting to pick at the tape. If it doesn't come off, wet the sponge or towel once more and wait for another minute before trying again.









If the surface is not easily damaged, rip the piece of tape off to save time and clean up the residue afterward. However, this is not recommended for wooden or painted surfaces for the paint could come off.
 After softening the tape with warm water, you can start scraping the tape off. Depending on the surface you're trying to remove the tape from, you might use something gentle, like the edge of a spoon, or something more serious like a putty knife.









Start at the corner, working the scraper gently under the edge and pulling the tape back at the same time with your other hand. Continue working it under until the tape comes off completely.
 After you've removed the tape, get to work cleaning up the surface. Depending on the surface and the tape, there are lots of household cleaners, some more aggressive than others, that you can use to wet the residue and try to scrape, or wipe it off.In ascending order of strength, here's a list of cleaners that some people have had success with:


Warm soapy water
Baby oil, vegetable oil, or Crisco
Mineral oil
Vinegar
Acetone fingernail polish remover
Denatured alcohol
WD-40
Lighter fluid
Lacquer thinner
Paint thinner
Turpentine
Goo Gone

