 Go to https://aws.amazon.com/ and follow the instructions to create an AWS account. There is no charge to create an AWS account, and it is necessary for you to create HITs.Through your AWS account, you can manage the security credentials for the whole project as well as view reports on account activity and usage.
 You'll need a Mechanical Turk Requester account before you can create HITs or use Mechanical Turk as a Requester. Even if you already have a Worker account, you still need to create a separate Requester account.You can create your Requester account at https://requester.mturk.com. Simply enter your email address and then follow the prompts. You will have to accept the Amazon Mechanical Turk Participation Agreement.
 Once you've created both an AWS account and a Register account, click "Link your AWS account" from https://requester.mturk.com/developer to connect the two accounts.You will be prompted to enter your AWS Root user email address and password.
 With an IAM user account, you'll be able to use the security credentials from that account to authenticate your HITs. This allows you to keep your AWS Root user email address secret.An IAM user account is especially helpful if you have several team members accessing the data you gather from your HITs.
Keep in mind you're only using these to authenticate requests in the Mechanical Turk API. You won't use your IAM user credentials to log in to your Mechanical Turk account.
 You need an access key to protect the data you enter when you're using your AWS account. These keys consist of two parts, which you can think of as your user name and password for the service.You'll use your credentials to sign and secure your work throughout the AWS testing and production environments.
You can sign in either using your root credentials or using your IAM user account to create an access key ID and secret access key.
 The sandbox is where you will test your HIT to make sure it's working properly before you publish it. You'll need to set up developer accounts and worker accounts in the sandbox for thorough testing.To create your Requester sandbox account, go to https://requestersandbox.mturk.com and follow the prompts. You'll also want to visit https://workersandbox.mturk.com and set up an account there so you can view and test your HITs as a worker.
Be sure to also go to https://requestersandbox.mturk.com/developer so you can link your AWS account to your Requester sandbox account, just as you linked your main Requester account.
 You can choose from Python/Boto (Boto3), Javascript (NodeJS or Browser), Java, .NET, Go, Ruby, PHP or C++ to access the Mechanical Turk API.Set up your SDK so that it uses the "us-east-1" region. Then connect your developer sandbox by setting your SDK's API endpoint to https://mturk-requester-sandbox.us-east-1.amazonaws.com. There are examples you can follow in the AWS help guide.

