 Prepare a large roasting pan by spraying it with a light coating of nonstick cooking spray.;
, Rinse the cabbage under cool running water and cut it into eighths.


After rinsing the cabbage, peel off the tough outer leaves with your hands.
Cut the cabbage in half lengthwise. Cut each half into half lengthwise again, forming quarters.
Cut a wedge around the hard core in the center of each quarter to remove it.
Cut each quarter into half again, forming eighths.
 Scrub the potatoes with a vegetable brush under cool running water. Peel with a vegetable peeler and cut into quarters.


After peeling the potatoes, cut each one into halves crosswise, and each half into lengthwise halves again, forming quarters.
 The cabbage and potatoes should alternate back and forth inside the roasting pan.


The cabbage eighths should be placed in the roasting pan with the rounded sides down.
 Cook the bacon over medium heat, stirring occasionally.


Since bacon contains so much fat, you do not need to add any oil or butter to the pan when cooking it.
 Cook, stirring often, for about 5 minutes.


The onions should be soft and the bacon should be crispy by the time you finish.
 Pour the bacon, onions, and pan drippings over the vegetables in the roasting pan, distributing the contents of the skillet as evenly as possible.


Do not drain the fat before adding the bacon to the roasting pan. The fat, or pan drippings, should be added alongside the rest of the skillet's contents.
 Distribute it as evenly as possible over the other ingredients.


All of the ingredients should be well soaked in chicken broth.
Note that homemade chicken stock can be used in place of chicken broth, if desired.
 Cover the roasting pan with aluminum foil and bake until the potatoes and cabbage pieces are both soft enough to break into with a fork.
 The dish should sit for 15 minutes before you serve it. Do not remove the foil as it sits.


You should ladle the bacon and onion broth over the potatoes and cabbage after transferring the vegetables into individual serving dishes.

