 Rather than spending your rainy day at home by yourself, invite a friend over to spend it with. You might find that having someone else around can help make the day feel a little less boring and dull.


You can do most of these activities alone or with a friend, so if you have a friend over, there is plenty you can do with them! Rainy days are also a great time to play some video games, have a long talk, or watch some movies.;
, Watch movies you own on DVD, or use an online streaming service like Netflix or Hulu to marathon your favorite movies, or watch endless episodes of your favorite TV show.


Pop some popcorn and take advantage of the gloomy darkness that comes with a rainy day! Rainy days are the perfect opportunity to catch up on the last season of a favorite show, or to finally watch that movie everyone has been talking about.
 It’s difficult to make time for reading, but a rainy day is a great time to finally pick up that book you’ve had on your bedside table for months. Get cozy on the sofa with a blanket and something warm to drink, and spend some time reading.


If you don’t already have a book you want to read, there are plenty of book lists specifically tailored to read on rainy days! Do a little internet search or check out GoodReads online for rainy day suggestions.
 Take a relaxing bubble bath, listen to some soothing music, and treat yourself to a face mask or body scrub. You can even make your own face masks and body scrubs from ingredients in your kitchen, so you don’t have to go out in the rain to get supplies!


Warm 2 tablespoons of honey in the microwave for a moment, then add a teaspoon of cinnamon and a teaspoon of lemon juice. Mix these together, then apply to your face, avoiding your eyes. Let it sit and soak in for 15-20 minutes, enjoying the warmth of the honey on your skin. Wash the mask off with warm water. This mask is easy, quick, and can help minimize your pores, eliminate dark circles, and even help exfoliate your skin!Make a sugar body scrub out of ½ cup of brown sugar, ½ cup of coconut oil, and ½ teaspoon vanilla extract. Mix these ingredients in a bowl, and use it in the bathtub to gently exfoliate and nourish your skin., When it’s rainy and gloomy outside, it’s the perfect atmosphere for a cozy afternoon nap. Give yourself some time to rest by taking a nap. Listen to the rain falling outside, and relax.


Napping has been proving to improve mood, so if the rain has you feeling down or grouchy, taking a nap might be the best thing you could do to make yourself feel a little better, while also killing some time.