 Recognize that you are significantly influenced in many ways by the people around you. In fact, the best predictor of your happiness is not money, nor even health, but the strength of your personal relationships and the amount of time spent with loved ones.Go out! Know that experiences give you more sustainable pleasure than do material possessions – in part because experiences tend to be shared with other people. Spend your free time and disposable income accordingly.
Avoid relationships with people who do not respect and support you. This is especially important in the context of intimate relationships. Continued intimacy without compassion is a recipe for unhappiness., Be earnest in random acts of politeness. You may already often hold the door for the person behind you. Next time, hold the door with genuine earnestness. Research has indicated that you receive an emotional boost for doing a favor when you put in extra effort, particularly by being personable. You will receive more genuine gratitude for doing so, as opposed to simply doing something nice without engaging emotionally in your act of kindness. Take being kind seriously, and you’ll bring happiness into both your own and others’ lives., Provide yourself with a consistent environment in which you can interact constructively with others. While you’ll be improving someone else’s day, you’ll also be improving your own. The mental benefits of volunteering include boosts in self-confidence, a renewed sense of purpose, and a reduction in feelings of social isolation.There are likely multiple opportunities to volunteer in your community. Animal shelters, libraries, and community centers for the elderly are always looking for people to help out.
 Remember, happiness really is contagious.Research shows that younger people are steadily getting happier, while older people are finding it harder to stay happy.Interact with children. Oscar Wilde once claimed that he wasn’t young enough to know everything. Fortunately, lots of people are. A child’s sense of wonder and openness to the world, let alone their creative imaginations, make for consistently happiness-inducing experiences. Listen closely to kids, and you just might learn the secret to happiness. Either way, allow yourself to share in a child’s joy whenever you get the chance.

