 When using third person objective, the writer can describe the actions and words of any character at any time and place within the story.There does not need to be a single main character to focus on. The writer can switch between characters, following different characters throughout the course of the narrative, as often as needed.
Stay away from first person terms like “I” and second person terms like “you” in the narrative, though. Only use first and second person within dialog.
 Unlike omniscient pov where the narrator looks into everyone's head, objective pov doesn't look into anyone's head.Imagine that you are an invisible bystander observing the actions and dialog of the characters in your story. You are not omniscient, so you do not have access to any character's inner thoughts and feelings. You only have access to each character's actions.
Correct example: “After class, Graham hurriedly left the room and rushed back to his dorm room.”
Incorrect example: “After class, Graham raced from the room and rushed back to his dorm room. The lecture had made him so angry that he felt as though he might snap at the next person he met.”

, Even though a third person objective writer cannot share a character's inner thoughts, the writer can make external observations that suggest what those internal thoughts might be. Describe what is going on. Instead of telling the reader that a character is angry, describe his facial expression, body language, and tone of voice to show that he is mad.Correct example: “When no one else was watching her, Isabelle began to cry.”
Incorrect example: “Isabelle was too prideful to cry in front of other people, but she felt completely broken-hearted and began crying once she was alone.”

, The writer's purpose when using third person objective is to act as a reporter, not a commentator.Let the reader draw his or her own conclusions. Present the actions of the character without analyzing them or explaining how those actions should be viewed.
Correct example: “Yolanda looked over her shoulder three times before sitting down.”
Incorrect example: “It might seem like a strange action, but Yolanda looked over her shoulder three times before sitting down. This compulsive habit is an indication of her paranoid state of mind.”

