 Procyanindins are antioxidants found in plants like apples, grapes, blueberries, rosehips and green tea. Research in Japan has shown that when a paste containing concentrated amounts of procyanidins is applied to the scalp, it can increase hair growth in men who are balding by neutralizing free radicals that lead to inflammation and hair loss.You can order a tube of procyanidin treatment online. Apply a 0.7 percent solution to the scalp twice a day.
While no research has been conducted on the efficacy of this solution in treating women's hair loss, it is said that procyanidin might increase growth in women whose hair loss is hormone-related.
 Rosemary has been used to cure hair loss for centuries, and it's still an important homeopathic treatment. It helps to promote cell growth on the scalp and decrease the buildup of sebum that can clog hair follicles and prevent hair growth. In addition, rosemary is anti-inflammatory, so it relieves inflammation that leads to hair loss.


To receive the benefits of rosemary, grind fresh rosemary leaves and add a little water to create a paste. Apply the paste to your scalp and let it absorb into the skin for about 15 minutes before rinsing it away.
Alternatively, dilute 5 drops of rosemary essential oil in a tablespoon of jojoba or almond oil, and massage it into your scalp. Rinse it out after 15 minutes.
You can also ingest the rosemary in the form of tea. Place a few sprigs of fresh rosemary in a cup and pour boiling water over them. Let them steep in the water for 5 minutes, then remove the sprigs and drink the tea., Another anti-inflammatory substance, his essential oil is know to stimulate the scalp and promote hair growth. Dilute 5 drops of cedarwood oil in a tablespoon of jojoba or almond oil. Massage it into your scalp and let it sit and absorb into the skin for 15 minutes before rinsing it away., The very act of gently massaging your scalp with a beneficial oil can help promote hair growth. Massaging your scalp helps to slough away dead skin and unplug hair follicles that are clogged, stimulating new growth. You can add a few drops of rosemary or cedarwood essential oil to make the treatment even more effective. Give yourself a weekly head massage using one of the following oils:


Coconut oil
Argan oil
Jojoba oil
Almond oil

