 The ASPCA recommends that you feed your cat twice a day in controlled portions.This helps your cat avoid overeating. If you feed your dog at the same time as your cat, the dog may be too distracted by his own food to go for the cat’s.Leaving dry cat food out for your cat all the time will allow her to graze, but this eating behavior can actually be unhealthy for cats because they may not get enough exercise to balance the calories they consume.“Free feeding” is also associated with feline diabetes.However, free feeding may resemble a cat’s natural feeding behavior more, so if your cat has no problems maintaining her weight with free feeding, go ahead and let her graze.
Feeding your cat in a “timed feeding” session can help you manage your cat’s eating habits. Put the food out and if the cat doesn't eat it after 30 minutes, put it away. Your cat will learn that if he doesn't eat, the food won't be out all day. This will teach him to eat right away, giving the dog less of a chance to steal his food., Cats can usually eat wet food faster than dry food. If your cat struggles to finish eating before the dog comes and takes his meal, try switching to wet food. This way, he can finish eating quickly, before the dog can get to his food.If you free feed your cat, you can’t leave wet cat food out all the time or it will spoil.
 There are several feeding “puzzle” games that you can purchase (or make at home) that will turn your cat’s mealtime into a fun game. Simply fill the puzzle game with dry food and introduce it to your cat.


This method may also make it more difficult for your dog to get at the food.
To make a puzzle game at home, try cutting some small holes in a plastic water or soda bottle. Fill the bottle with dry food (but not all the way). Your cat will get pieces of kibble as she bats the bottle around.
 Putting the dog and cat food next to each other could lead to the dog scaring away the cat and taking his food. Separate the food by placing them in different rooms. This will let the cat eat in peace without getting interrupted by the dog.