 Wear what you love, not what's popular or trendy at the time. Dressing eccentrically is all about being bold with your fashion choices, and not worrying what others will think. Don't be afraid to embrace crazy patterns, mix and match colors, and wear clothing from all different eras.


Trends come and go, but your personal style is forever. If you love flared jeans, don't let the skinny leg trend stop you from wearing those bellbottoms.
You can also make your own clothing. This way, you'll have one-of-a-kind garments that are completely true to you., A mark of eccentricity is having a signature look. Whether it's your top hat, your bright costume jewelry, or always wearing something in leopard print, your signature item should be true to you.


You will start to become known for your signature look. Once you make it part of who you are, it will become a permanent part of your eccentricity., Getting wild and fun with your hair and makeup is a great way to show your eccentricity. Bright eyeshadows and lipsticks, heavy eyeliner, and rosy blush all add pops of color to your face. Experimenting with different hairstyles that you like is another way to express yourself; dye it different colors, put it in crazy up-dos, buzz it off, or grow it as long as possible. Wear whatever hairstyle you like, no matter how weird it may be considered.


If you don't care about your hair or makeup, then don't do anything! Going completely natural in a society that forces perfect hair and makeup is an eccentric move in itself.
 Whether you have your own apartment, share a place with roommates, or still live with your parents, there are many ways to express your eccentric style in your decorations. Turn whatever personal space you have into your own personal sanctuary. Fill it with your favorite art, books, fabrics, furniture, etc. Don't worry about having everything match or go together, be as eccentric as you want. Remember, this is your space, so decorate it however you please.


A few ways to create an eccentric environment can include shopping at thrift stores to find affordable and unique furniture and decorations, hanging up art by you and your friends, and giving yourself a creative space – like a desk – that is designated for your creative process.
If you're sharing a space with others, be sure to respect their boundaries. Keep your decorations to your personal space.