 If this is not your first baby, begin by identifying any existing baby items you have, even if they have been used for other things, such as cloth diapers being used as rags.If you are unsure about needing or wanting any of your baby supplies, set them aside for donation. Small spaces don’t allow for lukewarm feelings about baby items.;
, Baskets and crates are excellent for storing the many things that come along with having a little one, so round up every storage container you have. Store baby items in baskets and crates on top of dressers, bookshelves, or mounted shelves to minimize clutter and keep your space tidy.If you don’t have baskets or crates, most thrift stores boast a hefty number of both. Visit your local secondhand store to find baskets and storage containers such as crates and jars that best suit your home and storage space.
 Storage jars range from mason jars to left over jam jars. Hold onto your leftover glass jars, and use them for baby bottles (mason jars have several options for nipples and sippy cups), hair bow holders, and homemade baby food jars. Baby items stack up quickly, so having a place to store all of your baby’s necessities is pivotal.


4-ounce mason jars make great baby food storage jars, as do old baby food jars and small, reusable yogurt containers.
If you do not have storage jars, you do not have to rush out to buy some; instead, gradually hold on to any jars you accumulate over the coming weeks and months.
 Instead of trying to squeeze a new gadget into your limited space, create a small baby changing station on top of a dresser you already own. Instead of purchasing a new dresser, you can set aside a drawer (or even half a drawer) of your own space to place the baby’s clothing in.If you find that your baby’s clothing will not fit in the dresser you already have, you can hang small shelves above the changing station to store socks, onesies, burp cloths, and other necessities.
 Dedicated swaddling and burping rags are not strictly necessary. You can make use of blankets and rags you already own. Swaddling is ideal with square blankets, and burp rags should be soft enough to wipe a baby’s delicate skin. Search through your blankets and towels to find suitable options.If you truly do not have any suitable blankets for swaddling, stick to the basics, and purchase 2-3 muslin swaddles. These can be used as swaddles, nursing covers, and floor blankets for tummy time.
 If you live in a studio, or don’t have a room set aside for a nursery, create a “nursery” in the corner of your room. This can include a crib and a changing station, along with under-crib storage containing your baby’s clothing or diaper items.Nesting hits many moms in the 3rd trimester. If you do not have a dedicated nursery, setting aside a small corner will help curb nesting instincts.
 Your baby does not need all of the latest toys with sounds, buttons, and lights. Most children are happy playing with pots and pans, wooden spoons, and other things you have lying around the house. Limiting your toy intake will ensure you aren’t swimming in baby products, and will give your child a chance to engage in imaginative play.