 There are many medications, both over the counter and prescription, that can help relieve nasal congestion in your sinuses. Flonase and Nasacort are nasal steroid sprays that are available over-the-counter. To use, administer one spray per nostril, once or twice daily. This is especially helpful if you have allergies. You may also try Zyrtec, which is a non-drowsy antihistamine, which can reduce sinus congestion. Take 10 mg once a day. Also try Claritin, another non-drowsy antihistamine that may work well for you. Take 10 mg once a day. Oral decongestants that include pseudoephedrine may also be helpful.


If the over the counter doses don't work for you, talk to your doctor about stronger version of these medications or other, prescription only decongestants that may work better for your case.OTC pain medications for the pain associated with sinus congestion, such as acetaminophen and ibuprofen, may also help.Nasal decongestants, such as Afrin, can quickly reduce sinus congestion, but should only be used for three days. If you use them longer, you may get rebound symptoms.Pregnant women or people with medical problems such as heart disease, diabetes, high blood pressure, or thyroid disease should not use these medications without talking to their doctor. And talk to your child’s doctor before giving them to children.
 If you have severe chronic allergies that cause your sinus issues, consider immunotherapy to eliminate your sinus congestion. Immunotherapy is the process by which you are administered small doses of what you are allergic to, such as pollen, mold, or pet dander, either by injections or under the tongue. The first step is to get tested by an allergist, who will figure out exactly what you are allergic to. Once your doctor has confirmed what you are allergic to, he or she will begin to administer the allergen as injections or under your tongue. The doctor gives you doses of the allergen with the idea that your body will learn to adapt to the allergen, no longer see it as an invader, and no longer continue to mount an immune response, such as the sinus congestion or a runny nose.


The injections or treatments will take place weekly for the first four to six months. Next, you should be at the maintenance level and require treatment every two to four weeks. Gradually you will go longer and longer between treatments until you only need them once a month. After one year, if you have responded to therapy, you will have either no symptoms or be much improved and your treatments can continue for three to five years, when you should be completely immune to the allergen.
If you haven't responded, the immunotherapy will be terminated.
This treatment is time consuming and can be expensive, but many people are turning to this therapy because it removes their sinus congestion and improves their quality of life., There are certain situations when a doctor may be needed. If you have had symptoms of a head cold for more than two weeks, you should see your doctor to check for a larger issue such as a bacterial infection. If there is a change from your usual allergy secretions and symptoms for a week, it is reasonable to seek treatment if you are worsening on day seven instead of improving.


Occasionally, sinus congestion can lead to a bacterial sinus infection, and your doctor may prescribe an antibiotic at that time. Sinus surgery is rarely needed for chronic sinus congestion or infections.
If you are bleeding from your sinuses, if your sinus congestion is associated with headaches that are severe or with high fevers, confusion, neck stiffness, or weakness, or if any symptom increases after the use of any home remedy, see your doctor immediately.Drainage from sinus congestion can trigger symptoms in people with asthma or other lung problems. See your doctor right away if you have a cough, wheezing, chest pain, or shortness of breath associated with your sinus congestion.

