 You can download movie files directly on your Android device as well, but you'll usually find the process quicker if you use your computer.

One of the most popular ways to download movies is to use a torrent program. It is illegal in most areas to download movies that you do not own.
 If you're using a Mac computer, you'll need to install Android File Transfer in order to transfer files from your Mac to your Android:

Visit android.com/filetransfer in your web browser.
Click the Download button.
Click the androidfiletransfer.dmg file after it finishes downloading.
Drag Android File Transfer into your Applications folder.
 Using a USB connection is the quickest way to transfer large files like movies from your computer to your Android device.,,,, The process is a little different for Windows and Mac:


Windows - Click the Start button and then click the Computer or File Explorer button. Double-click your Android device in the Devices section. Double-click Internal storage or sdcard, depending on where you want to store the movies.
Mac - Open your Applications folder and double-click Android File Transfer.
 You can store the movie files anywhere on the Android, but there is a premade "Movies" folder if you want to use it., This will begin copying the files to your Android. Movie files can be quite large, and the transfer may take a long time to complete. Android devices also tend to have limited storage, so you may only be able to fit a few large movies files.

If you want to reduce the size of your video files, you can optimize them for viewing on a mobile device.
Do not disconnect your Android device while files are transferring.
 While the default software on your Android device can play some common formats, it may struggle with formats that are popular for DVD and Blu-ray copies.Installing a third-party video player will help ensure that you can play the most videos.,, VLC is an open-source program that can play virtually any format. There are lots of video players available, so feel free to try a bunch to find the one you like.,,, This button appears after the app has installed. You can also find VLC in your Apps list., This will allow VLC to access your device's storage and load your movies., VLC will automatically detect any movie files stored on your device, including those in your Movies folder., Your movie will start playing immediately.

Older devices may struggle playing high-quality movie files. If your playback is choppy or VLC is crashing, you can try optimizing the video for mobile to reduce the size.

