 Lay your clothes on a flat surface. Douse the small stain with hairspray. Leave it for a few minutes so the alcohol can break up the paint, and then come back and do a bit of scrubbing with a fabric brush. When you’re finished, launder the clothing as you normally would, and finish with a run through the dryer., Squirt some hand sanitizer onto the small stain. Then, you can scrub the stain with a toothbrush to get the latex off your clothes! Since hand sanitizer contains rubbing alcohol and is portable, this is a quick and efficient way of addressing paint stains when they happen., Pour half a cup of paint thinner into a yogurt container. Saturate a clean rag in the container. Use the rag to scrub off the latex paint. When the rag gets dirty, you can squeeze out the excess liquid into a separate yogurt container. Continue scrubbing until all of the paint is gone.If the stain is very bad, you can pour the paint thinner directly onto the fabric.
Keep in mind that paint thinner may damage more delicate clothing.
 There are certain cleaners, like “goo-gone” or “goof off,” which are made to get rid of the sticky materials. If you have a specialty cleaning product, you should use it in a well-ventilated area, since the smell is often quite strong. Apply the specialty cleaning product and let it soak in the stain for two minutes. You can scrub off the stain with a pumice stone or other scrubbing implement. Finally, rinse and launder the item.If necessary, you can repeat the process.
 If you are cleaning a small stain, you can use cotton balls with rubbing alcohol. Place a cotton ball on top of a bottle of rubbing alcohol. Turn the bottle upside down to soak the ball. Then, you can use the cotton ball to scrub off a small stain., Although relatively expensive in comparison to rubbing alcohol, you can use lavender oil to get rid of small latex stains. Put between five and seven drops of lavender on the stain. Wait for the lavender to work its magic, which should take around half an hour. At this stage, you can scrub off the stain with spoon.