 Lotus do best in a large bog-type pond in a sunny area of the garden.


Expect the lotus plants to grow pretty big and wide: leaves are up to 2 feet (0.6 m) across unless you try growing a dwarf lotus. They’ll also grow fairly tall.
If you are growing a regular variety, your pond will need to be at least 4 feet (1.2 m) across and at least 18 inches (45.7 cm) deep to provide the lotus plant with enough space
It’s best to wait until the winter is over before digging your pond so the ground is easier to work.;
, Decide whether you are using a rigid plastic pond liner or a flexible material liner that you can cut to fit. Dig out the space for your pond and line with whatever you are using.


If using pond lining fabric, make sure there’s 12 inches (30.5 cm) of material running over the edges of your pond hole.
You then need to bury the excess liner at the margins of your pond under some dirt, stones, gravel or flagstones. This both hides the material and weighs it down.
 You now want to add a mix of compost/topsoil and well-rotted manure to a depth of 9 inches (22.9 cm). Cover this with one or two inches of sand and/or gravel or lava rock.


Lining the edges of the pond with large river rocks will also look nice – just be careful not to stretch or tear the pond liner.
 If you only have tap water, leave it to stand for a few days to reduce the chemical level (especially important if you plan to add fish).


Avoid gushing water into the pond as this will unsettle the layers of sand, gravel and dirt and make the water muddy.
You’ll need to wait until the temperature of the water is above 70 °F (21 °C) before you can think about planting your lotus into the bottom.
 When you are ready to plant, place a lotus rhizome onto the layer of sand at the bottom of the pond and weigh it down with a handful of gravel.


Alternatively, in a larger-sized pond you can plant the rhizome into a big planter to keep the lotus contained in that area.
 Lotus are hungry plants that need fertilizing during the summer months. You can get special water fertilizing tablets online or in some garden stores.


Start fertilizing at half strength in June then through the rest of the summer apply full strength fertilizer. In the fall, around October, the plant will go dormant. Once the leaves brown and wither away or fall off, you can clean the pond.
Lotus are frost-hardy, but in cooler areas consider moving container-planted lotus to deeper water. This is because the deeper water is less likely to freeze.
 Mosquitoes may use stagnant water to breed in. You might like to use chemical controls (available on Amazon) or consider installing a fountain to keep the water moving, thus making it less attractive for breeding insects.

