 How you approach the situation depends on how much evidence you have supporting any wrongdoing. You will have to handle situations that are based on strong suspicions differently than you would those with clear evidence.


For suspicions, it's best to present what you suspect in a non-confrontational manner and try to tease out the truth during the interaction.
For evidence-based accusations, you should state your claim and present the evidence that you have. In these cases, there's little room for the person wiggling out of the responsibility.
 Lay out the facts you know by telling the story from your perspective. The person may interject and correct you on part of the story if there’s a detail that is wrong. This may give you a partial confession.


You can also deliberately change part of the story to entice them to correct you. For instance, you could say, “So you went to the bar last night,” even though you believe they went somewhere else incriminating. This may prompt them to correct you, which could lead you to the truth., Ask the same question over again in different ways. Be mindful of them saying the same phrases when answering, as this could indicate they’ve rehearsed what they’re going to say. They may also be inconsistent with their answers, which could show they are lying.


You could also ask them to tell their story starting from the end and leading up to the beginning or ask them to start in the middle. Relaying the story back may cause them to create errors in their story, which could show they aren’t telling the truth., The language you use can play a huge role in whether a person tells you the truth or not. Using language that implies fault may cause the person to withhold. Selecting less harsh words can encourage the person to tell the truth.


For instance, use the word “took” instead of “stole” or “spent time with someone” rather than “cheated.” The person may be more apt to admit guilt if you use more favorable language., Bluffing is a dangerous, yet often effective, tactic. It involves you making a threat or coming out with what you think is the truth, even though you may not really plan to fulfill the threat or have evidence. Your bluff may tempt the person to tell the truth because they feel like they’ve been exposed or are afraid of the supposed consequences.


For example, you could say, “I have witnesses that saw you at the scene of the crime.” This may be enough to scare the person into the telling you the truth. You could also threaten to go to the authorities or someone in power if the person doesn’t stop lying.Keep in mind that verbal threats such as bluffing should only be made if you are certain of the person's involvement or guilt. Also, try to avoid making any sort of threats if at all possible as doing so causes defensiveness, and decreases your chances of getting to the truth.
 If a person stares you in the face and tells you a lie, it may be hard to control your reaction. If you must take a break to collect yourself, do so. But never assault a person or use any physical means to coerce them to tell the truth.

