 This prank works especially well if you work with your friends. Bring a toaster or other popular appliance to work and place it in the break room. Next, make a small sign indicating that this state-of-the-art toaster is voice activated. Spend the rest of your day laughing as you hear people yelling at a toaster.If you want to encourage your friends to use the toaster, put a loaf of bread next to it and tell them to help themselves.
Other small appliances include drip coffee makers, hot plates, and Keurigs.
 Visit an office supply depot and buy as many sticky notes as you can carry. Next, cover your friend’s car in a layer of sticky notes, including the windows. Your friend will have to remove hundreds of sticky notes before they can use their car again.Use colored sticky notes to create a variety of patterns and designs. For example, use green, white, and brown sticky notes to create a Shrek car.
Sticky notes stick best to freshly cleaned cars.
 This prank is excellent on friends who always have a bottle of sanitizer in their purse or on their desk. First, purchase a bottle of clear personal lubricant from a pharmacy or grocery store. Next, empty your friend’s bottle of hand sanitizer and fill it with the personal lubricant. When your friend tries to use their sanitizer, they will get greasy and slimy hands instead.


Save the sanitizer in a cup or buy your friend a new bottle before doing this prank. They may become upset if they have to buy more sanitizer themselves.
 There are many companies that provide prank mailing services. You can mail your friend a box of glitter, an eggplant, bugs, and more. Do an online search to find the service that best fits your purposes.If possible, mail the package to your workplace or school so that you can see your friend open it.
 Create flyers advertising a Chewbacca roar contest and place your friend’s phone number at the bottom. Next, place the flyers all around your neighborhood. If you’re lucky, your friend will receive dozens of Chewbacca impression voicemails.Avoid pulling this prank using someone’s work phone. Their voicemail may fill up and they’ll miss important calls.

