 Select a support group that is focused on your specific mental health need. After all, the group won’t be able to help you if you aren’t attending one that has patients and possibly a leader who have experience in what you are going through.


Groups are often based around specific mental health illnesses, such as depression, anxiety, grief, and bipolar disorder.There are also some mixed diagnosis groups that you can look into, as well as support groups for people with existential concerns like death, isolation, and meaninglessness.;
, Choose whether you would like to attend a support group in person, or if you would like to join one that meets online. Some patients like the comfort and support that meeting with their peers provides, while others enjoy the convenience and anonymity that online groups offer.


Online groups are also helpful if you aren’t able to find support groups that meet in your area. Select the format that makes you feel comfortable, as you’ll get the most out of a group that you feel safe in., Decide if you would like to join a group that is led by a professional mental health care provider, of if you would rather attend a group that is run by your peers.


Some groups are led by social workers or counselors who help facilitate the sharing. In a support group, they typically do not guide the group in any specific direction or offer advice or therapy. Peer-run groups don’t have leaders, and attendees often simply speak about what they are experiencing.However, some groups have a facilitator who provides direction, facilitation, and psychoeducation during the process.
 While mental health support groups are designed to help individuals and their families manage and live with a mental illness, not every group will be right for you. If possible, go to a meeting or two with a group before assessing whether you should move on and keep looking. However, keep in mind that some groups have closed meetings, so you may not be able to just drop in to check it out.Look for open groups or ask someone ahead of time if you can attend a meeting. After you attend a group meeting, try ask these questions to determine if the group seems like a good fit:Do I feel more positive about myself after leaving group?
Am I learning helpful strategies to help me cope with my own or my family member's illness?
Do I feel encouraged by other group members?
Do I feel like the group is a safe place to share?

, Attend several sessions of a support group before you decide whether it is right for you. If you come out of the group feeling better, then you may have found what you are looking for.


If not, continue searching for a group that makes you feel comfortable and helps you move towards your recovery. With so many options available, you’re sure to find one that eventually works for you.Keep in mind that if you join a closed group meeting, you may be expected to commit to a certain time period with the group.Stopping suddenly may be discouraged.

