 Make an effort to hang out with your parents once in a while. With sports, clubs, school, and friends, it’s easy to blow your parents off. But, taking time for family will strengthen your bond with your parents (and can be a lot of fun, too).It shouldn’t feel like a chore, so make it a leisure activity that you both enjoy. You could even agree on a scheduled ritual, like a hike, dinner, bowling league, movie night, or game night.
Some parents feel like their kid only spends time with them when the kid wants something. They may be happier and more relaxed if you show them you want to spend time just for them.
 Your parents are more likely to treat you well if they feel that they can trust you. Build trust with them by not shying away from the truth, even when it’s uncomfortable.It's surprisingly simple to find yourself saying a little white lie to protect your friend, romantic partner, or even your siblings. But if you tell the truth even when the truth isn't perfectly pleasant, you will become much more trustworthy.
 It’s easy to get annoyed with your parents and the other people that you're closest to. Don’t let small annoyances lead to big conflicts. Instead, strive to be tolerant of your parents’ personalities, habits, and even faults.If you know that you’re too annoyed, angry, or upset to be civil, it’s better to wait to interact with your parents until you calm down.
 When your parents are nice to you, express your appreciation. Doing so will encourage them to keep being nice to you in the future.A simple “thank you” or hug goes a long way. So does "I love you," especially if that's not something you often say. If your parents do something especially nice for you, like get you a bike, help you with a science project, or drive you 100 miles to see a baseball game, consider writing them a thank you card.
 Sadly, your parents might still be mean to you or ignore you even when you try to be nice. This is not your fault, and you do not need to fix it all on your own. Don't be afraid to ask for help or advice from an adult you trust to look out for you. This is extra important if your parents hit you, abuse you emotionally (for example, bullying), or neglect your needs (for example, forgetting to feed you). Here are some places to look for help:


Talk to a school social worker if your school has one. (Some school counselors can also help, but others only give education advice.)
Look for nearby programs for children and teens in need, sometimes called Youth Resiliency programs. Some schools and religious groups run programs like this.
Look online for help lines and chat rooms where you can talk about the issues in your life.

