 To make a water gun out of PVC, you need to go to your local hardware or home improvement store. You need to buy a 20" long, 3/4" around PVC pipe, a 25" rounded wooded stick that can fit into the PVC pipe, a 3/4" PVC pipe cap, 1 screw, and a pack of toilet tank bold washers. You will also need a pair of scissors, glue that works on PVC, and a drill.


If you want to paint your gun, you may also want to buy some waterproof paint that will adhere to PVC pipe. Try outdoor spray paint or a can of deck paint.;
, Cut off a small piece of your PVC pipe with a saw and lay it over one of the plastic toilet tank washers. Using a pencil or marker, trace along the inner edge of the PVC pipe onto the plastic washer. Cut out around the mark on the washer with a pair of scissors.Make sure you cut along the outer edge of your mark. You don't want the washer to be too small because then your gun will leak. Measure it against the edge of the stick. It should be slightly larger than the circumference of the stick and hang over the edge a little bit.
 Grab one of the metal toilet tank washers from the pack. Holding the end of the stick, place the plastic washer directly against the flat end of the stick. Then put the metal washer on top of that, aligning the holes. Next, take the screw and place it in the holes. Using the drill, drill the screw and the washers to the end of the stick.


You want to be sure that the washers are centered in the middle of the stick's edge. You don't want the plastic washer to hang over unevenly along the edges.If both edges of the stick are rounded, you will need to cut an even, flat edge onto one side before you attach the washers with the screw.
 The PVC cap is going to control the kind of stream that comes out of your water gun. Depending on what kind of stream you want, you need to drill holes in the top of the PVC cap. You can change the width of your drill bit to push out more or less water, so make sure it is big enough to create a steady stream but small enough not to pour too much water out at once.If you want to try a more elaborate cap design, try making three or four holes around the center area of the PVC cap. It will pour streams from multiple holes and look super cool when shot. Just make sure the drill bit is a little smaller so you don't lose too much water all at once., Take the PVC cap and glue it to one end of the PVC pipe. Next, insert the stick into the other end of the PVC pipe. You should feel a little resistance as the washer pushes against the sides of the pipe. Now that it is together, stick the top with the cap on it into water and slowly pull out the stick. That will pull water into your pipe. Once you have enough water, pull it out. You are now ready for a water fight.


If you want to paint your gun, do that before you insert the stick into the pipe. Paint each part with the spray paint and let them dry. Then you can assemble the rest of the gun.