 BTk is a bacteria that naturally occurs on dead or decaying material in the soil. This bacteria is good for controlling caterpillars because it interacts badly with the digestive system of caterpillars. Furthermore, it is considered to be safe because it doesn’t harm pets or people, and the dead caterpillars will not harm other animals (such as birds) that might eat the caterpillar.It is important that you apply BTk to leaves of affected plants or trees at the right time because it must be eaten by the caterpillar. You should follow the instructions that come with the BTk, but generally, it should be applied twice. The first time will be about ten days after caterpillar eggs have hatched, and the second time about two weeks later, while the caterpillars are still small.
BTk is available commercially, so you can probably get it at your local home improvement or gardening store. It is usually sold in powder form, which is then mixed with water and sprayed onto infested plants.;
, Birds are perhaps the best at controlling caterpillars naturally. Thus, it is a good idea to make your garden appealing to them. Try placing a birdbath, some bird feeders, and even a bird house or two into the garden to elicit interest.If you have cats that go into the yard, make sure that they wear a collar with a bell on it. This alerts birds when a cat is in the area.
If you have space, chickens also offer a great way to get rid of caterpillars. Chickens will eat the caterpillars, so you won’t have to worry about dealing with them yourself.However, you will need to prepare your yard properly to keep chickens healthy and safe, so this shouldn’t be seen as a quick and easy fix.
 If you are having a problem with caterpillars in a tree, you can wrap the trunk with burlap. Caterpillars like to hide during the heat of the day, and the burlap offers an ideal place to get out of the sun. Once they’ve crawled in, you can smash many caterpillars quickly.This may work especially well for gypsy moth caterpillars, which tend to live in trees.
 If you aren’t afraid of touching the caterpillars, then this is one way to get rid of caterpillars without spraying chemicals or other substances on your leaves.Fill a bucket about half way with water. The size of the bucket depends on how many caterpillars you are dealing with. If it is just a few, a coffee can might do. If you have a lot of caterpillars, you might need a 5-gallon pail.
Add dish soap. If you are using a relatively small-sized bucket, a quarter of a cup should do. Add more if you are using a large bucket. This is not an exact science, so don’t worry about getting the measurements exactly right.
Pick the caterpillars up and throw them in the water, where they will die. Wear gloves if you want to.
 Caterpillars eventually turn into moths and butterflies, which play an important role in pollination.Thus, you might want to consider moving the caterpillars elsewhere (e.g. a nearby wooded area) where they can live without harming your plants.


You can do this by collecting the caterpillars in a bucket or a jar. Take them to the area you want them, and then gently dump them onto a leaf or tree branch.

