 One of the least flattering features in a photograph is a double-chin. Usually, the double-chin look can be avoided if you lengthen your neck and move your chin out away from your body slightly.This will feel strange and awkward, but will be much more flattering in photos.
 Slouching shoulders and bad posture are never flattering, so be sure that you pull your shoulders down and back. This will make you look more alert, elongate your neck, and improve your photo. You may also try tilting your shoulders from one side or the other for the photograph instead of having them square with the camera.
 Taking and sharing too many self-portraits that are all serious will make you seem serious or stuffy. Try taking a silly picture instead. Often when you relax and have a little fun, you will inadvertently take a more flattering picture.
 Instead of taking a photo square on yourself, try angling your face or body slightly. Experiment with both sides to determine whether you have a “good side.”Angling your body in a full-length photo will make you appear slimmer and emphasize your curves., Even if your eyes are your best feature, try looking away from the camera for a more interesting photograph.


You can still emphasize your eyes by ensuring that they are wide open and looking above or to the side of the camera.
Be sure to exaggerate looking away. If you look very slightly away from the lens, it will seem like you didn’t know where the camera was. If you look at least a foot from the camera, it will come across as a deliberate choice.
 True emotion usually comes through in your face.A fake smile is not usually a flattering smile, so if you want a smiling photo, think of something that makes you genuinely happy or something that is funny before snapping the shot.


If you want to look happy, be sure you are smiling with your eyes, not just your mouth. The way to do this is to actually feel happy.It’s okay to show other emotions, too, if you would prefer a self photo that is somber, flirty, sad, pensive, frustrated, or matter-of-fact. Just try being genuine.
 If you are taking a self photo for a specific purpose, think about how you should dress for the picture.For a business photograph or for a profile for a business networking website, select modest, professional clothing and a neat hairstyle.
For dating websites, you may want to wear something colorful or fun, but try not to look overly sexy (because you will likely look like you’re trying too hard to be sexy). Style your hair in a casual way that shows that you have paid some attention to your look.
For social media websites, think about how you want the world to perceive you. Your clothing choice is pretty wide-open, but unless you are showing off that you have just completed a 20-mile hike, it’s unlikely that a dirty t-shirt is the best choice for a selfie.
 The duckface—pursed lips that are slightly widened—has become a cliché and somewhat hated choice for self photos.Try another, more flattering, facial expression instead.

