 Making Creme Egg ice cream is just like making any other ice cream. Make sure you read the manufacturer’s instructions for the ice cream maker before you begin. Many ice cream maker buckets have to be frozen for at least 24 hours before you can make ice cream. Along with your ingredients, you'll also need a few kitchen supplies, including:


Sealable plastic bag
Rolling pin
Knife
Large saucepan
Whisk
Small bowl
Large freezer bag
Large bowl
Ice and cold water
Pre-chilled ice cream maker
Plastic storage container

, Place the Creme Eggs in the freezer and let them chill for at least two hours. When the eggs are frozen, remove the foil and place the eggs into a sealable bag. Use a rolling pin or hammer to break the eggs into small chunks.


For 8 ounces of Creme Egg ice cream, you'll need about seven eggs.
 In a large saucepan, combine the cocoa, sugar, corn syrup, salt, and 2 cups (474 ml) of the cream. Heat the pan over medium heat, stirring regularly, until the sugar has dissolved and the mixture is hot.Stir in the chopped chocolate and half the crushed Creme Eggs.


When the eggs and chocolate have been incorporated, remove the pan from the heat.
Return the remaining crushed Creme Eggs to the freezer for later.
 Combine the cornstarch and ¼ cup (59 ml) of the cream in a small bowl. Whisk the two together until the cornstarch is completely incorporated and there are no lumps.The cornstarch slurry will be used to thicken the ice cream base.
 Return the saucepan to medium heat and pour in the cornstarch slurry, vanilla, and the remaining cream. Heat the mixture, whisking regularly, until it begins to thicken.


It will only take about five minutes for the mixture to heat and thicken.
 Fill a large bowl with equal amounts of ice and water to create an ice bath. Transfer the ice cream base to a large freezer bag. Seal the bag and plunge it into the ice bath. Chill the bag in the ice bath for about two hours.


Check on the mixture every 30 minutes. When the ice begins to melt, add more to keep the bath cold.
 Transfer the chilled base to the pre-chilled ice cream maker. Add in the remaining Creme Egg pieces and process the ice cream in the maker according to the manufacturer’s instructions.Most ice cream makers will require a processing time of 20 to 30 minutes.
 When the ice cream maker has finished its cycle, transfer the chilled mixture to a plastic container with a tight-fitting lid. Let the ice cream harden in the freezer for an additional four hours before serving.Alternatively, you can also serve the ice cream soft-serve style fresh out of the ice cream maker. Transfer leftovers to a plastic container and store in the freezer.

