 Before the field trip, talk with the teacher about their expectations of you for the field trip. They will likely need your help finding chaperones for the event. In many schools, the room parent’s field trip responsibilities are generally limited to finding parent chaperones. Do not overstep the teacher or the school’s guidelines for the field trip.


As room parent, you might approach the teacher about helping by asking them if it would be alright if you took on some responsibilities. Try saying something like “would you like some help organizing the field trip?” or “please let me know if you need any help.”

, Depending on the school’s policies, you will likely need to find a specific number of chaperones for a field trip. Using your list of emails or the online site, you should begin contacting parents about chaperoning at least a month prior to the field trip. Ideally, you should have parents sign up for chaperoning responsibilities at the beginning of the year.If you can, consider rotating chaperones so that you do not have the same people monopolizing activities.
 Your main responsibility as a chaperone is to maintain the safety of the children and help them enjoy the field trip. Because of this, it is important that you do not get too distracted and neglect the students. If you are assigned a group of children to watch over, make sure that you keep a watchful eye on them.Consider taking frequent head counts of the children.
Make sure that you know where restrooms and first aid stations are located.
Be sure to let the teacher know if you take any child away from the group, including your own.
 Besides keeping the children safe, your other goal is to help facilitate the learning experience. Answer any student questions and engage with the field trip activities. However, do not distract from the learning experience. Interact with the guide or teacher, but do not interrupt them or contradict the information they are conveying.If you have concerns about the content being presented, talk to the teacher or guide about it in private. Do not confront them in front of the children.

