 Hedges have been used in all forms of landscaping for literally thousands of years. They are a single barrier of plants that can be evergreen or deciduous, and act as a boundary - they can hide your garden from your neighbor's and contain garden areas. They can even be used to pen in livestock, or make a maze!;
, A multitude of plants are available at all good garden centers and nurseries:

Beech - a traditional hedge plant. Easy to maintain and acts a perfect foil to show other plants against without endangering them. A beech hedge requires clipping 3 or 4 times a year with a set of good sharp shears, or petrol-driven (gas) trimmers or even electric trimmers.







Horn beam - another traditional hedge plant. Easy to maintain and acts a perfect foil to show other plants against without endangering them. A hornbeam hedge requires clipping 3 or 4 times a year with a set of good sharp shears, or petrol-driven (gas) trimmers or even electric trimmers.







Twisted hazel - something different. It is informal and doesn't need precise clipping and still provides an effective barrier. It will lose leaves, but it really comes into its own in the winter, showing off its twisted stems.







Holly plants - if you want something evergreen, then alternative holly plants are a good start, such as variegated holly. They come in an array of colors from greens, yellows, creams, and even whites. They might even fruit if you are lucky. These prefer to be clipped more frequently to keep a regular shape, perhaps pyramidal, to shed off any excess water and snow.
 Smaller plants that only grow to a maximum of two feet in height can create a border effect rather than a barrier, just containing a garden bed zone rather than the whole garden.

Box hedge - (buxom) a traditional box hedge can be used formally or informally.







Fuchsia - this is an option, but it must be cut down to nothing each year, ready to grow strongly again in the following season, meaning that you will not have a border hedge for a short part of the year.







Berbers - for something more permanent, a berber is dense, has prickles, retains its structure and provides attractive color.
 Whatever you use, make sure it suits your location, aspect, and soil. Consult your garden centre for more information. Have a really good look around your garden centre and your local parks and botanical gardens for inspiration.

