 Some bugs are attracted to certain scents, or just the fact that something smells different from what they’re use to. Avoid wearing any perfume or scented lotions and creams when outdoors., Insect repellent comes in both spray and lotion formats. Use insect repellent before going outdoors to help prevent bugs from landing on you in the first place. The spray is easier to cover your whole body, as it can also be sprayed directly onto your clothing. However, the lotion can be applied directly to your skin and can be targeted at exposed areas.Read the instructions for the repellent lotion as to whether you can use it on your face. Never apply it near your eyes.
Insect repellent that contains DEET is the most effective.
Wait at least 30 minutes before applying the repellent if you’ve just applied sunscreen.
 In addition to wearing long-sleeved shirts and long pants, you can also wear clothing specifically designed to keep the bugs out. This special clothing includes a hat with thin netting that comes down to cover your face, neck, and shoulders. If you’re going to an area with a lot of bugs, this might be a better option than repellent.You can also tuck your pants into your socks to keep the bugs from biting your ankles.
 Water that’s built up in puddles and ditches, or any water that isn’t moving with a current, can become breeding grounds for mosquito eggs. If there’s standing water on your property, remove it to help eliminate the possibility of mosquitoes. If you’re outdoors, avoid areas with standing water if you can., Candles made with citronella, linalool, and geraniol have all been shown to keep bugs, mainly mosquitoes, away. In fact, there are studies that show citronella reduces the number of female mosquitoes in the area by 35%, linalool reduces the number by 65%, and geraniol reduces the number by 82%!They even make citronella-scented badges that you can wear on your clothing.
 There are some essential oils that are known to help repel bugs, and when combined with water can be applied to your skin to help keep the bugs away. You can also try an essential oil diffuser instead of a candle.The following essential oils work to repel bugs: eucalyptus, clove, citronella, neem oil or cream, and camphor and menthol gels.
If you’re applying a solution directly to your skin, be careful to keep it away from your eyes.

