 Essential oils are a watery and clear liquid that generally isn’t oily. They come from different parts of plants like lavender or chamomile and can be used for a host of different physical and psychological ailments. Because they are highly concentrated, you only need a small amount to reap an essential oil’s benefits., Although there are no specific guidelines on the best age to start using essential oils, some people suggest not using them on babies under 3 months. Use your best judgment when considering essential oils for your baby. Remember that these powerful oils could be too strong for your baby’s skin or delicate respiratory system.Speak to your doctor or naturopathic doctor about using essential oils on your baby if you have any questions or concerns.Ask other moms about their experiences using essential oils on their babies. They may have suggestions about the best way to reap the benefits of essential oils without exposing your baby to toxic substances.
 A three month old baby is still relatively new to the world and accordingly delicate. There are only a few essential oils safe for topical use or diffusion on babies. You should only use 1-2 drops of the following essential oils per ounce of carrier oil on your baby:Chamomile
Dill
Lavender
Blue Yarrow

, Just like younger babies, those six months and older still have delicate skin and respiratory systems. However, you can use additional essential oils both topically and by diffusion on babies six months and older. Use only 3-5 drops of the following essential oils per ounce of carrier oil on your baby:Bergamot
Carrot seed
Cedarwood
Cinnamon bark, for diffusion only
Cinnamon leaf
Citronella
Coriander
Cypress
Fir needle
Geranium
Lemon, for diffusion only
Mandarin
Neroli
Palma Rosa
Pine
Rose Otto
Sandalwood
Spruce
Tangerine
Tea Tree

, While there are many essential oils you could select for your baby, there are also choices that you should always avoid for your baby. These can harm your baby’s skin and respiratory health. Stay away from the following essential oils:Cajuput
Chaste tree
Clove bud, leaf, or stem
Eucalyptus
Lemon leaf
Lemongrass
Marjoram
Oregano
Peppermint
Rosemary
Wintergreen

, Every essential oil has different properties that may not be ideal for many users, including babies. Because of this, it’s important to read the label of any essential oil you choose for your baby. The packaging can give you information on contraindications and dosing for babies.


Make sure that the label says the essential oil is 100% pure and natural essential oil. Adulterated essential oils may be more likely to harm your baby., You should never use a “neat” or undiluted oil on your baby. Carrier oils dilute the potency of your essential oil and can also help moisturize your baby’s skin. Mild oils such as coconut, almond, avocado, olive, or vegetable are excellent choices as a carrier for your essential oil.Mix 1-3 teaspoons of carrier oil with 1-5 of drops of essential oil, depending on your baby’s age. Use 1-2 drops for babies under six months and 3-5 if your baby is older.
Avoid diluting essential oils with water or other liquids because they may not make the mixture adequately mild for your baby.
 Before you use the essential oil on your baby, it’s important to do a skin patch of the oil mixture. Put 1-2 drops of diluted essential oil on the inside of your baby's elbow. Watch carefully for any reaction, particularly difficulty breathing or a change in alertness. If no reaction develops and you see no skin irritation after 24 hours, it should be safe to use on your baby. , The only two safe ways to use essential oils for babies are topical application and diffusing the scent. Never give a baby an essential oil internally or expose the scent directly to the nose and mouth.Apply the oil topically by bath or with a soothing massage. This can soothe and calm your baby, especially before bedtime. Be aware that many babies' sensitive skin and using an essential oil in bathwater may be too intense for them. Instead, you could try a massage with a mixture of essential and carrier oil.
Choose diffusion if you don’t want to apply anything to your baby’s skin. Diffusion means heating the oil and letting the scent waft through your baby’s room or your home. The scent can soothe and calm your baby as well. However, you should never use diffusion on any baby with a respiratory disease or asthma.
 Diffusers heat or cool your essential oil of choice so that the scent can circulate through your baby’s room. Remember to not leave the diffuser heating overnight to prevent fires.


Consider a cold air vaporizer for the best results with essential oils. Use the same mixture of essential oil and carrier oil when you add it to the diffuser.You can diffuse the oil for up to 15 minutes every hour for best results.Be aware that humidifiers break up essential oils into tiny parts so that you can inhale them. Because inhaling essential oils this can be dangerous for a baby, avoid diffusing the oil in a humidifier or other product not designated for use with an essential oil.Make your own diffuser by putting your chosen essential/ carrier oil mixture in a bowl of hot water. Place it in an area that your baby can’t reach to prevent scalding., Although many essential oils are safe for your baby, your baby may still react poorly to them. Keeping an eye out for signs of a possible allergic reaction to an essential oil can ensure you get prompt and proper medical care for your baby. Seek immediate medical attention if you see any of the following signs of an allergic reaction:


Redness
Hives
Blisters
Red or warm skin
Itching
Scratchy throat
SwellingRed eyes
Respiratory distress