 The easiest and cheapest way to chemically coat your paper with flame retardants is buying it rather than making it. There are sprays and chemicals available at home improvement stores and on the internet. Follow the directions on the packaging for coating paper.


Avoid products that have noxious or toxic chemicals. Since you will likely be keeping this paper in your home, confining chemicals in your living area may be hazardous to your health. Do not buy products labeled ‘poison,’ ‘warning,’ or ‘danger.’, If you want to make your own flame resistant coating, you can do it with a couple chemicals. You can find boric acid powder in many insecticides and repellents. Borax is available by itself, as it is often used as a ‘detergent booster.’You will also need a gallon bucket and some warm water to mix the compound. Finally, get together a towel to test your solution and a clean paintbrush (or spray bottle) to apply the solution.
 Put 50 grams of boric acid powder and 60 grams of borax into a half gallon of hot water. Use a stirring implement like a wooden spoon or stick to dissolve the powders into the water. It is advisable to use an implement you can immediately throw away. You certainly shouldn’t use an implement you cook with., Put the rag or cloth into the bucket and soak it thoroughly. Hang it outside to dry and wait until it is completely dry. When it is dry, hold a flame under one of the corners. The cloth should turn black, but if it burns, you did not add enough powder. Play with the amounts of each chemical you added to get a combination that works.


Use a fresh cloth every time you tweak the measurements.
 You will need to soak the paper thoroughly with the solution to make it flame resistant. Use the paint brush, spray bottle, or other implement (use your imagination) to make sure you cover every inch of the paper with plenty of solution.


You can even try soaking the paper in the solution. Put it in a tray and submerge the paper, as with developing and printing photographs.

