 This could be your school backpack or even a duffel bag, as long as it's an appropriate size to be able to hold any necessary items. Before packing, check your bag for any tears or signs that it's falling apart; otherwise, it might rip and cause all your belongings to spill out.;
, Once you have found a bag, pack a change of clothes and extra underwear for the next day, but make sure to check the weather ahead of time before deciding on an outfit. If it's cold, toss in a sweater or cardigan in case you need it.
 You can bring your favorite pajamas or some old clothes as long as you feel comfortable in them. However, make sure that your sleep attire is appropriate and that your top isn't too loose or low since you'll be with other people. You should also be sure that you won't feel embarrassed about others seeing your pajamas; if you feel uncomfortable at the thought of bringing them, choose another pair or simply bring an old T-shirt and comfortable pants.
 If you're planning on wearing sneakers, you'll most likely need them for the next day, as your old pair may smell bad. You may also want to bring a pair of flip-flops in case you want to feel comfortable or something happens to your shoes. You should also consider the weather and what activities you and your friends may participate in - that will help you choose the right pair of shoes to bring or wear.
 These necessary items include a toothbrush, toothpaste, hairbrush/comb, makeup for the day, makeup wipes, and deodorant. You may also want to bring your facial cleansing products. It's best to mentally go through your morning and night routines so that you can decide what items you'll need to bring. If it helps, make a checklist and go through it to ensure that you don't forget anything important.
 Make sure that you have your cellphone in case you need to contact your parents or an emergency occurs. You can also bring your iPod and chargers if necessary, although charging all your electronic devices the day before can help save space in your bag. If you want to take some pictures with your friends, you could also bring a camera or simply use your phone.
 Being familiar with your temporary sleeping arrangements is essential, as it helps you decide what items you'll need to bring for a good night's rest. If your friend will be giving you a bed, you won't need to bring anything, although you could pack a pillow or blanket if you want to.
 If you won't be provided with a bed, you'll need to bring any necessary items to make sure you'll be comfortable on the floor. Along with a sleeping bag, you should also bring a pillow and one or two blankets to keep you warm and cozy.
 This is recommended if this is your first time sleeping away from home or it makes you feel safer, as having a soft cuddly toy with you can help soothe your fears and worries. Although you may feel embarrassed about bringing one, remember that you have every right to do what you want as long as it makes you happy and doesn't harm anyone. If your friends are truly there for you, they will understand and not hurt your feelings. However, if they do tease you, firmly tell them to stop and ask that they respect your decision.
 Sleepovers can quickly become boring if there are no fun activities to participate in. It's best to bring along a game that can keep everyone entertained and allow you to bond with them. You could also play games on your phone if you like, although you should use it sparingly in case you need to make an important call or an emergency occurs.

