 Though this can be hard for older folks to keep in mind, kids don’t care nearly as much about the score as some parents do. While emotional expression following a win or loss will be evident, kids are less likely to obsess about the outcome of a game. It’s for more often the case that they just want to physically express themselves, socialize with friends, and - perhaps most of all - have fun.In fact, the difference between adult and child priorities is often a significant factor in kids losing interest.
For example, when talking about a game later in the day, don’t mention the score. Instead, mention specific things a kid did well, or moments when it seemed as though they were having fun.
As an example, “That pass you sent across the baseline was brilliant. What a great angle!”

, It’s usually the parents that keep bringing up the score or the child’s position on the team, but it can be a lot more constructive and supportive to simply ask how they’re enjoying the sports they’re involved in. For instance, ask something like, “How’d practice go today?”It’s perfectly okay to offer advice too, though it should always come with acknowledgements of what your kid is doing well. Also, the more specific your comments, the more helpful they will be.
For instance, instead of saying, “You could definitely throw further if you wanted,” say something like, “It seems like you’ve been getting to the ball more often and have been making some solid throws. Have you considered using your shoulder more on the long throws?”

, One of the best ways to encourage your kid’s participation and improvement is by enjoying a sport with them. Passing a baseball or soccer ball back and forth in the yard not only gives you quality time together, it also offers the chance to talk about different ways to execute different movements.Do some research to supplement your own knowledge too. If, for instance, you don’t know how to shoot a basketball but your kid is increasingly interested in the sport, watch some YouTube videos about proper shooting form. That way, next time you’re shooting around together, you can offer some helpful, supportive advice.
 Just don’t do it. You’re talking about a children’s sports team. Your kid is also very likely already comparing themselves to everyone around them, and what they need is your support.Instead, encourage kids to set and achieve personal goals. For instance, recording and working to improve their mile time incrementally, or learning a new ball handling move once a week are constructive, achievable goals.
Remind your kid that no one is perfect whenever it seems necessary to do so. Simply say something like, “Making mistakes is part of getting better at something, and everyone does it. I’m proud of you for sticking with it.”
It may also help to recommend a way to move past mistakes. For instance, tell a kid to try something like making a fist each time something doesn’t go their way, and slowly releasing the tension while letting the frustration go too.
 If signs of burnout develop, sit down with your kid to talk about how they’re feeling about the sports they’re involved in. Never force them to continue participating in a sport that is causing them distress.Specific signs of burnout include excuses to skip practice or competitions, never mentioning the sport, and a lack of excitement about participating in activities on and off the field.
If your kid is tired all of the time, isn’t eating well, has lost their appetite, or suffers from frequent nausea and headaches, these may be signs of depression. Encourage them to take it easy for a while, and ask if they’d like to see someone they could talk to about anything they wanted. If so, set up an appointment for them to meet with a mental health professional.

