 Fill a pitcher with 15 ounces (425.243 grams) of water and add two bags of cold brew green tea. Leave the pitcher in the fridge overnight. Squeeze the bags the next morning, then discard them.Green tea is a great substitute for water thanks to its antioxidant properties.
If you don't want to use green tea, you can skip this step and use plain water instead.
 Use a digital scale to measure out 11.8 ounces (334.52 grams) of the prepared green tea. Pour it into a heat-safe pitcher.You can drink any leftover tea, discard it, or use it in another recipe.

You must measure the water by weight. Don't use a measuring glass.
If you don't want to use green tea, fill the pitcher with 11.8 ounces (334.52 grams) of water instead.
 Put on a pair of safety goggles and heavy-duty rubber gloves. The type that you use to clean your kitchen work well. Open up a window. If you are working over your stove, turn on the exhaust fan. Lye is caustic, and the solution in the next step will get hot; it will also produce fumes., Use the digital scale to measure out 4.9 ounces (138.91 grams) of lye (sodium hydroxide). Slowly add the lye into the pitcher. Give the solution a stir with a plastic or wooden spoon.Never add water to lye, or the solution will erupt., Use the digital scale to measure out the oils and the butters first. Stir them together in a stainless steel pot, then melt them on the stove over medium heat.Do not use an aluminum pot for this., Once that happens, stir the sodium lactate to the lye solution. Mix the turmeric powder into the oil-and-butter mixture using a stick blender.If you are using a wooden soap mold, use this time to line it with parchment paper.
 Use a stick blender to mix the two together. When the mixture reaches a light trace, you can add a fragrance oil if you want to., Once that happens, you are ready to add it to your mold. You have to work quickly during the next few steps as the soap base will start to set., The soap will likely form a rippled texture on top, similar to whipped cream. If you don't want this, use a rubber spatula to smooth it down. For extra texture, you could add a sprinkle of calendula petals on top of the soap., Cover the soap with plastic wrap, then place a folded towel or blanket on top. If you are using a wooden mold, wait 1 day before continuing. If you are using a silicone mold, wait 2 to 3 days., Carefully de-mold the soap. Cut the soap into 10 to 12 bars. If you used a silicone mold, remove it, then wait 1 day before cutting it. If you used smaller molds to make individual bars, you don't have to cut them., Place the soap someplace out of the way where it won't get disturbed, bumped, or moved. Once the soap has cured, it is ready to use.