 The subjunctive is used to express sentences like "I want you to do something," "It is necessary that we talk," or "she hopes that he ______." Unfortunately, there is no real subjunctive tense in English to compare with the French. The easiest way to comprehend the subjunctive is to read French and speak to French speakers, noting where they use it.The most common phrases that use subjunctive are "il faut que + pronoun + subjunctive verb" ("It's necessary that someone does (verb)") and "je veux que + pronoun + subjunctive verb" ("I want someone to do (verb)")

, Before conjugating any subjunctive phrase, remember that the subjunctive tense always begins with "que," which translates as "that" or "who/whom."


Examples: Il faut que, (it is necessary that), aimer mieux que (prefer that)

, This works for irregular verbs as well. Start conjugating subjunctive by dropping the "-ent" from the plural 3rd person verb form. The same same thing happens in English: the stem of "to walk," for example, is walk (walk, walks, walked, walking, etc.). Examples include:


Parler: Parlent → "parl"

Finir: Finissent → finniss"

Entendre: Entendent → "entend"'


, There is only one set of endings for the subjunctive tense in French. They are "-e, -es, -e, -ions, -iez, -ent." Remember to add the "que" as well. The following examples translate the phrase "it is necessary that (I, you, she, they, etc.) talks."



First person: "-e." Il faut que je parle → It is necessary that I talk.


Second person: "-es." Il faut que tu parles → It is necessary that you talk.


Third person: "-e" Il faut que il parle → it is necessary that he talks.


Plural first person: "-ions." Il faut que nous parlions → It is necessary that we talk.


Plural second person: "-iez."Il faut que vous parliez → It is necessary that you all talk.

Plural third person: "-ent."Il faut que elles parlent → It is necessary that they talk.
 Any verb that does not end in "-ent" in the present tense 3rd person plural ("They," or "Ils/Elles") has an irregular stem. Luckily, the endings are still the same. Some common verbs include:


Faire → fass-"

Savoir &rarr: sach-

Pouvoir → puiss-


Advanced Tip:' There are also several words that have two stems -- one singular and one plural. In this case, use the nous form, minus "-ons" and the same ending (Ex. buvoir &rarr: boiv & buv), These are the only two verbs that are completely different in the subjunctive. Unfortunately, they are also some of the most common words in French. To conjugate them:



Etre: je sois, tu sois, il soit, nous soyons, vous soyez, elles soient.

Avoir: j'aie, tu aies, il ait, nous ayons, vous ayez, elles aient.

