 The person at the funeral home or cremation facility who is handling the deceased's remains is responsible for filling out the death certificate, having it signed by a coroner, doctor or medical examiner, and then filing it with the state.


If you are too emotional to call, ask a family friend or acquaintance to call for you.;
, Though you will be focused mostly on grieving in the aftermath of a loved one's death, someone must nevertheless call the preparer and provide the following information:Full name and address
Birth date and birthplace
The name and birthplace of father and mother
Complete or partial Social Security number
Veteran’s discharge or claim number
Education
Marital status and name of surviving spouse, if there was one
The cause of death, as well as the date, place, and time of death

, Most states specify that the death certificate must be completed and filed within ten days of a person's death. The funeral home or cremation organization is responsible for filing the certificate, but you can ask them to make sure it's filed in time.
 Ask for 10 or more copies, since you will need them in order to claim property or benefits that were in the deceased person's name.You will need an authorized, "certified" death certificate to claim insurance benefits or settle an estate. An "informational," or uncertified, death certificate is not adequate for legal purposes.The death certificate which is sufficient to prove legal identity will be called different things in different states. In most states, this death certificate, sufficient for legal purposes such as claiming life insurance benefits, is called the “certified” death certificate. California, however, calls both its “authorized” and informational death certificates “certified.” Californians need the “authorized” certificate for legal purposes. To make sure you have the right death certificate, tell the preparer that you need it for legal reasons, such as closing an estate.
On average, each copy will cost around $15.

