"Using the Sniper is the best way to cold call when you are trying to make larger dollar sales to a smaller group of companies.


The Sniper spends a lot of time on each prospect, to get the perfect sales pitch for each one.
You will typically find a Sniper at companies selling expensive products that need a custom sales pitch for each customer.
 Do this just as if you were a Smile and Dial sales person.
 Once that you identify that a company is a good fit, find more information about the prospect before contacting them.


Have a look at their website and news to get a better feel for the company. Jot down a few key facts that may be useful in your conversation.
Learn all you can about what your buyer is looking for. In addition to web research, you can usually talk to someone fairly low down the corporate ladder to get this information. You can often find them on Linkedin. They will typically be a lot easier to get through to than the decision maker.
 Finally, you are ready to contact your decision maker!


Read over your notes and scripts before calling.
Figure out a good time to call. Many sales reps swear by calling their prospects early in the morning or at the end of the day. Senior executives are extremely busy so catching them before their meetings start for the day or after they finish is your best bet. In addition, you are more likely to get through to them rather than hitting voice mail or getting their assistant. This also leaves the rest of the day for managing your existing clients and active prospects.
 Leaving a message is usually not recommended unless you really can't catch them live.


If you leave a voice mail and they don’t respond, how many more can you leave without it seeming like harassment?
If someone does call you back, you may be caught unprepared (what did he say his last name was? What company does he work for? What was the message I left?), this can lead to you feeling flustered and lacking control over the conversation.
If you have tried getting hold of someone for several weeks without success, leave a voice message as a last resort. Put a post it note on your computer screen with the names of people you have left messages for with their company names so that you at least have some advantage and make sure that your script is close at hand.
 Truly, it would nice if there were no administrative assistants and you could get through to the decision maker every time. But, many admins are will be very helpful if you ask them nicely.


Ask the receptionist if your ‘contact’ has an assistant; if so, ask for his or her name and enter it in your CRM system.
If reception puts you through to your prospect and you get his or her voice mail, hit “0” to speak to the assistant.
Sound very busy and professional. For example, say “Hi Joan, its Fred Smith. I just got John Doe’s voice mail. Is he in the office today?” If she responds with “Yes, but he’s in a meeting,” ask what time he is likely to be free.
If the assistant asks what is this about, respond if possible with a single word i.e., ‘controls.’ Before he or she gets a chance to ask more, ask if your contact be available later that morning or afternoon. Nine times out of ten the assistant will give you this information, and you will save time by not calling people who are out of the office. If the assistant asks to take a message, you may want to say, “Actually, I’m in and out of meetings all day myself. To avoid telephone tag, I’ll just try John a little later."
Make sure you keep a good record of the results from your calls. You want to review them before contacting the prospect at a later date, or before any face to face meeting.
 Develop a follow-up system that is foolproof so that you don’t have to think about it. If you make a promise to send someone information or say you will call in 2 weeks, then you need some way of tracking that to ensure you don’t forget.
 Staying in touch with your prospects is crucial to staying ‘top of mind.’ After so much hard work, you don’t want to risk losing a piece of business because you prospect didn’t think about you when they made their decision to buy. Here are a few ideas:


Newsletters are an effective means of staying in touch as long as the information is relevant to the prospect and their industry
Special offers and promotions that are time sensitive
Events and trade show invitations
Holiday cards

