 Mushroom tikka can be made with a wide variety of types of mushrooms.


White button mushrooms are a good choice for this dish. They are easy to find in almost any grocery store and they hold up well to the heat and the marinade.;
, You will need to add a variety of spices to flavor the mushrooms.
 You will need normal cooking utensils, such as a bowl and knife, as well as a way to grill the mushrooms. The grilling can be done in an oven, on a grill pan, or on a barbecue, whichever you have available.
 Mushrooms are notoriously hard to clean and, because they grow so close to the dirt, they are usually quite dirty. Be delicate when cleaning them but be sure to get all the dirt off. Once clean, place them in a bowl.


If you prefer smaller pieces in general, slice the mushrooms into half lengthwise.
 Add the spices, flour, and oil to the bowl, except for the chaat masala and the lemon juice. Mix the whole thing so that the mushrooms are covered completely with the seasoning.


Let the mushrooms marinate for at least a half hour.This will give time for the spices to really absorb into the mushrooms.
 Don't pack them too tightly together. They should have a little separation so that the heat can get to all the sides of the mushrooms.


You can use wood or metal skewers. If you use wood skewers, soak them in water for an hour before using. This way they will be less likely to burn during the grilling process.
 This can be done in the oven, on a fry pan, or on a barbecue, if you prefer.


To grill the mushroom skewers in the oven, simply place the ends of the skewers over the ends of a baking pan, so that the mushrooms are elevated in the middle of the pan. Preheat your oven to 350 degrees and bake until the mushrooms look brown, about 25-30 minutes.To pan fry the mushroom tikka, heat a grilling pan on medium-high heat and put in coat in with oil. Cook the mushrooms until they are light brown in color, turning them over in the pan once to make sure both sides get browned.
To barbecue the mushrooms you will need to preheat your grill to medium high heat and grease the grate before placing the mushrooms on. Cook them until they are brown and softened a bit. Keep an eye on them, as cooking times will vary.
 Once on a plate, sprinkle them with the chaat masala and the lemon juice.You can serve the mushrooms over rice or as a side dish for any meal.


Mushroom tikka also makes a wonderful hors d'oeuvre.To make them into individual bites that you can serve at a party, place the mushrooms on a tray with an individual toothpick in each one.
 You can easily use the mushrooms to prepare another dish, such as mushroom tikka masala. Simply use the cooked mushroom tikka to replace the protein in a recipe you already love or try a new recipe for masala sauce and add the mushrooms to it at the end.

