 The benefit of using a sunless tanning product for freckles is that they can last for up to a week. But since your skin naturally secretes an oily substance, you must prep the skin in order to make the sunless tanner adhere.


Wash your face using a gentle foaming cleanser, then exfoliate your face thoroughly. Use a toner to remove any remaining residue or oiliness.
Do not apply any lotion or other products to the skin once its nice and clean. Just allow it to dry thoroughly.
 Spray tan works very well, or try a foaming mousse. You will want to get a product that is at least several shades darker than your skin tone.


Dispense a small amount of tanning product into a small dish or palate.
 Be sure that you avoid eyes and lips, blend at hairlines, and extend down the neck.


Since natural freckles are darkened areas of your natural skin, this layer of self tanner applied across your face will help the freckles to appear more natural because they will be in the range of your skin's coloring.
Allow this layer to dry briefly before proceeding.



Start with just a few, and add more until you get the look you want.
Press gently on the surface of the dots with your index fingers to help them appear more natural and less regular and round in appearance. Vary the pressure to make some appear darker and some lighter, as natural freckles would.
Allow to dry thoroughly. To extend the life of your freckles, do not exfoliate your skin for at least a week, or until the freckles fade naturally.
 If you're feeling extra bold or want a very obvious freckle look, you can take a cue from the fashion runway and literally splatter the sunless tanner over your face.You'll probably want to enlist the help of a friend to get this look right without making a huge mess!


Dispense a pump of self-tanner into a shallow bowl (foam tanner works great for this method). Using a large kabuki-style makeup brush, dip the bristles in about half an inch then gently blot it on a paper towel once to remove excess drips.
Be sure you are either nude or wearing junk clothing you don't mind staining.
Standing in a shower or outside, have your friend splatter the sunless tanner toward your face and decollete. The more splattering, the more dramatic the look.
Use just enough sunless tanner to splatter but not enough for it to drip down your skin! Try practicing on a piece of newspaper or even on your thighs to be sure you have the right amount of product. (Thighs are great because you can just blend the tanner in after practicing!)

