 If there is a junkyard under government administration, the municipality can direct you to the nearest site. Although most junkyards are privately owned, there may be a county- or state-owned yard near you.


Check with your local Department of Transportation, as these departments are often the most knowledgeable about junkyard locations.;
, If you’re new to the area, people in your community may know the locations for junkyards, scrap yards or salvage yards.


Some locals may even know the hours of operation, the rates, and any relevant rules imposed by the junkyard when car owners drop off their used vehicles.
 You may need to look under each category, as some businesses only list their information in one section. Regardless of the size of the junkyard, most will list their phone number in the local yellow pages.


Yellow pages are becoming increasingly outdated and difficult to find. However, since many junkyards are small businesses and may not have an online presence, the yellow pages can still be useful by providing a junkyard’s address and phone number.
 There are multiple sites which allow you to locate junkyards in your area.Some of these sites are sophisticated enough to allow you to search for a specific item or car part in a junkyard’s inventory.


Start with a Google Maps search. This may turn up more results than you expect.
Check junkyard-specific sites, such as iJunkyard, UsedPartsCentral, or JunkyardLocator.
Look at a national directory for salvage yards. You should be able to find a directory online. Some directories will list junkyards by specialty, which can help you need to find a specific item.
Visit an online junkyard or salvage yard locator’s website to find a location near you. Type in the state, city, or zip code in which you live and check the results.
 This will provide you with immediate information regarding the location and size of the junkyard. However, you may need to call or visit the junkyard to know which (if any) product or vehicle types the yard specializes in.


You may see evidence of the junk, such as used cars, before you see any signs for the business.
 Not all types of junkyards are identical—some specialize in vehicles—or even specific makes of cars—while others are a catch-all for discarded machinery and electronic equipment.Consider if you’d like:


A “DIY” recycling yard. These let you choose your own parts—even ones already attached to vehicles—and mix-and-match whatever you need. Junkyards of this type often have a broad inventory.
A repair shop. These typically sell exclusively vehicle parts, although the cars and parts themselves may be in poor condition. That said, the staff will likely be knowledgeable about vehicle repairs and alterations.
A salvage yard. While salvage yards provide freedom to search for any part you like—and often yield unexpected finds—they may be filled with rusting cars and useless parts.
 Many junkyards allow you to find your own items or vehicle parts—even if the part is currently attached to another vehicle. You can then disassemble the item or remove any vehicle parts that you need.


Self-service yards are useful as they allow you to inspect parts before purchasing.If a self-service yard has multiple identical parts, you can look them over and choose whichever part you prefer.
 If you cannot find a junkyard that allows you to serve yourself, or if you are relatively inexperienced with car repairs/alterations and need the assistance of a professional, consider visiting a full-service junkyard.These yards let you request the part you want. The junkyard staff then finds the piece and brings it to you, with a fee added for their labor.
 For example, many junkyards and salvage yards specialize in old cars and car parts. (Some will deal only with the specialized item.)


It’s best to find as specific of a junkyard as you can.By finding a junkyard that contains the exact type of product you’re looking for (car engine, microwave, etc.), you save yourself time and energy when you search for the actual part.
You may be able to find a junkyard by looking for the recycling centers that accept the specific item you need.
 Once you’ve found a specific junkyard, you can frequently find out if they have the part(s) you need online. Many junkyards are well organized, and a database search will provide specific information about parts and products in stock.You should have a specific idea of what you want—i.e., “a left door for a 2004 Honda Pilot,” not “a car door.”
If the junkyard does not have an online database, call the junkyard office directly. Often the manager will be able to tell you if a certain part is in stock on the lot.
 This is the most common way to find parts at a junkyard, although it can be time consuming.Before you start walking through the junkyard lot, check and see if the lot is organized by type of product, make and model of vehicle, or year.


Wear an old pair of jeans and a shirt that can get dirty. Also bring a pair of thick work gloves with you.
Never assume that junkyard products are in good condition. Examine the parts thoroughly before buying anything. When in doubt, ask the junkyard attendant or manager to appraise the condition of a part you’d like to buy.

