 When you begin walking, you might want to walk at only a moderate pace for about 10 to 15 minutes each night. You don’t need to walk continuously when accruing this time. You could, for instance, walk to the store for seven or eight minutes, do some shopping, then walk home over another seven or eight minutes., Assessing your fitness level is especially important before walking for exercise at night if you are sedentary or have health issues. The easiest way to assess your fitness level is to see a doctor. Your doctor can tell you what your physical capabilities and limits are based on your age, weight, health, and lifestyle., Walking for fitness requires you to keep your head up, back straight, and eyes forward. Keep your arms relaxed at your sides. You can pump them a little, but don’t clench them too close to your body. Tighten your stomach slightly but keep your neck and shoulders relaxed.Don’t lift your feet like a marching soldier. Instead, roll your foot off the ground from the heel to the toes.
 Once you get close to the end of your walking route, slow your pace slightly. Walk slowly for the last five minutes of your walk. This will help your muscles relax and provide a brief cooldown period.Once you arrive at home, do a few simple stretches. For instance, rotate your neck and tilt your head from side to side. Bend down and try to touch your toes. Put your right arm over your head and tilt your body to the left. Hold the pose for 20 seconds, then repeat on the opposite side.
 As you improve your pace and become more familiar with your route, you could increase the benefits you gain from walking. For instance, you could walk faster if your goal is to burn more calories. You could also extend your route and walk for a longer time each night. Walking for a longer period will also burn more calories compared to walking for a shorter period.Never push yourself too hard or increase speed at the cost of personal safety.
Aim to walk at least 10,000 steps each day.

