 Clean your room of debris and residue to make sure that there is nothing that will interfere with your tiles. Each tile needs to lay perfectly flat to install properly, so even small bits of dust and junk can throw them out of alignment.


Sweep and dust the area thoroughly.
After, if there is highly resistant dirt or grit, it's a good idea to mop or clean the floor with some kind of solvent.;
, Connecting the two sets of opposite corners of the room, create a chalk "X".


The center of "X" is the perfect center of the room.
 Once you have drawn these four chalk lines, measure them. Divide these measurements in half, respectively.


The resulting number will identify the midpoint of each individual wall.
This can vary because each wall can be a different length, but generally, there will be two matching sets of measurements.
 Using the midpoints you found on the walls, connect each midpoint to its opposing midpoint in order to create a cross through the center of the floor.


Now, you should have a four-sided box, with two diagonal lines connecting the corners and creating an "X" in the middle, and two perpendicular lines connecting the midpoints of the four individual sides and creating a cross shape in the middle.
These lines will ensure that your tiles remain on course and straight as you lay them.
 On the backside of each tile there is a a directional arrow. You need to choose which direction you want your tiles to face, based on the pattern you wish to achieve.


If you don't lay your tiles with the arrows facing the same direction, you may inadvertently alter the final pattern created by your tiles.
You can choose to lay your tiles on a left right axis or forward back axis.
If you want to intentionally change the look of your pattern, you can, but do so only after understanding that it will look different than advertised.
 Take your first tile, and lay it at the intersection of your chalk lines.


Make sure two sides of the first tile, forming a right angle, fit flush with the vertical line and horizontal line.
The exact corner of the tile should touch the center point of the floor.
 Lay out all your tiles, taking care that the edges of your completed carpet are equidistant from the walls.


Each time, position the tiles along the lines. Keep putting down the tiles until you reach the edges of the room.
Once you get close to the wall, you can use your carpenter’s square, sharpie, and a razor knife to cut the tiles to fit perfectly flush against the wall.
Although not essential for proper installation, an equidistant look is aesthetically pleasing.
 With your installation kit, you received a package of FLOR dots. These are one-sided adhesive circles that are meant to connect the floor tiles to one another. Raise the corners of each adjacent tile to get a corner of the tile attached to its dot.


Each tile's corner should cover 1/4th of a dot, to make sure there is room for the other three connecting tiles.
If it's only two tiles being connected, you can move the dots inward to hide the edges from view.
These dots are meant to adhere to each tile, not to the floor.
Once you’ve got them connected, gently press down and step on each corner to make sure the adhesive is sticking properly.
You have a few hours to make sure everything is put down correctly, during which you can still remove and reposition the tiles if you have to.
 Your FLOR tiles do not require any special treatment, beyond what you would do for regular carpet.


However, an advantage to FLOR tiles is that if you stain one permanently, you can simply buy one new tile instead of throwing away the whole carpet.

