 While there are all kinds of safety measures you can take, there’s no substitute for parental supervision. You can’t supervise your toddler every minute, but watch them as closely as possible when they are up and about.

Take extra care to watch your toddler in hazardous areas, like around windows and stairs, in the kitchen, or in the bathtub.
Watch your toddler closely around furniture that they might be able to climb, like chairs, tables, and dressers.;
, A lot of falls and other accidents can be prevented simply by keeping your toddler away from stairs and other hazards in the home. Put safety gates at the tops and bottoms of stairs, or in the entrances to rooms that contain other potential dangers. You can also use a safety gate to keep your child in their room or play area.Do not use accordion-style gates, since these can trap your child’s head or limbs.
Use hardware-mounted gates (as opposed to gates that are held in place by pressure) for greater security.
Many toddlers are excellent climbers, and can easily master the art of climbing over a safety gate. Always keep a close eye on your toddler, even if you have gates in place.
 Falls from windows are a common cause of injury or fatality in toddlers and young children. Prevent accidents by installing child-safety window guards around any windows that your toddler can easily reach.Child window guards should be attached securely to the window frame with screws, and should have bars no greater than four inches (10.16 cm) apart.
Look for window guards that can be easily opened by adults or older children. You may need to use the windows as an escape route during a fire or other emergency.
Alternatively, you can install window stops that prevent windows from opening more than four inches (10.16 cm).
 Child safety locks can keep your toddler from catching fingers in tight spots. They can also keep toddlers away from dangerous objects and substances, like kitchen knives, medications, or cleaning supplies.There are a variety of types of child-proof cabinet and door locks on the market. Many require drilling holes in your cabinet doors, but less permanent (and destructive) locks are also available., A lot of things can pose a danger to a toddler, including cleaning supplies and other toxic substances, medicines, knives and other sharp kitchen utensils, batteries, and tools. Toddlers can also choke on small objects, like buttons, coins, marbles, and small toys. Keep dangerous items in locked cabinets, or on high shelves that you are sure your toddler can’t reach.A lot of toddlers are master climbers. If you decide to put dangerous items up high, be absolutely sure that your toddler is unable to climb up to get them.
 Small children can be seriously injured or killed if large furniture (like a chest of drawers) or appliances (like a fridge or even a big-screen TV) topple over on them. Secure your furniture with straps or anti-tip brackets., Turning down the heat on your water heater can help prevent your child from getting scalded in the bath or while washing their hands. If you don’t have access to your building’s water heater, have a plumber install anti-scalding devices in your home., A small child can drown in less than an inch (2.5 cm) of water. Don’t leave your toddler alone in the bath, even for a few seconds. Install non-slip bath mats to prevent falls in a slippery tub or on a wet bathroom floor., Curious toddlers might try to stick small objects (like keys or toys) into electrical outlets. Inexpensive outlet covers can prevent shocks and outlet accidents. You can also keep your toddler safe from shocks by:Using grounded outlets in bathrooms and kitchens.
Making sure power cords are in good condition and properly insulated (i.e., no damage or exposed wiring).
Binding up excess cord from appliances with a twist tie, and tucking power cords away and out of reach whenever possible.

