 You should drink a minimum of two glasses of water (about 16 ounces) prior to your workout as well as throughout. You will know if you are properly hydrated by the color of your urine (darker means improperly hydrated). If you don’t properly hydrate yourself before and during your workout, you will get dehydrated and the result can be a less effective workout –studies show that performance can decrease up to 15-20%. Don’t risk it—get and stay hydrated.;
, While cardio workouts require a relatively empty stomach beforehand, a bodybuilding session is the opposite—athletes need to fuel up with carbs and protein before their workout. If gaining mass is what you are aiming for, you need to take in plenty of fast-digesting carbs like white rice, bagels, bread or protein drinks. Combine the carbs with some protein and you are fueled up to have the energy you need to maximize your workout session.
 Creatine is a naturally occurring amino acid that is generated in the body and is a key to building the big muscles body builders are striving for. It comes in powder form, which you take an hour before and mix in with a fruit or protein drink or a faster-absorbing liquid form, which can be consumed about 20 minutes before your workout. You can purchase both powder and liquid form creatine at a reputable online supplement retailer.
 Less-experienced body builders tend to rush through sets but to fully get the benefit of each set, you need to give the muscle (s) adequate time to recover so it can give you the best results from your workout session.
 This means to increase weight when you are ready and do it gradually—one to two pounds at a time not five or ten pounds. You want to stress the muscle so it continues to grow otherwise you will lose motivation and development will be stalled. It helps to record your workouts so you can see the progression.
 Plan ahead what you will be eating after your workout. Your post-workout meal should include protein, carbs and healthy fats. For optimal recovery, choose easily digested proteins like whey protein drink, egg whites and fish for immediate recovery and then add some slower digesting protein sources like whole eggs, chicken or mean about an hour later. If you have carbs, choose more complex carbs and include good fats like olive oil, avocados, fatty fish like salmon and olives.

