 Similar to weighing the pros and cons, a cost-benefit analysis is a technique that helps you make sound decisions, namely those that involve financial risk. If you are weighing the benefit of finishing a home remodel, completing a degree, or traveling around the world, performing this analysis can help you decide.


First, you need to make a list of the costs associated with the unfinished task. For instance, if you are deciding whether you should complete a home remodel, figure out the exact amount of cash needed to do so. You might include supplies, labor, and the cost of renting another home while the work is done.
Then, you will write out the benefits of the project. These might include “increasing your home’s value” and “having more space for entertaining guests.” If you can, try to determine the value of these benefits. For instance, how much would your home’s value go up with a remodel?
Finally, you will need to compare the two costs to determine if the project is worth it to you. If your home remodel would cost $30,000, but it would only raise the value of your home by $20,000, you need to figure out if the excess cost is worth it to you in having more space, having updated appliances, etc.;
, Starting projects that are difficult and take a while to complete can make you feel overwhelmed and discouraged. Instead, begin the process by completing tasks that you can get done rather quickly. Getting the easy projects out of the way may help you build momentum and provide encouragement for completing the others., If you are able, ditch the projects that you don’t enjoy or have completely lost interest in doing. Although this probably doesn’t apply to work projects, ridding yourself of incomplete tasks that you have no intention of ever finishing clears up physical and mental clutter. It also allows you to move on and focus on what you actually would like to finish.


Letting go may be difficult, so you’ll need to be honest with yourself about what you’ll realistically finish. If you haven’t touched the project in six months or so, or haven’t thought about it—and don’t care to—then it’s probably safe to say you won’t ever complete the project, and don’t want to., If you've dedicated a good amount of time or money to a project, see it through. Not finishing a task that you already spent lots of time and money on is essentially like throwing your money away. You spent time on it that you could’ve used for other things, and you’ve used money on it that could have gone elsewhere. Deciding to complete these projects can give you the satisfaction that you may need in order to press on.