 Yes, every girl wants to be pretty for school. Maybe just because society is just messed up, or to make your crush notice you, or just simply for your own personal likings. Here's how you can look your best:;
, Not saying that you shouldn't eat them AT ALL, just avoid them because they can make your skin break out. You should also eat five to thirteen servings of fruits and vegetables a day to keep your body healthy, and don't forget to drink 8 cups of water per day if you don't want your body to be as dry as the Sahara dessert. Water can also be very good for your skin, hair and nails.
 Exercise about 5 days a week, you will be surprised at how fast your body will start to get in shape. Jogging, walking, jump-roping, riding a bicycle, swimming, or even dancing madly around your room for a good 15-30 minutes. Exercising will help you to control your weight, combat health conditions and diseases, reduce stress, make you sleep easier and get rid of toxins in your body. So, to sum it all up, exercising is magical thing, so start doing it!

, Instead, wash your hair every 2 days. Also, get rid of all the unwanted hair to feel and stay fresh. Rumours say that getting rid of unnecessary hair can make you smell better.
 Trimming your hair can also make your hair healthier and grow faster.


After shampooing, apply conditioner all over your hair (but if you have oily hair, try applying it only to the bottom half) and wait for about 3 minutes so the conditioner soak in. You can always wear a shower cap and clean your body while waiting for the conditioner.






Rinse your hair with warm water and then rinse it one more time with cold water to give your it shine.






Avoid heat products as much as you can to keep your hair healthy. Try to spice up your hair by doing some cute but simple hairstyles. There are hundreds and thousands of tutorials on YouTube.
 Exfoliate your skin only ONCE per week to get rid of all the dead skin cells on your face, giving it a healthy glow. Don't scrub it too hard though, it can break your skin and make your skin feel very irritated. Apply moisturizer to keep your skin smooth and hydrated. Sleep well to reduce bags and dark circles under your eyes.
 Apply polish if you want, but remember to put on a base coat first to protect your natural nails. Try to invest on a good base coat, it may be expensive, but it's worth it. Do some fun nail art. It will give your nails personalities. Cute polish is a really good nail guru, and her designs are really pretty yet so easy.
 Just apply concealer, loose powder, mascara and some lip gloss. Look for tutorials on YouTube.
 This will help you so much in school. Get a new backpack if your old one seems... bad. Buy some book covers for your books, this will make studying more fun. Get enough supplies for school. A pencil, a blue and red pen, eraser, ruler and sticky notes are some basic must-haves.
 You'll never know when you'll need them. They will be a life-saver when it comes to homework, assignments and tests. Highlight some of the important words or phrases/sentences. This will help you a lot when you study. If you have a question, just ask the teacher. They're here to help you with all of your problems.
 Always hand in your work in time if you don't want to get detention or low grades.
 Here's a small tip. If you're doing a Math test, make sure to write down all of your work outs. Who knows, maybe you'll get extra marks or marks on the work out even when you get the final answer wrong.
 You don't want to sit in a small corner all by yourself every single day right? Don't be afraid to go and make some friends. You'll be surprised at how nice those people that you used to think they're really mean are.
