 Many geckos will be drawn to a warm, wet environment. You can replicate this climate by creating a trap that will lure your gecko in.Cut a small hole in three of the four faces of a shoebox.
Run several sheets of paper towel under warm to hot tap water.
Line the floor of the shoebox with the warm, wet paper towels.
Set the box up against a wall in a quiet part of the house.
Check the shoebox at least once every hour.
 This will only really work for catching geckos outdoors. A little planning will help you create an excellent in-ground gecko trap.


Dig a hole in the ground, as deep as the height of a bucket.Create a series of in-ground holes to maximize the efficiency of this method.Put a wet sponge in each bucket so that the geckos you catch do not dry out, in case they are not found right away.Once submerged in the ground, cover the opening of each bucket with a piece of netting or fine mesh. The covering should be big enough to completely cover the mouth of each bucket, but not so big that the gecko will be able to climb out once it falls into the bucket.
Check the buckets every couple of hours., Funnel traps do not have to be dug into the ground like pitfall traps, and rely on a setup that allows a gecko to enter the trap and have difficulty exiting the trap.


Cut 0.125-, 0.25-, or 0.33-inch mesh hardware cloth into 18-inch wide sections.Roll each trap body into a cylinder, and secure it into that shape with zip ties, rubber bands, or twine tied around the tube.Roll additional pieces of mesh hardware cloth into funnels with a narrow opening, around two inches (roughly five centimeters) in diameter.Insert the funnels into each end of the cylinder, with the narrow points inside the tube.Cut flaps into the mesh hardware cloth that hangs over the opening on each end, such that geckos could easily climb into the tube but would not be able to easily climb out.Be sure to leave a wet sponge in the cylinder of each funnel trap you set up, and leave the trap in a shaded area for outdoor setups so that the gecko(s) will not overheat in direct sunlight.Make the trap more alluring by leaving a couple small insects, such as crickets, inside the trap.

