;
, Note the following:



Colouration: Canadian cattle are primarily black, though some can also be dark brown or red. Most cattle have, if they are a dark brownish colour, a dark face that can be black to a blackish-brown colour, sometimes with a wide lighter-coloured saddle over their shoulders and rumps and lighter colouration at the poll, on the muzzle, in the ears and on the udder or scrotum. Eyes, nose and hooves are dark, and the skin is also darkly pigmented. Calves are born a pale colour, but turn dark with age. Occasionally, some animals are light to white on the udder, stomach and chest.

Body type and characteristics: Canadienne cattle are dairy cattle, much like Ayrshires, Dutch Belted, Jerseys and Holsteins. They are angular in body with the cows having large udders, but are more rugged and adapted to the rougher Canadian environment than the imported breeds like Holsteins are. This Canadian dairy breed is a small breed, with cows weighing no more than 1000 to 1100 lbs, and light-boned. They tend to have short hair in the summer which grows out in the winter.

Head characteristics: Canadian cattle are both horned and polled, with the horns being quite short. The head similar to a Jersey's but with slightly more defined "eyebrows" which can be see when viewing the head from the side. The head is fine, but rugged, with straight and tidy faces.

Other characteristics: Canadienne cattle is a Canadian breed, developed from breeds that were imported from Normandy and Brittany during the 1500s and 1600s. Stock were blended and crossbred from these different cattle and bred for longevity, hardiness, and excellent foraging ability in adaptation to the coarser forage that grows in Canada. They are exceptionally docile, able to produce good quantities of quality milk, and the meat is lean, with a high percentage of usable meat in relation to the total body weight. The breed is considered an endangered breed, with most of the herds that are being raised by breeders concerned about preserving this breed in the province of Quebec. In the late 19th century, the breed's characteristics became much less valued than those imported breeds that were less adapted to the local environment, and consequently the breed had to form a breed association (known as the Canadienne Cattle Breeders Association) to increase efforts at preserving this breed.
, Take pictures of what you thought were Canadienne cattle, and compare them with pictures of Canadienne on the Internet and in your cattle breeds book.

