 Being punk does not mean wearing a certain outfit or acting a certain way. It means to be yourself without caring what the others think! Punks are often judged by others but act their selves anyway and don't take in others opinions - but don't let that bother you. This focus on being yourself and not defining or attempting to be punk may indicate to you that the rest of this article, which tells you how to be punk, is superfluous and possibly counterproductive- and you would be right!;
, Punk is about standing up for what you believe. This is not, for example, going up to a bank and stealing all of the money inside; rather, it is standing up for your values. Though, of course, hardcore nihilistic illegality may be one of your values, in which case, go for it.
 Stand out. What you wear can express you but you don't have to dress punk to be punk. Stand up for what you believe in, even if the whole world is against you. Be bold, but don't lose touch of yourself.
 If you want to look like a classical punk, vests with pins and badges are a common choice. Leopard print and plaid are also classical punk memorabilia. Purses and messenger bags are great for putting pins and badges on. Don't be afraid to wear what no one else is wearing, and conversely don't be afraid to wear what all your punk friends are wearing. Some people say that it is a way of conforming to dress in typical punk garb but if that is what you like to wear, go for it! It doesn't matter what they think.You can just as well be a punk in a princess costume just as if you pulled something from the Sex Pistols' wardrobe. Just wear what is comfortable to you. In fact, as the concept of a 'dress code' is antithetical to the very basis of punk, you can safely ignore this fashion; this 'punk fashion' is largely to broadcast your own status as a punk, which is arguably itself missing the point of punk. Refer to the point above and define your own look or anti-fashion as you will.
 You don't have to, but if you want to you can get Mohawks or liberty spikes, though they are very high-maintenance. Hair color and bleach is fun too but can damage hair . Ignore anyone who tells you that dye or a short haircut will take forever to grow out. However If you're not allowed to spike your hair or shave it or anything then just try getting a few splashes of bright colours in it for e.g. pink, green or blue etc, if your decide not to colour your hair then make up for it in your makeup.
 A punk girl is strong and sensitive. Respect yourself and others. Punk doesn't mean being rude -- but if someone is messing with you, don't be afraid to put them in their place.
