 Absolutely read any material that the gallery or museum offers, and you may do a little more research after your visit, especially if the exhibition left you with questions about the artist or about the artwork. It is always important to give your reader information that will help them understand the art and your ideas about the exhibition. Do not include a full-blown biography of the artist. The life of the artist is only important if it has a direct effect on the art that you are examining, or if it affects the viewer's experience of the work. For example, you do not need to include where the artist was born unless the art work is about this place and it will help the reader understand the work better. Useful information can include the period in which the artist worked, major influences on the artist that can be seen in the exhibited work, and any personal information that helps to explain the style or subject matter of the art. Similarly, you'll want to include any information that is relevant (and significant) to specific art in the exhibition. Art is never created in a vacuum. It is important to understand the historical, cultural and social circumstances behind the creation and creator. This will help you better understand the intentions of the artist.;
,


After your initial walk-through, select a few works in the exhibition was primary examples to write about, and look at them very carefully. Pay attention to the larger composition and organization of each individual work, as well as the little details the become apparent upon close examination.
 Although you will not want to include personal musings and notes in the review itself, when you visit the exhibition it's a great idea to write down notes of your impressions and experiences. Jot down all that you think and feel when viewing the work or works, and use your notes when you write your analysis later. Think about the goals of the exhibition. It can be helpful to ask the following questions: Why are the works of art ordered or arranged this way?
Does a particular work stand out from the rest?
Is there a theme or a subtext to the exhibition?
Does the theme or thesis become obvious as I walk through the space?
How is this exhibition different from others I've seen?

, What did you see? What is there? How did it look? You will want to save your interpretations for later in the review. Write a clear description of the significant formal elements (elements of the form) of each work of art that you discuss (for example, colors, shapes, line, use of light and dark, space, etc.), and then describe the subject matter. Your goal is to help the reader imagine what the exhibition looks like. This sort of straight forward description can be useful for your own references as you reflect on your own experience. Write about distinctive features of the exhibition. Analyze the use of shading, colors, line, the medium, etc. Then look for iconographic and symbolic elements in the work. Answer the question "What do you see?" in a way that goes beyond just physical description.