 The experience of traumatic, painful, and/or frightening events can cause you to push them away in an effort to not feel them. However, letting yourself feel them may help you move forward. This exercise is called exposure therapy, in which you control your symptoms and fear of an anxiety-provoking event by thinking of it. Studies show that exposure therapy can relieve anxiety and fear associated with bad memories, but this form of treatment is best completed under the supervision of a therapist or psychologist. A therapist will be able to help you gauge your readiness to engage in the therapy and figure out how long the sessions should be. A therapist will also know how to bring you back from the memories once you are finished with the session. If you want to try exposure therapy on your own, be aware that it can make things worse. If possible, consult with a therapist to learn more about the process before attempting exposure therapy by yourself.
If you try exposure therapy and find that you your bad memories are still consistently present, seek outside help.
 Set a date and time to try exposure therapy. When you're ready, sit down and think about the event or situation. Try to remember every detail of it from start to finish. Think about what you were wearing, the sounds you heard, the smells in the air, and so on. Continue to sit with the memory for as long as you can.


Self-guided exposure may be most effective if broken down into several sessions. You may sit with the memory for just five minutes at first, noticing that you are still safe despite bringing up these painful thoughts. You might increase the time you spend thinking about it each day until you notice yourself not responding as severely as before. Over time, the memories will affect you less and less.
If you are having trouble doing this exercise in your head, grab a pen and a notebook and write down the details of the event from beginning to end. Writing a draft may be good enough for a first session. The next time you might read it aloud. If you have to stop due to crying, then always pick up where you left off. If things progress well, you will feel stronger and require fewer breaks each time you read over details of the event.
Don't hold back the emotions associated with these memories. Shout, pound on the floor or cry if you have to. Just let the feeling into your conscious mind. Soak it up, absorb your grief or sorrow.
 After you have sat with these memories, gather your strength to say aloud, "This is the feeling that I dreaded. I've felt it and faced it. Now I have to let the feeling go, and not fight it anymore." Sigh. Take a couple deep breaths, and just let the fear and anxiety you have been maintaining about this event go so that you can heal.Another option for letting go is holding a ritual ceremony. If your repetitive memories relate to a loved one you have lost, performing some sort of ritual like lighting candles for the person or releasing balloons can be a symbolic way of letting go of the pain. If the painful memories involve a traumatic event, you can agree to compartmentalize the pain after you have faced it, and each year on a day of your choosing you can purposely feel all the emotions relating to the event. Over time, you will find yourself mourning less.Letting go is a process and you won't be able to rid yourself of these painful memories overnight. If the memories persist, it is best to get professional help.

