 If you don't already have one, you'll need to make a free online account with Intuit to download Quicken. Visit the Intuit login site, then click "New to Intuit? Create an account" at the bottom of the page. Follow the instructions to create an account.


You'll need to provide a working email address. When you make your account, you'll get a verification email with a link in it that you need to click to complete the process.
 Once you make an account, sign in and visit Quicken.com. You'll see two large buttons — one for Windows and one for Mac. Click the option you want.


On the next screen, you'll see options for buying the different versions of Quicken. Click the "Buy Now" button, then click the "Checkout" button to start the purchase process. Enter your payment information and follow the on-screen instructions to proceed. Be sure to select "Download" as your delivery method.
At the end of the process, you will be allowed to download Quicken. You can also do this by logging into your account, clicking "Downloads and Unlocks" on the left side of the screen, and clicking "Download" next to your product., When you downloaded Quicken, it went to whatever file you have set up as your default downloads folder. On a Windows PC, this is almost always your desktop, your "My Downloads" folder, or your "My Documents" folder unless you specifically change this.


The Quicken installation file's name may look like a jumble of letters and numbers. For instance, the Premium Edition of Quicken for Windows may have the name "QW13PRM.EXE"

, This will launch the Installation Wizard.
 Past this point, the installation process is exactly the same as if you were installing from a CD.Follow the prompts in the Installation Wizard to complete the installation. See the section above for step-by-step instructions.
 The Quicken installer may begin automatically once you finish downloading it.If it doesn't, you'll need to find the file on your computer. By default, most Mac browsers send downloads to the "Downloads" folder unless you specifically tell them to send them somewhere else.


The "Downloads" folder can be accessed from the Dock in recent versions of OSX. It's at the right end of the Dock, next to the recycle bin., This will launch the Installation Wizard. You will be able to complete the installation process as normal by following the on-screen prompts.
 When Quicken finishes installing, drag it from the disc image into the "Applications" folder. This will make it show up as an installed application on your computer.


As noted above, this may require you to input the administrator's login information.
Double click Quicken in the "Applications" folder to launch the program.

