 Using your regular shampoo and conditioner, take a shower. You can wash your hair as your normally would. If you're looking to reduce frizz, however, consider making a few alterations to your chosen products.



Try all-natural products that cleanse with oils, rather than soap agents, to help your hair look healthy and glossy when it's dry.
Avoid using harsh shampoos made with sulfates, which can dry out your hair and cause it to look dull and frizzy.;
, Pat it dry gently with a soft towel. Squeeze out the excess water, but don't use the towel to twist or wring out your hair. Handling your hair roughly can cause the hair shaft to fray and make it look frizzy.
 For best results, add a leave-in conditioner after drying. This will moisten your hair immediately after a shower and prevent frizz during the drying process. A few other kinds of hair products can also help with the diffusing process.








There is one exception to this rule. If your hair is wavy, it might be best to skip the leave-in conditioner. This can weigh down your hair, decreasing the curls and volume you're trying to achieve through using a hair diffuser.Styling lotion for curly hair can also be helpful. If you have wavy hair, go for foam and mousse.Some advise what is called the "rake and shake" method to try and bring out natural curls before diffusing. Divide your hair into five sections: one in front and two sections on either side of your head. Work in leave-in conditioner and hair products section-by-section. When you finish a section, hold it by its end and gently shake it out in a way that allows natural curls or waves to begin taking shape., Fit the diffuser on the end of your hair dryer. Always turn it on either medium or low heat. While this means it'll take longer to dry, your hair will not dry out or get as frizzy during the drying process.








To start, tilt your head to one side. Take the diffuser and place it near your hair's roots. Hold it there until your roots are dry.Use circular motions as you dry the hair near your scalp. Use the diffuser's prongs to gently massage your hair, promoting volume as well as natural waves and curls., Continue massaging your hair with the diffuser, using a circular motion, until your hair is dry down to the tips. Use the diffuser to gently push up on your curls as you work your way down. This helps retain your hair's natural shape and give your hair bounce.









Keep in mind, if your hair's naturally curly you may want to use the diffuser differently. Many women with natural curls feel their hair dries better if they stop after drying the roots. If you feel a diffuser makes your natural curly hair frizzier, try letting your ends air dry. See if this leads to better results.Do not use your hands as you diffuse your hair. Touching can create frizz and cause natural curls and waves to lose shape. It may feel like it's taking a long time relying on the diffuser alone. However, keeping your hands out of your hair will lead to better results., When your hair is dry, consider adding some products after the process. Heat can be hard on hair. Hairspray, pomade, or other products can help reduce damage.









Gently mist your hair with styling spray once it's dry. This will help your hair retain its shape all day.If your hair feels crunchy or dull after drying, there are a variety of products you can use to combat this. Consider pomade or shine serum, both of which you can purchase at a local salon. Rub some of the pomade or serum into your hands and then gently work it into your hair. Pull your hands through your hair, as if you're trying to pull your hair into a ponytail, and then continue pulling until you reach your ends.