 Arginine is a semi-essential amino acid, which is a building block for proteins that can be synthesized by the body but is also required by it to function. Arginine may help decrease the risk of upper respiratory infections (URIs), so start taking this supplement before the flu season begins. The supplement is available in pharmacies and the recommended daily dosage of arginine is two to three grams.You can get arginine naturally in walnuts, eggs, milk, meats (turkey breast and pork loin), and peanuts, so eat more of these as well to increase your intake of arginine.
Talk to your doctor before taking arginine when you have the flu to make sure it will not interact with any medication you’re on.
Do not take arginine if you have a history of liver or kidney disease, if you’ve had a stroke, if you have sickle cell disease, if you are taking blood thinners, or if you are taking medications for high blood pressure or diabetes. Do not use arginine if you are pregnant or nursing.
 Vitamin D is naturally available in salmon, mackerel, sardines, milk, eggs, cheese, and cod liver oil. However, if you want to boost your immune system with vitamin D, find a supplement, such as vitamin D3, to increase your levels. These are available at your pharmacy or health food store.


Often times people in colder climates are deficient in Vitamin D. Vitamin D deficiency can cause increased risk for many chronic disease including cancer, autoimmune diseases, type 2 diabetes, hypertension and osteoarthritis.General supplementation should be guided by physician as this is a fat-soluble vitamin (meaning it stays in your system and excess amounts are not flushed out with your urine) and toxicity can occur.If you are vegan, you can try vitamin D2, which is not derived from animals., Probiotics are good bacteria that help fight infections in your body. To this end, they can help you prevent the influenza virus by boosting your immune system. You can get probiotics naturally from yogurt or take them as supplements, which can be found at most pharmacies, grocery stores, or health food stores.Do not take probiotics if you are taking immune-suppressing medications or if you have a disease that affects your immune system unless specifically told to by your doctor.
 You can get some vitamin E from foods, such as leafy green vegetable and nuts, but supplements help get enough to build your resistance. The supplements are available at most major stores.The recommended daily dosage is no more than 15 mg, or 22.4 IU, but you should speak with your doctor before using vitamin E, as it is fat-soluble.


For children under the age of 14, the recommended daily dosage is 7 mg, or 10.4IU, of Vitamin E.
Do not use supplemental vitamin E if you are pregnant or nursing. , Zinc and vitamin C both help run, support, and improve your immune system. Take 30 mg of zinc every other day and between 75 and 125 mg of vitamin C every day. These can be found at most major stores that sell supplements.Do not take more than 50 mg of zinc per day. Too much zinc actually increases your risk of contracting the flu.
Vitamin C is also an anti-inflammatory, antioxidant, and an antiviral agent. It’s safe for children and adults.

