 It’s important to realize that you are never obligated to engage in any sexual contact with another person, even if that contact is something as seemingly innocent as a kiss. Your body is your own; nobody else has a right to intrude upon your personal space or to force any form of contact with you. Realizing this is an essential part of preventing someone from stealing a kiss in the future., Rejecting someone who wants to kiss you can be a difficult thing, and if you aren’t able to issue your rejection quickly, it’s possible that the other person may react before you have a chance to gather your thoughts. Learning to say “no” in this and all areas of your life can help you ward away unwanted contact.


Practice saying "no" in everyday circumstances that have nothing to do with romance. Turn down plans to hang out with your friends if you aren't in the mood to go out. Tell someone "no" if you're asked to take on a project or favor you don't have the time or energy to complete. Building up familiarity with the "no" word can make it easier to use in the heat of the moment., Always try your best to be clear about your wants, especially when romance is involved. If you don’t have feelings for someone who has them for you, make your stance clear. If you aren’t ready for physical contact in a relationship, even if it’s “only” kissing, draw that line as clearly as possible.


Clarify what "consent" means when you go out on a date with someone new or pursue a relationship with someone you're interested in. In addition to "no" meaning "no," it's also important to recognize that only a "yes" means "yes."Verbal confirmation of consent is important, especially early in a relationship, but you should also discuss nonverbal signs of consent with your partner.
 Avoiding situations that may lead to misunderstandings can prevent stolen kisses of a fairly innocent nature, and avoiding situations that could put you in compromising positions with unreliable people may prevent stolen kisses of a less innocent nature.


Don’t flirt with someone who you have no romantic interest in, especially if you suspect or know that individual has feelings for you.
If someone makes you uncomfortable or if you don’t know someone well enough to establish trust, avoiding being alone with that individual.
 If you find yourself with someone who’s interested in you romantically and you don’t want to kiss that person, be on the lookout for nonverbal (or verbal) indicators of an oncoming kiss. Ideally, your partner will be able to tell that you aren’t interested and will react in a respectful way; however, if your partner does lean in for an unwanted kiss, watching out for the behavior will make it easier to turn away from it.


Shake or turn your head away when your partner leans in for an unwanted kiss. This signal should be clear, and may make your partner feel less hurt than physically pushing him or her away.Explain or restate your feelings about kissing this individual. Let your partner know what you're comfortable with doing, and if the situation would benefit from an explanation, be honest about your feelings and reasons for those feelings.

