 Golf carts are classified under Neighborhood Electric Vehicles. Despite the vehicle's name, golf carts are used off golf courses for a variety of reasons. Golf carts fall between 15-35 mph top speed by regulation standards. You must be 14 years of age or older to drive a golf cart.


You don’t need a license to drive a golf cart.
Depending on what state or county you live in, you may need a permit to operate a golf cart.Most state's allow an unlicensed driver to drive on private roads, but not on main roads for long distances. It's okay to cross an intersection of a main road.
You'll need a license to drive on public roads.;
, Like the golf cart’s older cousin, the automobile, you will need a key to start it. Insert the key in the key slot and turn it to the right. You probably won’t hear a loud startup like you would for a car. Most golf carts run on electricity and the key merely turns the battery on.


You may also see a reverse setting, but set the key to forward motion.
Some golf carts run on gasoline and electricity. These carts will start up with a familiar engine sound.
 Although the golf carts do not run too fast, it’s still a good idea to buckle up. Some carts won’t exceed 14 mph and therefore don’t have seat belts. Be sure that any young children riding with you know to remain seated.
 Once everyone is seated, you’re ready to accelerate in the golf cart. Use your foot to press down on the thin, right pedal.The pedal is sensitive to the amount of pressure you use. Start with mild pressure using your foot to get a feeling for the handle of the golf cart. Once you understand how the cart operates, add more pressure to the pedal.


Do not floor the acceleration pedal upon startup. Increase the pressure and speed with your foot on the pedal gradually.
 Take your foot off the acceleration pedal and press it on the wider pedal.This is the same setup for automobiles with the left pedal, usually the widest pedal, activates the vehicle's brakes. Don’t slam on the brake unless you absolutely have to.


For normal use, ease onto the break much like you use the acceleration pedal.
 To go backwards, pull or turn the switch on your cart and use the acceleration pedal. Most golf carts will not go as fast using the backwards setting. Turn your body by putting your right arm around the back of the passenger seat. This position will allow you to see everything behind you.

