 Dressing nice with your hair styled is a great way to get noticed in a crowd. Looking your best also provides level of confidence that helps you get noticed. When you know you will see your crush, pick a special outfit and take the extra time to style your hair., The more often you are around someone, the more likely they are to like you. This is a psychological effect called the proximity effect. Find ways to frequently be in the same place as your crush:Casually show up to your crush’s workplace if it is somewhere the general public goes.
Attend sporting events or club meetings that your crush is a part of.
Hang out with mutual friends and attend social gatherings where you'll see the person you like.
 Eye contact is a quick and easy way to flirt and communicate with your crush. Casually glance at your crush for a few seconds to pique the person's interest.When the person you like catches you glancing, lock eyes for a moment and then look away to smile to yourself.
Wait a few minutes and then repeat the glances towards the person.
If you notice your crush looking at you while you are looking away, turn and lock eyes for a few seconds and smile.
 Find out what interests and hobbies the person you like is into. Make a point to start learning about or getting interested in a few of your crush’s favorite past times. Shared interests give you a common topic of conversation and the ability to bond over something.Ask for tips or advice on beginning a new hobby.
Talk about current scores or events related to favorite teams.
 Positive body language conveys a message of openness, friendliness, and approachability. Try these ways to show positive body language the next time you’re talking to your crush.Stand with your body at an angle rather than head on.
Leave your arms down or with one hand on your hip. Avoid crossing your arms because it sends a message of being closed off.
Use your hand to play with your hair or run your fingers through your hair.
Touch your crush's arm or shoulder gently while you're talking.
Brush up against the person you like and then lock eyes as you politely apologize.
 Sometimes when people get nervous, they start talking faster. Fast talking can make others feel uneasy and get a negative vibe from you, so be sure to talk slowly and calmly.
 Flirting is the universal sign that someone is attracted to you. Use different flirting techniques when you are around your crush to show you have an attraction and want to build some chemistry together.Compliment your crush when you're talking.
Smile genuinely and laugh at the jokes your crush tells.
Get the person to talk about life by asking questions, and then validate the person by saying things like “That’s awesome” and “Wow, that sounds hard, but I bet you’re great at it”.
Talk about topics that are attractive or interesting to the person you like.
 Show your crush that you care by buying a gift. Choose an inexpensive item like candy or an item that reminds you of a joke you share with your crush.
 Take on extra responsibility to do things for your crush. Go out of your way to make life easier by offering to help with homework, work assignments, or things around the house.
 Take your crush somewhere to show how much fun the two of you can have. Dinner, an active date, and a quiet wrap to the evening ensure that you’ll have a great date night.

