 Even if you don’t cook often you can pick out an interesting recipe and surprise her with your new culinary skills. You guys out there should not underestimate what you could do with this idea. Most recipes are written well enough so that even a novice can follow the directions. You will make her feel real special if you take the effort to actually “wine and dine” her.;
, Many of these venues will offer a great campfire steak dinner after the trail ride. My experience with this was great! I can’t wait to do it again.
 Talk it over with your sweetheart and let him or her know that this is what you really want to do. Once you both agree then go ahead and sign up for lessons. Most organizations that provide this service will have a big dance with live music at the end of the lessons.
 Once you know where they are you can plan a romantic wine-tasting excursion. Bear in mind that most wineries have a gift shop where you can buy your sweetheart a nice gift.
 At the reception, you as a couple can secretly pretend that you are the bride and groom! Then at the end of the evening you can retire to your “honeymoon suite”. Need I say more?

, Plan a nice restaurant dinner around it. Does this sound rather mundane? What can make this idea more exciting is to dress to the nines. You know the song: “Every girl’s crazy ‘bout a sharp dressed man”? And you guys know what a nice evening dress can do, don’t you? Does this work for you now?

, Reserve a motel/hotel room so you will not be concerned with the trip back home. Beforehand, check a newspaper or internet site for events at the state fair that interest you the most, such as music concerts or fireworks.
 Pack a blanket and a picnic lunch, and don’t forget the wine. Plan to stop along the way for a romantic picnic in the wild.
 Most of the larger museums will have a restaurant or two to choose from. I have dinned in a few where the food is excellent! Visit the gift shop while you are there and buy your sweetheart something nice.
 Look up in your newspaper or internet what sort of comedy clubs you have in your area. Comedy clubs are fun!

, I have a cousin who told me that she and her husband were “joined at the hip” before they attended one of these programs, but now after their weekend encounter she stated that “now we are one”! A glowing recommendation I would say!

, This plan has the potential to provide valuable insights into who your partner is. What could be more romantic?

