 Crete is one of the most popular tourist destinations in the Greek Islands. The island has beautiful natural parks, mountains, old cities, and nightlife. The island offers the largest array of different activities and sights for a vacation-goer.The islands of Mykonos and Santorini Islands in the Cyclades are both accessible to Crete via ferry boat, so you can visit multiple islands if you decide to visit.;
, The Cyclades is another famous tourist destination and includes two of the most popular Greek Islands, Mykonos and Santorini. This archipelago includes 24 islands that have beautiful beaches, historic architecture, nightlife, camping, and local villages. There are ferries that connect many of the islands together, making it a great option if you plan on visiting more than one island., The islands in the Saronic Gulf are filled with traditional bars and small boutiques. These islands are accessible from Athens and are less of a tourist destination. If you want to take in the beauty of the Greek Islands without the nightlife, events, or large crowds, consider visiting one of these islands.Two of the most popular islands in the Saronic Gulf are Hydra and Spetses.
The beaches on these islands are rocky, not sandy like other Greek Islands.
 The Ionian Islands are some of the most culturally diverse islands in Greece. The islands boast a vast array of cultures, foods, and art styles. The island is green and covered by large lush forests. If you're interested in one of the most culturally diverse and interesting Greek Islands, you should consider visiting the Ionian Islands., If you enjoy nature you can visit the islands in the Sporades to birdwatch, fish, bike, or hike. The Sporades is home to the National Marine Park on the island of Skopelos. Visit this cluster of islands if you want a more low-key vacation.The island of Skiathos also has beautiful beaches.
 The Northeast Aegean Islands have hot springs, fortress villages, and some of the most beautiful beaches in the Greek Islands. In addition to the beautiful weather, the island also has a rich and long history with many historic sites that you can visit.The main islands are Ikaría, Sámos, Límnos, Lésvos, and Chíos.
 There are over 200 inhabited Greek Islands that you can visit, which mean that your options are vast. If none of the popular islands interest you, consider researching some smaller, lesser known islands.If you are island hopping and want to make traveling between islands easier, you should pick islands within the same cluster.
Visit http://www.visitgreece.gr to get more information on the smaller Greek Islands.

