 This will be the starting point from which you can narrow down your broker search.


Find out which ones are recruiting new agents by calling, stopping into the office or visiting their websites. In general, brokers are looking for new agents and will be excited to talk to you.;
, Pay attention to the companies you would notice if you were looking for a broker as a seller or a buyer. It may be helpful to imagine you are from out of town and searching for a home.Pay attention to yard signs, advertisements, open houses and social media presence. Assess at the level of professionalism in each form of advertising.
Also drive by the brokerage's office. Make sure the office is conveniently located and has plenty of parking available for your clients. Check that the exterior is attractive enough that you would want to bring clients there., A successful broker will have an attractive website, activity on sites such as Facebook and Twitter, and well written reviews and testimonials on sites such as Yelp.An online real estate listings site will help you determine which brokers in your area handle the most listings (and do the most business). An advantage of joining a larger brokerage, at least at the start of your career, is that you immediately gain the reputation and trustworthiness of the brokerage., Find out what the most desirable companies are, and why. If you completed your real estate education locally, you may also be able to ask the professionals at your school for broker recommendations., These can include mortgage lenders, appraisers, home inspectors, and attorneys, among others. If possible, get an idea of which brokers they prefer to work with., Their website contains resources for new agents as well as information and statistics on real estate brokers around the country. The US Department of Labor also offers advice on choosing a broker on their website., Most brokers will jump at the chance to talk to a potential new agent. Call their local offices and schedule an interview to get started. Read the rest of this section first and have a mental (or physical) list of questions ready for your interviewer. Know what sort of answers to your questions you prefer., If you are just starting out, you will benefit from a broker who helps you establish your career. A good mentor can give you area-specific tips that you won't learn in the licensing process.Look for training programs or seminars that are offered or encouraged. Some brokers will even help you pass your real estate exam for licensure if you sign on with them while you are training to be an agent., If many agents have been with a broker for long periods of time, it is a good sign that the broker treats their agents fairly. You can generally find this information on the broker's website.
 You might be required to put in a specific number of hours at the office or attending open houses and other events. Knowing what the broker expects will help you match your expectations and preferred working style with those of the broker. , Most brokers divide the commission 50-50 with their agents. You will also need to know which party pays for licensing, marketing materials and benefits such as health insurance. The amount of control a broker usually has over these things will often be similar to the amount of control they have over your selling process., You will want to know if agents are assigned potential clients in a specific way, or if it will be up to you to bring in your own clients. Some brokers, especially larger ones, offer leads and other lead-generation services to agents. This can be invaluable if you are in a new area or are just starting out., Some brokers require their agents to provide their own laptops, cell phones and other devices. Other brokers might provide computer access, copiers, fax machines and even iPads or tablets. Factor this in to the cost of getting started in your real estate career.