 To ensure that the oven is hot enough to bake the cupcakes, set the temperature to 375 degrees Fahrenheit (190 degrees Celsius) and allow it to fully preheat. Next, line 1 to 2 muffin tins with 20 paper cupcake liners to ready them for the cupcakes.Make sure that the rack is in the center position in the oven.
You can substitute silicone cupcake liners for the paper if you prefer.;
, Add 1 ¾ cups (219 g) of flour, a 3.4-ounce (96 g) box of instant butterscotch pudding, ⅔ cup (133 g) of sugar, 2 ½ teaspoon (10 g) of baking powder, ½ teaspoon (3 g) of salt, and ¾ cup (130 g) of roughly chopped butterscotch chips to a large bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they are fully combined.The pudding adds butterscotch flavor to the cupcakes, and helps make them especially moist and tender.
 Add 2 eggs, ½ cup (118 ml) of canola oil, 1 ¼ cup (296 ml) of milk, and 1 teaspoon (5 ml) of vanilla extract to a separate small bowl. Whisk the ingredients together until they’re fully blended.You can substitute vegetable oil for the canola if you prefer.
 After you’ve mixed the wet ingredients together, add them to the bowl with the dry ingredients. Mix the ingredients together until they are just combined.You can use a handheld electric mixer to blend the ingredients if you prefer.
Be careful not to overmix the batter or you may wind up with tough cupcakes.
 When the batter is fully mixed, divide it evenly between the prepared muffin pans. Use a spoon to carefully add the batter until the cups are about ⅔ full.Don’t overfill the cups because the cupcakes will puff up as they bake.
 Once you’ve filled all of the muffin tins, place them in the preheated oven. Allow the cupcakes to bake for 18 to 20 minutes or until the centers are completely set.Test the cupcakes for doneness by inserting a toothpick or cake tester into the center. It should emerge completely clean.
 When the cupcakes are finished baking, remove the muffin tins from the oven. Let the cupcakes cool for 5 to 10 minutes in the pan before transferring them to a wire cooling rack to cool completely, which should take about 30 minutes.It’s important to ensure that the cupcakes are completely cool before you ice them or the frosting may melt off.
 Add ½ cup (113 g) of butter a large saucepan. Heat it over medium heat until the butter melts completely.Stirring the butter periodically as you heat it can help it melt more quickly.
 After the butter has melted, continue heating it on medium. Allow the butter to cook until it becomes foamy and starts to turn a light golden brown.Make sure to keep a close eye on the butter as it’s heating so it doesn’t burn.
 As soon as the butter becomes foamy and light brown, add ½ cup (100 g) of brown sugar to the pan. Turn the heat up to medium high and cook the mixture until it comes to a boil.Stir the mixture regularly as you cook it so the brown sugar doesn’t stick to the pan.
 When the butter and sugar mixture has come to a boil, slowly add ⅓ cup (79 ml) of heavy cream to the pan. Whisk the cream into the mixture and allow it to cook until it returns to a boil.For the creamiest frosting, don’t substitute milk for the heavy cream

, Once the butter mixture has returned to a boil, take the pan off the heat. Whisk in ¼ teaspoon (1 ½ g) of salt, ½ teaspoon (2 ½ ml) of vanilla extract, and a dash of cinnamon until they are fully incorporated., After you’ve mixed the flavorings into the butter mixture, let it rest for about 20 minutes. You want the mixture to cool slightly before you add the milk in the next step.The mixture may thicken up slightly as it cools. Stir it well before you mix in the other ingredients.
 When the butter mixture has cooled slightly, mix 3 cups (330 g) of powdered sugar and 1 tablespoon (15 ml) of milk. If the frosting isn’t creamy enough to spread or pipe, add more milk by the tablespoon (15 ml), checking the consistency after each addition., Once the frosting is the right texture, transfer it to a piping bag to pipe on the cupcakes or use a butter knife to spread it over the tops of cupcakes. If you like, you can garnish the cupcakes with a few butterscotch chips before serving.Store leftover cupcakes in an airtight container. They should be eaten within 2 to 3 days.

