 This is one of the best ways to learn rapping technique. Take your favorite songs and learn them forwards and backward. Then rewrite the rap, using the same rhyme scheme but with your own verses. This is how mixtapes first became popular, with rappers like Curren$y and 50 Cent taking popular songs, flipping them, and making them their own. Even if you never share the song, this is a great way to learn rap techniques naturally., Rap is poetry -- using words, sounds, and rhymes to create beautiful art and ideas. As such, it is no surprise that the best rappers have taken inspiration from the best poets. Eminem, for example, famously used Shakespearean meter and rhyme in many of his famous songs. Other examples include:



Alliteration/Assonance: Words with similar sounds that are placed close together, like "Two tip-top teachers" or "apple attitudes." Listen to Joey Bada$$'s "Waves" for a great example.

Simile/Metaphor: Closely connected, this is when writers compare two objects that aren't usually alike to make a point. For example -- "I put the metal to his chest like Robocop" works on multiple levels, bullets are made of metal, Robocop's chest is covered in metal armor, and the biggest target when shooting someone is their chest. This is a much more poetic way to imply "I might shoot him."Refrain: A line that is repeated at various points for emphasis. The more you hear the line, the more it changes, evolves, and gains power. For a master class in how to use a refrain, see Kendrick Lamar's "The Blacker the Berry."

Anaphora: When the first half of a line repeats, but the rest of the line changes, like in Eminem's "If I Had" where ever line begins with "Tired of...." This is a great way to show how difficult, constant, or trying something may be, or overwhelm the listener intentionally., Great imagery puts visuals behind the listeners' eyes, engaging multiple senses to create complex, engaging raps. The best rappers all conjure images up in your mind, telling stories and making their lyrics come alive. To do this, focus on being specific-- use adjectives and adverbs to make the images your own.


This doesn't have to be purely visual imagery. Action Bronson uses foods and scents in his raps to give them an entirely new dimension.
The kings of imagery, Andre 3000, Ghostface Killah, Eminem, etc. are often those rappers that gain the greatest followings.
 Good lines become great lines with good flow. Flow is how you deliver the words in relation to the beat. Are you slow, holding back, or are you attacking the beat with speed and intensity. Do you waver up and down, picking up and slowing down depending on the line? Flow takes practice and patience, so put a beat on and practice.


You don't have to have the same flow throughout the whole song. Nas's incredibly "NY State of Mind" flows like a great jazz solo -- stopping, starting, pausing and pushing forward around the incredible rhymes., Much like a burgeoning writer needs to study the best poets, a growing rapper needs to read to the best. Reading a rap lets you see it on the page, much like the rapper when they wrote the lyrics. This will help you comprehend rhyme schemes and little tricks. Sites like RapGenius, for example, even have annotated lyrics that explain metaphors, rhymes, and references. Listen to what you enjoy, but a small selection of essential verses (in addition to the other songs referenced in the article) to start with includes:


AZ's, first verse on "Life's a B---", off of Nas's album Illmatic.

Notorious B.I.G, "Notorious Thugs."
Black Thought, "75 Bars (Black's Reconstruction).
Rakim on "As the Rhyme Goes On," on Paid in Full.

Kendrick Lamar, "Sing About Me, I'm Dying of Thirst."
Lupe Fiasco, "Murals."
Eminem, "Lose Yourself."

