 Programs store temporary data in the computer’s RAM while the program is running. The more programs that you have running, the more RAM is required. The simplest way to free up RAM is to close programs that you aren’t using.;
, If you have multiple programs on your screen, close the ones you aren’t using. If you have a chat program running, but aren’t currently chatting, close the program.


Web browsers with multiple tabs open can take up a significant amount of memory; close tabs that you aren’t using to help get clear out some RAM.
 Some programs will continue running even after you’ve closed the window. You can see most of these programs in the System Tray, which is located in the bottom-right corner of the desktop, next to the clock. Hover your mouse over the icons to see which programs are still active.


Right-click on the icon to bring up the program’s menu. Most programs can be fully exited from this menu. Some programs, such as antivirus programs, may not allow you to close from the right-click menu.
 If you have too many programs opening when Windows starts, it can have a serious impact on your computer’s performance and startup speed. There are a couple ways to keep programs from starting when Windows does:


Change the program’s settings. Most programs that launch with Windows have options to disable launching at startup. Open the program’s Options or Preferences; turning off startup is usually located in the General section. For example, right-clicking the Google Drive icon opens a menu. If you click Preferences… a new window open up. In the Misc. section, there is a checkbox for “Start Google Drive automatically when you start your computer”.
Disable the startup services. Open the Run command by pressing the Windows key + R. Enter “msconfig” into the box and press enter. This will open the System Configuration window. Click the Startup tab to see a list of all the programs that start with your computer. Uncheck the boxes next to the programs that you want to disable.
 There are some programs that run in the background that do not have icons in the system tray and do not show up in the System Configuration. To kill background programs that are normally inaccessible, open the Task Manager. To do this, press Ctrl+Alt+Del and select Start Task Manager from the options.


Find the programs that you want to stop. Open the Processes tab. This will show every process that is currently running on your computer. At the bottom of the window, you can see the percentage of your total RAM being used. Click the Memory category to sort the programs by the amount of RAM they are using.
Select the program you want to close and click End Process. A window will open asking if you want to close it, and warning you that closing programs can cause negative effects. Only close programs that you are sure you want to close. Closing certain programs can cause your system to become unstable until you restart. Programs with the User Name “SYSTEM” are generally required for your system to operate correctly.

