 This menu is in the upper left corner of the menu bar. “About this Mac” will open a window with system information that displays your operating system version. Your OS must be between 10.4 and 10.8 to use DarwiinRemote.;
, This will open a list of system settings.
 Bluetooth is required for detecting the wiimote.
 Double click to extract the program from the zip file and copy the files into your Applications folder. Double click the icon to launch.


Before starting, make sure your Wii console is powered OFF or else it might interfere with the bluetooth detection.
 This button is located in the lower right of the program and will initiate the scan for a Wii remote.
 After 1-3 seconds the lights on the wiimote will flash and the graph in DarwiinRemote will begin to scroll information.


If the lights do not begin to flash on your wiimote, check the batteries.
If the graph does not display any information, check the text area below the buttons for error messages.
 Once the graph is active you can test the button inputs on your wiimote. If it registers, the corresponding button will highlight on the picture of the wiimote in the DarwiinRemote.
 This menu is located to the left of the “Find Wiimote” button and will enable your wiimote movements to be translated as mouse movement on the screen.


This feature is relatively inaccurate using bluetooth. For improved accuracy you can setup an infrared sensor bar., If you have an infrared bar, click IR Sensor button located on the right above the scan button. Select Mouse Mode On (IR) from the Mouse Mode dropdown menu.


Note: the Wii’s sensor bar has a proprietary connection and will not connect to your Mac. You can purchase a USB or wireless infrared sensor for your computer if you want to use this feature. Try searching for “Infrared sensor bar for computer” and expect to pay between 10 and 20 dollars, This menu appears in the top menu bar. The preferences menu has a list of controls and keybinds for the wiimote. A key binding is the function that is set to the wiimote button (for example, a keyboard key, mouse button, or some combination of keys).
 You will be prompted to enter a name for your preset before proceeding to settings the key bindings.


You can switch between saved bindings from the dropdown menu to the left of the “Add” button.
 Select the action or key you wish to use next to the corresponding wiimote button.
 This will save your changes and exit the preferences menu. You can now utilize the wiimote with the selected actions and key bindings on your Mac.


For example, you can set keybinds to use the wiimote as a makeshift Apple remote to control your media player, or a custom gamepad so you don’t have to use keyboard controls while playing a game.

