 Try to answer the question in your own words if you can, then try to find the answer that most closely matches your idea.If you focus first on figuring out what the answer is, before looking at the options given, it will force you to think back to the text or the lecture where you first heard this information.
This process helps to improve your concentration, and will exercise your memory.
 The answers on an exam often follow the same order you learned the material in class, or in the same order it was presented in the textbook. Answering them in order may help give you clues as to what the right answer might be. But don't waste a lot of time on a difficult question and become frustrated, as this may affect your performance on the rest of the test.


If you are really stuck on a question, make your best guess and put a question mark next to it. If you finish the test with time to spare, go back and reconsider the ones you marked.
If you do not want to guess, skip the question and put a mark beside it, so you can return to it if you have time at the end of the test.
 On most tests, you are not penalized for guessing. It's better to risk getting a question right, and possibly get it wrong, than to leave it completely blank, and definitely get it wrong. However, be aware that there are certain tests where you are penalized for guessing. If you aren't sure, ask your teacher or exam coordinator before you begin the test.The SAT will penalize you for guessing. You'll be deducted ¼ point for every incorrect answer – you will not be penalized for answers left blank.
The ACT does not penalize for guessing. It's better to answer every single question, if you can, and hope that some of your guesses are correct.
The GRE does not penalize for wrong answers. Skip answers when you are stuck, but try to get back to them if you can – it's best to answer every question you can, within the allotted time frame.
 Many people say that your first guess on a test question is usually right, so you should never change your answer. However, recent studies have shown that isn't the case – you're just as likely, or even more likely, to get it right if you change an answer you aren't sure about. So don't stress over whether to change an answer because it wasn't your first choice. If you change your mind, change your answer.Empirical evidence from data collected from takers of the GRE test shows that test-takers who changed some of their answers tended to score higher than those who always stuck with their first choice.
Test takers in the GRE study most often changed answers from wrong to right, which resulted in a higher score.
 When you are considering an answer that you aren't sure is correct, ask yourself if it completely answers the question.If the answer is only partly true, or applies to only one part of the question, it is probably not the one to choose.
If the answer is only true under certain conditions, it is probably not the right one. If a question asks about a specific behavior of an elephant, but the answer would only be correct for an elephant in captivity, it doesn't exactly answer the question.
If an answer is incomplete, or is not correct under every circumstance, eliminate that option. This will leave you with fewer options to choose from, which will increase the odds that you will select the correct answer.
If you find an answer that looks “almost” complete, see if there is another option that is very similar to that answer, but is complete. This may be the correct choice.
 Teachers very rarely put trick questions on their tests. If you think the question might be a trick, read it over again very carefully. You might have misunderstood the point of the question, or you might be trying to make the question more complicated than it really is.If there is a simple answer that solves the question, that is probably the correct choice. For example, if the question is “What does 0 times 0 equal?,” don't over-analyze it. It's not a trick question – the answer is 0.
If a history tests asks, “What was the name of Martin Luther King, Jr.'s father?,” it's not a trick. The answer is Martin Luther King, Sr.
 If there are two answers you like equally, visualize the first one as being the right answer. Then try the second option, and imagine in your mind that this answer is the correct one. You will probably have a “gut feeling” that one of the answers is wrong. Then choose the other one.We sometimes have a strong feeling about something, without remembering specific details about it. For instance, we can remember if we liked or disliked somebody we recently met, even if we can't remember their name.
 If two of the choices are exact opposites of the other, one of these is likely to be the right answer.If two answers on a math test are a) 7, and b) -7; one of these is likely to be correct.
For example, a question on a history exam asks about the impact of the Voting Rights Act of 1965, and two of the answers are: a) It allowed more citizens to vote, and b) It increased voting restrictions. These express exactly opposing ideas, and in this case “A” is the correct answer.
 If an answer insists on an absolute, it is usually not the correct answer. Avoid answers that include the words never, always, all, every, and must. (Math tests are the exception to this one.)Answers that do not contain absolutes are more likely to be correct. For example, correct answers often contain these words or phrases: generally, probably, most likely, seldom, tend to, and usually.
 Be on the lookout for grammatical matches between the question and the answers. The correct answer to a question will most likely match in tense and number, and the nouns and verbs will agree.For example, if the question asks, “What IS the most endangered species in the world?,” you can eliminate “The Amur leopard and the Javan rhinoceros ARE the most endangered species,” because the question is phrased in the singular. (In this case, the answer would be, “The Ivory-billed woodpecker IS the most endangered species.)

, Questions for tests are usually based on the information in your textbook, and teachers often use the same words and phrases the book does.Underline any answer that contains specific phrases from the lecture or textbook, and consider those answers more seriously than the others.
 Often, there will be one answer that is obviously too large, and one that is clearly too small; or a date that is way too early or far too recent. You can toss these out, and choose between the remaining answers.For example, if a question on your history test reads, “What year was John F. Kennedy assassinated?,” you can ignore “1863” and “2003,” because those are clearly outside the correct timeframe. Then choose between the remaining options (in this case, the answer would be 1963).
If a math question reads, “What does 4 squared equal?,” you could easily eliminate “2” as being too small, and “200” as being too large. Then choose from the remaining answers (in this case, 16).
, Often, the choice that contains the most words is correct, because the teacher needs to include a large number of qualifiers to ensure that the answer can't be contested. The teacher may not take the time to phrase incorrect answers in quite such specific terms.For example, imagine a driving test with this question: “If you want to turn right, you should be in:” The answers given are: a) The left lane, b) The lane that's nearest the direction you want to turn, c) the right lane, d) the center lane. The test maker has been most careful in phrasing (correct) option b, to make sure that this answer can't be disputed.
Qualifying phrases might include over a period of time, in rare cases, orwithin a small segment of the population.


