 Before you can book bulk tickets, you need to know which cities you will be traveling between. This might be the same two cities on a regular basis if you travel for business, or it might be multiple cities at different times if you’re booking a one-time trip for a large group.


For example, if you travel for business you might need 10 flights between Boston and St. Louis to cover your air travel for 3 months.
If you’re planning a large group trip, you might need a flight between JFK airport, Paris, London, and back to JFK for 30 people.
Consider this information carefully and have it easily accessible when you’re ready to book.;
, If you’re booking business travel for yourself, you know you only need to arrange air travel for one. If you’re booking for a large group, you need to have a final number of travelers before you book.


If you’re booking group travel, you’ll need to know this final number a considerable amount of time before you plan to travel, usually several months.
 You’ll need to know what the time frame is for your travel. If you’re booking business travel, you’ll probably have a regular travel schedule, with set dates each week (or every few weeks). If you’re booking for a group, this might be slightly more flexible, but you’ll need to know roughly how long you plan to spend in each location.


For example, if you’re traveling for business, you might know that you leave Boston every second Tuesday for St. Louis, and that you’ll return from St. Louis the following Friday.
If you’re booking group travel, you might know that you’re leaving JFK for Paris in late May, spending approximately 10 days in Paris before leaving for London, and then spending four days in London before returning to JFK.
If you have any flexibility in your travel dates, you should have this information easily accessible when you’re ready to book.
 Before you can book air travel for other travelers, make sure you have everyone’s information. This includes full legal names, addresses, and birthdays.


Double check the spelling of names if you are booking for others – the names on their tickets must match the names exactly on the IDs they use (driver’s license or passport, etc) for them to be able to travel.

