 Keep it simple! A circular saw, drill with a screw-driving attachment, and an extension cord are all the power equipment used for the chair in these photos. Along with the tools, some 2 inch (5.1 cm) wood screws, scrap cedar 1X2s from a construction dumpster, a treated 2X4 8 foot long, and a tape and square were all that were used for this project.;
, For reference, the actual angles and cut lengths for this chair are listed under Things You'll Need. Note that these can be modified to fit the individual's preferences.
 The photo will illustrate this step better than it can be described, but basically, you have the seat support intersecting with the back frame at about a 53 degree angle. Next, a rear leg support intersects with the seat, about 8 to 10 inches (20.3 to 25.4 cm) from the back frame.
, This will give you the angle of each cut, and because the seat and back angle are subject to personal preference, we won't go into great detail here.
 You may want to tack them with a wood screw to get an idea if the finished chair will sit at the right height and angle for you.
 Countersink them if you prefer, but keep in mind, these steps describe building a fishing chair, not a showroom piece of furniture.
, If you make a mistake here, you can always unscrew the mis-cut piece and replace it, but cut long, it is easier to lower the chair seating height than to raise it.
 These are your seat slats, and you can cut longer slats for wider seats, or reduce the length for narrow fisher persons.
 Use one screw in each end so you can rack the assembly if it is out of square.
 If you prefer, you can eye-ball the assembly, but using a steel square will insure the finished chair doesn't wobble when it is set on a flat surface.
 Depending on how deep the seat is, and how high the back is, you will need a total of about 20 slats. These can be spaced half an inch or so apart so water will drain through them if left in the rain.
 Attach these strips as shown in the photo, after making sure the frame is square.
 Here, since there was no thinner lumber laying around, a 2X4 was split width-wise to yield two 1X4s, about 19 inches (48.3 cm) long.
 This attachment should be very secure, since it reinforces the back frame and stabilizes the chair assembly.
