 Many websites online, which are designed to help you search for apartments and houses, will “rate” the units and the buildings. Check out the ratings for the apartment that you are considering. Read the details, and look at the kinds of issues that are rated. In particular, try to find out what tenants say about utilities, maintenance, property maintenance and management, and any other issues that are important to you.Be careful with the level of importance you put on any user ratings. If there have been only a relatively small number of responses or ratings, you have to consider that you may be hearing from only a couple disgruntled individuals. Percentages are more meaningful if there have been many responses.When reading reviews, look for facts rather than emotions. Try to differentiate between individuals who just had a personal conflict with the landlord and tenants who had genuine, supportable problems.
 Running a simple Google search or other Internet search for the landlord’s name may help you find out useful information. If there have been any public problems or scandals regarding the landlord or the property, those are likely to appear. Conversely, you may find positive reports, if the landlord or the apartment complex are involved in community service projects or similar endeavors., Depending on where you are in the country, you may find websites dedicated to information about local apartments and real estate issues. If such a tool exists in your area, use it to search for the property you are considering.


For example, in the Chicago area, prospective tenants might use the Cook County Property Info website at www.cookcountypropertyinfo.com.This site will let you search whether the landlord is current with tax payments, whether there have been or are any pending foreclosure actions, and other information from the County Assessor, Recorder, Board of Review and County Clerk.Prospective tenants in Wisconsin can use the TenantResourceCenter.com for similar information and landlord reviews., From the national website BBB.org, you can search for your local Better Business Bureau chapter. Then find out if there have been any complaints filed recently about the landlord or the apartment complex.