 Your parents will likely know if you are lying to them. If your dream is to become a teacher and you tell them that you can earn $100,000 per year, you are only going to make the conversation more tense. It will show that you either do not know the facts about your chosen career, or that you don’t respect your parents enough to be honest with them. Either way it will be hard for them to trust you with this decision.Using materials from reputable sources is a great way to discuss the details accurately.
For example, if the salary range of your career is lower than what your parents are used to making, you can discuss it with them by saying “I know that this is less than you make, but the flexibility of my job will allow me to do more traveling than you were able to do. That is important to me.”

, This is important for your parents. They may not understand why you don’t want to carry on the family tradition that they intended to pass down to you. By being direct about what your needs and desires are, you make it easier for your parents to process.This is a good time to tell them about your career plan and the life you envision for yourself. This way your parents will see that this is not just a passing fancy, but a well thought-out plan with clear objectives, goals, and a timeline.


Instead of saying something like “I think I might want to consider being a teacher after I graduate college,” be direct and say, “I want to go to college to become a teacher.”

, Communication is a two way street. If you make a genuine effort to understand your parents’ point of view, the will be more likely to return the favor. After you say what you need to say, it is your turn to listen. Do not interrupt or argue with your parents if they disagree with your decision.Saying things like, “I understand that your career is important to you, but my passion is somewhere else,” will let your parents know that you are considering their thoughts and feelings.
Respecting your parents’ point of view does not mean that you have to act on it.
 Arguing and yelling at your parent is not a good way to handle any disagreement. They are entitled to their opinion, just as you are. In the end, most parents just want to make sure that their kids are doing what is best for them. Keep your voice down, listen to their side, and show your parents the same respect that you expect from them.Your parents may not agree with your decision. In this case, calmly say something along the lines of “I understand your concerns, but it is my decision to make, and this career is important to me.”

