 A lot of people dread going to the dentist. Let's face it, it is really no one's favorite activity. However, if you find a dentist that you feel comfortable with, the experience can definitely be a lot better. Make sure that you feel at ease in her office, and that you are treated respectfully. Of course, the most important part is choosing a dentist who is credentialed and competent.Get some reviews on local dentists. You can ask friends, family, and coworkers if they have an office they recommend. You can also read reviews by current and former patients online.
Ask for a consultation before you have any procedures. This will let you get to know the dentist and make sure that you feel comfortable in the environment. At this time, you can also make sure the office accepts your dental insurance.
If you don't have have dental insurance, you'll want to ask about pricing. You should also feel free to ask if the dentist offers payment plans or a sliding scale.
 Most experts recommend going to the dentist every six months for a check-up and cleaning, which includes polishing, air abrasion, and a professional brushing that relieves gum inflammation. At these visits, you will receive a thorough cleaning and the dentist will check for cavities, signs of gum disease, and other issues. Regular check-ups are important because the doctor can spot potential problems and recommend a treatment plan. Your teeth will also look great after a professional cleaning!Schedule your appointments in advance. Dental offices tend to fill up quickly. By booking in advance, you can secure a time and day that is convenient for you.
Choose a dentist that is convenient. If your dentist is near your home or office and easy to get to, you will be much more likely to go.
 Your dentist and her staff are your best resources for all of your questions about your oral health. During your appointment make sure to discuss any issues that you have. You can also ask for tips about the best way to brush, and recommendations on products that will work best for your particular teeth.Your dentist can also help you understand the importance that your mouth has on your overall physical health. Ask your dentist about the possible links between oral health and conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease., Your primary dentist can also refer you to a specialist if you have any issues beyond general oral care. Maybe your teeth are crooked or the gap between your front teeth has always bothered you. Your dentist can recommend an orthodontist to help you make corrections.


If you have gum disease or erosion, your dentist might recommend you see a periodontist. These doctors specialize in gum care. Remember, your gums are important to keeping your teeth healthy., One of the best ways to feel confident about your teeth is to make them whiter. Unfortunately, brushing alone can't whiten your smile. Ask your dentist to tell you about your options. You could consider getting an in-office whitening treatment or doing it yourself at home.If you opt for professional whitening, make sure to discuss costs. Insurance typically does not cover whitening as it is considered cosmetic.
If you decide to try whitening at home ask your dentist to recommend products that she feels are safe and effective.
If you feel wary about using chemical substances, you can also try natural home whitening.

