 How much time will you spend in your home. How many bedrooms, bathrooms, and so on. Consider how much you have to spend. The average home should cost around $100 per square foot. (for the average homeowner)excluding the land cost.;
, Windows and doors should be a first consideration, instead of showing off your kitchen to your guests, the windows and doors should be your top priority, Purchase a top quality manufacturer and check for the National Fenestration Rating Council rating. This is a nationally recognized American rating on most top quality window products, this in turn will reduce your energy bills.
 Do not be afraid to ask how much the print will cost, most all have a set price per square foot to design your home. Be sure to ask if this cost will cover the additional request from the city planning dept. who will ultimately review your plan prior to issuing a permit. The architect should have all these changes included as part of his initial cost.
 They have your best interest in mind from start to finish. The best source to find a quality builder is to ask the local building inspectors in your area. A general contractor will charge a small percentage to recruit all the other trades to complete your home. This fee is to get all the other trades in and out from start to finish, oversee the quality of work and already has negotiated the subs fees, in other words these sub contractors would charge you a higher rate since you would only use them once, while the general contractor is using them all the time.
 Preferably start your home in early spring, you want to get the concrete poured above 40 degrees. In addition to this, if you are going into winter, you will have to pay for additional heat while the construction process progresses.
 This is a time to look at the finish product prior to close on the home, compile a checklist of items that are either not done or function poorly due to craftsmanship, This is a tough one. 90 percent of walkthroughs are looking at paint and drywall. This is the only thing most of them customers aware of. Take a moment instead and look at your doors, windows and other things less cosmetic, For instance doors:


Do they shut properly? slowly close the door and look at where it hits the frame.
Does it look symmetrical from top to bottom?
Does it close or open by itself? If so, these are things that tell you that there could be something wrong.
It would be beneficial to hire a consultant to go with you on your walk that has a background in the field.
 Focus on what really matters.

