 Whether or not you choose to take legal action for predatory towing, you always have the right to file a complaint with the Better Business Bureau (BBB). The BBB is a national organization in the U.S. that maintains records of complaints against companies in business. Your complaint may provide useful information to help future individuals understand the company’s business practices.To file a complaint with the BBB, visit its website at BBB.org, and follow the link to “Consumer Complaints.” You will be prompted to provide a brief statement about your complaint, along with the identification of the company.
The BBB will forward any complaints directly to the company. The company will have an opportunity to provide a written response. It is not the BBB’s role to mediate a resolution, but rather to record your complaint and the company’s answer, if any.
 In many U.S. cities or towns, the Chamber of Commerce is an organization of local businesses and companies. While its primary objective is to maximize business opportunities and networking for entrepreneurs, you may make some progress by lodging a complaint for predatory towing practices. Look up the Chamber of Commerce, either online or in your local telephone book, and call with the details of your complaint.


In addition to local chambers, there is also a National Chamber of Commerce, with a website at www.uschamber.com.
 If predatory towing practices are illegal in your state or community, you should notify either the local police, your state Attorney General’s office, or a state office of Consumer Affairs. Any of these offices should be able to help you contact the towing company and may be able to help you recover your car. Depending on the level of activity that the company engaged in, the law enforcement office may have the authority to invalidate your ticket, cancel any charges, or possibly issue a fine against the company., If your objective is to notify other members of the public of the problems you have had with a particular towing company, you may be able to use something like Facebook or Twitter as a powerful tool to reach many people quickly. Be careful to present only factual information. Social media may not have an effect on the particular ticket or towing bill you received, but it can put pressure on the company to change its predatory practices.