 If you have towels with plain indented borders (sometimes called a dobby weave), then you can stitch on a thin line of contrasting fabric. This makes a subtle and pretty decoration, uses up fabric scraps, and is easy to do.


Prewash the towels and the fabric you’re using. Otherwise, when you wash them, they might pucker strangely.Cut two one-inch strips of fabric the width of a towel, adding an extra inch in length for seam allowance.
Using an iron, turn over a quarter-inch of fabric at the short sides of the rectangles. Then turn over another half-inch and iron again. This should give neat finished edges to the sides of the decorative strip.
Now turn over a quarter-inch of fabric along the length of both sides of a strip. This should result in a half-inch strip of folded fabric.
Pin the fabric to the plain border on one side of the towel with the right side be facing out. The fabric should be right in the middle of the plain border--probably a quarter inch from each edge, if it’s a standard one-inch border. Use a seam gauge to make sure the fabric is straight.

Whipstitch the cloth neatly to the towel along each edge.
 If you don’t have any scrap fabric to add to the towel, you can go out and purchase decorative trims instead. When looking at trims, it’s best to choose ones that are sturdy and made of the same fabric composition as your towels, so the towels will be easy to wash.Of course, you still need to pre-wash trims and towels before application.


Cording is a simple, narrow trim. It should be easy to attach with a single whipstitch.
Rickrack is a zig-zagging trim that adds a retro or rural charm to towels.
Lace can be fancy or homey. Whatever style you choose, sturdy cotton lace, like eyelet or Cluny, is best.Avoid anything too delicate.
 If you have a lot of experience with machine embroidery, you can apply this knowledge to your guest towels.If you don’t know how to machine embroider, towels are probably not the best medium to learn on. Cross-stitch is very doable, however.


Start with towels with an embroiderable inset, which are available at well-stocked craft or embroidery stores.Pick up a few colors of cotton embroidery thread and a pack of embroidery needles, as well.
Find a pattern you like. You can find patterns in books, but they’re also available on cross-stitch sites, or DIY and social media sites like Pinterest.Transfer the pattern to the towel’s embroiderable section, and cross stitch away. Make sure to tie knots off securely, since you’ll be running the towels through the wash., If you want to monogram your towels, or customize them with a simple shape like a heart or star, think about applique. With this technique, you apply a contrasting fabric patch to the towel and stitch it down securely.It requires a bit more patience, but the results are worth it. You’ll need decorative cotton fabric, fusible interfacing, tailor’s chalk, and a needle and thread.


Prewash both the towel and the fabric you want to apply. This will save the finished design from weird bunching and puckering.
Find a stencil for a letter or shape that appeals to you.
Peel the backing off the interfacing, then lay the wrong side of the cotton fabric against the bumpy side of the interfacing. Run a hot iron along the right side of the cotton fabric. This should make the interfacing stick to the fabric, strengthening it.Trace your chosen shape onto the right side of fabric, using the tailor’s chalk.
Using a sewing machine or a needle and thread, make a running stitch on top of the traced lines. This will help stabilize them.
Cut out the letter or shape, being careful to cut close to the stabilizing stitches.
Pin the shape to the towel in the correct place. Satin stitch around the edge to attach it.

