 This will give you a more even finish than just painting it on. It will not be water proof, however.









If you want a translucent look, use glossy Mod Podge.
If you want a frosted or sea glass look, use matte or satin Mod Podge.
 The more food coloring you add, the brighter color your will get. Be sure to stir the Mod Podge and food coloring well; you do not want to see any streaks or swirls. The tinted Mod Podge will look pastel at first, but it will turn clear and bright once it dries.









Consider stirring in a few teaspoons of water. This will make the Mod Podge flow easier in the next step., If you are worried about making a mess, hold the jar over a pad of newspaper or a paper plate.
 Place the jar on top of some popsicle sticks. This will prevent the dye from pooling around the rim.If you don't have popsicle sticks, you can also use pieces of cardboard or plastic knives.
 This will allow the excess dye to flow down the sides of the jar and drain out. After the time is up, you can turn the jar right-side up and let it air-dry for 24 to 48 hours. You can also help it dry faster by placing it into a warm oven. Read on to learn how to do this.


Air drying will give you fewer air bubbles., Line a baking sheet with some aluminum foil, and place the jars upside down on it. Put the baking sheet inside a pre-heated oven; use the lowest temperature you can.
 As they continue to bake, they will start to turn clear., Pull the baking sheet out of the oven and flip the jars over so that they are right-side-up. Be sure to wear some oven mitts to protect your hands. It is very important that you flip the jars over; if you don't, they will become stuck to the baking sheet.








If you still see streaks in the jars after 30 minutes, put them back into the oven and let them bake some more.
 This may take a few minutes to a few hours. Avoid placing the jars in a cold area or running them under cold water. This may cause the glass to crack. The cold water will also cause the dye to fall off.
 You can find puff paint in the t-shirt and tye dye section of most arts and crafts stores. If you can't find any puff paint, try some 3D or dimensional paint instead.









To create a Moroccan style lantern: draw designs using black, gold, or silver puff paint. Then, use superglue to attach small, colorful gemstones to the jar.
To create a stained class effect: draw designs on the jar using black puff paint. Make sure that the designs connect, like with real stained glass.
 The tint is not permanent, so you cannot use the jar for drinking out of. Water will cause the tint to dissolve and fall off. Also, avoid using real candles inside the jar. Try to use battery-operated ones instead.









If you want to use your tinted mason jar as a vase, put a thin, glass vase or candle votive inside it. Fill the vase or votive with water, and put the flowers in. Be careful not to get any water inside the jar itself.

