 When visiting a Jewish person who is in mourning, it is important to maintain a respectful demeanor. Don’t joke around or talk about frivolous topics. Remember that you are there to show your respect for the dead and to comfort the deceased’s family and friends.A mourner is usually considered a spouse, parent, sibling, or child of the deceased.;
, It is very important in Jewish law for mourners to be allowed to grieve fully, especially in the days directly following the death of their loved one. During this time, it is customary to allow the person mourning to initiate conversations so that they may grieve in their own way, alone if they want or with others if that is what they choose., When you are calling on friends or family during their period of mourning, it is important to allow them to fully express their grief during this time. Thus, it is inappropriate to change the topic or to avoid conversation about the deceased in general.You should encourage the mourner to talk about the deceased if they want to.
You can relate fond memories of the deceased or other positive topics, but do not bring up anything that would cause more grief for the mourner.
 These kinds of standard responses to grief minimize the mourner’s emotions during their time of great grief. You should avoid saying things like this because the mourner may feel like you are simply trying to placate them.Some examples of things to avoid include “Everything happens for a reason” or “Time heals all wounds.”

, As you take your leave of the mourners you are visiting, it is customary to utter some traditional words (often called the Condolence Declaration). This is all part of the ceremony of supporting a mourner during their time of grief.The traditional Condolence Declaration when leaving a house of mourning is “May the Almighty comfort you with all the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem.”

, The Jewish family of the deceased person "sit Shiva" at their home. Shiva lasts for seven days and is not allowed on Shabbat, which is from Friday at sundown to Saturday at sundown.Sitting Shiva is not simply a social call. The purpose of your visit is to show the mourner that you are concerned about their distress in this time of grief.
 Some people become worried about whether or not they should attend Shiva – if they are “close enough” to warrant an appearance. However, showing up at a Jewish house of mourning is the most powerful thing you can do to show you care during this difficult time.Don’t ring the doorbell; just walk in. Doors are usually left open during Shiva.
 If the family is Chabad or Orthodox, they cover their mirrors and take off their shoes, and they don't work. Friends come to their home to provide help and support and even help them with their daily chores.Mourners sit in low chairs, stools, or on the floor. Family and friends can sit in the regular chairs.
Mourners typically don’t cut their hair, shower, or change their clothes during Shiva.
 Traditionally, a group of Jewish men get together at the Shiva and say a prayer called Kaddish. In the Conservative and Reform movements, Jewish women generally are counted as part of the minyan (a group of ten Jewish adults) necessary to say Kaddish. It is a great honor if you can help out to make sure there are ten adult Jews available at the Shiva every day., For a period of 30 days after the burial, there is another period of mourning called shloshim. During this time, mourners are not supposed to attend parties or other celebrations. They also should not cut their hair, shave, or listen to music.If you are a friend of a mourner, you should respect their grieving by not inviting them to parties during this period of shloshim.
 Sometimes after the funeral (about up to a year later), the family and friends return to the cemetery plot for the gravestone to be placed upon it. There is a veil covering the person's name, so they have an “unveiling” memorial ceremony for the deceased person.The unveiling ceremony customarily includes a recitation of Psalms, a brief eulogy, removing the cloth from the headstone, a recitation of the El Maleh Rahamim prayer, and the Kiddish prayer (if at least ten people are present).
 One year after the death of the deceased (on the anniversary of their death), mourners and friends can remember the deceased by practicing Yahrzeit. During this ceremony, the sons of the deceased recite Kaddish and take an Aliyah (read from the Torah).This ceremony should take place in a synagogue, if possible.

