 Chances are he won't stick around long enough for a real relationship, so if you have a fantasy of you two getting married and having some kids, wake up. Be prepared to accept that he is a player! If you know that you can handle him, move on to the next step.;
, What type of girl does he like? The good girl, the virgin, the bookworm, the popular girl, the bimbo, or the wild rebellious girl? Find out and do it. Yes, you may have to change who you are if you want to date a player. If you don't want to change yourself, go back to dating regular guys.


If you don't know what kind of girl he likes, here's a suggestion: players (like normal guys) prefer girls who are not trashy. Dress like a lady, be feminine, be sexy, look like you have a busy social life, and ALWAYS respect yourself. When it's appropriate (such as at a dance or nightclub) show some skin.
 Players are players because they act like girls are replaceable. Get ready--he will most likely treat you in the same way. Be ready to walk away from the relationship, and/or be used and dumped by him.
 If you want to keep a player around, it's going to depend on several things:


Can you two actually be friends--are you compatible?
Can you put up with his cheating?
Players are generally insensitive to a woman's needs--are you willing to sacrifice your self-esteem to be with him?
Are your prepared to have sex/lose your virginity with him?

, Do not be like every other dispensable girl in the room. Waste no time flattering his ego, because it's already big enough.
 Wait for him to ask you out. If he is not totally out of your reach (eg, he's the hottest guy around, you're chubby and he's into skinny girls), at some point when he sees you hanging around him enough he might ask you out. In general guys like girls that are more familiar.
 Once you bore a player, he'll either cheat on you or dump you (as long as you don't dump him first). So brace yourself for the time that he dumps you. Don't take it personally; he's a player.
 In the worst case scenario, you got to date the bad boy--the kind of guy that other guys only wished they could be. Even though he dumped you (or maybe you dumped him), carve a notch on your bedpost and call it even.

