 One of the best ways to avoid diabetic emergencies is to commit to a healthier lifestyle and managing your diabetes. This includes eating healthy foods that are approved by your doctor or dietician and staying away from foods that cause blood sugars to spike. You should also make exercise a daily routine.Avoid foods and drinks with sugar or refined and simple carbs. This includes junk food, such as snack cakes, ice cream, crackers, chips, white pasta, white bread, and similar items.
Talk to your doctor about adopting an exercise program right for you. Good ideas for exercise include walking, yoga or Tai Chi, dancing, gardening, and riding a stationary bike.
 One reason why people end up with a diabetic emergency is because they are not following their treatment plan. You should follow your treatment plan as outlined by your doctor. This includes taking any medication and insulin as directed, and following dietary guidelines.Check your blood sugar if you have gotten off your treatment plan for any reason. Getting off your normal routine can cause blood sugar problems.
 One way to help avoid emergencies is to wear a diabetes identification item. This may be a bracelet, necklace, or other item on your body. This lets people know that you have diabetes in case your symptoms have made it so that you cannot speak.You can buy medical alert items on the internet or in a pharmacy.
 Staying hydrated is extremely important when you have diabetes. If you are experiencing high blood sugar, you can easily get dehydrated because your body is making more urine. Another problem that can arise with diabetes is diabetic ketoacidosis. Drinking plenty of water can help prevent dehydration and flush harmful ketones from your body.Diabetic ketoacidosis occurs when the levels of ketones in your blood is too high. Ketones occur when you don’t have enough insulin in your blood. The extra ketones in your blood can act as a poison.When you are in a hot environment, you may get dehydrated more quickly. Make sure that if you are out in the heat or in a hotter environment that you drink plenty of water.Drink at least six to eight eight-ounce glasses of water each day.
Avoid drinks with a lot of sugar, such as sodas and fruit juices, along with caffeinated beverages and alcohol.

