 Deep breathing slows your heart rate, lowers your blood pressure, and calms you overall.


Take a slow, deep breath in through your mouth. Try to feel it in your lower abdomen. Slowly release the breath through your nose.
Take a few deep breaths whenever you feel road rage or anxiety and tension building when you are driving.
Take as many breaths as you need to calm yourself and feel relaxed.;
, You may find that your hands are clinched on the wheel, shoulders hunched, neck tight, and jaw tense. You can relax when driving if you do things that relieve the tension in your body.Shrug your shoulders up and down to relax them. Roll them forward and then backwards a few times.
Relax your jaw and forehead. Smiling, even briefly, can help you relax your facial muscles.
Turn your head slightly back and forth and left and right to release tension in your neck.
Do some hand and finger stretches when you are stopped at a red light.
 Being mindful means focusing your attention in the here and now, on driving and only driving. Focusing your mind completely on driving doesn’t give your mind much room to think about anything upsetting and can help you relax when you are driving.Take notice of all your senses as you drive. What do you hear, see, or smell? What does the car feel like?
Pay attention to how your body feels. You may say to yourself, “My shoulders feel tense and my stomach is queasy.”
Take notice of your thoughts and emotions. For example, you might think, “I feel worried and nervous. I keep thinking about getting on the highway.”
Allow yourself to experience your feelings without trying to stop them from happening.
Notice as the feelings slowly go away and how you feel as they do.
 It is easy to start saying things to yourself that increase your feelings of tension, stress, anger, and anxiety. You can relax when you are driving if you make an effort to think relaxing thoughts and talk to yourself in a calm way.For example , when someone is driving unsafely, you may want to say to yourself, “They cut me off! This is so frustrating! Driving makes me tense!”
Instead, think, “He’s not driving safe. I’m glad I don’t have to stay around him. I’ll move to this lane. He’s not interrupting my relaxing drive.”
Or, you may think to yourself, “I’m not good at driving in this traffic. Something bad is going to happen.”
Instead, try saying to yourself, “This is a chance for me to practice driving in traffic. I’ll do just fine.”

