 Hand out paragraphs from age-appropriate books. Give each student a different paragraph. Ask them to either read it aloud or explain what it’s about. Whether the students find it too easy or too difficult, you should adjust the readings until you can determine their reading level. Students can demonstrate what they already know by:


Reading aloud
Answering comprehension questions
Taking ungraded pre-tests

, Adolescent and adult learners understandably don’t want to read children’s books. For these students, search for crime fiction or other adult themes tailored to low literacy levels. You could also look for edited versions of the classic authors, such as Shakespeare.Some possible choices are:



Reading Shakespeare with Young Adults by Mary Ellen Dakin

The Fire Next Time by James Baldwin

Before We were Free by Julia Alvarez

, Divide students into small groups. Have them read the title of their assigned reading, as well as the captions to any illustrations in the reading. By reserving time for this activity in class, you’ll emphasize the importance of previewing in their future readings.Some examples of guiding questions for this assignment are:


This book is called How the Garcia Girls Lost Their Accents. Based on that title, what do you think this book is about?
What information does this photograph of Civil Rights activists sitting at a “Whites Only” counter give us about the newspaper article?

, Dictionaries are great, but looking up individual words can make readers lose their focus of the subject matter of their assignment. Teach students the importance of figuring out the meanings or significance of words from the context of the sentence or paragraph. You can teach context though:


Fill-in-the-blank questions. Students complete by choosing one of three possible words under or to the side of the question.
Antonym exercises. Students must figure out the meaning of one word by analyzing the use of its antonym (a word they already know) in the same sentence. An example would be:

While Mrs. Smith welcomed all immigrants, her neighbor was xenophobic. What does xenophobic mean?



, Have your students plan which strategies they’ll use for their assigned readings. For the next class, ask them which strategies helped the most. Examples of reading strategies are:


Skimming
Using context
Trying to predict what will happen next in a narrative

, Students absorb material better when they learn from their classmates. They can read aloud to each other and discuss what the reading meant to them. After about ten minutes of group work, have students report their discussions to the class. Some examples are:


Pair share. Ask a question related to the reading. Pair up your students for a quick discussion about their answer. After about 10 minutes, ask each group to share their responses with the entire class.
Catch-up. Break up your lecture into segments. Between each segment, have students work in small groups to compare notes and discuss what might not be clear to them. After about five to ten minutes, have each group share their findings with the class.

