 Sometimes you may feel tempted to skip getting showered and dressed if you know you will not be leaving the house for the whole day. However, taking the time to get a shower, put on clean clothes, and do other basic self-care activities may help you to feel more prepared for your day.If necessary, get up 30 minutes before your kids do so that you can take a shower and get dressed without any interruptions.
 Getting regular physical activity can also help you to manage stress as you spend the summer days with your kids. You may even benefit from hiring a babysitter for one to two hours a few times per week so that you can go to the gym and have some time to yourself to work out.If your gym has a daycare center, then take advantage of it.


Try to get 30 minutes of exercise most days of the week. This may include walking, swimming, biking, dancing, or whatever cardiovascular activities you enjoy most.
You can even include your kids in these exercises, such as by joining them for a swim in the community pool, taking a nature hike with them at a local park, or popping in a workout video and inviting them to join you.
 Not having enough time to yourself can make you feel stressed. Time to yourself can be a luxury when you are a stay at home parent, but even setting aside 15 minutes for yourself can be beneficial.


During your “me” time, try doing something nice for yourself, such as making yourself a cup of tea, pampering your skin with some special scented lotion, or picking a few flowers for yourself from your garden and arranging them in a vase.You could also use your “me” time to indulge a passion. For example, you could pick up a favorite book and read for 15 minutes, work on a knitting project, or play a favorite game on your tablet or phone., Relaxation is essential for good mental health, so try to find something that works for you and incorporate it into your daily routine. You can use a relaxation technique to help calm yourself when you are feeling anxious or to wind down at the end of the day. Some techniques you might try include:Yoga.

Meditation.

Deep breathing.

Progressive muscle relaxation.

