 You can wash three times a day, but don't overdo it—unless you've just come from the gym, two times a day of thorough face-washing (morning and night) is all you truly need.Don't use hot water, since the heat will dry out essential moisture you need for your skin and can lead to unnecessary burning and cracking. Avoid very cold water. Cold water is great for refreshing the face, but run it too cold and it shrinks pores and prevents you from clearing out the dirt effectively.
Make sure to use a gentle facial soap or cleanser when you wash. While using water will clear out obvious dirt and loose particles, soap and similar products will provide a more thorough clean. Be careful, though, to choose a mild soap, and to avoid hard scrubbing—the abrasiveness will ultimately damage your skin more than it will help.
While it seems logical to scrub hard when your face feels dirty, the hard scrubbing action can remove the natural, protective film your face produces, which in turn can change the pH balance of your skin and will affect the growth of the microorganisms on your skin. Remember that your skin is an organ, so treat it carefully.;
, Depending on your needs, old fashioned water and soap might need assistance from an additional product. Whatever you put on your face, though, make sure you do your homework on it and don't overdo it—you should not be applying products to your face more frequently than you wash your face.
 This time of day will be the most important for your face care regimen. While it's okay to wash your face when you get up in the morning, you will see greater benefits (and probably feel less gross) if you wash up before you go to bed.


If you have some, put on a night mask that you wash off in the morning. If you don't put on a night mask put toner on a cotton pad and spread over face, continue with putting on moisturizer while face is still wet from toner.
 Steaming is simply a matter of holding your face for a number of minutes over a container (a pot, sink, tub, etc.) of water hot enough to produce steam. Some people like to place a towel over the back and top of their head as they steam. This will open your pores and allow your natural sweat to drain away impurities.


While it is often great for people with greasy skin, steaming alone won't solve an acne problem—which is a more complicated issue.
 But greasy skin and pimples aren't caused by having moisture on your skin—they're actually your body's response to a lack of moisture. So get ready to add another step to your facial care routine.
 You can look for products that are designed for your predominant skin type or that target the specific issue or problem area that you are dealing with. If you have oily skin, you'll want to look for lotions rather than creams (which tend to have more fatty oils in them).
 If you live in a place of extreme temperature, whether it's very hot or very cold, or if you are in the middle of a tough weather season, then look for products that will help you compensate for those additional, external factors.
 It would be even more frustrating to find a great-looking moisturizer only to have it give you a rash. Dab some on your forearm and try that every day for at least a week or two, if you can wait that long. If you have no reactions to it after a period of time, then the product is likely safe for your face.
 A moisturizer will help keep your skin supple and smooth, but it won't clear away grit in your pores on its own.
 It's recommended to drink 8 glasses daily. Drinking water helps your body flush out toxins that can cause pimples and blackheads on the surface of your skin. The only way to “feed” your skin is through your stomach (remember that the skin is an organ), so stay hydrated and your skin will, too., Our bodies are designed to move. If you stay active, you'll definitely see an improvement in your skin.
 It's important to eat healthy by eating lots of fruit and veggies. Some people have found they could manage their skin breakouts and greasy-feeling issues but making changes in their diets. Cutting back on processed foods, caffeine, processed sugars, and excessive salts has been helpful for many—experiment with avoiding certain problem foods to learn how your body & skin react to those changes.
 If you have to go out or work extensively outside, always cover your skin or wear a sunscreen.Big hats, with at least a 2-inch brim, are best for blocking the harmful rays of the sun. You want a hat that will throw some shade on your face. Explore the varieties of head coverings that exist today—you may find something stylish outside of your own regional fashions.
 There are many different kinds available, so use a heavier one if you are planning intense physical activity in the sun.


If you towel off after swimming, you're removing the protection you had applied, so you will need to reapply sunscreen.
Remember, however, that you'll need to clean the sunscreen off of your skin at night, so using one adds a step to your daily routine.
 Many skin problems, particularly acne, have been shown through scientific study to be linked to stress. Remember that your skin is an organ! So just like your heart, lungs, and other bodily organs, your skin will respond to stress and life problems. Be gentle with it and help it by developing peaceful routines and strategies you can use to relax., Your skin problems can clear away--stay optimistic and try to reduce your stress by focusing on the good things in your life, at school, during the work, and particularly during your first waking moments and before you go to sleep.
 Just as scrubbing the skin too harshly, or using too-harsh products on your skin, will cause your skin to react negatively, so will exposing yourself repeatedly to sources of stress. Think about what things are causing you stress and work to reduce those sources or limit your time with them.

