 Internal hemorrhoids often end up requiring professional medical treatment. There are, however, a number ways you can ease the discomfort of hemorrhoids while waiting for them to heal. One of these is to take herbs that soften your stools, thus making them easier to pass.


Use stool softeners like senna tablets or senna teas (flavored with honey and lemon if you prefer). You can also try psyllium fiber as found in Metamucil.TM, When you visit the restroom, allow gravity to do most of the work. You can avoid straining by using a "breath push" method to move things along.


Sit up straight on a toilet before starting the bowel movement. Take the deepest breath you can and let your abdomen expand. This allows the diaphragm to drop and allows you to fill yours lungs as much as possible.
Hold the full breath. Then, when you are ready, imagine that as you exhale that the breath is pushing out the stool. This does take some practice, but it does work.
Continue using the "breathe push" method as long as the hemorrhoids persist, or as long as you need to, to reduce the pain.This method reduces strain and can help you relax. Used regularly, it can also help avoid recurring problems with hemorrhoids.
 After a bowel movement, try a Sitz bath, warm compresses, aloe vera gel or Preparation HTM to help soothe and heal the hemorrhoid.


For a Sitz bath, use about a cup of Epsom salts for a full tub of water. If you use only a few inches of water, 2–3 tablespoons (29.6–44.4 ml) of Epsom salts is enough. Keep the water warm (but not hot) and sit in the tub for 10-15 minutes. After the soak, pat dry yourself gently or use a hair dryer on a low setting. Try to repeat this two to thee times every day.Your local pharmacy may also have a basin that fits over the toilet which may be easier for you.
To treat with a warm compress, get a clean, cotton wash towel and soak it in warm (not hot) water. Apply the compress for about 10-15 minutes, three times a day. Some find it helpful to apply ice for a few minutes first.Once you have soaked and are dry, use a small amount of aloe vera gel or Preparation HTM to help with hemorrhoidal pain and/or discomfort. Preparation HTM ointment contains petroleum jelly, mineral oil, shark liver oil and phenylephrine. Phenylephrine acts as a decongestant and helps shrink the hemorrhoid. Aloe vera gel contains components that inhibit infection and help in healing minor wounds.Try witch hazel. Witch hazel is found at most pharmacies, which is a clear liquid derived from the witch hazel plant. A cotton pad soaked in witch hazel after a bowel movement. Witch hazel acts as an astringent, helps clean the area, reduces itching, and can help reduce the swelling. Witch hazel is usually quite inexpensive.
It is also good for a facial toner.
Pre- Packaged hemorrhoid wipes (which usually contain witch hazel) are sometimes available, which is convenient for slipping into a wallet or purse.
 If the suggestions above don't end the discomfort, you may want to try an over-the-counter medication. There are several options that may be helpful.


You can try placing glycerin suppositories into the rectum. These can help lubricate the area and reduce discomfort. Use these after a bowel movement, because they can also stimulate the urge to pass stool. Only use these for a week to 10 days. Longer use can damage the anal area and lead to other problems.You can also lubricate the anal area with petroleum jelly or ointments containing zinc oxide (e.g. Desitin).
Another option is to try ointments containing 1% hydrocortisone. Hydrocortisone is a steroid that can help reduce inflammation and itching. Again, stop use after a week to 10 days, as longer use can damage the skin in the anal area and lead to other, more serious problems.Ask your pharmacist for help finding an over-the-counter local anesthetic.The pharmacist may recommend a cream or ointment such as Aveno Anti-itch, Nupercainal, Solarcaine, or Lidoderm. These products can numb the pain, but check with your doctor first. They can sometimes interact with other medications you may be taking.You can also try using over-the-counter pain relievers. Non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) like aspirin, acetaminophen (Tylenol), ibuprofen (Motrin) and naproxen (Aleve) can all provide temporary relief., If none of these approaches are helping, or if your hemorrhoids are internal, you may need to seek surgery for the condition. Talk to your doctor about your options.


Medical treatment may involve an injection to reduce the size of the hemorrhoid. It can also include banding to shut off the blood supply, or cauterization to sealing off the hemorrhoid. In some cases, you may need surgery to remove large hemorrhoids.Some hemorrhoid surgery methods do not require any cutting. Sometimes an offending hemorrhoid can be dealt with in a simple procedure.
 Hemorrhoids are painful to sit on, and it is not always an option to stay upright. Many cushions are available to take pressure off of the area, and make sitting more comfortable and less likely to aggravate sensitive tissues. A good pharmacist can help you out. (These cushions are also often used by people who have injured their coccyx (tail bone), so you can say you did that if you are embarrassed.)

, Using an ice pack can help take some of the discomfort from the area, and help decrease swelling. It is also a non-invasive, simple, drug free way to handle this problem.

