 To begin achieving that perfect hotel-like bed experience, you’ll want to start from scratch.


Starting with a blank slate will get you in the mindset of creating that perfect, clean, and comfortable bedding experience.
It will also help you make your bed correctly, going step by step.;
, To get the most out of making your bed, and feel your best when it’s complete, use nice clean bedding.


Nothing is quite as relaxing as slipping under crisp clean sheets when it’s time for bed. Clean bedding will not only make your bed look crisp and help you feel refreshed, but it will be easier to lay down and get right.
 Gather up all your bedding and place it together next to your bed.


Try making stacks of similar items keeping everything organized and increasing your workflow.
For example, stack your bedding in order of when you need it. Put all your sheets together first. Keep all your pillow cases together and close to your pillows.
You may also want to iron your bedding like your sheets and pillow cases. Ironing will get rid of any wrinkles and creases, allowing you to experience a smooth crisp flat surface to rest on. When it comes to the type of bedding you need to make a hotel-quality bed, it's largely personal preference. To start, get the right size bedding. If you have a Queen sized bed, get Queen sized bedding. The weight of your duvet and duvet cover are also preference. However, hotels typically use a medium-weight feather down.
Thread count will somewhat factor in how comfortable your sheets are. But the type of material and thread length of thread are the real factors. Sheets with a thread count between 500 and 800 are generally considered to be more of a premium quality.
When looking for sheets, pure 100 percent Egyptian cotton will be the softest and likely most expensive. 100 percent Pima cotton will also be extremely comfortable, though not quite the same quality as Egyptian cotton.
Look for bedding that also has a longer thread. Shorter threads can poke out of the stitching and feel scratchy.
 Since you’re starting with a blank canvas, make sure that your mattress is clean as well. To clean your mattress, use the upholstery attachment on your vacuum. Press down firmly and go over the top and size of your mattress. If you have stains, you can use an upholstery stain remover.
Vacuuming and lifting stains from your mattress will also rid it of dust mites and odors which could otherwise cause allergies and affect your quality of sleep.
You’ll feel a lot better and more comfortable knowing that there’s nothing gross under your fitted sheet.
 Start with your clean and crisp fitted sheet. This is the sheet that has the rounded elastic corners. Place the sheet around your mattress and pull it taught in each corner. The elastic portion of each corner should be tucked in under the corners of your mattress.
The seam at each corner of the sheet should be in the middle of the mattress’ corners.
 The first flat sheet lays down on top of your fitted sheet. Put the first flat sheet on the bed and make sure that your sheet reaches to the edge of the mattress where your headboard is.


Lay the sheet down so that it drapes evenly over each side of the bed. Lay the sheet with the finished side facing down, toward your fitted sheet.
Flatten the sheet and pull it taught on each side so there are no wrinkles.
 Align the blanket to match the sheet. You will want to use a light blanket that is made of cotton or linen.
Flatten the blanket out and pull it at the corners to meet the corners of your sheet. Fold the portion of the blanket toward your headboard down to where your shoulders or chest will be when laying in the bed.
 This is your second actual sheet, but your third layer because you've placed a blanket. The third sheet will go above your light blanket. Lay it with the finished side facing down toward the mattress.


Align the third sheet to match with the placement of the first sheet. Bring the top of this sheet to align perfectly with the edge of your mattress at the headboard.
Flatten the third sheet with your hands and pull it taught at all corners.
 Fold down the top edge of the third sheet over the top edge of your blanket.


Take the portion of your third sheet that extends past the blanket and fold it back so it's now between the blanket and your first sheet.
Fold and flatten the portion of the sheet under the blanket so it rests perfectly flat.
 Now take the top of your first sheet which is still flush with the edge of the mattress’ edge on the headboard side. Fold the portion of this first sheet that extends past the edge of the blanket and the third sheet back over the top of the blanket and third sheet. This portion of your first sheet will now be on top of the other two layers.
Flatten the edge facing the headboard to give your bed a smooth, crisp look.
How far down you fold your sheets will depend on how many pillows you plan to place on your bed. You want your sheets to end where your pillows start.
 Next, you will fold the corners at the foot of the bed. Take all three layers at one corner and pull taught. Flatten the sheets at the foot of the bed.


The excess fabric that still needs to be tucked under the mattress will form a triangle shape. Bring the leftover fabric down and over toward the foot of the bed. It will create an envelope-like look. Then fold the remaining fabric under the mattress.
To get a nice envelope look, run your finger down the side of the bed at a forty-five-degree angle. Do this while pulling the sheets taught with your other hand. This creates an imaginary triangle. Fold the triangle portion of sheets at the bottom under your mattress.
Tuck in the rest of the sheets and smooth to remove wrinkles.
Do this for both sides of the bed.
 Lay the comforter down with the top edge about 3 inches (7.6 cm) from the headboard. Without letting go, throw the comforter on your bed and let it float down on top of your sheets. This motion will allow it to retain fluff.
Pull the corners taught and equally distributed on both sides of the bed. Then fold the top of the comforter back in a rectangle to leave room for your pillows.
 Then arrange the pillows to your preference.


The amount of pillows and styles you use is up to you. The only requirement is that you use the same number for each side of the bed. Place the pillows in a symmetrical arrangement on each side.
Once the pillows are laid, you may unfold your duvet cover slightly to meet the pillows.
 You may add a throw blanket over your duvet cover if you wish to accent your bed any further.


Depending on the size of your throw, fold it into a rectangle and gently lay it on the duvet cover toward the bottom third of your bed.
Do not let any of the throw extend over the foot of the bed. It will make your bed look sloppy and uninviting.
 If you want the true hotel experience, invest in high thread count sheets and go all white. White is a symbol of luxury and an all white bed will make you feel luxurious and relaxed. White looks clean and inviting and will alter your mind and body to give you a quality rest.
Sheets that are 300 thread count or higher will have a large impact on how comfortable you are and how well you rest. When you are comfortable you get better sleep.
 Invest in a few different types of pillows. Hotels offer a range of pillow types to give you the freedom to choose and an ultra-plush experience. Don’t overdo it. But create a variety with feather and down, down-alternative, and a boudoir pillow. These options give you variety and allow you to arrange pillows in a way that makes you feel comfortable and swaddled.
Five pillows is a good balance.
 No amount of preparation and attention to precise detail will counter an uncomfortable mattress. To truly get that floating on a cloud hotel bed feeling, invest in a mattress that is right for you. Whether it’s a foam, feather, or adjustable mattress. Find one that provides you with the most comfort.
If you don’t get a sound rest and feel comfortable, you’ll be tossing and turning all night, ruining all your hard work.
 You’ve been diligent and done a lot of hard work to make your bed look perfect and inviting. Make going to bed a ritual that allows you to enjoy your work.


When it’s time for bed, dim the lights. Light a candle, or turn on an aroma diffuser. Then slowly pull back the sheets and enjoy the crisp inviting fabric as you slip into bed.
to further enhance your nighttime ritual, get rid of any blue light sources. Blue light throws off our body’s circadian rhythm and prevents you from sleeping properly. Blue light is often found in screens from our phones, tablets, and computers. Instead of falling asleep to the TV, read a book.

