 If you are in need of protein, your body may send you signals. These symptoms can indicate a wide variety of other problems, however, so talk to your doctor before you take any protein supplements. Some of the signs are:Weakness, especially in your muscles
Unclear thinking or difficulty concentrating
Recurrent infections and slow healing
Sweet cravings
Loss of hair;
, Protein supplements usually come as a powder. You can mix these with water, juice, or in a smoothie. Protein supplements can come from either plant or animal sources. Dairy (whey and casein), beef, and egg white protein are examples of animal proteins. Vegetable sources include soy, rice, hemp, sprouted grains, peas, and lentils.


It is best to buy protein powders made from whole food sources of protein. The simpler the composition of your protein powder the better.
Whey protein is a popular option for people who are not vegetarians. It is derived from milk, economical, low fat, and low carbohydrate. Whey protein contains low levels of lactose.Milk or casein protein is also derived from milk. Casein is absorbed more slowly than whey protein, so it is often used for weight loss.If you are vegan or vegetarian, plant proteins can be used. Soy and hemp the best choices.
 When choosing a protein supplement, avoid ones that use additives or preservatives. Look for supplements that use natural flavorings and sweeteners.


Lecithin is a natural additive. It’s a natural healthy fat derived from egg yolks and is used to reduce clumping and to make the protein powder easier to mix with liquids.Avoid ingredients such as sorbitol, maltitol or xylitol. It is hard to find unsweetened protein powder options, but it is better to go with the powder that uses real sugar and whole foods ingredients over chemically modified ones.
 Since you can get protein from most foods, most people do not need a supplement; however, there are a few reasons why you might want to add a protein supplement. Make sure you research how much protein you need because the amount will change based on your specific case. Common reasons other than deficiency to take protein supplements include:


When you start a new workout program and are trying to build muscle
When you are significantly increasing your workouts
If you are a teenage athlete — you are not only expending a lot of energy in your workouts — you are also still growing, which requires a lot of protein
When you are recovering from an injury, such as a sports injury
If you have decided to begin a vegan lifestyle, There are better times than others to take a protein supplement. Incorporate the protein supplement as a snack or meal replacement throughout your day. You can mix the powder into a smoothie or into milk.


If you are using protein to help gain muscles while working out, don’t take the supplement right before, during, or after your workout. You need healthy carbohydrates instead. A good post-workout recovery drink would be lass of chocolate milk or fruit smoothie with Greek yogurt, not a protein shake.The best time to have a protein shake in your diet is throughout the day as a snack or to replace a meal.
When taking a protein supplement, remember to follow the instructions. Don’t take more than the recommended dose.
 Although most diets are high in protein, some are lacking complete proteins. These are proteins which contain all the required amino acids found in protein.Foods with complete proteins include:


A cup of quinoa or buckwheat
A tablespoon of hempseed
½ cup of tofu or tempeh
Meat, such as beef, buffalo, pork, poultry, and fish
Eggs and dairy products, The Institute of Medicine (IOM) recommends 46 grams per day of complete protein for women over 19 years of age. Men over 19 years of age need 56 grams per day of complete protein.Two to three servings each day of complete protein will provide enough protein for healthy people.


Another way to think about the amount of protein you need is to base it on your weight. Recreational athletes need 0.5 to 0.75 grams of protein per pound. Competitive athletes needs 0.6 to 0.9 grams per pound. If you are building muscle mass, you need 0.7 to 0.9 grams per pound., Before beginning any protein supplement, talk to a doctor. If you want to take supplements for athletic or training purposes, make sure to discuss it with a professional trainer. How to take a supplement varies depending on your goals, your fitness level, your age, and your overall health.


Taking too much protein can be a significant problem for people with kidney and liver problems, along with causing additional health problems, so always talk to your doctor if you have these conditions.

