 The LoJack radio signal requires special computer equipment for tracking; not all police departments are equipped to track the LoJack radio signal. A list of counties within states where LoJack coverage is available is available by calling 1-800-456-5225 (1-800-4-LoJack).


The telephone list is usually more current than the list on the website.;
, LoJack makes different systems for cars built before 1985 (classic cars) than for cars made after that year. The difference in the units is that the classic car version is self-contained and does not require connection to the vehicle's battery to work.


The LoJack version for cars made after 1985 does include a battery back-up to permit it to work if it is somehow disconnected from the battery.
 The basic LoJack Stolen Vehicle Recovery System is the wireless radio transponder described above, which LoJack's certified technicians install somewhere in your vehicle. For an additional fee, LoJack offers an Early Warning Recovery System that includes a key pass you carry with you when driving and notifies you by phone, cell phone, e-mail, text message, or pager if your car has been moved without your permission. (You choose which methods you want to be contacted by when you register your LoJack.)


LoJack makes it a practice not to disclose where in the vehicle the LoJack unit is installed, not even to the vehicle owner. Although you can witness the installation, your recovery warranty may be voided if you do.
 You can contact LoJack either online or by telephone, and you can arrange to have a technician install your LoJack unit at your home or office.


You can contact LoJack online through its dealer locator and choosing the option "I already own my vehicle or equipment." You will then see a new screen into which you can enter your name, e-mail address, state of residence, ZIP code, phone number, and 200 characters' worth of comments. When you click "Submit," your information is sent to LoJack, who will contact you to make the necessary arrangements.
You can purchase your LoJack system through LoJack's online store at https://www.lojack.com/products.
You can contact LoJack by telephone at its main number, 1-800-456-5225 (1-800-4-LoJack). If, however, you're buying LoJack systems for fleet vehicles, you can contact LoJack at its customer service number, 1-877-775-6522.

