 It can be hard for parents and children to spend time just talking to each other. Try telling your parents about your day, even if you don't think they would be interested. If they listen and respond, try to talk to them more often. This might make them friendlier and make it easier to talk to them later, when they're upset.If you don’t talk to your parents much, try finding something simple to say to them each day. It doesn’t have to be serious or momentous, just a small piece of news or an everyday observation, like what you did in gym class or who you met on your walk home.;
, Your parents aren’t mind-readers. You have to tell them what you’re feeling as clearly as possible. Be honest and direct, without blaming them or whining.Let your parents respond and listen to their side of the story.


Use sentences that begin with "I" like "I felt sad" or "I think that was unfair." Sentences that start with "You" can make your parents feel attacked. The goal is to express your feelings, needs, and desires, not to criticize your parents.
Similarly, it’s usually more productive to say what you do want rather than what you don't want. The first option sounds more positive.
For instance, if you feel like your parents are being too nosy, you might say something like, “I’m feeling defensive and on-guard. I would appreciate it if my room could be a private space.”

, The fastest route to conflict resolution is compromise. If you want your parents to be nice to you, you should expect to do something nice for them, too.For example, if you’re asking them not to poke around your room, that means that you’ll have to take responsibility for keeping it clean. Or, you might compromise by agreeing that only part of your room, like your desk area, is off-limits.
 When you give your parents respect, they’re more likely return the favor. This doesn’t mean that you have to agree with them all the time, it just means that you should listen to their perspective patiently and try to understand their point of view.Listening is one of the greatest signs of respect and keys to good communication. Once you’ve stated your case, be sure to give your parents a chance to respond.
When you show respect, it shows that you’re mature, and your parents will be more likely to treat you like an adult who can be trusted to make their own decisions.
Even if your parents respond with anger or rudeness, it won't help to imitate them. Adults don't always have the best behavior, but sometimes it helps for the kid to be the role model.

