 Your cat may need enemas and/or need to be sedated to have feces manually removed. The longer a cat is constipated, the harder the feces become and even more difficult to pass. An enema is a lubricant that is put into the rectum via the anus, to soften the blockage and help the cat to pass it.The enema may be a a simple micro enema, which is instilled in a similar method to taking a cat's temperature.
For more serious constipation, sedation or a general anesthetic may be necessary in order to wash the bowel out to remove the blockage.
Occasionally, a tumor may be at the root of the problem and require surgical removal. If the cat develops a megacolon from prolonged constipation, where the muscles of the colon can no longer push feces out of the body, the colon will need to be surgically removed.
 If your veterinarian has prescribed medication to manage the constipation, you may need to use a dropper or syringe to give medicine to your cat.


Be sure to have the medication measured and ready before hand. Also have treats on hand for your cat.
Give the cat a treat just before giving the medication.
Put the cat on a waist high surface like a bed or counter with its hindquarters up against you. Give him lots of reassuring strokes and face rubs.
Reach over his head and, with your thumb and second finger, hold his upper jaw just in front of the jaw hinge and press in. Your cat's mouth will open; there might be some paws wanting to interact with your attempts. It is helpful to have an assistant hold your cat's shoulders at the same time.
Hold the syringe or dropper in your dominant hand. Gently push the dropper between your cat's back (or side) teeth, getting it to the back of the mouth. Squeeze the medication out.
Immediately give the cat more treats to take his mind off of what just happened. If the cat is fighting and difficult to control, wrap him tightly in a big bath towel.
When giving liquid medication to your cat, make sure you rinse the dropper or syringe in hot water and dedicate its use to one animal. Discard the instrument after medication is completed.
 If your cat is not completely blocked and still acting and eating normally, try adding pureed pumpkin or butternut squash to his food to introduce fiber into his diet. You can also use canned pumpkin.Add a couple teaspoons of pumpkin into your cat's food. Canned food is recommended because it is easier to hide the pumpkin in canned food than dry food. Some cats may love the taste of pumpkin, other cats will need something like canned food in which to hide the pumpkin by mixing it thoroughly with something yummy.

