 Install an elevated toilet seat to allow seniors to get up and down easily if the seat is too low. If it's too high, contact a plumber to have a new toilet installed.A low toilet can be hard on a senior's knees.A high one may create a falling hazard.
It's also a good idea to add a grab bar on both sides of the toilet to further increase safety and accessibility., Not surprisingly, the shower is a very common place for a fall. Install a grab bar in the shower in case someone starts to slip.Using a shower seat is also safer than standing in a slick tub.Installing a shower mat or or non-slip decals to the bottom of the tub is also a good idea.Install a hand-held shower head to make it easier to shower, especially when seated.
If possible, install a shower with a step-free entry.This reduces the risk of tripping while getting in and out. If that isn't possible, and you have a high-sided bath tub, consider a transfer bench for easier and safer use of the tub., Place bright tape or decals on clear glass shower doors, as it is not easy for those with poor eyesight to see that there is a door at all, or to determine if it is open or closed.
 Place no-slip mats around the shower and sink, or install a floor that makes slipping less likely.


Wood, vinyl, or tile floors with a lot of grout are ideal to prevent slipping., Label the hot water faucet or paint it red to prevent accidental scalding.


You may also wish to consider lowering the water temperature by a few degrees to make scalding even less likely.About 120 degrees Fahrenheit is recommended., Install a door knob that can be unlocked from the outside. This way, if there is an accident, help can reach the injured person more quickly.In addition, switch out doorknobs for lever handles to make them easier to use.
 If there are multiple people in the household, try designating separate, specific areas for medications so they don't get mixed up. If you have multiple medicine cabinets, for instance, assign one cabinet to each person. Also, make sure medications are clearly labeled to decrease the risk of taking the wrong medication.