 PH shares many of the same symptoms with other heart and lung diseases. Your doctor may start you on medicine or start an evaluation to check for more common heart or lung conditions, which may reveal that you have PH. If you aren't getting better, further evaluation will be needed to check for PH. To help your doctor, be clear about all of the different symptoms you have experienced., Your doctor will check you for signs of edema and cyanosis. He or she may listen to your heart or lungs for signs of irregular beating.You may even be asked to walk a short six minute circuit to see how well you can move and breathe.After these tests, your doctor will determine what other types of tests you will need.
 Your doctor will schedule any tests he or she thinks you need to have done. This is highly individual, and your doctor will determine what the best course of action is for your unique medical history. Some tests you may be asked to do include:


Blood test
Echocardiogram
Chest x-ray
Chest CT scan
Right heart catheterizationChest MRI
Lung function test, There are many forms of PH that may manifest in sufferers. Working with your doctor, you may be able to determine which form is affecting you. This will help your doctor decide what type of medical treatment is best for you. PH is divided into five classifications:


Group 1 is Pulmonary Arterial Hypertension. In this form of PH, the arterial walls of the lungs tighten, causing the heart to overexert itself pumping blood. This can be heritable (caused by genes), associated (caused by another disease such as lupus), or idiopathic (the cause is unknown).Group 2 includes any form of PH caused by left-sided heart disease. For example, this could be caused by mitral valve or aortic valve disease.Group 3 includes any form of PH caused by lung disease, including sleep disorders and high altitude related sicknesses.
Group 4 is Chronic thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH). This is a type of PH caused by blood clots in the lungs.
Group 5 includes all forms of PH with uncertain or multiple causes. This may include blood or metabolic disorders.