 Do your own research into the issue you feel strongly about so that you are fully familiar with all sides of the issue, as well as the related policy or bill that politicians have the power to influence.


Check out a directory of American public policies to learn about pieces of legislature that are being supported and challenged by various groups in the U.S., and how you can get involved.Always read articles and other information on the issue from a wide variety of sources, not just the main organization that opposes a bill, for example, or a news source that could be biased toward a particular stance or political party.
Make sure you understand a politician’s exact stance and influence on a given issue. Searching for contact information for politicians on a website like Common Cause will also give you the bills they’ve introduced, committees they serve on, and political contributions they’ve received., Find out when legislation is pending for a given issue you’re concerned about, which is the ideal time to contact a politician with power in that legislation.


Check out Common Cause for pending legislation and important current issues, as well as who in government to reach out to that will be important to persuade.Consider that you want to start lobbying well in advance of a vote on the matter, especially if you plan to write letters or make several attempts at outreach over time. Quantity of communication is important in swaying an opinion, especially if you are an individual lobbyist.
 State your opinion on an issue clearly and succinctly in order to effectively let your elected official know why you care about and are affected by it.


Stick to a clear opinion rather than a general observation on what a politician is doing or what a given issue means. Identify the issue clearly and give the name and bill number of the legislation in question.
Avoid threats or other hot-headed arguments, which will be quickly dismissed rather than taken seriously by any politician. Avoid making unreasonable requests.
Request clearly that the elected official you reach out to states his or her position on the issue. You have a right to know his or her stance on any public policy., Remain pleasant and courteous in any correspondence with a politician for a better chance to be heard, read, and taken seriously.


Whether in writing or in person, use clear and concise speech to communicate your point without attacking the individual actions of the politician.
In written correspondence, you must also use proper grammar and punctuation to be taken seriously. Proofread your writing and have someone else look at it if you don’t trust your own editing skills or just want feedback on how to make it read more professionally.
 Vote in a public election poll on the matter in question if you are able to, as nothing communicates your stance on a subject more clearly.


Make sure you are registered to vote in the county in which you currently live in order to affect local policy. Or, opt to absentee vote if you can on an issue for which you cannot make it to the polls in person.
Register to vote online or at a voter registration office, DMV, or public assistance office. You’ll need to be 18 years old and have proof of your identity and residency., Know that you are protected by the First Amendment of the U.S. Constitution, under which you have the right “to petition the government for a redress of grievances.”Get familiar with what kind of lobbying is acceptable in your area.


Find your state’s laws surrounding lobbying and the expenses put into lobbying efforts, especially if anyone hassles you about your right to do so.Note that most states regulate lobbying with laws such as the Federal Regulation of Lobbying Act (1946), which states that you must report expenditures involved in lobbying, but most lobbying that deals with voluntary public involvement is very difficult to regulate.