 A part-time job is a sure fire way to make more money in college, and if you're not too picky, it won't take long for you to find one. There are many part-time jobs that won't require many skills or experience. You'll just need to devote yourself to working several hours a week. Here are some great part-time jobs to take on during college:


Wait tables. Get a job at a local restaurant in town, and enjoy your tips.
Deliver pizza. If you have your own car and are a skilled driver, this may be the perfect part-time job for you.
Bartend. If you're 21 or older, this is a way to make extra money and meet interesting people.
Mow lawns or help out with landscaping. This is a great way to get some exercise and make extra cash. Ask people if they want you to paint their house number on their curb for extra money when you're done.
You can also look through the part-time jobs listed on craigslist or reputable websites that are tailored for people searching for part-time jobs.Be a mystery shopper. All you have to do is be able to shop and give an honest opinion about your experience. You can find mystery shopper gigs online.;
, You can find extra work as a performer, even if you don't have the greatest acting skills or singing voice. This is a great way to have fun and make some extra cash on the side. Here are some ways to perform while you're in college:Do the birthday party circuit. You can dress up as a clown, a Disney character, or anything the child desires.
Learn to be a magician. Use your skills to make money at parties.
If you do know how to sing or play an instrument, spend a few hours a day singing and playing while keeping out a hat for money.
If you know how to act, see if any film students or playwrights need extra actors, or even extras. Some may pay for your services.
 A random part-time job or a job performing can be fun, but you can also earn extra money in college by sharing your knowledge on a variety of subjects. This can not only help you make money, but you'll be able to build your resume in the process. Here are some great ways to make money while sharing your knowledge:


Become a tutor off-campus. You can make a lot of extra money if you land a private tutoring gig in town. If you're an expert in any subject, from Spanish to Algebra II, parents will be willing to pay good money for your knowledge. You can also earn a lot of money tutoring for the SAT. You can be a private tutor or find work at a tutoring company.
Be a coach. If you were the star of your school basketball team, you may be able to find work as an assistant coach at the local high school or youth league. Or if you can't find work doing that, you can even be an equipment manager.
If you know how to sing or play an instrument, charge for your expertise.
If you're a good writer, find work as a proofreader or copywriter.
 You can earn a lot of money in college just by spending a few hours a day or a week watching over the kids, pets, or homes in your neighborhood. You can find work by posting in the local newspaper, putting up flyers with your phone number, or advertising on Facebook or through word-of-mouth. Here are some great ways to become a caretaker:



Baby-sit. If you have baby-sitting experience, even if it's from watching your siblings, this could be a great opportunity to make some extra money. If you end up watching a kid who sleeps a lot, you can even use the time to study.
Be a dog-sitter or a dog-walker. If your neighbors, professors, or friends are out of town and need help taking care of their dog, you should jump on board. Taking care of a dog doesn't require too much work, but people will pay good money to make sure their pet is in good hands.
House-sit. College campuses are a great place to find work as a house-sitter because they will be full of professors who may be going away on an extended leave for sabbatical. You can make a lot of extra money house-sitting for people who don't want to leave their homes unattended for a long period of time.

