 To change your name in Ohio, you must have been a resident of the county in which you will file your Application for Change of Name for at least 1 year., Legally changing your name is a serious decision, so you should make sure that you choose a name that you like enough to keep. Before beginning the process of changing your name, practice signing it, and have a few people close to you call you by that name to make sure you like it.
 You will not be able to change your name if your new name would imply "fraudulent intent" (i.e. that you are not trying to gain some benefit by misleading others about your identity).There are, however, several other reasons why you might be denied a name change, including any of the following:You are avoiding bankruptcy by pretending to be someone else.
Your new name violates a trademark (e.g. changing your name to "Chuck E. Cheese" or "Adidas Batman").
The name uses numbers or symbols (except Roman numerals).
The name includes obscene words.
If you are having trouble determining if your name change is legal, or need legal assistance with this process, hire an attorney. Legal self-help centers may also available to help with name changes, and legal fees may be waived if you demonstrate sufficient financial need. Search online to see what legal aid resources are available in your community.
 To get a court order officially changing your name, you must fill out a formal request, called an Application for Change of Name of Adult. Different counties in Ohio use their own versions of this form, which are available at the county's probate court or through the probate court's website. The Supreme Court of Ohio provides a standard Application, which you can download here. You can find links to different probate court divisions in Ohio here.


Leave the case number blank. You will not be issued a case number until you file your forms with the court clerk.
 This is a "proposed order," which you must fill out and submit with your paperwork. If the judge grants your Application, he or she will sign and date the Judgment Entry. Different counties in Ohio use their own versions of this form, but the Supreme Court of Ohio provides a standard form, which you can download here. Do not sign and date the form yourself. That space is for the judge to fill.
 As each county in Ohio has its own forms and requirements for changing your name, you may need to fill out additional forms. Consult your court's website or ask the court clerk about any additional required forms.
 Bring your documents to the court clerk's office at the courthouse. The clerk will stamp your documents, issue a case number, and give you a hearing date.


The clerk will ask you to pay a filing fee. Fees vary by county. For example, the fee is $142 in Montgomery County and $128 in Franklin County.Bring a valid photographic identification to show the clerk.
 Ohio courts generally require those applying for name changes to publish a notice of the hearing in a county newspaper.This ensures that potential creditors and other interested parties have a chance to object to the Application. Each county has its own forms, but the Supreme Court of Ohio provides a standard form, which you can download here. Fill out the form, then contact your county newspaper and ask how to get your Notice published. You will be responsible for any fee associated with the publication of your Notice.


Your Notice must appear in the newspaper at least 30 days prior to your court date.
Keep a copy of the newspaper in case the judge asks for proof that you published your Notice.
You may be required to file your completed Notice of Hearing on Change of Name form. Ask the clerk about your county's policy.
 The clerk will instruct you to appear in court at a later date. The judge will ask you about your reasons for changing your name to make sure that your new name is not fraudulent or misleading.Answer the judge's questions clearly and honestly.


If your application is denied, get a copy of the denial order and try again.
If the judge approves your request, you will be granted a name change court order.
 Once you have received a court order changing your name, your next step will be to obtain a new Social Security card, which will require you to fill out a form and either deliver it to a Social Security Administration office or mail it in with the required documents.Download and complete the application for a new Social Security card, available online.

Gather your paperwork together. You will need your court order, birth certificate, photo ID (driver's license, passport, or state ID card) and a completed application for a new Social Security card.Submit your documents to the Social Security Administration. You can make an appointment to change your name in person, or you can mail in the appropriate documents. All original copies will be mailed back to you with a receipt.You can find the address for the Social Security office nearest you via a locator on the Social Security Administration website.Your new card should arrive within 10 business days from the date on your receipt., Visit your local BMV with your Social Security card and court order to receive a new license. You will have to pay a $24.50 to have a new license printed.
 Here is a short list of what you might consider:Bank accounts
Credit cards
Leases or mortgages
Car title
Voter registration
Medical offices
Post office boxes
Passport

