


Most countries have different levels of midwifery practice that entail different levels of medical expertise. In the United States, for instance, women can choose from Certified Nurse Midwives, Certified Professional Midwives, Certified Midwives, Direct-Entry Midwives, and Lay Midwives, each requiring a different level of education or training.
Midwives with training as nurses or other medical professionals often maintain a certification granted by a national medical or professional board, while other registered midwives may not have general medical experience but should have extensive midwifery training. Lay midwives in most countries have learned by experience or apprenticeship, but are not necessarily licensed or certified.
Women expecting a high-risk pregnancy may wish to opt for a midwife with medical training and a license or certification or ready access to medical facilities. If a difficult pregnancy is not anticipated, an experienced lay midwife may meet your needs just as well as a licensed midwife could.
Educate yourself about your area’s options and consider what type of midwife will satisfy your needs.;
,


Take recommendations from friends and family into account but do not limit yourself to choosing someone simply because someone else thought that person was a good midwife.
Keep in mind your preferences for the involvement of a hospital or medical center; some midwives only deliver in medical facilities, while others only deliver at the client’s home, and this may be noted in the directory.
Most localities offer an online guide to area midwives who have registered in their directory. In some cases, regional websites that take an interest in the subject or the local telephone book may list midwives not on the official registry.



Your first choice may not always be available, so keep an open mind and be willing to work with other midwives if your desired midwife is too busy or is temporarily not available.
The more midwives you initially call, the better your chances of finding the perfect fit–just be sure to let the midwife know that you are just checking availability and not necessarily contracting his or her services at this time.
 You can meet at your home, a café, their office, or your own place of business to discuss a possible relationship with each of them. Let them know you are trying to find the right person and that you have a few questions to ask them before you choose a midwife.
 Examples of questions include:


What type of experience and training do you have?
What type of relationship do you like to have with your patients?
What is your availability for questions and emergencies?
Will you be able to deliver the baby at home/in the hospital/at a birthing center?
Do you have experience with vaginal deliveries for women with prior C-sections?
Do you have experience managing pregnancies of twins or pregnancies with high-risk health conditions?
What options are available to me if something goes wrong during the pregnancy or delivery that is beyond your expertise?
Do you have references you can provide from other women you have assisted?
What are the costs associated with each visit and with the delivery, and what services do you offer?
Do you accept health insurance?

, A midwife may come with numerous recommendations and credentials, but if you do not feel comfortable with him or her, your pregnancy may be more stressful than if you trust and get along with your midwife.


Weigh the midwife's expertise and reputation against the expectations you have of receiving high-quality, attentive care and genuine support after meeting him or her.
If you select a midwife and later discover that he or she is not a good match, do not feel obligated to continue with that midwife; you may switch midwives for any reason, and it can be harmful to remain in a relationship that makes you uncomfortable or leaves you disappointed.
The midwife you ultimately select should be friendly, experienced, caring, and eager to set you at ease throughout the entire experience.

