 Stick with clothing made of natural fibers, such as cotton. They will circulate air more and lower your skin temperature. Silk is another good option. The fabric gaps in lace also remove heat. If a fabric feels heavy in your hands, odds are it will trap heat against your skin.Avoid synthetic fabrics, such as nylon, as they are heavy-knit. As such, they will keep heat close to you and can even lead to overheating.For example, you could choose a dark cotton t-shirt. Glance through your wardrobe and select a special band shirt. Or, perhaps one with a basic logo or quote.;
, Goth fashion often involves layering. For the summer, your layers need to be light and airy. Look for slip dresses or romper-style outfits. If your initial layer is quite thin, then you can add to it without being too hot.For example, you might layer a light lace cardigan over a cotton slip dress. Or, you could go for a lace tank under a cotton-blend military-style jacket.
 Choose clothing pieces that skim your skin, instead of clinging to it. Or, mix-and-match tight and loose items. This will lessen the possibility of sweat stains showing and will allow air to circulate against your skin. Loose clothing will also prevent chafing.For example, darker maxi dresses are a great way to stay cool and offer a blank canvas for accessorizing. You can also go with a looser fitting cotton t-shirt, as opposed to one that hugs you closely.
 Move away from a basic black and white palette. Look for tropical prints that incorporate black and white, but with touches of yellow or red as well. Swirls or straight-edge designs are also eye-catching and unique. Don’t feel as if you have to select a “cheery” pattern for summer, instead look for one that captures the season and your style.
 This can be a bit much if you overdo it. So, stick with one item that contains a complimentary amount of fringe. Fringe can be used to both darken or lighten up an outfit.You could choose a beach cover-up with fringes at the edges. Or, a black maxi skirt with a fringe trim in a lighter color.
 Many goths feel out of place looking for swimwear, as they feel as if they have to go with a bright, summer print. This is simply not the case. There are some stunning and unique black bathing suits available for sale. Search online and look at specialty clothing stores for the best options.For example, some websites sell suits in unusual patterns, such as a pentagram-design bikini.
 This is a relatively new trend for those persons looking to combine sportswear with a gothic outlook. To achieve this look, you’ll want to wear gym gear, such as track pants, in all black. The weave of the fabric will repel sweat while allowing you to keep to your goth style.Some brands of health goth have even replaced standard symbols, such as Nike, with new ones that are a bit more subversive.
 If you decide to dress in a traditional goth style and wear heavy finery, then it might be a good idea to freeze a few ice packs before you head outside. You can then add these ice packs to your corset area or against your waistcoat to prevent overheating. This is obviously not a permanent solution, but it may provide temporary relief.