 There are tons of scar treatment products available over-the-counter which can help to even out redness and discoloration. They are usually branded as either scar-fading or lightening creams. Look for creams with active ingredients such as kojic acid, licorice extract, arbutin, mulberry extract, and vitamin C. These ingredients exfoliate the skin, removing the discolored top layers and leaving the skin smooth and tight. , If the over-the-counter products aren't packing enough of a punch, consider seeing a dermatologist who can prescribe a stronger, medicated cream. You can also discuss other options for fading acne scars, such as laser treatments or chemical peels.
 Laser resurfacing treatment works by removing top layers of skin from the acne scars, which are damaged and hyper-pigmented, leaving the skin underneath tighter and smoother. This treatment doesn't even need to be done in a hospital, a dermatologist can perform the laser resurfacing right in his or her office.The laser can feel a little painful, but the doctor usually numbs the skin with a local anesthetic first, so it's not too bad.The treatment can take up to an hour and may require several sessions, depending on the severity of the scarring.
 If your acne scars are more like indentations and scoops than raised bumps, a tissue filler can work wonders to plump up and smooth out the skin. Tissue fillers - such as hyaluronic acid - are injected underneath the skin by a dermatologist, producing immediate results. Unfortunately, the effects of this treatment are not permanent, so if you like it, you'll just have to keep coming back every few months for more!Silicone micro-droplets are a newer type of filler which actually stimulate your skin's production of collagen, allowing skin to regenerate on its own. You will need several rounds of injections for the treatment to take effect, but once these are complete the results are permanent., Chemical peels are concentrated acidic solutions that exfoliate the outer layer of your skin, exposing the softer and smoother skin underneath. They are effective for fading acne scars, as well as evening out skin tone, improving fine lines and treating sun damage. Chemical peels are available at your local dermatologist or plastic surgeon's office., Dermabrasion wears down scarring by removing the top layers of skin using a rotating wire brush. This treatment is quite harsh and your skin can take up to three weeks to heal, but once it does, you will have a new layer of lovely fresh, smooth skin., If no other treatments seem to be working, consult with your dermatologist about having your scars surgically removed. Be aware that surgery is the highest-risk option, as it often involves anesthesia, and can be very pricey - so you should only consider this option if your scars are very deep or extensive. Most of the time, surgery involves having each scar cut out individually, though sometimes a surgeon will need to break up the fibrous tissue which causes scarring, beneath the skin.It will take some time for your skin to heal after surgery, and you may also need to get a resurfacing treatment to smooth out the top layer of skin.

