 When you decide to get a pet snake, it is important that you choose the right one. There are several kinds of snakes that make good pets. Think about your priorities when choosing the one that is right for you.The larger the snake, the more space you will need. If your home has limited room, look for a smaller snake.
If you are not an experienced snake owner, you need a snake that is easier to handle. Don't immediately try to get a large snake with a bad temper.
Corn snakes are among the most popular options. They usually grow to less than 6 feet long, and they are even tempered.
The king snake is also a good choice. They adapt very well to living in captivity.
 If you are going to keep a pet snake, it is important that each member of your household learn to care for the snake. It's a good idea to teach your children to learn to properly care for the snake. This will help them remain safe when they play with their pet.Remind your kids that snakes are not toys. They are living creatures and it is important to treat them respectfully.
Pets are great because they can help teach your kids responsibility. Use feeding times to teach your kids the importance of sticking to a routine.
Snakes are fairly low-maintenance, so they can work well for kids. There is no hair or fur to clean up, and they don't need to be walked.
If you have kids, consider getting a corn snake or ball python. If they do bite, the wound won't be severe.
 Part of keeping your snake safe means paying attention to physical needs. Some snakes require regular periods of hibernation. This occurs most often in the winter.Provide your snake a proper environment for hibernation. Keep the room cool and dark.
If your snake is hibernating, do not try to handle him. It is not the right time to play.
For the most part, leave your snake alone during hibernation. How long it lasts will depend on what type of snake you have. Just remember to check on him regularly and supply fresh water.
 Most snakes prefer not to be handled regularly. But if you make a habit of gradually getting your pet used to being held, many will adapt. Just make sure to use the right technique.Hold your snake firmly but gently. Make sure most of the body is supported.
Your snake will often tolerate being held, but that doesn't mean he will enjoy it. Your snake will let you know when to put him down by struggling or squirming.
Do not hold your snake for 48 hours after a feeding. He needs time to digest his meal.
If your snake is moved to a new environment, give him time to adjust. Avoid handling your pet for 5-7 days.

