 Ask useful and necessary information: Does the child have anyspecial behaviors that you should be aware of? What does the child like to do and eat? Is there any special way the parent have of calming the child when they are upset? What are the routines? It's important that you are aware of how the child behaves, and what can be done to make the child feel better.;
, Some things can set the child into defensive mode. It's very important that you, as the person responsible for the child, treat the child well and avoid triggers. Autistic children can melt down when afraid, frustrated, overwhelmed, or intentionally ignored. Be aware of what upsets them and respect that. Don't yell at them.
 Autistic people are particularly passionate about their special interests. That could be anything ranging from toy trains to singing. Ask the parents or child about their interests before the day of the babysitting job, so that you can learn more about it beforehand. Find ways to play and engage in this topic together. This will help the child open up to you.
 The child may want you to follow a specific schedule and do the same things every day. Routines provide a sense of security and stability to autistic children. Again, go to the parents and ask them about the child's routine. There may be a picture schedule or written schedule to help you.
 It's a good idea to speak to the child often. Talk to them about their special interest, compliment their toys, ask them questions, and so on. Respond positively to their replies, even if they aren't capable of forming coherent words or sentences. Don't feel upset if you don't get much replies, since some autistic children don't talk much or prefer to talk to themselves.
 If the child seems to want to be alone, give them some space and keep an eye on them from a distance. If the child stims (e.g. flapping hands or spinning around), act like nothing is wrong or unusual about it, and continue doing what you're doing. This will help the child feel confident and respected.

