 This style is suitable for longer hair. It focuses on twist braiding only part of your hair into a headband-like crown. The rest of your hair will still be loose.
 Try to make them just above your eyebrow. Make sure that you are only gathering hair from either the left or the right side of the part. You will be making two identical twisted braids on either side of your head.


Try to make the section triangular, with the pointed part facing away from you face., Smooth both sections down; if you have frizzy hair, give them a slight downward twist. Next, pull the bottom section upward so that it crosses in front of the top one in an X shape., Gather some hair from just below the bottom section. Add it to the bottom section to make a thicker strand.Do not grab the hair from your hairline, otherwise you will end up with an up-do. You want the crown to wrap around the side of your head, with the rest of your hair hanging loose.
 This time, gather some hair from your part. Add it to the top section to make it thicker., Smooth the hairs down first, if you need to. Next, pull the bottom section upwards so that it crosses in front of the top one, like an X.
 Continue adding hair, then twisting and crossing the ropes until you reach the middle-back of your head. The process is similar to that French braiding, except with two strands instead of three.Don't add hair from your hairline below the two sections, otherwise you'll end up with an up-do.
 Don't add any extra strands of hair to the sections this time. If you can't find a clear elastic, you can use a black on instead. You will be snipping this elastic off later on, so make sure that you don't mind ruining it.
 End the twisted braid right next to the first one that you made.
 Make a hole in one of the ropes between the two twisted strands. Pull the other rope through it. Gently tug the ropes away from each other to form an X shape. Use bobby pins to secure the X in place, then cut off the clear elastics from before., You don't have to do this, but it can add a nicer touch.You can also add some loose curls or waves to the rest of your hair, if you want to.


Give your hair a light misting of hairspray, if needed.

