 If your crooked nose is causing you problems with your breathing, you may have a deviated septum. If your crooked nose is a symptom of a medical condition that requires treatment, you should see a doctor about having it repaired.If you experience pain from time to time while breathing deeply, you may have a deviated septum that can be repaired surgically. Nasal obstruction is a reason for surgical intervention and can help with breathing better and sleeping better during the day and night.
Experiencing frequent nose bleeds is also a symptom of a deviated septum that requires treatment.
If you prefer to sleep on one side or have been told you make significant breathing noises as you sleep, you may have a deviated septum as well.
 If your crooked nose is only an aesthetic issue, you should consider leaving it alone. Using makeup to reduce the conspicuousness of your crooked nose may be enough.


Injections and surgery are both expensive and pose medical risks that may not be necessary if your nose issue is only a visual one.
Do not feel pressured to alter the way you look because of what others may think.
Consider that you may get the surgery and find that you prefer your old nose to the new one.
 Using makeup to make your nose look straighter will require the use of three different shades of contouring makeup. These shades are used to create the illusion of a straighter nose without actually changing your nose at all. You will need:One contouring shade that is two shades darker than your natural skin tone.
One the is only slightly darker than your natural skin tone.
One contouring shade that is two shades lighter than your skin tone.
 Using two shades of contouring makeup you can establish a straighter look to your nose by drawing straight lines down your nose that do not bend where your nose does.Draw two straight lines down the sides of your nose with the darkest shade of contouring makeup.
Draw lines outside those dark lines with the medium shade of contouring makeup.
 The bridge of your nose often serves as an extended base to the nose and can help establish a straight appearance by creating a relation between the bridge of your nose and the tip.Apply the highlight makeup to the center of the bridge of your nose to draw it toward the straightened lined you established with the dark shades.
The combination of these shades will create the illusion of a straighter nose.

