 Here is where you can get really creative. You can make your strap out of duct tape, more folded and linked candy wrappers, ribbon, fabric, or nylon backpack strapping. Choose your material, add about 4 inches (10.16 centimeters), then cut it accordingly. You can make one long, shoulder strap, or two short handles. To make a fabric strap:

Decide how wide you want your strap to be, then cut your fabric 4 times as wide.
Fold the fabric in half lengthwise, with the wrong sides together, and press it with an iron.
Fold the raw side edges inside so that they nestle against the fold. Press the strap with an iron again.
Topstitch along the double-folded edge using a sewing machine. Sew as close to the folded edge as possible.
 Plan on having about 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of the strap inside the bag. Also, make sure that the folded part of your strap is against the bag so that you can't see it. Folding the ends of your straps in hides the raw edges and gives you a cleaner finish. Keeping 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) of the strap inside the bag adds strength and stability.

If you are making a shoulder strap, pin the ends to the folded side edges of the bag.
If you are making handles, pin them to the flat sides of the bag inside.
 The easiest way to do this would be to simply hot glue them in. You can also sew them in by hand or by using a sewing machine. If you plan on using a sewing machine, sew across the side and bottom edges of your strap, first, then along the top edge of your bag. For extra stability, sew an X into the middle of your strap where it connects to the bag.

Remove the sewing pins when you are done.
 Measure the height and width of your bag, and add 1 inch (2.54 centimeters) to each measurement. Fold some fabric in half, and cut a square or rectangle out according to your measurement; the folded part of the square will be the bottom of your bag.

If you do not wish to add a lining, your bag is done.
 Make sure that the fabric is folded with the right sides together. Next, sew up the sides of your lining using a ½ inch (1.27 centimeter) seam allowance. Leave the top edge open., Make sure that you are folding towards the outside, where the side hems are. If you'd like, you can glue or topstitch the top hem down to keep it in place., Set the lining into the bag, and match up the top edges. Draw a short line of hot glue along the top edge of the bag, then immediately press the top edge of the lining into it. Keep doing this until you have glued the lining down.

Hot glue sets quickly. Work 1 to 2 inches (2.54 to 5.08 centimeters) at a time.
 Even though this bag is sturdy, it is still fragile and can break if you are not careful. Avoid getting it wet, and do not keep anything too heavy inside of it.