 Interviews give you a great opportunity to mine the customer's experience and perception of your business. They enable you go further than answers with fixed, discreet answers. The format used can vary greatly, but the one of the advantages it gives you is the possibility to use follow-up questions in order to clarify any uncertain remarks.Interviews can be conducted over the phone or in person, to a script or more free-form.
The kind of data you get will depend on the style and format, as well as actual content of the interviews.
A skilled interviewer will most likely be able to gain a lot more useful information than someone who is reading from a script.
Interviews produce the most in-depth information, but are the most expensive way to gather data., Focus-groups can be a good way to get relatively informal information from a number of your customers. It has the benefits of a face-to-face interview in that you can gauge the reaction of somebody, and there is ample opportunity for follow-up questions. Unlike an individual interview, a focus-group enables a group dynamic to develop, which can have positive and negative consequences.


You may discover more about perceptions of your business as the members of the group react to each other's remarks.
This can highlight disagreements as well as agreements, and expose how different people can respond to the same thing in different ways.
Aim for small groups of 5-10 people, and record what is said.
You might consider hiring a specialist to conduct the focus-group, or do it yourself., Feedback cards can be a cheap and low-maintenance way to conduct regular research on customer satisfaction. You can leave them out around your business, or hand them out directly to customers. They don't take long to complete and can be analysed quickly.

On the down-side, the information you receive will most likely be very limited, and you won't have to opportunity follow-up.
Often feedback cards are treated as an afterthought, with generic questions.
They will give customers an opportunity to make a complaint anonymously and quietly, which can highlight problems that would not otherwise have come to light.
 Mystery shopping is another way to get feedback on the performance of staff, and the service your business is offering to customers. Mystery shopping may be done in person in the store, over the phone, or over the internet. A person unknown to you will be hired to act as a normal customer and then document the experience.


Mystery shopping can help you see from a customers-eye-view, and negate the possible biases that managers and supervisors might have about particular teams or employees.
The results are, however, somewhat dependant on the professionalism and effectiveness of the mystery shopper.