 You'll want to hear how a variety of instruments in various price ranges sound and even how they feel upon closer inspection. Not all instrument stores will specialize in mandolins, or even carry them, so you should do a little shopping around., Acoustic music shops or mandolin dealers should have sales personnel experienced with these types of stringed instruments. If you are able to find one who has been in business and/or played for a long time, they will be a valuable resource in choosing the best beginner instrument. Ask around and get a variety of opinions on instruments and retailers., If you purchase a mandolin online, be sure that the retailer provides a fully refundable return policy, so that you can ship the mandolin back if you decide you don't like it. Purchasing an instrument without having been able to hold it in your hands and hear how it sounds can be a gamble for a first time buyer., While it may not be as impressive as having one built for you, being able to talk to a person who has owned the instrument for some time and probably has a fair amount of knowledge about mandolins in general, could be really beneficial for you as a first time buyer., Make sure that the joints, seams and bindings are solid and hold the instrument together. Check for cracks and missing or broken parts if you plan to purchase a mandolin that is used. Inspect the neck. The neck should be straight and the joint that holds it to the body should not be loose.

Examine the face, or soundboard, of the mandolin. When you are buying your first mandolin, you don't want to purchase an instrument that has a warped soundboard. When in doubt, consult a mandolin luthier (stringed instrument maker or repair person)., Ask for their opinion on whether the mandolin has the correct arch to it when they look at it from the side. Then, ask them to look at the back of the instrument and check to make sure it does not have any fine cracks. This can be a sign of wear in an older instrument or mishandling of a new one that could warrant the help of a luthier to fix it.Turn all the tuning keys to make sure they function. A beginner mandolin should be easy to tune., Take along a friend or mandolin teacher with you for a second opinion. An easily playable mandolin is sometimes said to be the most important quality for a beginner, even over the sound of the instrument. If it's too difficult to play, you may not stick with it.Strum each string, pressing down on every fret, listening for buzzes and tone quality. You don't want a beginner mandolin that buzzes or won't stay in tune.
 The action is the distance between the fret board and the strings. The action on a beginner mandolin should not be too high, and it should not hurt your fingers when you press down on the strings.