 Using raw ingredients to make as many things as possible, instead of buying them at the store, is a great way to help reduce air pollution. That's because the practice of mass-producing, packaging, and shipping goods to make them readily available to consumers is directly responsible for industrial emissions that pollute the air. Take a look around your house and figure out items you could make instead of buying. Here are a few ideas:


Food, of course! If you tend to buy a lot of pre-packaged food, then making your meals from scratch is a good place to start. Eliminating convenience foods and creating dishes with raw ingredients is healthier and better for the environment. For example, if you love spaghetti, make your sauce from raw tomatoes and garlic rather than buying a can of pre-made sauce. You can make your own pasta, too!






Did you know you can make your own household cleaners? Instead of buying dish soap, laundry detergent and bathtub cleaner, make your own using nontoxic ingredients. Store your concoctions in glass jars.






The same goes for homemade shampoo, toothpaste, deodorant and lip balm.






Clothing is a bit trickier to make on your own, but if you're feeling ambitious and want to give it a try, start with basics like shirts and pants.






If you're interested in becoming a full-time maker, look into the art of homesteading. Soon you'll be growing the tomatoes and garlic you need to make that sauce.
 When you do need to buy something instead of making it, try to buy items that are made and sold locally. You'll probably have better luck at locally-owned stores, rather than commercial stores, which tend to get their wares shipped in from all over the world, greatly contributing to air pollution. Here are some strategies for buying local:


Shop at farmer's markets. This is the best way to shop for food grown and sold locally.
Check the tags of clothing items. Try to buy items that were manufactured close to where you live. Though it can be quite expensive, consider buying items that were handmade by someone living close to you. If this isn't an option, getting secondhand clothes is another good way to cut down on consumption.
Don't buy stuff online. Getting a book or clothing item online is extremely easy on the consumer's end, but think about the boats, planes and trucks required to deliver that item to your door. It should be something you only do sparingly.
 The plastic, foil and cardboard used in packaging is manufactured using practices that negatively impact air quality. No matter what you're shopping for, try to choose items that have less packaging. For example, instead of choosing a box of individually-wrapped granola bars, try making your own at home or buying granola bars from a bakery where they don't come wrapped in foil. If that's not an option, go for the items that come in recyclable packaging.


Take your own cloth shopping bag to the store instead of choosing paper or plastic.
Shop in the bulk food section instead of buying individually packaged items.
Buy loose, fresh produce instead of canned or frozen produce.






Buy extra large containers of items you use often so you don't have to purchase many smaller containers.
 Managing your household waste effectively is another good way to reduce air pollution. Reusing, recycling and composting can have a big effect on your garbage output, which means less trash going into the landfills - big sources of air pollution.Try to buy items that come in glass containers so you can reuse them over and over again. Plastic is reusable, too, but be careful reusing it too often to store food, since chemicals can leach from the plastic into the food over time.






Recycle your plastic, paper, aluminum, and other recyclables according to your city's guidelines.







Make a compost pile in your yard, into which you can throw your vegetable peelings and other food scraps. After you've tended your pile for a few months, you'll have rick, black compost you can use to feed your garden.
 Such paints and cleaning products emit less smog-producing particles to the air and are better for your breathing health too.


Follow manufacturers’ recommendations to use and properly seal cleaners, paints, and other chemicals. Carefully following the instructions ensures that smog-forming chemicals can’t evaporate.

