 Yes, good conversation skills can go a long way. Be polite when you are talking to others and try to always listen intently. By listening to those you talk to, it shows that you care about what they are saying. Try to speak about yourself less and focus on creating a great conversation.


If you find yourself thinking constantly about what you need to say next, you're not listening well enough., Politics and religion tend to bring out the most argumentative of people, and can be conversational landmines. The issue isn't the argument -- even kind people can have good, productive arguments over tough issues -- rather, it is being sensitive about when you bring these things up. A good rule of thumb is to always try to recognize the good in someone elses' viewpoint. If you can't do that, don't bring it up.


This goes for off-color or risque jokes too. No matter how funny it is, pay attention to your audience before telling it.
 Never bully someone into giving you what you want. This will give the impression that you believe you are 'superior' above others. You do not want to set this impression, so be sure to be gracious when asking things from others.


"Hey-- would you mind if I borrowed this?"
"Could you offer me a hand? I'd really appreciate it."
"I wanted to let you know I need the car next weekend. Will that be okay?"

, Of course, you shouldn't generally criticize people at all, but there are times when telling someone they did someone wrong is perfectly fine. However, that time is never when the person isn't around. Talking badly about people when they aren't around tells everyone else that you don't respect them, and treat people differently when they are around. Nice people know that talking behind someone's back is never appreciated.


If you have a problem or question about someone, just ask. Bring these conflicts out into the open to make them much more manageable in a kind, easy way., Don't just blurt the first thing in your mind. Wait a bit and process. Slower, more thoughtful speakers don't cut others off, and they don't put their foot in their mouths during delicate conversations. Remember that your opinion is important, and so are your thoughts, but you can make them all more meaningful if you take a few seconds to compose yourself first., Opening doors for people, saying please and thank you, and helping with the chores or dishes after staying with friends is a simple, everyday way to be a nice person. These little interactions may not feel like much, but they ultimately show that you respect the other person enough to take your time and be considerate.


Don't feel like you need to be a manner's expert, taking courses or reading books. Just remember to be considerate -- think of your host or other people, and act accordingly.