 The easiest way to determine your family member’s risk for suicide and see warning signs is to spend time with them.Being around them allows you the opportunity to notice what they are saying and how they are acting. It also gives you the chance to talk to them about things going on in their life.


You can do something as simple as call or video chat with them.
You can also spend time in person just by visiting them or hanging out for a little while.
Ask them how their life is going in general. For instance, you might say, “How are things going? Anything major happened recently?”

, There are some stressors that can make it more likely that someone may attempt suicide. Asking your family member about these things can help you understand how at risk they may be for attempting suicide.Find out if anyone they care about has died recently. Death of a loved one, and in particular a suicide, can put your family member at greater suicide risk.
You might indirectly ask your family member about recent deaths by saying, “How is everyone doing? Are all your friends and family doing okay?”
Ask about recent losses like a break-up, losing a job, or losing a title or position.
For example, you could ask, “How’s school and your job going? How are you doing with basketball?”

, Some things may be going on in your family member’s life that have been happening for a while that may put them at risk for suicide. There may also be some things in your family member’s past that put them at greater risk. Finding out about these things will help you prevent them from attempting suicide.Determine if they have attempted suicide before because this puts them at greater risk for trying it again.
Find out whether your family member is being or has been abused, bullied, or victimized.
If your family member has chronic pain or a mental illness they may view suicide as a way to end their suffering.
Ask whether anyone else in the family has attempted or died by suicide. A family history of suicide can increase a person’s risk for attempting it.
You might ask, “Has anyone in the family attempted or died from suicide that you know of?”
You may also want to find out if they are taking any SSRI antidepressants because these can increase thoughts of suicide in some people.

