 Most of the flavor comes from the beef and pork bones; they are the perfect tool for making hearty broths. The ideal broth takes around 3 hours to complete.


Wash the pork and beef bones with water. Place them into a stock pot until bones are fully covered. Boil the meat for about 10 minutes. Remove the fat from the pot as it rises to the top.
Empty the pot, rinse the meat, and then place into a different pot. Smash and bruise the 8 stalks of lemongrass for the the stock. 6-8 stalks should be good; too much will make the stock bitter. You can use a meat tenderizer or simply anything hard enough to smash the stalk.;
, This includes the cleaned meat, beef ox tail, a couple cloves of garlic, the bruised lemongrass stalks, a knob of ginger, 1 quarter of a pineapple, 1 tbsp of salt, fish sauce, and the fermented shrimp paste. Turn the stove on high.


Wait until the broth boils and skim and then dump the fat the rises to the top. Turn the stove down from medium-low and let it simmer for about 3 hours. Make sure the pot is covered so the broth can absorb all the flavor. Remove the meat from the pot. Shred it from the bone and add it back in.
 Slice beef shank into quarter-inch pieces. Wash the pig feet and pig toes (the pig feet come pre-sliced). Slice your pork loaf into 1 inch pieces and set aside.Add the beef shank and pig feet into the stock pot. Wait about 30 minutes until that meat is tender and remove the excess fat, as before. Turn the stock pot back on low-medium heat., In different pan on medium heat, add 2 tbsp of cooking oil and 1 tbsp of annatto seeds. When the color of the seeds have seeped into the oil to make it dark red, remove the seeds. Chop and mince 2 stalks of lemongrass. Add that to the pan. Saute it for about a minute; this releases the fragrance.

Add 2 Tbsp of fermented shrimp paste and 1 Tbsp of chili paste to the pan.
Saute this mixture until the texture becomes smooth (about 7-10 min). Transfer this mixture into the stock pot. This will give the broth a vibrant red color at the top.
You can add more chili paste to make the broth more spicier, if desired.
 Then drain the water, rinse and set the noodles aside when cooked; that way the noodles won't stick., This includes bean sprouts, mint, cilantro, red cabbage, lime wedges, coriander, and sliced raw onions.
 If so, add the sliced pork blood into the broth. You can tell if the pig feet are done by poking them with a chopstick.

You can buy the pork blood pre-cooked (if you don't find this satisfying you can still add it in to enhance the flavor).
 While you wait, you can add noodles to your boil along with the pork loaf. Add the broth and whatever meats you like into your bowl.Add whatever garnish you like afterwards. It's traditionally added after your pour the broth in your bowl.,