 Individuals who are deaf or hard of hearing can communicate in several ways. Some will wear amplification devices and communicate through speech, while others may use sign language, an interpreter, or speechreading/lipreading. Many individuals choose to communicate in a variety of methods.Ask the student how they want to communicate with you.
Consider that the student may prefer different communication modes under different circumstances. For example, they may like to use an interpreter during whole class instruction but speechreading/lipreading while speaking one-on-one.;
, Face the student so that the sound of your voice is not muffled. Students who have difficulty hearing can hear better in a lower register than a higher one, so lower the tone of your voice. Enunciate and make your lip movement noticeable.Don’t stand in front of a light source because it will make it hard to see your lips.Trim facial hair.
Don’t cover your mouth.
 If the student has one, the interpreter will help the student understand what is being said in class. You should act as though the interpreter is not there when speaking to the student. Always look at the student when speaking to them, and address any questions to the student. Additionally, allow time for the interpreter to finish translating what you’ve said before you begin calling on students.

Never ask an interpreter to do anything other than interpret.
Expect the interpreter to stand near you so that the student can see both of you at the same time.
Don’t say anything in front of the interpreter and student that you don’t want interpreted., Visual aids will support the student’s understanding and provide some relief from keeping up with signing or speechreading, if applicable. Aids can include anything from PowerPoint notes to a word wall. The type of aid used will vary depending on the lesson and the grade level., Before you show a video in class, check to make sure it’s captioned. You will need to order movies with captioning and ensure that your technology is able to show the captioning.Check your videos before class so that the student will not feel singled out if you can’t show the video because it isn’t captioned.
 Explain the parts of the lesson and classroom shifts to the class before they happen. This will help your deaf or hard of hearing student anticipate the change or activity, while also supporting the other students., Students need consistent signing that is universal in meaning. While it may be tempting to create a special sign for your student to allow for quicker communication about common topics, this will make it harder for the student to communicate with others. Additionally, everyone who works with the student should be using the same signs for the same words and concepts.

When students fingerspell words, they likely don’t understand that word and need more assistance with it.