 Finding the part won’t be difficult; just type “lcd inverter hp dv6000” in the search bar on your favorite online retail site. It's a relatively inexpensive part; so an expedited shipment might seem like a feasible idea.;
, Once the part arrives, have the tools and materials ready. It's time to start.


Power down the computer.
Remove the battery
Locate and remove the three silver screws that are now uncovered from the battery.



Cover one will need to be removed first in order to open cover two.
Unfasten the two screws located on both.
Remove the hard disk drive.
 There are 6 screws that need to be removed; 2 directly above the battery compartment, and 2 in each corner.
 It's time to open it up!


Above the keyboard, remove the plastic cover that houses the speaker and hot keys.
If you have a plastic opening tool, carefully wedge underneath each side shown by where the arrows point, and pull up. Fingers work just as well.
Keep in mind that using too much force could damage the cables connected to this piece.



Do not pull out by holding the cable itself. Doing so may cause damage.
 There are four screws in total that hold the screen in place; two for each hinge. Remove them all.


Removal of these screws will unsecure the screen from the laptop. Proceed with caution.
,,


Pull off the rubber covers that hide the 6 screws around the perimeter of the screen.
Unfasten each screw
With your plastic removal tool or fingers, gently wedge and release the clips that hold the plastic lcd cover in place.



You'll find the inverter placed under the LCD.
Locate the 2 cable connectors circled in the image.
Each end of the inverter connects to these connections.
Now carefully disconnect each cable.
Unfasten the screw that is shown at the arrow in the image, then remove the faulty part.



Unpackage the replacement part and secure it in place by reversing the steps you followed previously.
Line it up with the small plastic pin on the left, and the screw hole found on the right. Insert and tighten the screw.
Don't forget to reconnect the cables to each end of the inverter!

,


Fasten all the clips.
Place and tighten all 6 screws around the screen.
Cover each screw hole with the rubber screw hole covers.



Place the skinny plastic cover piece back into position by clipping it in place.
Reattach the hinges to the chasis by fastening the two screws on each hinge.
Reattach connection from the screen by lining it up with its connector and giving it a gentle push.



Reattach the cables back to the plastic speaker cover, then clip it back into place.
Turn the laptop on its backside, and proceed by fastening the four screws in their place.
Do the same with the silver screws. They go underneath the battery.
Place hard drive back into its slot, securing its connection.
Secure the plastic compartment covers.
Connect the battery.
 Saving money by doing it yourself never felt so good!

