 If your Mac has a Core 2 Duo or later processor, get the 64-bit version for faster ripping.
 If you've chosen a 64-bit version of Handbrake, then you'll need the 64-bit version of the VLC player. It contains libdvdcss, a DVD decryption library designed to break the DVD's copy protection when you play it back on your Mac.
 Handbrake will open a dialog box on your screen. Pick the DVD that you want to rip and click Open.
 When the scan finishes, click on the box next to Title. Pick the longest Title from the pop-up menu.


You may see 99 titles with almost the same length. That means that the DVD is copyright protected. Open your Apple DVD Player application. Pick Go --> Title from the menu bar and pick the title that has the check mark next to it. In Handbrake, choose that title.
If you want to rip multiple titles (as in a DVD with multiple TV episodes), select 1 title, give it a unique name in the File Area and click Add to Queue. Repeat the process until you've added all desired titles to your encoding queue.
 You can also press command-T. Pick the preset for your ripped DVD based on the type of device you want to use when you watch it. You can also choose Universal to play it on any Apple device.
 Choose Make Default from the drop-down menu.
 Click the Preview Window in Handbrake and scroll through your DVD frames. If you see jagged images, then your DVD has interlaced video.


Click the Settings button. This will open a new window called Picture Settings.
Choose Filters. Slide the slider between Decomb and Deinterlace all the way to the right.
Click the drop-down menu next to Deinterlace. Choose Fast and preview the movie to see if this fixed the jagged frames.
 Start by clicking the Audio tab.


Eliminate audio tracks that you don't need, including language tracks.
If you're not connected to surround sound, you can remove a 5.1 channel audio track or mix it to stereo to save space.
 Choose the subtitles or captioning that you want to include in your finished file.
 This process may take quite a bit of time.
 You can download programs like MetaX, iFlicks or Video Monkey to assist with this process. Handbrake will also send completed rips directly to MetaX.
