 You could have a "leaving" party and drop all of your items into the chest. You may also want to stop in Lumbridge and help new users by offering them some money to help them on their journey. You can even drop your items allowing them to disappear from the game completely, or disperse your items among your friends. Whichever you choose to do, let it be a way that satisfies you and could potentially benefit the community.;
, This is an obvious one, cancelling your subscription only allows you to play the free to play version of the RuneScape. Even if you keep logging in to play RuneScape you will not have as much fun as you would in members and could end up bored of the game more easily.
 Jagex stores a cache on your computer to allow the masses of information in the game to load much faster. Deleting it will not only save you a bit of hard disk space but also make RuneScape more laggy and unresponsive the first time you log in if you can't resist going back.
 Do you play for thrill? Boredom? Whatever it might be there is often a different healthier way to satisfy you. Picking up a hobby is a great way to relieve addiction. To play RuneScape effectively, you should be thinking of it as just a game, not a life necessity. Think about how the game affects you. Look at how it affects others.
 This is quite obvious, but this step can be difficult. Try to catch yourself every time before you get to the login screen.
 You can do this with the Windows HOSTS file, or you may have parental control software you can use or have your parents set.
 That's right. Walk up to someone and give your account away. Not only have you helped someone else, you are no longer that level 100 you were if you ever try to play again. Alternatively, post it online for someone else to use.
 This will keep you from logging in permanently. Should you ever want to play RuneScape again, you would need to create a new account.
 This can include learning to play an instrument, sports, collecting, or travelling. This will take your mind off the game, and more the time you spend away from it, the more free time to concentrate you will have.
 Go to the password change screen, then type a random jumble of letters into the address bar. Copy and paste this into your "New password" box. This way you will know your account is gone forever, and there is no way to get it back.
 For example, if you fall in love with mathematics or jogging, you could spend lots of time with it instead of with Runescape. There really isn't much point in just walking away from Runescape or unplugging the internet: you'll come back because your schedule and life is empty. You have to fill it with something useful, something that will take up your time. Of course, if you lack the discipline to do this, you should actively look for help for someone to help discipline you. For example, an awesome example would be if you loved Mathematics and you started preparing for the International Mathematics Olympiad. Then you would find lots of resources online and many instructors to help you. Or you could arrange with your friend to have a special training program so you have a schedule and you train hard for stuff like jogging or studying maths. Once you fill that gap in your life (once you actually have a goal that you want to achieve, that takes up your time and you just love doing it) you shouldn't be addicted to Runescape anymore.

