 Force yourself to start paying extra close attention in the situations you typically become obsessed about. Little tricks can help you feel more control in such situations, which can be just enough to challenge your stress producing patterns.For example, if you constantly worry about whether or not you’ve turned off the stove, create a mental picture of yourself turning off the stove every time you do. Creating this mental picture should help you to remember that you actually turned the stove off.
If creating a mental picture doesn’t work, try keeping a notepad by the stove and make a note to yourself every time you turn it off.
 Journaling is a great tool for working with your emotions and learning more about yourself.Take some time each day to sit down and write about any experiences you might have had that produced anxiety or distress. Putting your obsessive thoughts down on paper and analyzing them can be a great way to feel some degree of control over them. Journaling may also help you make connections between your anxiety and other ideas you’ve had or behaviors you’ve exhibited. Building this type of self-awareness can be a great tool for learning which types of situations contribute to your OCD.Try describing your obsessive thoughts in one column, and then label and rate your emotions in another.In a third column, you might even describe any interpretations of your obsessive thought that followed the emotions.

For example, imagine you have an obsessive thought like, “This pen is covered with germs from strangers. I could contract some terrible disease and pass it on to my children, causing them to be sick.”
Next, you might have reacted to the thought with something like, “If I don’t wash my hands knowing that I could be passing on some terrible disease to my children, then I would be a terrible and irresponsible parent. Not doing everything in my power to protect my children is as bad as hurting them myself.” Record and discuss both thoughts in your journal.
 Self-affirmation has been found to be very effective against negative feelings. Don't get down on yourself or let OCD define who you are. While it may be hard for you to look beyond your OCD sometimes, remember that you are more than your condition.


Make a list of all the amazing qualities you possess and read it every time you feel down. Even reading one of the qualities and looking at yourself in the mirror can help to boost positive feelings about yourself., It is important to set goals as you work through treatment. Setting goals, not matter how small, will give you something to work towards and reasons to celebrate. Every time you achieve something that you could not achieve before you began treatment for your OCD, compliment yourself and feel proud., While you are getting treatment for your OCD, it is important to take good care of your whole body, mind, and soul. Join a gym, nourish your body with healthy foods, get plenty of rest, and nurture your soul by attending religious services or engaging in other soul soothing activities., OCD causes lots of stress and anxiety. Therapy and medication may help to relieve some of your negative feelings, but you should also take time to relax every day. Incorporating activities like meditation, yoga, deep breathing, aromatherapy, and other soothing techniques will help you cope with your stress and anxiety.Experiment with different relaxation techniques until you find something that works for you, then add it into your daily routine.
 Dealing with OCD may cause you to feel like abandoning your usual routine, but this will not help you. Stick with your daily routine and keep moving forward with your life. Don’t allow OCD to prevent you from going to school, doing your job, or spending time with family.If you have anxiety or fears about certain activities, discuss them with a therapist but do not avoid them.

