 Examples: "I am afraid of performing because I messed up last year" or "I don't want to sing this song in front of people because I didn't practice" or "I don't want to give this speech because I might disappoint my friends/ family/ speech teacher" and finally "I am scared of performing this piece because I think I am a bad performer";
, Is that really something you should worry about now? It probably isn't, so chill. Don't worry about repeating past mistakes. This is now. Don't worry about disappointing people. Just try your best, and if that's not enough to please them, nothing is. Don't worry that your a bad performer. No matter what your skill level is, if you do your best you will always do amazing. Besides, most people play way better than they think they do. DON'T worry if you're not prepared. Instead, act fast. If you have time, practice! If you don't, still do your best, and learn from your mistakes. (not saying it's okay to be unprepared)

,, Have your speech written neatly or typed, make sure your music is in order, etc. You'll feel way more prepared.
 You don't want to get sick or sleepy while performing!

, You'll release all that extra hyperactivity and feel more relaxed in no time. (just make sure you smell okay and aren't all sweaty right before your performance!)

, Instead of saying "Om" or those kinds of meditation words, chant "I will perform well. I will perform well. I will perform well."

, Starting good will build confidence. And people tend to think about the first note they're going to play just before they perform. If they don't know it, this could be really bad.
 Negative thoughts lead to negative actions. And don't be grumpy. Happiness will build confidence!

,,, Talk with your friends, do some other activity, etc.
, Just go with the flow.
 Even if you mess up, no one will notice, and if they do, remember: you wouldn't really care if someone else messed up. So they won't care if you do.
 Don't focus on trying to please other people. First, focus on yourself, then focus on the audience.
 Don't try to be like anyone else. It will just make you more nervous.

