 Every time you go grocery shopping or dine out, write down what you buy and what you eat. This way you can have a better idea of what sections on the pyramid you are fulfilling. Try doing this for a week to one month. Keep the journal with you to immediately record everything you eat and drink.
Try to be honest and accurate. Record the date and time when you are eating.
At the end of each day, examine what you have eaten and decide if you need to eat better.
 After compiling a record of the foods you ate, serving sizes, and the amount of fat, match it to the food pyramid that you made. Determine whether you are meeting the recommended amount of servings for each category. If not, consider what is preventing you from achieving your goals. Search for patterns in your food choices. It is not unusual to buy a box of cereal and have it every day until the box is empty. It might be, however, a better idea to buy two boxes or more to mix it up and maybe on the weekend, with more time, you can prepare something more elaborate like pancakes with fruit.
Be aware of how many snacks you routinely have. A cookie here, a brownie there, a scoop of ice cream after dinner really adds up and they are all in the category that suggests moderation or zero servings. These types of snacks leave you hungrier than if you eat a piece of fruit, which contains filling fiber and healthy sugars.
Do you eat healthier during the week while at work or on the weekend with more time on your hands? Time management has plenty of influence on diets. If you eat healthier on the weekends because you have more time, consider making extra healthy helpings that you can put in the refrigerator to eat during the busy weekdays. Keep frozen and canned vegetables in stock to supplement the main course. Grab a fresh apple, orange, or banana on your way out the door.
 The most difficult part of accessing your diet compared to the guidelines proposed by the food pyramid is determining how much you really ate. Even when you think you are eating healthy foods, too much is still too much. Therefore, evaluating the serving size of what you eat may be the most important part of understanding the food pyramid. Although not always practical, the best determination of serving size is to measure it.
It might be handy to make a compact chart that you can carry outside of the house or whenever you cannot use measuring cups.
If dining out, record what you ordered or take a picture of it with your cell phone so that when you return home, you can better estimate the serving size.

