 If the bride and groom like to be outside in the sun, go for a beach or pool theme. If you have access to a pool, plan a pool theme with poolside games and activities. You can also turn the pool into a beach complete with fake sand and beach umbrellas.You can then have guests bring pool toys, tropical drinks, and their swimsuits for the shower.;
, If the bride and groom are into sports, go for a theme that focuses on their favorite sport. For example, you may host a basketball themed shower for the couple, complete with bride and groom basketball jerseys and basketball themed decorations. Or you may have a sports shower that features the favorite sport of the groom and the favorite sport of the bride.A sports theme is a good indoor option for the shower, as you can easily host it in your home with a television playing a sports game in the background and a long table set up with sports themed snacks.
 If the couple enjoys travel, you may throw them a bon voyage themed shower. This may be a good option if the couple has a honeymoon planned in a far away destination. Decorate the space with images of the couple’s favorite travel spots or their honeymoon destination. Prepare snacks that are from the destination for guests to have during the shower.Have guests bring travel themed gifts, such as travel supplies. They can also get experience gifts for the couple’s planned honeymoon destination, such as a voucher for dinner at a restaurant in the destination or money for an excursion.
 If you are looking for an outdoor shower theme, try a garden party theme. Host a garden party outside on a sunny afternoon for the couple, complete with high tea and croquet games. This may be a good option if the couple enjoys hanging out outside and the weather is usually nice in your area..Tell guests to dress up in their favorite garden party attire, such as linen suits or floral dresses. You can also have them bring a light beverage or drink for the party that everyone can sip while they play garden themed games.
 You may work with the bride and groom to create the guest list or make the guest list on your own. Make sure you invite everyone in the bridal party on both sides of the aisle as well as the friends and family of the bride and groom.You may have a limit on the number of people you invite, based on the size of the space available for the shower. Start with a long list and cut the list down until you hit the maximum number of guests you can accommodate.
 To ensure you can afford the shower, make a budget. Determine if you will be paying for the shower on your own or as part of the overall wedding budget. You may pool your money with the bridal party to pay for the shower. Often, bridal showers are low key and do not cost nearly as much as the actual wedding.


You may factor in the rental of the shower space, if applicable, as well as the shower supplies, such as decorations and food costs.
You may have a cap on how much you can spend on the couples shower and work to fall within your budget when shopping for the supplies for the shower.
 Make a list of items you will need to decorate the space for the shower. This may include decorations for the walls or for the guest tables as well as seating and tables for the guest. You may also include food, snacks, and drinks as part of the party supplies.Sit down and create a list of supplies. Then, determine how much you can afford to spend on the supplies based on your budget and cut down the list as needed.
 Send out invitations for the shower at least two to three weeks before the shower date. The earlier you can send out the invitations, the better, especially if you have a lot of people on the guest list for the shower. Try to send invitations to guests who are out of town or who may have to fly into to attend the shower, as they may need more notice to plan their travels.


You may create the shower invitations online using an online shower design site, or make them on your home computer.
You can also order invitations through an online service.
 To ensure the shower runs smoothly, draw up a rough schedule for the shower so you are organized. Break down the shower by hour and block off time for each activity. Keep the schedule on hand during the shower so you stay organized and the shower runs smoothly.


For example, you may start the shower with a get to know you activity, followed by toasts for the bride and groom, and then the opening of the shower gifts. You may then end the shower with a final activity and the distribution of the goodie bags.
 Reduce stress on shower day by setting up the space early. Ask people in the wedding party to help you set up. Delegate tasks to others so the space is ready for the shower before the guests arrive.For example, you may have a few people tackle putting up the decorations while someone else prepares the snacks and drinks.
 It is traditional that the host or hostess gives a toast during the shower. You may have one toast for the groom and one toast for the bride, or do a couples toast. You can also do a roast of the bride and the groom as part of the toast, especially if they are fun-loving and good humored.You may also ask certain guests to give toasts during the shower, such as short anecdotes about the bride or the groom.
The shower is also a good opportunity for those who are not doing toasts at the rehearsal dinner or the wedding to get their moment at the podium during the shower.
 Have games ready so everyone has something to do and can interact with each other. You may set up a games area outdoors so everyone can try different games. Or you may announce games time during the shower and instruct everyone on which games will be played.Easy, fun games like charades are often fun. You may organize teams based on the bride’s side and the groom’s side of the wedding party.
You can also organize games that fit the theme of the shower, such as lawn bowling for a garden party theme or a sports trivia guessing game for a sports theme.
 Usually at bridal showers, there is time set aside for opening gifts. Have the couple open the shower gifts together as part of the shower. Arrange a table and chairs for the bride and groom so they can open each gift in front of everyone.You may organize the gifts based on whether they are for the bride or the groom. Or you may put joint gifts together so the couple can open them together.
 Often at the end of bridal showers, it is tradition to hand out keepsakes or goodie bags. You may create keepsakes that recognize the couple and that include both the bride and the groom. Or you may make goodie bags to reflect the couple, rather than just the bride or the groom.For example, you may get custom sugar cookies made with the names of the bride and groom for the goodie bags. Or you may design t-shirts or mugs with the couples’ faces on them as keepsakes from the shower for the guests.

