 In order to find out more information about becoming a representative for Avon you will need to fill out the application. Fill out the application on Avon's website. Avon has branches in different countries, so make sure you are on the website for your specific country when filling out the application. You will not be charged an application fee until you place your first order. In other words, it is free to sign-up.The application fee is $15 in the U.S. and 16 Euros in the U.K.
You will need to fill out your name, address, contact information, and your preferred type of communication.
If you do not have Internet access, contact Avon’s customer service at 1-800-367-2866.;
, Once you have filled out the application, a local area manager will contact you. Arrange a meeting with your area manager. Your manager will explain how Avon works, as well as the materials you will receive and need to purchase to get started.Your manager will explain that you can receive up to 50 percent on the products you sell.
 Ask about earning potential, work hours, and the most effective methods and tools for selling products, i.e., the online website, apps, "get togethers," and brochures. You may also want to ask about turnover rates, and how to cancel your application if you decide Avon isn’t for you.If you are interested in becoming a sales leader, use this time to express your interest. As a sales leader you will have a team of members that you appoint and mentor., After you are appointed to be a representative, you will need to register on the Representative website online. This is where you will be able to place your fist order. Once you are registered you will also receive brochures for your first two campaigns (20), samples, and sales tools. The sales tools include an appointment pack, a calling book, customer order slips, and your own online store.You will have access to training tools such as guides and tutorials, as well.
You will not be charged the application fee until you complete your first order.
 For every campaign, meetings are held locally. At these meetings you will be able to meet novice and experienced representatives. Top sellers and sales leaders also speak at these meetings. These meetings are a great way to find local support.Ask experienced representatives about the methods and tools that produce the most sales, as well as other tactics they use to promote and find more business.
For example, "How has the website and the mobile app affected your sales? Have they increased or have they remained the same?"

, Through “Avon Beauty Connects”, you can find support online. Through this forum, experienced representatives share tips on how to build an Avon business. The forum also allows new representatives to ask specific questions and to ask for advice.For example, ask experienced representatives, "How have you managed to keep your customers?" or "What tactics do you use to keep customers interested, as well as find new customers?"
You can also find online training in the “My Learning Zone” in your portal. It is filled with personalized training modules that will help you develop your skills at every phase in the process of becoming a representative.
 Avon has developed a free guide for representatives, as well as for those who are still considering becoming a representative. Top experts in the industry made the guide. The guide discusses self awareness, self confidence, and self management; tools that are crucial to becoming a successful sales representative.Find a copy of the guide here: https://www.avon.uk.com/help-support.
 Representatives are given their own online store called “My Avon Store.” You can set up your online store in a few easy steps by following the instructions online. Online stores are great because they allow your customers to shop from you online.Create business cards that contain your information, including your website, when you are marketing your business.
You can also choose to opt in to Avon's mobile phone app, Avon Brochure. This app connects you to new customers who are looking for a representative in your area.
 Every three weeks Avon produces a new brochure. The brochures are filled with deals, promotions, and new products. Therefore, they are a great way to market your business.Carry brochures with you at all times so you can hand them out to your friends, family members, and customers (old and new).
 You will be given brochures, samples, and information on new products to pass out to your guests. Invite friends, family members, and existing customers.To create new customers and contacts, ask your guests to bring along one new person to the event.

