 Whatever the goal for your body – weight loss, weight gain, muscle tone, tan skin – getting real results takes time. It can be depressing to work hard at making a change and still feel as though you've made no headway, which is why a photo journal is so useful. Take a picture of yourself from the front and side at the start of the summer. Then, once or twice a week, take more photo sets of yourself the same way. Whenever you feel discouraged, look at your photo journal to see just how far you've actually come.


Wear minimal, form-fitting clothing. Leggings or running shorts and a tank top make an ideal ensemble. This way, you'll be able to track changes much more easily.





;
, Calories are your body's main energy source; other nutrients (such as vitamins) help regulate various specific systems and keep your body's natural chemicals in balance. You need both if you want to remain healthy; focusing on just one or the other won't help.


If you use more calories than you eat, you'll lose weight; if you eat more calories than your body can use, you'll gain weight. Fat is just your body's way of storing calories for long-term future use. When you use more calories than you consume in food, your body will burn away fat to make up the difference.
Nutrients such as vitamins, minerals, and fatty acids need to be maintained at fairly steady levels for your body to be able to function efficiently. Without nutrients, your weight loss will be unhealthy for your body, since it can't convert fat into calories as efficiently.
 The best way to burn lots of calories is through exercise. As opposed to just not eating, exercise allows your body to convert calories into useful results, like muscle tone, without denying you the nutrients you should be getting from regular meals. The key to peak physical fitness is combining lots of vigorous exercise with a healthy, nutrient-rich diet.


Some exercises burn more calories per hour than others. Swimming and “hard” martial arts like karate are near the top of the list; however, any exercise (even a walk) is better than none at all.
Once your body gets adjusted to regular exercise, it can take a lot of steady, low-stress work, like jogging or cycling. You should give yourself off days for more strenuous workouts, but don't be afraid to do at least some exercise seven days a week. More exercise is almost always better than less.
 There are two basic types of exercise: aerobic, such as running, swimming, and cycling, and resistance, such as weightlifting (and, to an extent, swimming). It's easy to run or jog some every day, but don't neglect weight training either. Both types are important to your overall health.


It can seem as though weightlifting is solely the realm of men, and designed to build huge, bulky muscles, but in truth, it's one of the healthiest types of exercise available regardless of your sex. The stronger your muscles become, the more efficiently they'll burn calories, and the faster you'll be able to tone up. You'll only develop bulky muscles if you go on a special diet and work very hard towards that specific goal. Regular weightlifting will tone and define your muscles, not turn you into She-Hulk.
If you plan to gain some weight, you don't have to stop exercising at all. Instead, just eat larger portions of healthy food to gain more calories.
 To support your vigorous exercise routine, plan to eat healthily every day. Start by setting a caloric intake limit; for most people, anywhere from 1400 to 1800 is a good place to start. Build your diet around that number, and emphasize nutrients to be sure you're getting balanced support as you work out.

Start with vegetables. Vegetables are nutrient-rich and in many cases, practically calorie-free. Eat lots and lots of them every day to give your body plenty of energy and keep your mood balanced.






Fill in the rest with fruit, whole grains, and lean meat. These items are generally considered to be the healthiest foods to eat overall, as they provide more important nutrients and allow you to fill up your calories without taking in much fat. Be aware that fruit is usually quite sugary; eat fruit in moderation to avoid the empty calories of sugar, which will cause you to reach your daily limit before you feel full otherwise.
 Of course, this includes your diet and exercise regimen, but don't forget to schedule other things you've got planned as well. If you want to get a tan, plan regular visits to a tanning bed or regular sessions in the backyard. For whiter teeth, talk to your dentist and follow the routine he or she provides for you (which often involves regular treatments).


A vital part of setting a schedule is setting aside time for plenty of sleep. Plan on getting at least 8 hours a night, and then adjust it up or down a bit if you need to. Without lots of sleep, your body will run itself ragged in a few days and you'll get sick or injure yourself.
 A new hairstyle, manicure, or other physical modification can make a bold statement when fall rolls around and it's time to show off the new you. Schedule appointments for things like this well in advance of when you plan to get them done, so you don't have to scramble. Set aside money early as well, to be sure you have enough to pay for what you want to do.


Some less common changes you can make to your body include colored contact lenses, tattoos, and piercings. If you're planning to get a tattoo, be sure it's something you're going to be happy with for the rest of your life (and be sure you're 18 – any younger is illegal). For piercings or tattoos, if you're living at home, be sure to get parental permission first – they will find out if you don't, and the fallout won't be pretty.
 At the end of the day, all the planning in the world won't change the fact that your body is designed to change slowly over time, not dramatically overnight. Increase your odds of a successful transformation by sticking to your plan rigorously from day one.


The fewer calories you consume and the more exercise you do, the more dramatic your weight loss will be; however, after the first couple of weeks of a new program losing more than a few pounds per week is unhealthy and unnatural.

Assuming a five pound loss the first week, you shouldn't expect to lose more than about 40 pounds maximum over the course of the summer (and it's more likely the number will be around 20-25).


The more exercise you do, the more exercise you'll want to do. That's great, but be sure you aren't running your body too hard too fast. Nothing kills an exercise regimen faster than a pulled muscle or sprained ankle. Try to work out enough so that you feel pleasantly stiff the next day, but not so much that your body feels sore or tight.

