 You’ll need a pickaxe and an axe to gather some of the required materials for this venture. They’re both available through the Tool tab (crossed axe and pickaxe icon). Axes cost 1 each of Twig (gathered from dried-out bushes scattered in the world) and Flint (sharp-looking rock that’s scattered everywhere in the game), while pickaxes cost 2 each of the same materials.

To use tools, select it by right-clicking on the tool (PC) or scrolling to it with the right analog stick and pressing the right button of the D-pad (PS4). Go up to the tree (axe) or boulder (pickaxe) and hold down the left mouse button (PC) or X button (PS4) to wear them down and create the gatherable supplies.;
, Now that you have your tools, get going and get gathering! Make sure you chop down some trees for Logs since they’re vital for creating a Science Machine. Gathering some Rocks from boulders is also a priority, both for the Science Machine and also for other creations. Gathering Cut Grass from tufts of long grass poking from the ground is also important for campfires and torches.

Rocks can be found scattered everywhere, much like flint, but are less common and are more abundantly found from mining boulders.
Everything initially gathered, save for Logs, can stack up to 40 per inventory slot. Logs, being heavier, stack up to 20.
 Aside from the Science Machine, you’ll also be needing an Alchemy Engine to create your supplies. Both can be created through the Science tab, represented by an atom icon, but you’ll need a Science Machine to make an Alchemy Engine.

A Science Machine costs 1 Gold Nugget, 4 Logs, and 4 Rocks, and an Alchemy Engine costs 4 Boards, 2 Cut Stones, and 6 Gold. You can craft Boards and Cut Stones through the Science Machine on the Refine tab, represented by a diamond icon.
You can gather Gold Nuggets by trading Meats to the Pig King (if he’s available in the current world), mining yellow-streaked boulders (which are predominantly found in Rockylands), or by finding them scattered around Graveyards.
Before you craft a Science Machine, make sure that you’ll be camping there permanently. Once you place the Science Machine, it cannot be moved. The Alchemy Engine is also a permanent structure and cannot be moved around.

