 Talk to a medical professional if you’re interested in enrolling in a program of group therapy, like a doctor, psychologist, or psychiatrist. A nurse, social worker, or even a chaplain may also be of help. They should be able to advise you and to suggest options for the specific type of group therapy that you want to join – whether it’s psychotherapy, support, or otherwise.Be sure to follow up, as well. Once you’ve gotten a recommendation, contact the leader of the group therapy or the organizing body and repeat your questions.
Be sure to ask questions about any recommended groups. For example, who leads the groups? What are the leaders’ credentials? Group therapy can also differ a lot in size and structure. How many people are enrolled and what is the format?;
, The internet can be a powerful search tool for individual as well as group therapy, so don’t forget to take advantage of online resources. You can start by looking on a general search engine like Google, under “Group therapy in .” Also try search tools that are specifically designed to find counselors and therapy groups.


One useful search tool is Psychology Today’s Therapy Group search engine. Go to the website and then enter details about where you live. It will find groups situated in your area.There are also online groups for more specific problems. For example, the Depression Alliance has a director of self-help groups located throughout the UK at www.depressionalliance.org. Try “Mind,” too, which runs local therapy groups and counselling services., You may be able to find a group by making inquiries with the right organizations in your community, too. Many hospitals, mental health centers, community centers, and even universities host therapy groups. Consider calling or emailing places like these to see whether they have – or know of – counselling for your specific issue.In general, try your local hospital and ask about counselling and mental health services. They may already host groups on-site or can refer you to a mental health or community center.Another place to try is at nearby universities. Universities and colleges normally have counselling and mental health services available for students and faculty. Call and ask about they have group sessions and about the possibility of accessing their services.If you are looking for a support group, consider relevant organizations. For instance, you might call the Veterans’ Administration if you are looking for a support group for military widows. If you are looking for support for substance abuse, try your local Alcoholics Anonymous or Narcotics Anonymous.
 Counselling groups aren’t casual venues for people to come and chat about their problems – they focus on specific issues and need to be quite focused in order for members to share with each other and benefit. In other words, you’ll need to have an issue in mind for therapy. What is the problem that you need help with?Are you struggling with a specific mental health issue like depression? Perhaps a group for depression or grief is for you. This can bring you together with others who also struggle with depression and who can share their own experiences and methods for coping.
Do you have problems with stress or anger? Counselling will put you in touch with others and teach you healthier ways to control and manage your impulses.
Support groups can also offer help, understanding, and a sense of solidarity for people with certain life experiences, like the loss of spouses or children, survivors of abuse, or substance abusers.
 Group counselling can include treatment for highly specialized mental health disorders. If you have been struggling with a specific and diagnosed disorder, like bipolar disorder, panic disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, or depression. This sort of group may be for you and put you together with others who share the same problem.Group Cognitive Behavioral therapy can be particularly effective for some mental health disorders, such as Anxiety Disorders.Group counselling is also common in the treatment of Post Traumatic Stress Disorder, which commonly appears in combat veterans or victims of abuse. The therapy can help individuals to cope with symptoms and to process feelings of shame, guilt, and anger., You may also be able to benefit from group counselling even if you don’t have a specific mental health issue. Groups are available for general problems – problems that don’t involve a diagnosis but can severely impact people’s everyday lives. This type of group may be for you, too.Do you have problems with shyness and social interaction, for instance? Try a group like the Toronto Shyness and Social Anxiety Group. There are also groups like Emotions Anonymous for people who have general emotional struggles.Again, you may also be able to find groups to support you in loss. Cancer survivors, survivors of sexual assault, and people who have lost loved ones can all find support groups for trauma and loss. There are also groups in many areas that provide support or simple solidarity for women and LGBTQ people.
 If you live in a remote area and cannot find a nearby counseling group, then locating an online group may be a good option for you.You can ask your doctor or therapist for recommendations, or conduct a search for a group that meets your needs.


For example, if you are looking for support for obsessive compulsive disorder, then you could search for "obsessive compulsive disorder support group" or "obsessive compulsive disorder forum."
Before you decide to join a group, make sure that it seems like a supportive environment. You can read some old posts to see how friendly it seems.
Also, make sure that the group is current and regularly updated. Check the post dates and see how soon people respond.
 One big consideration when deciding on a group is whether it is “open” or “closed.” This distinction affects the amount of privacy you’ll have – and perhaps what you’ll be willing to open up about.An “open group” allows new members at any time, even after the program of therapy has started. You might need some time to get used to the other members, especially if you join late.
On the other hand, “closed groups” usually do not allow people to join while the counselling runs its course. Members have to be there from the start and therefore get to know one another. The atmosphere will be more confidential, but you may need to wait some months before you can join.
 Size is another big consideration. You might not get as much out of participation in a small group, as the pool of people’s experience will be less. On the other hand, large groups can be unmanageable and impersonal. They can make you feel anonymous and like you aren’t really fully participating in the counselling. In general, it’s best to find a balance between the two.While small groups will give each member more one-on-one focus, larger groups offer a larger degree of experiences to share. The ideal group size is therefore somewhere between about 8 to 12 members., Diversity is usually a great thing – it exposes you to an assortment of different experiences, viewpoints, and ideas. When it comes to group therapy, however, diversity does not always lead to better outcomes. In fact, it can stand in the way of a coherent group dynamic. Look for a group that has similar people with similar problems.Groups normally work the best when members have similar difficulties and similar levels of function.
A good counselor may also screen potential group members before accepting them in order to achieve a coherent group dynamic.
 Once you’ve found a group that works for you, make a commitment. Successful groups work when members stick to it, attend regularly, and contribute. In the end, how much you benefit from group counselling will largely depend on what you put in.Try committing to at least 3 sessions for a start. That way, you can test the waters and decide if the group is right for you.
Keep in mind that group sessions are usually confidential, to better create a safe space for members. Respect that confidentiality by not sharing information another member reveals during your sessions or by disclosing that you attend the group with that person.
Be a regular attendee and let the group leader know if you will miss any meetings.

