 Adopting a dog overseas is not cheap. In addition to an adoption fee, there are costs like travel, veterinarian exams, and fines and fees for transporting a dog in or out of the country. On average, it can cost anywhere between $150 and $2,000 to adopt a dog overseas. Make sure you can get this money together before committing to the adoption process., You may find a dog you want to adopt while traveling overseas. For example, you may find a stray you want to take in or meet a dog at a local shelter. However, if you simply want to adopt a dog in need from another country, you will have to find an agency to work with that will help you find a dog that works for you.Try seeing if there is a branch of the Humane Society operating in the country where you're thinking of adopting a dog. You can also look into Humane Society International, which can help pair you with dogs in need from a variety of countries.
There are also organizations that can help with cost of transportation, if that's an issue. The nonprofit Pilots N' Paws, for example, works with pilots and other airline officials to help with transportation costs.
 If you're thinking of adopting a dog, whether from overseas or locally, you should always consider your lifestyle first. Do you truly have time for the responsibility? If you're going to put the time and money into adopting a dog overseas, make sure you are up for the task first.Do you have the time and money to dedicate to a dog? Can you provide a rescue dog with the time and attention it will need? Rescue dogs may have special needs, and if you're transporting a dog from another country the transition may be rough. Be honest with yourself as to whether you have the extra time necessary to care for a rescue dog.
If you already found a dog to adopt, think about whether that dog's personality matches with your lifestyle. A very energetic dog, for example, may not work great for you if you tend to stay in a lot and live in a small building. However, if the dog in question is more of a couch potato, it may be a good match for you.
 The best way to tell if a rescue dog works for you is to visit in person. Interacting with the dog will help you tell whether you and the dog are able to bond. If a trip to the country where you're adopting is possible, make this trip first. It's always better to meet a dog in person before committing to an adoption.If you can't meet the dog in person, read as much about it as you can prior to adopting. The more information you have, the more likely you will be to find a dog that matches your lifestyle.

