 Place them on a piece of drop cloth or a sawhorse in a well ventilated area. You should choose to undertake this project when the weather is moderate and not too humid.;
, Label them according to the type and set them aside until the painting is done.
 Open doors, windows and have a shop vacuum nearby. Place drop cloths around the cabinet boxes.
 You should wear long sleeved shirts and long pants, safety goggles, a particulate mask and gloves when sanding.
 To increase your efficiency and improve results, buy a small sander, such as a mouse sander, at a home improvement store.


Your goal is to remove the shiny finish of the particle board. Try to sand evenly to avoid creating an uneven surface. The surface right underneath the finish can start to break away if sanded too hard.
 Wipe the surfaces of your cabinets with tack cloths. Keep the indoor areas covered, and place cardboard or drop cloths under your sawhorse.
 Kilz primer is highly recommended for this type of project, because it seals, primes and blocks stain. It sticks well to particle board.
 If you are doing both sides of a cabinet door, wait until it is dry before applying to the opposite side. Allow it to dry well before moving on to paint.
 Make sure you sand out any drips from the primer itself. Wipe again with a tack cloth.
 Check the reviews at consumer reports before buying, because a quality latex paint is necessary to adhere well to your laminate or particle board cabinets.


Make sure you test your paint colors before you apply them to your entire cabinet set. Test the inside of a door to ensure you like the look.
 Use a small foam roller set for doors and large areas of the cabinet box. Use a paint brush to get into the crevices and smaller areas.
 Apply a second coat.
 You can either choose a finishing wax or a clear lacquer. Apply 2 coats of the material of your choice according to package directions.
, Remove the drop cloths and clean up the area around your cabinets using a shop vacuum and detergent.

