 When you have to do a book report or some kind of homework project, you should choose something that captures your interest. You’ll have to spend a lot of time reading and working on this assignment, so try to choose a book that seems exciting.If you pick a book that is boring to begin with, it will make finishing your book report that much harder.
You can also read a book you are interested in more quickly since it will hold your attention better. This will help you finish your book report on time.;
, Employ the motto “Work smarter, not harder.” If you have to do a book report, choose a book that is short. This will save you time in the long run because it will take you less time to read the book.


You probably won’t get any extra credit for reading a really long book.
 If possible, choose a book that you have read before. This means that you might be able to simply skim the book instead of completely re-reading it and that will save you a lot of time.


If you’ve read the book recently enough, you might even just be able to read an online summary of the book to refresh your memory instead of reading the whole thing again.
This is especially helpful if you don’t have much time to complete your book report. Choosing a book that you’ve already read means that you can get started right away on the report part.
 There are plenty of summaries and analyses of books available on the internet. If you choose a book that is popular enough, there should be some kind of information on the internet that you can use for guidance. But if you choose a less popular book, you might not be able to find anything online to help you along the way.This doesn’t mean that you should cheat.

Do not plagiarize. Just use these sources for guidance.
These online summaries can be very helpful if you don’t have much time to finish your book report.
 The most important thing to do to ensure you complete your book report on time is to start reading and working on the report well before the deadline. If possible, give yourself enough time to read the book and start working on the report.


You will probably need around a week, depending on how long the book is and how long your report has to be.
 If you are out of time and trying to complete your book report at the last minute, make a schedule for yourself and stick to it. Give yourself a day to read the book and the online summaries. Then spend an hour working on your outline. Then take a few hours to write your completed book report.


Make a schedule that will allow you to complete your project on time, one that works for you, and stick to it even if it seems hard.
 Think about what the book was about and try to decide on a main idea that you see in the novel. Most books have an overarching theme and identifying this will be helpful for you to decide what to say in your book report.


The main idea of the book might be something about growing up, overcoming evil, coming to terms with feelings of alienation, searching for freedom, etc., The characters are what drive the narrative plot in a story. They are the most important things to consider when writing a book report. After all, there wouldn’t be a story without the people in it.Some questions you might ask yourself about the characters include:


Who were the main characters?
What was each character’s main function in the story?
Were the characters complicated like people in real-life, with good and bad traits? Or did the protagonists or “good characters” have only good traits while the antagonists or “bad characters” have only bad traits?

, The plot is the sum of all the events (or, at least, the main events) of a story.The plot is important to consider because the novel’s structure is determined by the organization of the events that take place. Often these events are sequenced in some meaningful way that tells you something about the story. Some questions you might ask yourself about the plot include:


What was the main event in the story? Was there a defining moment/event?
Was there a deep meaning behind the main plot?
Did the book talk about one thing, or were there sub-plots?

, The key to writing a good book report is to plan out what you want to say ahead of time. Even if you are running out of time to complete your book report, making an outline will help you organize your thoughts and make sure you include all the things you want to say. A typical outline for a book report includes the following:



Introduction – This is where you introduce the title of the book, the author, when it was published, and any relevant historical context. You may also want to mention the main idea or theme that you identified in the book.

Summary of the book – Give a short description of the action of the plot. Discuss the main events to show that you read the entire book.

Description of the characters – Here you’ll introduce the main characters and discuss why they are important. You might want to mention what their role is in the novel, any obstacles they overcome, and what we are supposed to learn from them.

Description of the plot – This is where you talk about how the plot affects the story, such as the order of events or who the plot affects you as a reader.

Analysis – Here, you’ll evaluate the book and talk about any deeper meanings you uncovered while reading the book. You might refer back to the main idea/theme and discuss it in greater detail.Conclusion – Your concluding remarks should summarize what you’ve said so far. You can end with what you think the author seems to have wanted you to learn from reading this book.
 Nice formatting goes a long way. Make sure you include your name and the date in the heading and try to give your book report a clever title. Make separate paragraphs for separate topics.If you handwrite your book report, make sure you use your nicest penmanship. You don’t want to get a bad grade just because your teacher couldn’t read what you wrote.
 A good way to prove that you actually read the book is to quote from the book. When you are discussing a character, you might want to include something they said in the book that illustrates the point you are making about them., A day or so before your report is due, proofread it to check to see if there are any errors. Sometimes it’s good to take a step back from your report and then look at it again in a few days with fresh eyes. This will help you find mistakes that you might have overlooked when you were so involved in the writing earlier.You can also ask your parents, a friend, or a teacher to read it for you to help you find any mistakes you might have missed. This is especially helpful if you are running short on time and don’t have the time to wait a few days before you proofread it yourself.
This is another reason why it’s a good idea to type your report on a computer. Most word processing programs will notify you if you’ve made a mistake in spelling or grammar.

