 If you're school has a uniform it's going to be difficult to stand out with your clothing. In that case, you might as well focus on looking as good as you possibly can in the uniform. Try focusing on clean skin. Clean skin can cover a lot of other problems, and pockmarked skin can make you look less attractive than you really are. This is one of the most important parts of your look. Everyday, wash your face with a cleanser, apply toner and moisturizer and once or twice a week exfoliate. Remember, everyone has breakouts or bad skin at some point in their lives. Don’t stress about it, just try to take care of it the best that you can. The bad skin will pass in time.;
, At least 8 hours a night is recommended. Don’t take this tip for granted. People joke about beauty sleep but if you come into school everyday looking haggard with huge bags under your eyes, you won’t appear very attractive. It's hard to

, If you've been wearing your hair in the same style that your mom started cutting it when you were a little kid, maybe its time for something new. Go to a hair stylist and tell them that you're looking to change your style and that you want to look good. They'll offer plenty of options. You can even show them the kind of hairstyle you want from your favorite celebrity.
 Depending on your gender, plucking your eyebrows, shaving your legs, and cutting your finger nails are all good habits to get into. If you're sitting at the lunch table at school and someone notices that you're fingernails are incredibly long and dirty they probably won't think that you're hot. , This is really important if you want to look good at school. As you go through puberty, you will start to smell! Use a shower gel so your skin smells good too. Also, wash your hair thoroughly so it doesn't appear greasy or unwashed. Use a lotion afterwards.


Make sure you wear a deodorant. Put a deodorant on every morning to avoid unseemly sweat stains and body odor. This is another part of going through puberty. If you would rather wear perfume, buy an unscented deodorant.
 Looking slim and fit at school is a great way to really stand out. If you want to look hot, you have to have the body for it. Eating well is part of maintaining a healthy weight, but it will also have a lot of other benefits. Your hair will look thicker, fuller and shinier if you ditch the junk food and eat healthy. Your skin will be better. You’ll even have more energy! Load up your plate with vegetables. Don't skip breakfast, some people find it hard to eat in the morning, but still eat a small piece of fruit or something to keep you full until lunch.
 Remember, a good body will make the uniform look a lot more attractive. Swimming, biking, running, and other cardio activities are a great way to stay in shape and have a healthy looking body. If you do these a couple times a week your body will look strong, healthy, and attractive. Many people think that playing a sport is really hot.

