 Hunger pangs in your stomach and feelings of low energy are true signs of hunger. Because Volumetrics is designed to help you eat larger quantities of more nutritious foods, you may actually find that you are less physiologically hungry on the diet.;
, A variety of major life events and daily hassles can lead you to overeat. Dr. Rolls recommends becoming more mindful when you eat, which will make you more aware of the specific events that draw you into emotional eating.


Ask yourself how you’re feeling before you eat. If you’re experiencing a difficult moment, it could be that you’re misinterpreting those feelings of struggle with hunger.
If you’ve just finished a binge, then ask yourself what may have triggered the event.
Write your feelings in your Volumetrics food journal in addition to writing down what you eat. When you go over your journal entries, you will begin to notice behavior patterns that you can then empower yourself to change.
 In your food journal, write down the feeling and the alternative coping strategy that you used in place of reaching for more food.
 Follow Dr. Rolls’s advice and increase the number of steps that you take each day by 150 until you are taking 10,000 steps per day. Additionally, try yoga or meditation to help manage the stress in your life.
 Sometimes, people snack for an energy boost.


Something many people don’t know is that you actually slow down your weight loss progress if you don’t get enough sleep, so this step is particularly important. Make sure to get plenty of sleep each night or to take a nap when you’re sleepy.
Eating more whole foods like those recommended on Volumetrics means a slower release of carbohydrates, which means that your energy levels will be less volatile.
 Instead of changing everything at once, focus on one change each week. If the Volumetrics focus for the week is on controlling portion size, then focus on that change rather than trying to change your entire approach to eating.
 Minimize distractions such as computer and television. When you eat more slowly and mindfully, you will do a better job of recognizing when you are full. Learning what satiety feels like and eating more filling foods is part of the Volumetrics philosophy.
 Join a support group, diet and exercise with a friend or group, or join an online Volumetrics forum to discuss weight loss challenges and exchange healthy recipes. The support of friends, family and even online acquaintances can help you to feel like you aren’t alone on your weight loss journey.
 This is actually the focus of Week 11 of the Volumetrics 12-week plan.


Remove tempting foods from your house.
Choose to have alcohol only when you are away from home.
Cook healthier meals for your family.
 Talking to a therapist, particularly one who has expertise in eating disorders and other food-related issues, can be especially helpful when you have exhausted your other alternatives.

