 Rinse both in a strainer thoroughly, then place in a bowl and cover with water, letting it sit for 30 minutes.


After 30 minutes, drain the rice and dal and set aside.;
, Do this in the pan of a pressure cooker over medium heat.


If you prefer, you can use an equivalent amount of ghee for this step, instead of oil.
Use a medium-size pressure cooker, about 5 liters (1 US gal) (5 quarts).
 Once they start to sizzle, proceed to the next step.


Cumin, also known as jeera, has a pungent flavor perfect for a variety of uses. It is also thought to have a range of medicinal properties and has been used to treat digestion, blood pressure and heart rate, among a range of other health issues., Sauté for 30-40 seconds.Curry leaves, or kadi patta, are a common ingredient in Indian cuisine, and believed to have many health benefits, including warding off anemia, heart disease, and liver damage, regulating blood sugar levels, relieving diarrhea and congestion, and more.Hing, also called asafoetida, is another crucial seasoning in Indian cuisine. It is thought to have a variety of medicinal properties, including anti-flatulent, anti-inflammatory, and antimicrobial, and has been used as a laxative, nerve stimulant, expectorant and sedative., Sauté the onions until they become transparent.
 Sauté for 2-3 more minutes.
 In this case, you'll add the chopped potatoes and peas. Sauté for 2-3 minutes.


Feel free to experiment with the vegetables you add here. You can try cauliflower florets, chopped carrots, cabbage, green beans, etc.
 Stir together and sauté for 2-3 seconds.


Bright yellow, nutrient-rich turmeric (also called haldi) is thought to be antioxidant, antiviral, antibacterial, antifungal, anticarcinogenic, antimutagenic and an anti-inflammatory agent.

Garam masala is a term for a blend of spices common in northern Indian cuisine. These include cloves, cinnamon, cumin and cardamom., Sauté for just a few more seconds.
 Stir the ingredients and salt to taste.


The amount of water you add here depends on the desired texture. For mushy khichdi, use a quantity that is double the total amount of rice and dal, plus one extra cup (here, 2(1+0.5)=3+1=4). If you prefer a more structured version, use less water (here, 3 cups)., Once you hear the first whistle, reduce the heat to medium and continue until the cooker whistles twice., After a few minutes, open the pressure cooker. The water should have completely absorbed into the khichdi by now.
 Use medium heat.


Ghee is clarified butter. If you can't find it at the store, you can make your own.
 Tadka means "tempering," and involves extracting the essence from spices by heating them in oil or ghee.Here you'll add the cumin seeds, and once they're sizzling, the red chilis and chopped garlic. Sauté them for just a few seconds.
 Mix well, and serve the khichdi hot!


Garnish with cilantro (coriander leaves) if you like.
