 Before you start writing, think about the audience you are addressing.Are you addressing the entire student body? Just one grade? A classroom?


So, if you’re talking to one classroom, don’t only talk to the classroom about a general problem the school has. Talk to the classroom about how that general problem affects them and how you can change it.
For example, don’t say: “The breaks in between homeroom and first period aren’t long enough.” Say: “Everybody in homeroom has gotten at least one demerit for being late to first period. We can’t get all the way from North Campus to South Campus in time. Elect me as homeroom representative, and I won’t let the administration forget it.”

, All writing has a beginning, middle and end. Outlining your thoughts first will help you stay on track as you write the speech.The beginning needs to catch people’s attention and raise the questions you’re going to answer. The middle needs to provide the answers, and the end connects the answers back to the questions. In very simple terms: You tell them what you’re going to tell them. Then, you tell them. Then you tell them what you told them., Open your campaign speech with your theme, or main idea.You don’t stand anything to gain by beating around the bush, because people naturally want to pay attention to themselves. You have to convince them to listen to you. For example:


Don’t say: “My name is Joe Blow, and I’m running for City Council. I’m a member of…”
Instead, get right to it. Say: “Not a single person in this city thinks the parking situation on Main St. is adequate. No one.”
There's a lot of ways to get this done. You can use a story, a challenge, a joke, or just vividly describe a problem. You just need to get the audience's attention quickly. Earn their attention, don't expect it to come to you.
 Once you’ve got their attention, don’t let go. The middle of your speech needs to explain the issues you raised in the introduction and convince people that you can do something about them, but you need to vary the way you tackle the issues.You want to have a good mix of facts, feelings, and action. If you only talk facts, your audience will get bored. Only talk feelings, and you’ll wear them out. Only talk action, and it invites disbelief, because you haven’t offered enough factual and emotional support for your argument.
 The conclusion is just as important as the introduction. It's the last chance you have to leave an impression, so make sure they remember you by raising the stakes.


To continue with the parking example, don’t end your speech talking about the width and number of parking spaces on Main St. Make it bigger than that—something that makes them feel weaker for not supporting you and stronger for supporting you.
“This isn’t just about parking spaces. The parking situation is just a symptom of everything that’s wrong with the Council in this city. We’ve asked. We’ve begged. We’ve done all we could. Now we have to send a message that they can’t just ignore us.” With this kind of appeal, you put the listener in a position where they are either a person who votes for you or a person who lets themselves be ignored. Most people will take the first choice.

