 The pot should be large enough to hold at least four or five plums. Use enough water to allow you to submerge the plums completely. You want the water to come to a full, rolling boil so you won't have to leave the plums in the hot water for too long. If you over boil them, they'll get mushy.;
, Fill a large bowl with ice and water to create an icy bath for the plums. After you blanch them, you'll need to immediately cool them down by plunging them in the ice water.
 Creating a little cross hatch at the bottom of the plum (the side opposite the stem) will make it supremely easy to peel back the skin. There's no need to make the cut too deep or large; just use a paring knife to make a little "x" that pierces the skin and is large enough to poke your finger into.
 Drop them carefully into the water and boil them for 30 seconds. Make sure to time the boiling so you don't end up overdoing it. If you boil the plums even a few moments too long, they'll begin to break down. Use a slotted spoon to remove the plums from the water after the time is up.


Don't blanch more than four or five plums at once. If you put too many plums in the water at the same time, the water will cool down, and the plums won't cook quickly enough.
If you would prefer, you could instead place the plums in a large bowl and carefully pour the boiling water over them. Let the plums soak in the hot water for 30 seconds. This technique is useful when you're peeling very delicate plums that you want to make sure you don't overcook.
 Let them soak in the ice water for 30 seconds, then remove them and allow them to drain.
 Place your finger under one of the little flaps formed by the "x" you sliced into the bottom of the plum. Pull back the flap, and the skin should easily come loose in one big strip. Keep pulling back the flaps on all four sides until you've completely peeled the plum. Continue until all of the plums are peeled.


If you encounter a tricky plum, use a paring knife to help gently loosen the skin.
If the skin won't budge, you may need to try blanching the plums once more. Make sure the water comes to a full boil and the plums cook for 30 seconds to loosen the skin.

