 If you're not confident, you won't be able to have a drop of girl swag -- not even if you steal Nicki Minaj's entire wardrobe. The first step toward having the right attitude for swag is just to be comfortable in your own skin. Everyone who sees you or talks to you for a minute should know that you love who you are, who you're with, and where you are. If you show confidence, people will trust that you know what you're doing when you pick your swagtastic outfits and show off your moves on the dance floor.


Have the right body language. Strut into a room with your head high and your posture straight, looking ready for what's ahead for you.
Wherever you are, look like you want to be there. Don't check your phone every two seconds or look around for somebody better to talk to -- you should look like you're exactly where you want to be.
Don't spend your time examining your makeup or adjusting your clothes in the mirror. This will make it look like you're not happy about the way you look.;
, If you really have girl swag, then you're so happy with who you are and how you look that you don't care if people think you're too loud or look ridiculous. Just be yourself and let the haters hate. If you spend all of your time trying to suck up to people, dressing like all of your friends, or asking people if you look good, then you'll just look insecure.


There's a difference between not caring what people think and being catty or mean. You should still treat people with respect -- just stop trying to please them and meet another person's standards of beauty or of how a girl should act.
 There's no way you can rock a killer outfit if you hate the way you look or are trying to cover up your curves. You don't have to have a perfect body to recognize that every girl is unique and to find the parts of your body you love the most and be proud to show them off. If you wear bulky clothes to cover yourself up, keep your arms folded across your chest, or generally try to hide how fabulous you look, then you'll never be able to love and accept your body. If you never accept your body, it means you aren't confident.
 There is no one outfit or uniform that means you have swag. Having swag just means being comfortable with your own style, and wearing whatever makes you feel good. Find an original style that works for you, and have fun experimenting with clothes that take you out of your comfort zone. The important thing is that you act like you love what you're wearing, instead of asking your friends if you look ridiculous, or trying to rearrange your hair or outfits in the middle of the day because you think you look too crazy.
 If you really have swag, then you're cool enough to be comfortable with anyone, not just trying to social climb and only talk to the people who will make you look better. A true sign of a girl with swag is that she can strike up a conversation with anyone, be comfortable meeting new people, and make almost anyone laugh or smile.


When you meet a girl, don't look her up and down, but be friendly while maintaining your cool. This will make you have much more swag than being stuck up and afraid or jealous of new people.
 You can have swag while wearing any top at all, as long as you look good. You can wear t-shirts with cool graphics, belly shirts, tank tops, or whatever makes you feel good. Even the right hoodie can be a great addition to your swag wardrobe. Here are some other tops you can wear to have swag:


T-shirts. Try a shirt with a logo, a graphic tee, or just a big baggy t-shirt. You can also wear a t-shirt that isn't quite a belly shirt but which shows off just an inch or two of your belly.
Tanks. Just rock a halter or tank with spaghetti straps. You can show off your abs with a belly shirt or a half-top too.
Wear a little top barely bigger than a bikini under a flashy jacket.
Put on a hoodie or sweatshirt with a known logo like Adidas on it.
Be bold and wear a gold jacket with a lot of pockets and zippers.
Wear a leather or Letterman jacket. You can pair this with a tank.
Jerseys. Wear a jersey with your favorite current basketball player's last name on the back, or wear a Jordan jersey for a more retro look.
Have nicer dresses and flaunt your style off during parties.
Have two-three pairs of cropped leggings, leggings and long tops.
Have sleeveless or half sleeved tops and match it with shorts.No look can ever be cooler than this!
Dresses with colors like golden,purple,black,red, and green look very awesome.
Try belts.If your t-shirt is very baggy,then tuck it in and wear on a white belt.That looks awesome on anyone!
Go for brands like American Eagle, Hollister, Reebok, Nike, Rue 21, Bare Denim, Diesel, etc.These brands offer a wide collection of well-fitted hoodies, shorts, t-shirts, graphic tees, tops etc.
Wear band t-shirts or the ones with funny messages.Try going for a tomboy look once in a while.
 You can wear many different types of pants to have swag, from well fitting jeans to basketball shorts. It's up to whatever makes you feel good -- and whatever looks good with your top. Don't wear a tight top and super tight pants, or a really baggy shirt and cargo pants, or your outfit won't look balanced. Here are some other kinds of pants to try:


Baggy basketball shorts
jeans
Anything bright or loud
Leggings
Anything with animal print
Drop-crotch pants
Chachi pants
Baggy sweats with a tight top

, Your shoes can be nice and subtle or they can be the most ridiculous part of your outfit. They can match or completely clash while still looking fly. To have swag, you can dress up your feet or go for a casual look with sneakers. Here are some types of shoes to wear if you want to have swag:


Jordans
Nikes
Supra
Adidas
Huaraches
Converse
KD's
Black and white Converse
Chunky black, silver, or gold heels

, From hats to jewelry, accessories can help add swag to your outfit and to tie your look together. Here are some accessories you can try to spice up your swag look:


Gold or silver hoop earrings
Diamond earrings
Chunky black necklaces
Chains
Chokers
Dog tags
Chunky rings
Bangles
Spiky bracelets
A small nose piercing
Fitted caps
Teamsport Beanies
Snapbacks
Bandanas
Oversize glasses
watches from brands like Burberry, Adidas etc.
 Managing your hair and makeup can help complete your swag outfit. You don't have to wear a ton of makeup or spend hours on your hair to have swag. Keep it simple and fun. Here are some things to try as you complete your look:


Put some hairspray or chocolate mousse in your hair
Wear funky gloss or lipstick
Create smoky eyes with black or dark eyeliner and shadow
Have fun and maybe dye your hair a loud color, like purple or bright red, from time to time
Go for anything you could do with your natural hair!

