 Though it won't work for deadbolts, it will work for spring locks (the kind that's slanted and a part of a handle). Grab one that's cheap and you don't care about -- if it breaks, no harm, no foul. A bendy, laminated card works best









Force it between the lock and the frame, flush against the frame. Bend it back, forcing the lock back into the door, opening it.
If there's no room between the lock and the frame, you can force it between the door and the frame above the lock, then swipe quickly downward while angling the card toward the frame. This is where a thicker, sturdier card may come in handy.;
, This method works on doors with "privacy handles," locked by pushing a button in the door handle. If you're locked on the other side, look for a tiny hole on the doorknob. Push an eyeglasses screwdriver, a paper clip hammered flat, or a very small butter knife into this hole. Push it straight through as far as you can, and turn or twist it until it catches a groove and the lock clicks open.
 This can be complicated, so you may wish to read the full instructions. To get started, insert the short end of an Allen wrench into the lower edge of the keyhole. Apply a tiny bit of pressure to turn the lock slightly in the direction the key would turn. Keep this pressure as steady as possible, and use an unbent paperclip with a small crook at the end to pick the lock:








Scrubbing method: push the paperclip in gently at the lower end of the keyhole, then lift it back and upward. Repeat in a circular motion while increase the pressure on the Allen wrench slightly each time, until you feel the lock shift. When this happens, keep the pressure steady as you repeat the motion, until the door unlocks.
Pin by pin method: If you can't succeed with the scrubbing method, keep the pressure on the Allen wrench slight and steady while you gradually push the paperclip in. When the paperclip makes contact with a pin, try to catch it on the bend and lift it upward until it clicks into place. Repeat with additional pins until the lock turns.
 Using a standard-sized flat head screwdriver, wedge it between the bottom knuckle and the pin. Tap the handle of the screwdriver in a downward direction with a hammer. Remove the head and pin when they're loose enough.









Repeat this with all hinges. If the pin won't come out easily, you may have more success forcing it out with a Phillips head screwdriver.
 There's a reason this is the last step -- it should be your last resort. In most cases, you'd probably rather call a locksmith or a non-emergency number for the local fire station. If you need to leave urgently, bash downward repeatedly until the doorknob or lock breaks away from the door.








