 Each state has its own standards for whether a property qualifies for registration as a historical landmark. You typically can find your state's criteria either by going to the state's historical preservation website or by visiting the office in person.Generally, the property must have architectural or historical significance, or be associated with an individual who is of historical significance – such as the only private residence designed by a famous architect, or the birthplace of a state resident who became President of the United States.
In most states the property must be at least 30 or 40 years old. However, other states such as California have no age requirement.
California's designation requirements focus more on the unique quality of a property or style of architecture, and the place's impact on major events of historical significance.
Some states such as Kansas have an additional stage of the application process, which requires you to first file a form with preliminary site information and receive an eligibility letter before you can proceed with your application for registration.
 The application form requires you to identify the property you want to register as a historical landmark and the owner of that property. You also must include information as to why that property qualifies as a historical landmark.In some states, the state application requires basically the same information as a national application would require. Other states develop their own application to reflect more state-specific requirements.
Some states require additional documents. Typically you can download a packet of information that will detail what must be included in the application.
Most states require permission from the owner if you are not the owner of the property. In some cases you also must file a notarized affidavit from the owner expressing his or her approval of the application.
In some states, you may be required to have a nomination sponsor or hired consultant to complete the application and certify the research on which the claims of historical significance are based.
 Once you've completed the application and any other required documents, make a copy of them for your records and submit them to the state historical society or historic preservation commission.Typically you'll need to submit the form to the same agency from which you received the application forms. There should be an address on the form itself, or included within the form's instructions.
After you submit your application, it may be evaluated by staff at the agency. You may be contacted with notes or revisions to your application, or questions regarding particular claims.
If more information or documentation is required, the state agency will let you know.
 After your application is received, your state's historical society may have an initial review followed by a public or semi-public meeting to discuss the designation of the property as a historical landmark.Typically you will receive a notice letting you know of the date, time, and location of the designation hearing.
You and others can attend the meeting to testify as to the property's historical significance.
Individuals opposed to the designation also may be able to attend the meeting and say their piece about why the property should not be designated as a landmark to be preserved.
 Each state has its own process for approving the designation of historical landmarks. As the applicant or owner of the property, you typically must attend additional meetings or fill out additional forms once the application is approved to complete your registration.For example, applications in Kansas are reviewed and ultimately approved by votes of the Kansas Sites Historic Sites Board of Review. Recommendations are presented to the Board by historic society staff or qualified professional consultants.
In California, the historic commission votes on applications after the public hearing. Approved applications are forwarded to the Director of California State Parks for final approval.
Once you receive notice that the application has been approved, you may have to complete additional forms to have a plaque installed or to receive tax benefits.

