 Gifted students learn faster and more thoroughly than many of their classmates. They also find interest in different topics than other students. As a math teacher with gifted students, you need to find ways to challenge them and hold their interest. Some suggestions may include:Provide differentiated instruction, with separate textbooks.

Give advanced students extra challenge projects to work on.

Allow more opportunity for inquiry-based learning for students to explore mathematical relationships.

Let students explore higher levels of math technology.
 Because math is a subject that continues to build on prior learning, it is important that you take extra efforts to make sure they understand before you move on. There are some special techniques you can use that will help slower students:Allow extra time. There is no requirement that every student must complete assignments in the same amount of time. Your emphasis should be on the learning, not on timing.

Help students organize notes. Provide graphic organizers or outlines for their note taking.

Pull them out in small teaching or discussion groups. Small groups are less intimidating and encourage all students to participate more.

Provide tutors. You may be able to work with the students, their parents and guidance counselors to encourage outside tutoring. In some schools, honor society students may even do this for free as a community service to the school.

Focus on concrete, real examples. Lower level students often think in more concrete terms. They may have difficult with some abstract concepts in algebra but do well with the real shapes of geometry.
 Students tend to perform best for the teachers they connect with most. Try to show an interest in your students that reaches beyond the classroom and the brief time you see them. Ask about their other subjects. If possible, show an interest in their extracurricular activities as well.

For example, if you find out that a student enjoys playing basketball, you may then introduce ratios in terms of number of points scored per quarter.
 All students need to know that you and their parents share an interest in their development. For any problem students, you should contact the parents early, as soon as you see any difficult behavior starting to appear. You should also notify parents as much as possible when you have good news to share. The parents will appreciate your involvement and caring, and you will generally find that they will support your work to a higher level.