 Think about how often you want to wear flowers in your hair and how long you want them to last. Using fake flowers is nice because you can reuse them and they are sturdy.Real flowers are more authentic and have a nice smell., Do you want just one flower or a lot of flowers? A single flower is cute and subtle, whereas a lot of flowers are fun and eccentric. Figuring out how many flowers you want is going to help you determine what flowers you choose.
 You can choose whatever fake flower catches your eye, but if you want a more traditional flower look, choose fake flowers that look real. Pick flowers that don’t have rhinestones, glitter, or unnatural flower colors if you want them to look like real flowers., You want flowers with strong stems and petals that are not going to wilt. Good flowers to choose are orchards and gardenias. They will stay in your hair better and not look sad and dead part way through the day., If you opted for real flowers, chill them before you wear them. It sounds unimportant, but chilling your flowers will make them fresher and crisper when you wear them. The night before, place cut flowers in water and refrigerate them overnight., You want the stem of your flower to be about two inches long. This will give it enough length to secure it but not be too long where it will be noticeable. If you have short, thin, or fine hair paint the stem of the flower. Use a color similar to your hair color. This way if the stem shows through it won’t be noticeable. You can use paint or even nail polish to do this., You can remove the stem entirely off of a fake flower and replace it with a bobby pin. Cut the stem off, but not the plastic that connects it to the petals. Take a wide, sharp needle and thread that is a close color to the petals. Stich the thread through the plastic, the round end of the bobby pin, and back through the plastic. Tie the thread so the bobby pin stays secure., You can cut the stem (of real or fake flowers) to be three centimeters or smaller and slide the stem through the bobby pin. The end of your pin should reach around a millimeter away from the flower itself. You can then pin the bobby pin in your hair to secure it.
 Bobby pins go into your hair with the bumpy side down and the flat side up.For extra support, you can stick another bobby pin across the one connected to the flower to make an “X” shape.
 You can stick the flower with the stem attached to it into your pony tail. Tuck the stem into the hair tie to keep it secure in your hair.You can do this with a ponytail, bun, braid, or half pony tail.
 When your hair is down, the flowers look best tucked near your ears.If the flowers are too low, they might look too random in your hair.
If the flowers are very high on your head, they will be too noticeable., A flower next to each ear will probably not look as good as a flower or two next to one ear. If you put the flower in your ponytail, bun, or updo, don’t put it directly in the center or top. You should place the flower slightly off center or to the side., This is a hairstyle where your hair is up and off of your neck and shoulders in an elegant way. You can make an updo even better by sticking the stems of flowers directly into the updo or securing them with bobby pins.There are many types of bun, twisted, and braided updos that you can try., Wear flowers that match the look you are trying to achieve. Many flowers or a flower crown look great for festival and bohemian styles and a few subtle flowers look best with simple and elegant outfits.


Get clothing with fringe, feathers, and bold geometric or floral patterns for a bohemian or festival style outfit.Wear your hair down or in braids.
If you want something more elegant, pair you subtle flowers with simple prints, formal dresses, and delicate fabric. Wear your hair down and styled or in an updo for this style.