 Ensure that the soil has a pH balance between 6.0 and 6.8. The ground needs to be well-drained and full of nutrient-rich soil that is full of compost or aged manure. Lettuce plants do well in steady amounts of nitrogen, so apply blood meal or compost tea to the soil before adding the seeds.


If you are unsure what your soil's pH is, you can purchase a soil testing kit from your local garden supply store. You will need to scoop up soil, place it in the provided container, and add a specific number of drops of the testing chemical. Shake the container for a certain amount of time, and compare the results with the test's color-coded chart.
You can also contact a local university's extension office to get your soil tested at its facility. This typically is a fee-based service, but you may receive more in-depth results.;
, Lettuce plants have a short root system, so you don't need to dig a deep trench. Insert the seeds .25 to 1 inch (.6 to 2.5 cm) deep.
 Place an additional 3 to 4 inches (7.6 to 10.2 cm) of organic compost or mulch. This will keep the seeds moist and prevent weeds from forming.


If you are planting several varieties of lettuce in your garden, make sure you plant the varieties a minimum of 12 feet (3.66 m) apart to prevent cross-pollination.
 Thinning is simply removing certain seedlings to allow your plants to spread out. Leaf lettuce seedlings should be 4 inches (10.2 cm) apart while heads of lettuce should be 6 to 8 inches (15.2 to 20.3 cm) apart.


If you're growing organic lettuce heads, such as iceberg, aim for 12 to 14 inches (30.5 to 35.6 cm) apart. Single-leaf lettuce plants should be 4 inches (10.2 cm) apart.
 This ensures that the plant will survive after the leaves are removed. You can use your hands to tear off the leaves anywhere on the stalk once the leaves are long enough. Continue to harvest lettuce leaves until you are left with a center stalk. It may take as long as 80 days after planting to harvest.


If you're harvesting heads of lettuce, cut the head 1 inch (2.5 cm) away from the soil. A new head will form in its place.
 Lettuce is prone to a rabbits as well as few insects, including slugs, aphids, and cabbage worms. You need to reapply the sprays after each watering or rainfall.


For rabbits, mix 2 tablespoon (29.6 ml). of cayenne pepper, 2 tablespoon (29.6 ml). of garlic powder, 1 tsp. of liquid detergent, and 20 oz. of warm water. Shake the mixture, and let it sit outside for 1 day. Spray the mixture to the lettuce leaves.
To treat these insects, you can use traps for slugs and purchase ladybugs to eat the aphids. Slug traps can be made by filling a small bowl with stale beer; the slugs are attracted to the beer and drown. For cabbage worms, you can apply a spray that is 1 part vinegar to 3 parts water. Add 1 tablespoon (14.8 ml). of liquid detergent, and place all ingredients in a spray bottle. Spray the leaves all over to get rid of the worms.

