 See the complete list under Things You'll Need, later in the article. All the components for this project cost less than $15 (US), and there was no problem finding them.;
, The following were used in this assembly:


Circular saw
Battery and electric drills with bits
Sander
Hot glue gun
Measuring tape
Hammer
Utility knife

, You will need:


1 piece 3/4 plywood, 9X16 inches
2- 1/2 inch diameter dowels, 12 inches (30.5 cm) long
2- 1/2 inch diameter dowels, 18 inches (45.7 cm) long
4- 1/4 inch diameter dowels, 18 inches (45.7 cm) long
2- 1/4 inch diameter dowels, 16 inches (40.6 cm) long
2- 3/8 inch diameter dowels, 7 inches (17.8 cm) long
3- 3/8 inch diameter dowels, 18 inches (45.7 cm) long
various spacer blocks cut from the dowels listed above
various lengths of twine to lash dowels together while assembling. These lashings give the catapult its structural soundness.
 Mark the board lengthwise at 1 inch (2.5 cm) and 9 inches (22.9 cm) with a framing square or rule, then mark the center line, from which you measure out 3 inches (7.6 cm) either way for the holes.
 These holes are drilled perpendicular to the board.
, These are the holes for the cross beams to fit into.
 Drive the 12 inch (30.5 cm) by 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) dowels into the holes at the one inch marks, they should intersect the vertical dowels at their tops. Some carpenter's wood glue applied to the ends of these dowels will help hold them securely in place.
 Hot melt wood glue will save a lot of time on this step, and a dab of glue will help secure the lashing twine when it is knotted.
 If these are not snug enough, glue them in place.
, The spaces should be located so that the pivot point is an open space about 1⁄2 inch (1.3 cm) wide, which will be the location for it to be placed on the pivot beam. Leave another space about 1 1⁄2 inches (3.8 cm) long at the top end of this assembly (the launch arm). This is where the cup, or projectile holder will fit.
, This can be carved by hand if you prefer, since it will be a fairly small piece of wood to hold securely while using your power tools for carving.
 You will want to be certain to lash this tightly and glue the lashings in place to avoid accidentally launching the complete cup when you fire the catapult.
 These will keep the launch arm assembly in line while it swings during launch. If the arm and pivot bar are tight enough to keep the assembly in alignment, these pieces can be left off.
 Adjust the tension so that the launch arm can be drawn back to a horizontal position for loading and firing. Using a stronger spring will make your catapult more powerful, but this is not always desirable, since it causes a lot of stress on the moving components. Most hardware stores have an assortment of various springs, so you may need to experiment a bit here to find one that works for you.
 Pull back the launch arm and release it from various draws to determine the range and power you are looking for. If none of the parts become loose or lose tension, you can launch similar size and weight projectiles with remarkable consistency using this device.
