 When you are working with other people, timing is important. If you catch them in a bad mood, they are likely to be dismissive and uncooperative. You want to catch them in a good mood when they are willing to hear you out.It also helps to catch someone when they are tired. They are less able to evaluate your request and more likely to agree with you.
For example, if you want to talk to your boss about getting a promotion, choose your time carefully. Don't pounce on them as soon as they walk in the door on a Monday morning.;
, By telling someone about what you need and why you need it, you can help the person understand your request. This shows that you have thought about what you are asking, and that you care enough to inform them.For example, you might say to your sister, "I really spent too much money last weekend. I'm working on budgeting better. For now, would you be willing to lend me some gas money? I'd be happy to do some errands for you in return."

, If you are too demanding, it will cause hesitation. People don't want to feel like they are being pushed around. Show that you are polite and respectful by using words like please and thank you.For example, you might ask something like “May I please have your extra ticket to the concert tonight? I really love that band and it would be great to hang out with you.”

, If your request is vague, the person is less likely to fulfill it. A vague request makes it hard for them to figure out exactly what you want. Even if they want to please you, you have to tell them exactly what to give you.For example, you could ask your boss, "How soon will I be promoted to Assistant Vice President?" instead of "Do you think I'll ever get some kind of promotion?"

, There are two reasons to stay patient with a person. First, they may eventually give you what you want. Second, even if they don’t, you may want something else from them later.Maybe your neighbor turns down your request to build a fence on your shared property line. Instead of getting mad, give them some time to think it over.

