 A classic ponytail is a quick, easy hairstyle for little girls. However, ponytails can be a little boring, so here are some tips on how to jazz them up:



Cover the hair tie: Cover up the hair tie by taking a strand of hair from underneath the ponytail and wrapping it around the hair tie. Secure with a couple of bobby pins.

Do a quiff: Before you put her hair into a ponytail, separate a section from above her forehead (where her bangs would be). Put the hair into a sleek ponytail, leaving this front section free. Lift the front section and start teasing it at the back, until you have a lot of volume. Then twist the ends and pin them on top of the head with some bobby pins. She now has a cute quiff hairstyle.

Add accessories: Rather than do anything with the ponytail itself, you should think about adding some accessories like ribbons, hair bows and fake or fresh flowers to the hairstyle. You can make adorable homemade hair bows for fraction of the store price using just a little ribbon and hot glue.
 A ballerina bun is a pretty, elegant hairstyle which looks great for parties and events but will also keep your little girl's hair out of her face if she's dancing, skating or playing sports.


To make a ballerina bun, first curl all of her hair underneath. You can do this very quickly by curling large chunks of hair at a time and just focusing on the ends. Then make a high ponytail on the crown of her head and secure with an elastic.
Use a comb to tease the hair (backcomb) to give it volume. Twist the backcombed hair and wrap it around the base of the ponytail to form a bun on top of the head. Use bobby pins to secure the base of the bun to her head. Spritz the bun with some hairspray to smooth any fly-aways.Alternatively, you can use a doughnut-shaped bun foundation (available in beauty supply stores) to make a perfect bun. Simply slip the ponytail through the center of the ring, then spread the hair evenly around the bun foundation and secure with an elastic. Tuck in any loose ends and secure with bobby pins. Spritz with hairspray to smooth any fly-aways.
 Pigtails are the quintessential hairstyle for little girls. They are very simple and as easy to do on short-haired toddlers as on little girls with hair to their waist!


Split hair straight down the middle and divide the hair into two equal sections. Now decide what kind of look you want to achieve with the pigtails.
The first thing to think about it placement -- do you want high pigtails on top of her head? Low pigtails with her hair streaming over her shoulders? Do you want them at the back of her head (where they can't be seen from the front) or at the sides (where they can clearly be seen)?
Then you need to think about what style you want. Do you want to braid them, fishtail them, leave them loose or curl them? You can also dress up the pigtails by adding some pretty ribbons or bows.
 This upstyle makes a very pretty hairdo for special occasions and events -- it would look perfect on a little flower girl!


Brush out the hair and make an off-center parting on whichever side of her head you prefer. Make another parting from one ear to the other. Scoop up all of the hair in front of one ear and make a low ponytail with a small elastic. Do the same on the other side.
Divide the remaining hair into a number of low ponytails, all around the head. The exact number of ponytails will depend on how much hair your little girl has -- but it will usually be somewhere between four and eight.
Starting on one side of her head, take the first ponytail and spritz it with water or hair spray until it's sleek and easy to manage. Wrap the hair around your first two fingers a couple of times, ensuring that the ends point towards the back.
Remove your fingers from the center and use some bobby pins to pin the curl flat against her head, directly above the next ponytail. You are essential making a pincurl.
Do the same thing with all of the ponytails around her head. Don't worry if the bobby pins are a little obvious, you'll be covering most of them up later.
When you get to the last pincurl, pin it backwards towards the previous pincurl rather than pinning it forwards. You may need to readjust the spacing a little bit to make it fit.
When all of the pin curls are in place, spray each one individually with hairspray. Then, take a flower pin or bow and place it in the center of each pin curl. This adds extra flair and helps to cover up the bobby pins. You could even use fresh flowers if you like!, This hairstyle makes a funky alternative to regular ponytail pigtails. It looks cool but also keeps the hair out of her face!


Divide the hair into six sections at the back of the head: two at the top, two in the middle and two at the bottom. Use colored hair ties to put the top two sections of hair into ponytail pigtails.
Cross the two pigtails over each other and join the hair from the pigtails with the two middle sections of hair. Make another two ponytail pigtails with this hair, using more colored hair ties.
Cross the middle pigtails over one another then join the hair with the two bottom sections of hair. Make two final ponytail pigtails with colored hair ties.
Use a comb to make the partitions between the sections as straight and neat as possible. The more even and symmetrical the hair is, the better it will look., A bow-shaped bun is an adorable Lady Gaga-inspired hairstyle perfect for crazy hair days or playing dress-up.


Start tying your little girl's hair into a high ponytail. After the last twist, don't pull the ponytail all the way through the hair tie. Pull the hair about halfway through so there is a loop of hair sticking above the ponytail. The ends of the hair should be spilling out underneath.
Use your fingers to evenly divide the loop of hair at the top of the ponytail into two parts. These two parts will form the loops of the bow.
Grab the loose hair underneath and brush it and spritz it with water or hair gel to get it sleek and smooth. Pull it up between the two loops of hair to form the center of the bow.
Divide this center piece in half. Take one half and wrap it underneath one side of the bow, securing with bobby pins when you reach the back. Tuck any remaining loose hair into the center of the bow loop, then secure the bottom of the loop with a bobby pin.
Do the same with the other half of hair on the other side of the bow. Use your fingers to fluff out both sides of the bow and make the loops look nice and full. Use some hair spray to flatten any flyaway hairs and help the bow hold its shape.