 Remember that there is always love to give and there is much we can do to enrich our lives. Talk yourself through where you were before the relationship and the ways in which you've grown throughout your time together. The powerful connection between learning and memory and the mood benefits you'll receive from acquiring new knowledge will assist you in getting over your lost love.Ask yourself:


What would I never have done before this relationship that through this relationship I could accomplish?
What were some strengths of my ex-partner? Did I learn from these or develop these in myself?
What did we accomplish together that I could never have accomplished by myself?

, You've probably had to put some goals on hold, prioritizing your past relationship over your personal desires. Once you are done with the list, you will not only see how much life has to offer, you will also have some goals to work toward in the near future.Contemplate trips you could afford on your own but not as a couple; now might be the right time to book a trip!
Enroll in a class that you didn't have time or energy for while in your relationship.
Try a challenge, such as entering a local chili cooking competition or a photography contest.
 You don't need money to walk down your street, look at the sky, enjoy a book or sunrise, or other simple pleasures that life has to offer us.Also, a change of scenery can have a powerful impact on your mindset; the first step you take on your walk may be the first step toward a better mental state., Or go out with the goal of making friends. In any case, the happiness of your friend-group could positively influence your own mood.A good way to meet like minded people is to join a club related to your interests. Studies have shown that being with friends and people of a similar mind can:


Calm you
Increase your sense of belonging
Increase perceived self worth
Assist in overcoming challenges, This can turn into a sore point among your friends, who might find your repeated laments too negative to be around. Take some time to acknowledge the support of your friend-group so they don't get burned out helping you process your loss. Try saying things like:


"I know this breakup's been especially bad for me, and I'm sorry about venting to you all the time. You've been such a good friend through all this. I'm so thankful for your support."
"I wanted to thank you for forcing me to go out the other night. I was mopey and a little depressed, but a night out was exactly what I needed."
"You've been so patient with me through all this. Thank you. Without you here to listen and give me advice, this would've been so much more difficult for me."

, It may be encouraging for you to put positive quotes in visible places around your home. Or maybe you should plan a viewing marathon of a show or movie that never fails to improve your mood.
 Many people struggle with difficult breakups. These can be a huge emotional shock, and you might need the emotional support of a professional or someone more emotionally experienced to reach a place where you can heal. A psychologist, an older family member, a friend or a school counselor can guide you through the process. Talking it out can help you release the stress, gain advice, and build your self esteem.