 It's important that you wash, rinse and sterilize the newly bought pump first before using it. Before washing, separate all the pump parts, including the connectors, valves, and membranes.;
, Clean all parts of the pump after each use. Hot water is better for cleaning as it softens any residue or hard to remove dirt that may be in the pump, making it easier to remove.


Cleaning with hot water is also effective in germ reduction as it kills bacteria and microorganisms.
 Some of these include: bottlebrushes, chemicals, or antibacterial soaps, as these may scratch, crack, or break the pump parts.


If you really want to use a brush, make sure that you use a soft one in order to avoid damage. If any part of the pup becomes damaged, you will need to replace it.
Use mild soap when cleaning your breast pump. The Quick Clean Breastmilk Removal Soap by Medela is highly recommended when using a Medela pump.
You can also browse the Medela site for more specific instructions in cleaning your breast pump.
 Rinse each part of the pump in clean, running water after washing, then you can either let them air dry in the dish rack or put them on a clean dish towel.


Do not use a cloth towel to dry your pump. Towels may carry bacteria which can be harmful for you and your baby.
 If and when you are unable to wash the breast pump immediately, rinse it thoroughly with hot water for 10-15 seconds.This is necessary to prevent the milk residue from drying up inside the pump, which could lead to bacteria growth.


You can also use disposable hygienic wipes to wipe off the milk residue and to temporarily clean the pump. These wipes are safe to use for the pump and its parts. Medela has Quick Clean Breastpump and Accessory Wipes, which can be used after each pump session.
You can use these methods to clean off the breast pump when you are out of the house, but make sure to clean it thoroughly as soon as you get home.
 Detach the tube from the motor then wash with hot water and soap after each use. Make sure that the tubing is dry before attaching it back to the pump.


If there is still water in the pump, you can turn on the pump to completely dry the tube. Sometimes, milk gets stuck in the tubing.
When this happens, pour 3cc of vinegar through the tube, then rinse the tube out with water, before letting it air dry.
 You can remove the faceplate by snapping it off using the thumb tab. Just like the other parts, you'll have to wash it with soapy water then rinse and dry.


The diaphragm can be cleaned too. Just wipe it with clean damp cloth without using any soap. If you are unsure where the diaphragm is located, check the owner’s manual.
 Wash your hands thoroughly with soap and water before using the breast pump to prevent the spread of germs.


Hand washing is an effective way to prevent the spread of infections to you and your baby. You should also avoid touching the inside parts of the pump that come in contact to the milk.
Before using the pump, clean the breast and surrounding area using the Quick Clean Breastpump and Accessory Wipes or a damp cloth. Make sure that you do not use alcohol to clean the breast, as this can cause dryness which can lead to cracked nipples.
 The manual will tell you in greater detail which parts of the pump can be washed and which cannot. It will also show you how parts can be removed from the pump without damaging it.
 Place a large pot of water on the stove and bring it to the boil. When the water starts to boil immerse all the pump parts one by one. Make sure the water covers them all.


Boil the parts for 10 minutes, and no longer. After 10 minutes pick the pump parts out of the pot using a pair of tongs.
Lay the pump pieces on a clean towel to allow them to cool down and dry. Once dry, wash your hands with antibacterial soap, then reassemble the pump.
If you have hard water in your area, you can add a teaspoon of citric acid to the water, as this helps to avoid limescale build-up.
 Instead of boiling the pump parts to sterilize them, you can also use a special microwave sterilizer bag. Medela produces "Quick Clean Micro Steam Bags", which you can find a Target or Babies R Us.


To use, place the individual pump pieces into the bag, then pour 60 ml of water into the bag before sealing it tightly.
Determine the microwave time. This varies depending on the wattage of your microwave. You can refer to the instructions written at the back of the bag for specific instructions. Put the bag in the microwave and set it for the recommended heating time.
Once done, carefully remove the bag, open it and pour the water out of it. Wait a couple of minutes for the parts to cool down before removing them and setting them on a clean towel to dry.
 Another option for sterilizing the pump parts is to use a microwave sterilizer, which is normally used for sterilizing bottles.


Remove the rack from the sterilizer and put some water into the base. The amount of water depends on the size of the microwave sterilizer. Then, put the rack back in.
Place the pump (breastshield screwed to the connector) into the slots. Put the nipples and then the screw ring above them. Position the bottle upside down in the provided bottle cavities. Place the cap right into the side of the stem of the sterilizer. Place any other pump pieces around the rack.
Replace the lid of the sterilizer and lock the clips on the side. Put the sterilizer into the microwave. Refer to the sterilizer's instructions regarding the temperature and heating time.
 Although you only need to sterilize the pump parts once a week, you have to wash and clean the pump every after use.

